10-K


c76208e10vk.htm

CW-K

Filed by Bowne Pure Compliance


SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

þ

Annual Report pursuant to section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

For the fiscal year ended August 30, 2008, or

o

Transition report pursuant to section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

For the transition period from

to

.

Commission file number 1-10714

AUTOZONE, INC.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Nevada

62-1482048

(State or other jurisdiction of

(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

incorporation or organization)

123 South Front Street, Memphis, Tennessee 38103

(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)

(901) 495-6500

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Name of each exchange

Title of each class

On which registered

Common Stock

New York Stock Exchange

($.01 par value)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule
405 of the Securities Act.

Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section
13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes

o

No

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed
by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or
for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation
S-K (§ 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in
Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated
filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of “large
accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act.

Large accelerated filer

þ

Accelerated filer

o

Non-accelerated filer

o

Smaller reporting company

o

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of
the Act) Yes

o

No

þ

The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates
computed by reference to the price at which the common equity was last sold, or the average bid and
asked price of such common equity, as of the last business day of the registrant’s most recently
completed second fiscal quarter was $7,251,818,438.

The number of shares of Common Stock outstanding as of October 20, 2008, was 57,974,097.

Documents Incorporated By Reference

Portions of the definitive Proxy Statement to be filed within 120 days of August 30, 2008, pursuant
to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders
to be held December 17, 2008, are incorporated by reference into Part III.




Forward-Looking Statements

Certain statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements typically use words such as “believe,” “anticipate,” “should,” “intend,”
“plan,” “will,” “expect,” “estimate,” “project,” “positioned,” “strategy” and similar expressions.
These statements are based on assumptions and assessments made by our management in light of
experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments
and other factors that we believe to be appropriate. These forward-looking statements are subject
to a number of risks and uncertainties, including without limitation, competition; product demand;
the economy; credit markets; the ability to hire and retain qualified employees; consumer debt
levels; inflation; weather; raw material costs of our suppliers; energy prices; war and the
prospect of war, including terrorist activity; availability of consumer transportation;
construction delays; access to available and feasible financing; and changes in laws or
regulations. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual
results, developments and business decisions may differ from those contemplated by such
forward-looking statements, and such events could materially and adversely affect our business.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made. Except as required by applicable law, we
undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of
new information, future events or otherwise. Actual results may materially differ from anticipated
results. Please refer to the Risk Factors section contained in Item 1 under Part I of this Form
10-K for more details.



PART I

Item 1. Business

Introduction

We are the nation’s leading specialty retailer and a leading distributor of automotive replacement
parts and accessories. We began operations in 1979 and at August 30, 2008 operated 4,092 stores in
the United States and Puerto Rico, and 148 in Mexico. Each of our stores carries an extensive
product line for cars, sport utility vehicles, vans and light trucks, including new and
remanufactured automotive hard parts, maintenance items, accessories and non-automotive products.
In many of our stores we also have a commercial sales program that provides commercial credit and
prompt delivery of parts and other products to local, regional and national repair garages,
dealers, service stations and government agencies. We also sell the ALLDATA brand automotive
diagnostic and repair software. On the web, we sell diagnostic and repair information and
automotive hard parts, maintenance items, accessories and non-automotive products through
www.autozone.com. We do not derive revenue from automotive repair or installation services.

At August 30, 2008, our stores were in the following locations:

Store Count

Alabama


Arizona


Arkansas


California


Colorado


Connecticut


Delaware


Florida


Georgia


Idaho


Illinois


Indiana


Iowa


Kansas


Kentucky


Louisiana


Maine


Maryland


Massachusetts


Michigan


Minnesota


Mississippi


Missouri


Montana


Nebraska


Nevada


New Hampshire


New Jersey


New Mexico


New York


North Carolina


North Dakota


Ohio


Oklahoma


Oregon


Pennsylvania


Puerto Rico


Rhode Island


South Carolina


South Dakota




At August 30, 2008, our stores were in the following locations:

Store Count

Tennessee


Texas


Utah


Vermont


Virginia


Washington


Washington, DC


West Virginia


Wisconsin


Wyoming


Domestic Total

4,092

Mexico


TOTAL

4,240

Marketing and Merchandising Strategy

We are dedicated to providing customers with superior service, value and quality automotive parts
and products at conveniently located, well-designed stores. Key elements of this strategy are:

Customer Service

Customer service is the most important element in our marketing and merchandising strategy, which
is based upon consumer marketing research. We emphasize that our AutoZoners (employees) should
always put customers first by providing prompt, courteous service and trustworthy advice. Our
electronic parts catalog assists in the selection of parts; and warranties are offered by us or our
vendors on many of the parts we sell. Our wide area network in our stores helps us to expedite
credit or debit card and check approval processes, to locate parts at neighboring AutoZone stores,
and in some cases, to place special orders directly with our vendors.

Our stores generally open at 7:30 or 8 a.m. and close between 8 and 10 p.m. Monday through Saturday
and typically open at 9 a.m. and close between 6 and 9 p.m. on Sunday. However, some stores are
open 24 hours, and some have extended hours of 6 or 7 a.m. until midnight seven days a week.

We also provide specialty tools through our Loan-A-Tool

®

program. Customers can borrow a specialty
tool, such as a steering wheel puller, for which a DIY customer or a repair shop would have little
or no use other than for a single job. AutoZoners also provide other free services, including check
engine light readings; battery charging; oil recycling; and testing of starters, alternators,
batteries, sensors and actuators.

Merchandising

The following table shows some of the types of products that we sell:

Hard Parts

Maintenance Items

Accessories and Non-Automotive

A/C Compressors

Alternators

Batteries & Accessories

Brake Drums, Rotors, Shoes & Pads

Carburetors

Clutches

CV Axles

Engines

Fuel Pumps

Mufflers

Shock Absorbers & Struts

Starters

Water Pumps

Antifreeze & Windshield Washer Fluid

Belts & Hoses

Chemicals, including Brake & Power

Steering
Fluid, Oil & Fuel Additives

Fuses

Lighting

Oil & Transmission Fluid

Oil, Air, Fuel & Transmission Filters

Oxygen Sensors

Protectants & Cleaners

Refrigerant & Accessories

Sealants & Adhesives

Spark Plugs & Wires

Wash & Wax

Windshield Wipers

Air Fresheners

Cell Phone Accessories

Drinks & Snacks

Floor Mats

Hand Cleaner

Neon Lighting

Mirrors

Paint & Accessories

Performance Products

Seat Covers

Steering Wheel Covers

Stereos

Tools



We believe that the satisfaction of DIY customers and professional technicians is often impacted by
our ability to provide specific automotive products as requested. Each store carries the same basic
product lines, but we tailor our parts inventory to the makes and models of the vehicles in each
store’s trade area. Our hub stores carry a larger assortment of products that can be delivered to
commercial customers or local satellite stores.

We are constantly updating the products that we offer to assure that our inventory matches the
products that our customers demand.

Pricing

We want to be perceived by our customers as the value leader in our industry by consistently
providing quality merchandise at the right price, backed by a good warranty and outstanding
customer service. On many of our products we offer multiple value choices in a good/better/best
assortment, with appropriate price and quality differences from the “good” products to the “better”
and “best” products. A key component is our exclusive line of in-house brands: Valucraft,
AutoZone, Duralast and Duralast Gold. We believe that our overall prices and value compare
favorably to those of our competitors.

Marketing: Advertising and Promotions

We believe that targeted advertising and promotions play important roles in succeeding in today’s
environment. We are constantly working to understand our customers’ wants and needs so that we can
build long-lasting, loyal relationships. We utilize promotions and advertising primarily to advise
customers about the overall importance of vehicle maintenance, our great value and the availability
of high quality parts. Broadcasting is our primary marketing method of driving traffic to our
stores. We utilize in-store signage, creative product placement and promotions to help educate
customers about products they need.

Store Design and Visual Merchandising

We design and build stores for a high visual impact. The typical AutoZone store utilizes colorful
exterior and interior signage, exposed beams and ductwork and brightly lighted interiors.
Maintenance products, accessories and miscellaneous items are attractively displayed for easy
browsing by customers. In-store signage and special displays promote products on floor displays,
end caps and on the shelf.

Commercial

Our commercial sales program operates in a highly fragmented market and is one of the leading
distributors of automotive parts and other products to local, regional and national repair garages,
dealers, service stations and government agencies in the United States, Puerto Rico and Mexico. As
a part of the program we offer credit and delivery to our commercial customers. The program
operated out of 2,236 domestic stores as of August 30, 2008. Through our hub stores, we offer a
greater range of parts and products desired by professional technicians, and this additional
inventory is available for our DIY customers as well. We have sales teams focused on national,
regional and public sector commercial accounts.

Store Operations

Store Formats

Substantially all AutoZone stores are based on standard store formats, resulting in generally
consistent appearance, merchandising and product mix. Approximately 85% to 90% of each store’s
square footage is selling space, of which approximately 40% to 45% is dedicated to hard parts
inventory. The hard parts inventory area is generally fronted by counters or pods that run the
depth or length of the store, dividing the hard parts area from the remainder of the store. The
remaining selling space contains displays of maintenance, accessories and non-automotive items.

We believe that our stores are “destination stores,” generating their own traffic rather than
relying on traffic created by adjacent stores. Therefore, we situate most stores on major
thoroughfares with easy access and good parking.



Store Personnel and Training

Each store typically employs from 10 to 16 AutoZoners, including a manager and, in some cases, an
assistant manager. AutoZoners typically have prior automotive experience. All AutoZoners are
encouraged to complete courses resulting in certification by the National Institute for Automotive
Service Excellence (“ASE”), which is broadly recognized for training certification in the
automotive industry. Although we do on-the-job training, we also provide formal training programs,
including an annual national sales meeting, regular store meetings on specific sales and product
issues, standardized training manuals and a specialist program that provides training to AutoZoners
in several areas of technical expertise from both the Company and from independent certification
agencies. Training is supplemented with frequent store visits by management.

Store managers, sales representatives and commercial specialists receive financial incentives
through performance-based bonuses. In addition, our growth has provided opportunities for the
promotion of qualified AutoZoners. We believe these opportunities are important to attract,
motivate and retain high quality AutoZoners.

All store support functions are centralized in our store support centers located in Memphis,
Tennessee and Mexico. We believe that this centralization enhances consistent execution of our
merchandising and marketing strategies at the store level, while reducing expenses and cost of
sales.

Store Automation

All of our stores have Z-net

®

, our proprietary electronic catalog that enables our
AutoZoners to efficiently look up the parts our customers need and provides complete job solutions,
advice and information for customer vehicles. Z-net

®

provides parts information based
on the year, make, model and engine type of a vehicle and also tracks inventory availability at the
store, at other nearby stores and through special order. The Z-net

®

display screens are
placed on the hard parts counter or pods, where both AutoZoners and customers can view the screen.
In addition, our wide area network enables the stores to expedite credit or debit card and check
approval processes, to access immediately national warranty data, to implement real-time inventory
controls and to locate and hold parts at neighboring AutoZone stores.

Our stores utilize our computerized proprietary Store Management System, which includes bar code
scanning and point-of-sale data collection terminals. The Store Management System provides
administrative assistance and improved personnel scheduling at the store level, as well as enhanced
merchandising information and improved inventory control. We believe the Store Management System
also enhances customer service through faster processing of transactions and simplified warranty
and product return procedures.

Store Development

The following table reflects store development during the past five fiscal years:

Fiscal Year






Beginning Domestic Stores

3,933

3,771

3,592

3,420

3,219

New Stores






Closed Stores






Net New Stores






Relocated Stores






Ending Domestic Stores

4,092

3,933

3,771

3,592

3,420

Ending Mexico Stores






Ending Total Stores

4,240

4,056

3,871

3,673

3,483

The domestic stores include stores in the United States and Puerto Rico. We believe that expansion
opportunities exist both in markets that we do not currently serve, as well as in markets where we
can achieve a larger presence. We attempt to obtain high visibility sites in high traffic locations
and undertake substantial research prior to entering new markets. The most important criteria for
opening a new store are its projected future profitability and its ability to achieve our required
investment hurdle rate. Key factors in selecting new site and market locations include population,
demographics, vehicle profile, number and strength of competitors’ stores and the cost of real
estate. In reviewing the vehicle profile, we also consider the number of vehicles that are seven
years old and older, “our kind of vehicles,” as these are generally no longer under the original
manufacturers’ warranties and require more maintenance and repair than younger vehicles. We
generally seek to open new stores within or contiguous to existing market areas and attempt to
cluster development in markets in a relatively short period of time. In addition to continuing to
lease or develop our own stores, we evaluate and may make strategic acquisitions.



Purchasing and Supply Chain

Merchandise is selected and purchased for all stores through our store support centers located in
Memphis, Tennessee and Mexico. No one class of product accounts for as much as 10 percent of our
total sales. In fiscal 2008, no single supplier accounted for more than 10 percent of our total
purchases. We generally have few long-term contracts for the purchase of merchandise. We believe
that we have good relationships with suppliers. We also believe that alternative sources of supply
exist, at similar cost, for most types of product sold. Most of our merchandise flows through our
distribution centers to our stores by our fleet of tractors and trailers or by third-party trucking
firms.

Our hub stores have increased our ability to distribute products on a timely basis to many of our
stores. A hub store is able to provide replenishment of products sold and deliver other products
maintained only in hub store inventories to a store in its coverage area generally within 24 hours.
Hub stores are generally replenished from distribution centers multiple times per week.

Competition

The sale of automotive parts, accessories and maintenance items is highly competitive in many
areas, including name recognition, product availability, customer service, store location and
price. AutoZone competes in both the retail (“DIY”) and commercial do-it-for-me (“DIFM”) auto parts
and accessories markets.

Competitors include national and regional auto parts chains, independently owned parts stores,
wholesalers and jobbers, repair shops, car washes and auto dealers, in addition to discount and
mass merchandise stores, department stores, hardware stores, supermarkets, drugstores, convenience
stores and home stores that sell aftermarket vehicle parts and supplies, chemicals, accessories,
tools and maintenance parts. AutoZone competes on the basis of customer service, including the
trustworthy advice of our AutoZoners, merchandise selection and availability, price, product
warranty, store layouts and location.

Trademarks and Patents

We have registered several service marks and trademarks in the United States Patent and Trademark
office as well as in certain other countries, including our service marks, “AutoZone” and “Get in
the Zone,” and trademarks, “AutoZone,” “Duralast,” “Duralast Gold,” “Valucraft,” “ALLDATA” and
“Z-net

®

.” We believe that these service marks and trademarks are important components
of our merchandising and marketing strategy.

Employees

As of August 30, 2008, we employed approximately 57,000 persons, approximately 57 percent of whom
were employed full-time. About 91 percent of our AutoZoners were employed in stores or in direct
field supervision, approximately 6 percent in distribution centers and approximately 3 percent in
store support functions. Included in the above numbers are approximately 2,600 persons employed in
our Mexico operations.

We have never experienced any material labor disruption and believe that relations with our
AutoZoners are generally good.

AutoZone Website

AutoZone’s primary website is at http://www.autozone.com. We make available, free of charge, at our
investor relations website, http://www.autozoneinc.com, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or
furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, as soon as reasonably feasible after we electronically file such material with, or furnish
it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.



Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following list describes our executive officers. The title of each executive officer includes
the words “Customer Satisfaction” which reflects our commitment to customer service. Officers are
elected by and serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors.

William C. Rhodes, III, 43

—

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Customer Satisfaction

William C. Rhodes, III, was named Chairman of AutoZone in June 2007 and has been President, Chief
Executive Officer and a director since March 2005. Prior to his appointment as President and Chief
Executive Officer, Mr. Rhodes was Executive Vice President-Store Operations and Commercial. Prior
to fiscal 2005, he had been Senior Vice President-Supply Chain and Information Technology since
fiscal 2002, and prior thereto had been Senior Vice President-Supply Chain since 2001. Prior to
that time, he served in various capacities within the Company, including Vice President-Stores in
2000, Senior Vice President-Finance and Vice President-Finance in 1999 and Vice
President-Operations Analysis and Support from 1997 to 1999. Prior to 1994, Mr. Rhodes was a
manager with Ernst & Young LLP.

William
T. Giles, 49

—

Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice
President, Finance, Information Technology and Store

Development,
Customer Satisfaction

William T. Giles was elected Executive Vice President — Finance, Information Technology and Store
Development in March 2007. Prior to that, he was Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
and Treasurer from June 2006 to December 2006 and Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
since May 2006. From 1991 to May 2006, he held several positions with Linens N’ Things, Inc., most
recently as the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Prior to 1991, he was with
Melville, Inc. and PricewaterhouseCoopers.

Harry L. Goldsmith, 57—Executive Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel, Customer
Satisfaction

Harry L. Goldsmith was elected Executive Vice-President, General Counsel and Secretary during
fiscal 2006. Previously, he was Senior Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel since 1996
and was Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from 1993 to 1996.

Robert D. Olsen, 55—Executive Vice President- Store Operations, Commercial and Mexico, Customer
Satisfaction

Robert D. Olsen was elected Executive Vice President-Store Operations, Commercial and Mexico during
fiscal 2007. Prior to that, he was Executive Vice President

-

Supply Chain, Information Technology,
Mexico and Store Development since fiscal 2006. Previously, he was Senior Vice President since
fiscal 2000 with primary responsibility for store development and Mexico operations. From 1993 to
2000, Mr. Olsen was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Leslie’s Poolmart. From
1985 to 1989, Mr. Olsen held several positions with AutoZone, including Controller, Vice
President

-

Finance, and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

James A. Shea, 63—Executive Vice President-Merchandising, Marketing and Supply Chain, Customer
Satisfaction

James A. Shea was elected Executive Vice President

-

Merchandising, Marketing and Supply Chain
during fiscal 2007 and has served as Executive Vice President-Merchandising and Marketing since
fiscal 2005. He was President and Co-founder of Portero during 2004. Prior to 2004, he was Chief
Executive Officer of Party City from 1999 to 2003. From 1995 to 1999, he was with Lechters
Housewares where he was Senior Vice President Marketing and Merchandising before being named
President in 1997. From 1990 to 1995, he was Senior Vice President of Home for Kaufmanns
Department Store, a division of May Company.

Jon A. Bascom

,


—

Senior Vice President-Chief Information Officer, Customer Satisfaction

Jon A. Bascom was elected Senior Vice President-Chief Information Officer in December 2007.
Previously, he was Vice President-Information Technology since 1996. Prior to joining AutoZone, Mr.
Bascom worked for Malone & Hyde, the AutoZone predecessor company, for 9 years. Since 1989, Mr.
Bascom has worked in a variety of leadership roles in applications development, infrastructure, and
technology support.



Timothy W. Briggs, 47

—

Senior Vice President-Human Resources, Customer Satisfaction

Timothy W. Briggs was elected Senior Vice President-Human Resources in October 2005. Prior to
that, he was Vice President — Field Human Resources since March 2005. From 2002 to 2005, Mr.
Briggs was Vice President —  Organization Development. From 1996 to 2002, Mr. Briggs served in
various management capacities at the Limited Inc., including Vice President, Human Resources.

Mark A. Finestone

,


—

Senior Vice President-Merchandising, Customer Satisfaction

Mark A. Finestone was elected Senior Vice President-Merchandising in December 2007. Previously, he
was Vice President — Merchandising since 2002. Prior to joining AutoZone in 2002, Mr. Finestone
worked for May Department Stores for 19 years where he held a variety of leadership roles which
included Divisional Vice President, Merchandising.

William W. Graves

,


—

Senior Vice President-Supply Chain, Customer Satisfaction

William W. Graves was elected Senior Vice President-Supply Chain in October 2005. Prior thereto,
he was Vice President-Supply Chain since 2000. From 1992 to 2000, Mr. Graves served in various
capacities with the Company.

Lisa R. Kranc, 55—Senior Vice President-Marketing, Customer Satisfaction

Lisa R. Kranc was elected Senior Vice President

-

Marketing during fiscal 2001. Previously, she was
Vice President

-

Marketing for Hannaford Bros. Co., a Maine-based grocery chain, since 1997, and was
Senior Vice President

-

Marketing for Bruno’s, Inc., from 1996 to 1997. Prior to 1996, she was Vice
President-Marketing for Giant Eagle, Inc. since 1992.

Thomas B. Newbern, 46—Senior Vice President-Store Operations, Customer Satisfaction

Thomas B. Newbern was elected Senior Vice President

-

Store Operations in March 2007. Previously, Mr.
Newbern held the title Vice President — Store Operations for AutoZone since 1998. A twenty-one year
AutoZoner, he has held several key management positions with the Company.

Charlie Pleas, III, 43—Senior Vice President, Controller, Customer Satisfaction

Charlie Pleas, III, was elected Senior Vice President and Controller in March 2007. Prior to that,
he was Vice President, Controller since 2003. Previously, he was Vice President-Accounting since
2000, and Director of General Accounting since 1996. Prior to joining AutoZone, Mr. Pleas was a
Division Controller with Fleming Companies, Inc. where he served in various capacities from 1988.

Larry M. Roesel, 51—Senior Vice President-Commercial, Customer Satisfaction

Larry M. Roesel joined AutoZone as Senior Vice President

-

Commercial in March 2007. Mr. Roesel came
to AutoZone with more than thirty years of experience with OfficeMax, Inc. and its predecessor,
where he served in operations, sales and general management.

Item 1A. Risk Factors

Our business is subject to a variety of risks. Set forth below are certain of the important risks
that we face and that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results.
These risks are not the only ones we face. Our business could also be affected by additional
factors that are presently unknown to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial to our
business.

We may not be able to sustain our recent rate of sales growth.

We have increased our store count in the past five fiscal years, growing from 3,268 stores at
August 30, 2003, to 4,240 stores at August 30, 2008, an average store count increase per year of
5%. Additionally, we have increased annual revenues in the past five fiscal years from $5.457
billion in fiscal 2003 to $6.523 billion in fiscal 2008, an average increase per year of 4%.
Annual revenue growth is driven by the opening of new stores and same-store sales. We cannot
provide any assurance that we can continue to open stores or increase same-store sales.



Our business depends upon qualified employees.

At the end of fiscal 2008, our consolidated employee count was approximately 57,000. We cannot
assure that we can continue to hire and retain qualified employees at current wage rates. If we do
not maintain competitive wages, our customer service could suffer by reason of a declining quality
of our workforce or, alternatively, our earnings could decrease if we increase our wage rates.

If demand for our products slows, then our business may be materially affected.

Demand for products sold by our stores depends on many factors. In the short term, it may depend
upon:

•

the number of miles vehicles are driven annually

. Higher vehicle mileage increases the
need for maintenance and repair. Mileage levels may be affected by gas prices and other
factors.

•

the number of vehicles in current service that are seven years old and older

. These
vehicles are generally no longer under the original vehicle manufacturers’ warranties and
tend to need more maintenance and repair than younger vehicles.

•

the weather

. Inclement weather may cause vehicle maintenance to be deferred.

•

the economy

. In periods of rapidly declining economic conditions, both retail DIY and
commercial do-it-for-me (“DIFM”) customers may defer vehicle maintenance or repair.
Additionally, such conditions may affect our customers’ credit availability. During
periods of expansionary economic conditions, more of our DIY customers may pay others to
repair and maintain their cars instead of working on their own vehicles or they may
purchase new vehicles.

•

rising energy prices

. Increases in energy prices may cause our customers to defer
purchases of certain of our products as they use a higher percentage of their income to pay
for gasoline and other energy costs.

For the long term, demand for our products may depend upon:

•

the quality of the vehicles manufactured by the original vehicle manufacturers and the
length of the warranties or maintenance offered on new vehicles; and

•

restrictions on access to diagnostic tools and repair information imposed by the
original vehicle manufacturers or by governmental regulation.

If we are unable to compete successfully against other businesses that sell the products that we
sell, we could lose customers and our sales and profits may decline.

The sale of automotive parts, accessories and maintenance items is highly competitive based on many
factors, including name recognition, product availability, customer service, store location and
price. Competitors are rapidly opening locations near our existing stores. AutoZone competes as a
supplier in both the DIY and DIFM auto parts and accessories markets.

Competitors include national, regional and local auto parts chains, independently owned parts
stores, jobbers, repair shops, car washes and auto dealers, in addition to discount and mass
merchandise stores, department stores, hardware stores, supermarkets, drugstores, convenience
stores and home stores that sell aftermarket vehicle parts and supplies, chemicals, accessories,
tools and maintenance parts. Although we believe we compete effectively on the basis of customer
service, including the knowledge and expertise of our AutoZoners; merchandise quality, selection
and availability; product warranty; store layout, location and convenience; price; and the strength
of our AutoZone brand name, trademarks and service marks; some competitors may have competitive
advantages, such as greater financial and marketing resources, larger stores with more merchandise,
longer operating histories, more frequent customer visits and more effective advertising. If we are
unable to continue to develop successful competitive strategies, or if our competitors develop more
effective strategies, we could lose customers and our sales and profits may decline.



If we cannot profitably increase our market share in the commercial auto parts business, our sales
growth may be limited.

Although we are one of the largest sellers of auto parts in the commercial market, to increase
commercial sales we must compete against national and regional auto parts chains, independently
owned parts stores, wholesalers and jobbers, repair shops and auto dealers. Although we believe we
compete effectively on the basis of customer service, merchandise quality, selection and
availability, price, product warranty and distribution locations, and the strength of our AutoZone
brand name, trademarks and service marks, some automotive aftermarket jobbers have been in business
for substantially longer periods of time than we have, have developed long-term customer
relationships and have large available inventories. We can make no assurances that we can
profitably develop new commercial customers or make available inventories required by commercial
customers.

If our vendors continue to consolidate, we may pay higher prices for our merchandise.

In recent years, several of our vendors have merged. Further vendor consolidation could limit the
number of vendors from which we may purchase products and could materially affect the prices we pay
for these products.

Consolidation among our competitors may negatively impact our business.

Recently some of our competitors have merged. If this trend continues or they are able to achieve
efficiencies in their mergers, there may be greater competitive pressures in the markets in which
they are stronger.

War or acts of terrorism or the threat of either may negatively impact availability of merchandise
and adversely impact our sales.

War or acts of terrorism, or the threat of either, may have a negative impact on our ability to
obtain merchandise available for sale in our stores. Some of our merchandise is imported from other
countries. If imported goods become difficult or impossible to bring into the United States, and if
we cannot obtain such merchandise from other sources at similar costs, our sales and profit margins
may be negatively affected.

In the event that commercial transportation is curtailed or substantially delayed, our business may
be adversely impacted, as we may have difficulty shipping merchandise to our distribution centers
and stores.

Rising energy prices may negatively impact our profitability.

As mentioned above, rising energy prices may impact demand for the products that we sell, overall
transaction count and our profitability. Higher energy prices impact our merchandise distribution,
commercial delivery, utility and product costs.

Demand for our merchandise may decline if vehicle manufacturers refuse to make available the
information our customers need to work on their own vehicles.

Demand for our merchandise may decline if vehicle manufacturers refuse to make available to the
automotive aftermarket industry diagnostic, repair and maintenance information that our customers,
both retail (“DIY”) and commercial (“DIFM”), require to diagnose, repair and maintain their
vehicles. Without public dissemination of this information, consumers may be forced to have all
diagnostic work, repairs and maintenance performed by the vehicle manufacturers’ dealer network.



Deteriorating conditions in the global credit markets, changes in our credit ratings and
macroeconomic factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.

Our short-term and long-term debt is rated investment grade by the major rating agencies. These
investment-grade credit ratings have historically allowed us to take advantage of lower interest
rates and other favorable terms on our short-term credit lines, in our senior debt offerings and in
the commercial paper markets. To maintain our investment-grade ratings, we are required to meet
certain financial performance ratios. An increase in our debt and/or a decline in our earnings
could result in downgrades in our credit ratings. A downgrade in our credit ratings could result
in an increase in interest rates and more restrictive terms on certain of our senior debt and our
commercial paper, could limit our access to public debt markets, could limit the institutions
willing to provide credit facilities to us and could significantly increase the interest rates on
such facilities from current levels.

Moreover, over the past several months, significant deterioration in the financial condition of
large financial institutions has resulted in a severe loss of liquidity and availability in global
credit markets and in higher short-term borrowing costs and more stringent borrowing terms.
Recessionary conditions in the global economy threaten to cause further tightening of the credit
markets, more stringent lending standards and terms and higher volatility in interest rates.
Persistence of these conditions could have a material adverse effect on our access to short-term
debt and the terms and cost of that debt. In addition, further deterioration in the U.S. economy
could adversely affect our corporate results, which could adversely affect our financial condition
and operations.

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments

None.

Item 2. Properties

The following table reflects the square footage and number of leased and owned properties for our
stores as of August 30, 2008:

No. of Stores

Square Footage

Leased

2,027

12,482,799

Owned

2,213

14,808,621

Total

4,240

27,291,420

We have 4.0 million square feet in distribution centers servicing our stores, of which
approximately 1.3 million square feet is leased and the remainder is owned. Our distribution
centers are located in Arizona, California, Georgia, Illinois, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Texas
and Mexico. Our primary store support center, which we own, is located in Memphis, Tennessee, and
consists of approximately 260,000 square feet. We also own and lease other properties that are not
material in the aggregate.



Item 3. Legal Proceedings

AutoZone, Inc. is a defendant in a lawsuit entitled “Coalition for a Level Playing Field, L.L.C.,
et al., v. AutoZone, Inc. et al.,” filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of
New York in October 2004. The case was filed by more than 200 plaintiffs, which are principally
automotive aftermarket warehouse distributors and jobbers (collectively “Plaintiffs”), against a
number of defendants, including automotive aftermarket retailers and aftermarket automotive parts
manufacturers. In the amended complaint, the plaintiffs allege, inter alia, that some or all of
the automotive aftermarket retailer defendants have knowingly received, in violation of the
Robinson-Patman Act (the “Act”), from various of the manufacturer defendants benefits such as
volume discounts, rebates, early buy allowances and other allowances, fees, inventory without
payment, sham advertising and promotional payments, a share in the manufacturers’ profits, benefits
of pay on scan purchases, implementation of radio frequency identification technology, and
excessive payments for services purportedly performed for the manufacturers. Additionally, a subset
of plaintiffs alleges a claim of fraud against the automotive aftermarket retailer defendants based
on discovery issues in a prior litigation involving similar Robinson-Patman Act claims. In the
prior litigation, the discovery dispute, as well as the underlying claims, were decided in favor of
AutoZone and the other automotive aftermarket retailer defendants who proceeded to trial, pursuant
to a unanimous jury verdict which was affirmed by the Second Circuit Court of Appeals. In the
current litigation, plaintiffs seek an unspecified amount of damages (including statutory
trebling), attorneys’ fees, and a permanent injunction prohibiting the aftermarket retailer
defendants from inducing and/or knowingly receiving discriminatory prices from any of the
aftermarket manufacturer defendants and from opening up any further stores to compete with
plaintiffs as long as defendants allegedly continue to violate the Act. The Company believes this
suit to be without merit and is vigorously defending against it. Defendants have filed motions to
dismiss all claims with prejudice on substantive and procedural grounds. Additionally, the
Defendants have sought to enjoin plaintiffs from filing similar lawsuits in the future. If granted
in their entirety, these dispositive motions would resolve the litigation in Defendants’ favor.

AutoZone is involved in various other legal proceedings incidental to the conduct of our business.
Although the amount of liability that may result from these other proceedings cannot be
ascertained, we do not currently believe that, in the aggregate, they will result in liabilities
material to our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

Not applicable.



PART II

Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of
Equity Securities

AutoZone’s common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “AZO.” On October
20, 2008, there were 3,504 stockholders of record, which does not include the number of beneficial
owners whose shares were represented by security position listings.

We currently do not pay a cash dividend on our common stock. Any payment of dividends in the future
would be dependent upon our financial condition, capital requirements, earnings, cash flow and
other factors.

The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices per share of common stock, as reported
by the New York Stock Exchange, for the periods indicated:

Price Range of Common Stock

High

Low

Fiscal Year Ended August 30, 2008:

Fourth quarter

$

142.49

$

110.39

Third quarter

$

126.85

$

108.89

Second quarter

$

132.44

$

103.07

First quarter

$

125.75

$

107.10

Fiscal Year Ended August 25, 2007:

Fourth quarter

$

140.29

$

111.46

Third quarter

$

137.66

$

121.52

Second quarter

$

128.00

$

112.39

First quarter

$

114.98

$

87.30

During 1998 the Company announced a program permitting the Company to repurchase a portion of its
outstanding shares not to exceed a dollar maximum established by the Company’s Board of Directors.
The program was amended in June 2008, to increase the repurchase authorization to $6.4 billion from
$5.9 billion. The program does not have an expiration date.

Shares of common stock repurchased by the Company during the quarter ended August 30, 2008, were as
follows:

Total Number of

Maximum Dollar

Shares Purchased

Value that May Yet

Total Number

Average

as Part of Publicly

Be Purchased

of Shares

Price Paid

Announced Plans

Under the Plans or

Period

Purchased

per Share

or Programs

Programs

May 4, 2008, to May 31, 2008

—

—

102,151,797

$

608,291,573

June 1, 2008, to June 28, 2008

—

—

102,151,797

608,291,573

June 29, 2008, to July 26, 2008

1,913,643

$

121.66

104,065,440

375,485,100

July 27, 2008, to August 30, 2008

1,991,011

$

133.80

106,056,451

109,085,287

Total

3,904,654

$

127.85

106,056,451

$

109,085,287

On September 23, 2008, the Board of Directors raised the repurchase authorization from $6.4 billion
to $6.9 billion.



The Company also repurchased, at fair value, an additional 39,235 shares in fiscal 2008, 65,152
shares in fiscal 2007, and 62,293 shares in fiscal 2006 from employees electing to sell their stock
under the Company’s Third Amended and Restated Employee Stock Purchase Plan, qualified under
Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code, under which all eligible employees may purchase
AutoZone’s common stock at 85% of the lower of the market price of the common stock on the first
day or last day of each calendar quarter through payroll deductions. Maximum permitted annual
purchases are $15,000 per employee or 10 percent of compensation, whichever is less. Under the
plan, 36,147 shares were sold to employees in fiscal 2008, 39,139 shares were sold to employees in
fiscal 2007, and 51,167 shares were sold in fiscal 2006. At August 30, 2008, 349,750 shares of
common stock were reserved for future issuance under this plan. Under the Amended and Restated
Executive Stock Purchase Plan all eligible executives are permitted to purchase AutoZone’s common
stock up to 25 percent of his or her annual salary and bonus. Purchases by executives under this
plan were 1,793 shares in fiscal 2008, 1,257 shares in fiscal 2007, and 811 shares in fiscal 2006.
At August 30, 2008, 261,244 shares of common stock were reserved for future issuance under this
plan.

Stock Performance Graph

This graph shows, from the end of fiscal year 2003 to the end of fiscal year 2008, changes in the
value of $100 invested in each of the following: AutoZone’s common stock, Standard & Poor’s 500
Composite Index, and a peer group consisting of other automotive aftermarket retailers.

Company Name / Index

8/30/03

8/28/04

8/27/05

8/26/06

8/25/07

8/30/08

AutoZone, Inc.


82.09

103.98

95.00

134.27

149.49

S&P 500 Index


111.81

123.89

135.68

157.83

139.74

Peer Group


109.13

142.83

126.65

154.92

145.61

The peer group consists of Advance Auto Parts, Inc, CSK Auto Corporation (through 7/11/08), Genuine
Parts Company, O’Reilly Automotive, Inc., and The Pep Boys-Manny, Moe & Jack.



Item 6. Selected Financial Data

(in thousands, except per share data and

Fiscal Year Ended August

selected operating data)


(1)(2)


(2)


(2)


(3)


(4)

Income Statement Data

Net sales

$

6,522,706

$

6,169,804

$

5,948,355

$

5,710,882

$

5,637,025

Cost of sales, including warehouse and delivery
expenses

3,254,645

3,105,554

3,009,835

2,918,334

2,880,446

Operating, selling, general and administrative
expenses

2,143,927

2,008,984

1,928,595

1,816,884

1,757,873

Operating profit

1,124,134

1,055,266

1,009,925

975,664

998,706

Interest expense — net

116,745

119,116

107,889

102,443

92,804

Income before income taxes

1,007,389

936,150

902,036

873,221

905,902

Income taxes

365,783

340,478

332,761

302,202

339,700

Net income

$

641,606

$

595,672

$

569,275

$

571,019

$

566,202

Diluted earnings per share

$

10.04

$

8.53

$

7.50

$

7.18

$

6.56

Adjusted weighted average shares for diluted
earnings per share

63,875

69,844

75,859

79,508

86,350

Balance Sheet Data

Current assets

$

2,586,301

$

2,270,455

$

2,118,927

$

1,929,459

$

1,755,757

Working capital (deficit)

66,981

(15,439

)

64,359

118,300

4,706

Total assets

5,257,112

4,804,709

4,526,306

4,245,257

3,912,565

Current liabilities

2,519,320

2,285,895

2,054,568

1,811,159

1,751,051

Debt

2,250,000

1,935,618

1,857,157

1,861,850

1,869,250

Long-term capital leases

48,144

39,073

—

—

—

Stockholders’ equity

$

229,687

$

403,200

$

469,528

$

391,007

$

171,393

Selected Operating Data

Number of domestic stores at beginning of year

3,933

3,771

3,592

3,420

3,219

New stores






Closed stores






Net new stores






Relocated stores






Number of domestic stores at end of year

4,092

3,933

3,771

3,592

3,420

Number of Mexico stores at end of year






Number of total stores at end of year

4,240

4,056

3,871

3,673

3,483

Total domestic store square footage

(in thousands)

26,236

25,135

24,016

22,808

21,689

Average square footage per domestic store

6,412

6,391

6,369

6,350

6,342

Increase in domestic store square footage


%


%


%


%


%

Increase (decrease) in domestic comparable store net sales

(5)

0.4

%

0.1

%

0.4

%

(2.1

)%

0.1

%

Average net sales per domestic store

(in thousands)

$

1,532

$

1,523

$

1,548

$

1,573

$

1,647

Average net sales per domestic store square foot

$


$


$


$


$


Total domestic employees at end of year

54,572

54,859

52,677

50,869

48,294

Merchandise under pay-on-scan arrangements (in thousands)

$

6,732

$

22,387

$

92,142

$

151,682

$

146,573

Inventory turnover

(6)

1.6

x

1.6

x

1.7

x

1.8

x

1.9

x

Accounts payable to inventory ratio

95.0

%

93.2

%

92.0

%

92.5

%

91.5

%

After-tax return on invested capital

(7)

24.0

%

22.7

%

22.2

%

23.9

%

25.1

%

Net cash provided by operating activities (in thousands)

$

912,814

$

845,194

$

822,747

$

648,083

$

638,379

Cash flow before share repurchases and changes in debt (in
thousands)

(8)

$

690,621

$

678,522

$

599,507

$

432,210

$

509,447

Return on average equity


%


%


%


%


%

(1)

Consisted of 53 weeks.

(2)

Fiscal 2008 operating results include a $18.4 million pre-tax non-cash expense for
share-based compensation, 2007 operating results include a $18.5 million pre-tax non-cash
expense for share-based compensation, and fiscal 2006 operating results contain a $17.4
million pre-tax non-cash expense for share-based compensation as a result of the adoption of
SFAS 123 (R) at the beginning of fiscal 2006.

(3)

Fiscal 2005 operating results include a $40.3 million pre-tax non-cash charge related to
lease accounting, which includes the impact on prior years and reflects additional
amortization of leasehold improvements and additional rent expense, and a $21.3 million income
tax benefit from the repatriation of earnings from our Mexican operations and other discrete
income tax items.



(4)

Fiscal 2004 operating results include $42.1 million in pre-tax gains from warranty
negotiations with certain vendors.

(5)

The domestic comparable sales increases (decreases) are based on sales for all domestic stores
open at least
one year.

(6)

Inventory turnover is calculated as cost of sales divided by the average merchandise
inventory balance over the year. The calculation includes cost of sales related to
pay-on-scan sales, which were $19.2 million for the 53 weeks ended August 30, 2008, $85.4
million for the 52 weeks ended August 25, 2007, $198.1 million for the 52 weeks ended August
26, 2006, $234.6 million for the 52 weeks ended August 27, 2005, and $83.2 million for the 52
weeks ended August 28, 2004.

(7)

After-tax return on invested capital is calculated as after-tax operating profit (excluding
rent charges) divided by average invested capital (which includes a factor to capitalize
operating leases). See Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures in Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

(8)

Cash flow before share repurchases and changes in debt is calculated as the change in cash
and cash equivalents less the change in debt plus treasury stock purchases. See Reconciliation
of Non-GAAP Financial Measures in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations.



Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

We are the nation’s leading specialty retailer and a leading distributor of automotive replacement
parts and accessories. We began operations in 1979 and at August 30, 2008, operated 4,092 stores in
the United States and Puerto Rico, and 148 in Mexico. Each of our stores carries an extensive
product line for cars, sport utility vehicles, vans and light trucks, including new and
remanufactured automotive hard parts, maintenance items, accessories and non-automotive products.
In many of our stores we also have a commercial sales program that provides commercial credit and
prompt delivery of parts and other products to local, regional and national repair garages, dealers
and service stations. We also sell the ALLDATA brand automotive diagnostic and repair software. On
the web, we sell diagnostic and repair information and automotive hard parts, maintenance items,
accessories and non-automotive products through www.autozone.com. We do not derive revenue from
automotive repair or installation.

Executive Summary

AutoZone achieved a solid performance in fiscal 2008 delivering record earnings of $642 million and
sales growth of $353 million over the prior year. We completed the fiscal year with solid growth
in our commercial sales and an increase in our retail sales. We are encouraged by the increase in
our commercial business and remain focused on strengthening our retail business. We believe the
challenging macro environment, including increases in gas prices, the credit crisis and higher
unemployment, has impacted our customers. Based on the current macro environment, we continue to
communicate to our customers our extensive product categories that are focused on improving gas
mileage and saving money by performing maintenance on their vehicles.

We believe the two statistics that have the closest correlation to our market growth are miles
driven and the number of seven year old or older vehicles on the road. Miles driven declined for
the ninth straight month in July 2008. August data is not yet available. We believe higher gas
prices have contributed to these trends. Conversely, the number of older vehicles (seven years old
or older) on the road has continued to increase annually. We currently do not believe the combined
impact of these trends to be material to our business.

Key Initiatives — During fiscal 2008, we continued to reinforce the importance of improving the
customer shopping experience by focusing on continuous training on product knowledge, leadership
and most importantly, our culture of customer satisfaction. Additionally, we made steady progress
on our category management initiatives by making enhancements to our merchandise assortment
planning tools, updating category line reviews, expanding our parts assortment, and increasing
retail prices to help mitigate the exposure to our business from increased costs. Also, we
maintained our focus on Commercial sales training to develop a first class Commercial field sales
organization. Lastly, we continued to gain traction on our new electronic parts catalogue,
Z-net

®

, by improving its capabilities and highlighting this customer service enhancement
in our marketing campaign.

We continue to see our customers being more cautious with their buying habits in the midst of a
challenging environment; however, we believe we are well positioned moving into fiscal 2009 and are
confident we can continue offering a value proposition that is compelling to our customers

.

Results of Operations

Fiscal 2008 Compared with Fiscal 2007

For the year ended August 30, 2008, AutoZone reported net sales of $6.523 billion compared with
$6.170 billion for the year ended August 25, 2007, a 5.7% increase from fiscal 2007. This growth
was primarily driven by an increase in the number of open stores, a 1.9% increase from the addition
of the 53

rd

week and domestic same store sales increase of 0.4%. At August 30, 2008, we
operated 4,092 domestic stores and 148 in Mexico, compared with 3,933 domestic stores and 123 in
Mexico at August 25, 2007. Domestic retail sales increased 4.5% and domestic commercial sales
increased 6.8% from prior year. ALLDATA and Mexico sales increased over prior year, contributing
1.2 percentage points of the total increase in net sales.



Gross profit for fiscal 2008 was $3.268 billion, or 50.1% of net sales, compared with $3.064
billion, or 49.7% of net sales, for fiscal 2007. The increase in gross profit as a percent of net
sales was due to the positive impact of category management efforts, partially offset by increased
distribution expense relating to higher fuel costs.

Vendor funding is primarily recorded as a reduction to inventories and recognized as a reduction to
cost of sales as the inventories are sold; however, vendor funding for specific selling activities
is recorded as a reduction to operating, selling, general and administrative expenses.
Historically, we have classified the majority of our funding as a reduction to inventory; however,
during the current year we began to transition to more specific promotions and selling activities
as we increased our efforts with vendors to develop tactics to allow them to drive sales and
showcase their product, which affect selling, general and administrative expenses.

Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2008 increased to $2.144
billion, or 32.9% of net sales, from $2.009 billion, or 32.6% of net sales for fiscal 2007. The
increase of operating expenses, as a percentage of sales, was primarily due to higher employee
medical expense and fuel expense for our commercial fleet.

Interest expense, net for fiscal 2008 was $116.7 million compared with $119.1 million during fiscal
2007. This decrease was primarily due to lower short-term rates and was offset by higher average
borrowing levels over the comparable prior year period and the impact of the additional week in the
current fiscal year. Average borrowings for fiscal 2008 were $2.024 billion, compared with $1.972
billion for fiscal 2007. Weighted average borrowing rates were 5.2% at August 30, 2008, compared
to 5.7% at August 25, 2007.

Our effective income tax rate was 36.3% of pre-tax income for fiscal 2008 compared to 36.4% for
fiscal 2007. Refer to “Note D — Income Taxes” for additional information regarding our income tax
rate.

Net income for fiscal 2008 increased by 7.7% to $641.6 million, and diluted earnings per share
increased 17.8% to $10.04 from $8.53 in fiscal 2007. The impact of the fiscal 2008 stock
repurchases on diluted earnings per share in fiscal 2008 was an increase of approximately $0.29.
Excluding the additional week, net income for the year increased 5.1% over the previous year to
$625.8 million, while diluted earnings per share increased 14.9% to $9.80 per share.

Fiscal 2007 Compared with Fiscal 2006

For the year ended August 25, 2007, AutoZone reported net sales of $6.170 billion compared with
$5.948 billion for the year ended August 26, 2006, a 3.7% increase from fiscal 2006. This growth
was primarily driven by an increase in the number of open stores. At August 25, 2007, we operated
3,933 domestic stores and 123 in Mexico, compared with 3,771 domestic stores and 100 in Mexico at
August 26, 2006. Domestic retail sales increased 3.4% and domestic commercial sales decreased 0.4%
from prior year. ALLDATA and Mexico sales increased over prior year, contributing 0.9 percentage
points of the total increase in net sales. Domestic same store sales, or sales for domestic stores
open at least one year, increased 0.1% from the prior year.

Gross profit for fiscal 2007 was $3.064 billion, or 49.7% of net sales, compared with $2.939
billion, or 49.4% of net sales, for fiscal 2006. The improvement in gross profit margin was
primarily attributable to ongoing category management initiatives and supply chain efficiencies.

Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2007 increased to $2.009
billion, or 32.6% of net sales, from $1.929 billion, or 32.4% of net sales for fiscal 2006. The
increase in expenses is driven primarily by higher occupancy cost versus the prior year.

Interest expense, net for fiscal 2007 was $119.1 million compared with $107.9 million during fiscal
2006. This increase was due to higher short term rates and higher average borrowing levels over the
comparable prior year period and the recognition of interest expense on capital lease obligations
that were accounted for as operating leases prior to a modification to the lease agreements in
fiscal 2007. Average borrowings for fiscal 2007 were $1.972 billion, compared with $1.928 billion
for fiscal 2006. Weighted average borrowing rates were 5.7% at August 25, 2007, compared to 5.5%
at August 26, 2006.



Our effective income tax rate decreased to 36.4% of pre-tax income for fiscal 2007 as compared to
36.9% for fiscal 2006 primarily due to benefits from changes in our pre-tax earnings mix and an
increase in certain federal and state tax credits. Refer to “Note D — Income Taxes” for additional
information regarding our income tax rate.

Net income for fiscal 2007 increased 4.6% to $595.7 million, and diluted earnings per share
increased 13.6% to $8.53 from $7.50 in fiscal 2006. The impact of the fiscal 2007 stock repurchases
on diluted earnings per share in fiscal 2007 was an increase of approximately $0.14.

Seasonality and Quarterly Periods

AutoZone’s business is somewhat seasonal in nature, with the highest sales occurring in the spring
and summer months of March through September, in which average weekly per-store sales historically
have been about 15% to 25% higher than in the slower months of December through February. During
short periods of time, a store’s sales can be affected by weather conditions. Extremely hot or
extremely cold weather may enhance sales by causing parts to fail and spurring sales of seasonal
products. Mild or rainy weather tends to soften sales as parts failure rates are lower in mild
weather and elective maintenance is deferred during periods of rainy weather. Over the longer term,
the effects of weather balance out, as we have stores throughout the United States and Mexico.

Each of the first three quarters of AutoZone’s fiscal year consisted of 12 weeks, and the fourth
quarter consisted of 17 weeks in 2008 and 16 weeks in 2007 and 2006. Because the fourth quarter
contains the seasonally high sales volume and consists of 16 or 17 weeks, compared with 12 weeks
for each of the first three quarters, our fourth quarter represents a disproportionate share of the
annual net sales and net income. The fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008, containing 17 weeks,
represented 33.9% of annual sales and 38.0% of net income; the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007,
containing 16 weeks, represented 32.5% of annual sales and 36.5% of net income; and the fourth
quarter of fiscal 2006, containing 16 weeks, represented 32.6% of annual sales and 37.5% of net
income.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

The primary source of our liquidity is our cash flows realized through the sale of automotive parts
and accessories. Net cash provided by operating activities was $921.1 million in fiscal 2008,
$845.2 million in fiscal 2007, and $822.7 million in fiscal 2006. The increase over prior year was
primarily due to the growth in net income and to a lesser extent, timing of income tax deductions,
and improvements in our accounts payable to inventory ratio as our vendors continue to finance a
large portion of our inventory. Partially offsetting this increase was higher accounts receivable.
We have maintained an accounts payable to inventory ratio of 95% at August 30, 2008, 93% at August
25, 2007, and 92% at August 26, 2006.

AutoZone’s primary capital requirement has been the funding of its continued new store development
program. From the beginning of fiscal 2006 to August 30, 2008, we have opened 567 net new stores.
Net cash flows used in investing activities were $243.2 million in fiscal 2008, compared to $228.7
million in fiscal 2007, and $268.3 million in fiscal 2006. We invested $243.6 million in capital
assets in fiscal 2008, compared to $224.5 million in capital assets in fiscal 2007, and $263.6
million in capital assets in fiscal 2006. New store openings were 185 for fiscal 2008, 186 for
fiscal 2007, and 204 for fiscal 2006. We invest a portion of our assets held by the Company’s wholly
owned insurance captive in marketable securities. We acquired $54.3 million of marketable
securities in fiscal 2008, $94.6 million in fiscal 2007 and $160.0 million in fiscal 2006. We had
proceeds from matured marketable securities of $50.7 million in fiscal 2008, $86.9 million in
fiscal 2007 and $145.4 million in fiscal 2006. Capital asset disposals provided $4.0 million in
fiscal 2008, $3.5 million in fiscal 2007, and $9.8 million in fiscal 2006.

Net cash used in financing activities was $522.7 million in fiscal 2008, $621.4 million in fiscal
2007, and $537.7 million in fiscal 2006. The net cash used in financing activities reflected
purchases of treasury stock which totaled $849.2 million for fiscal 2008, $761.9 million for fiscal
2007, and $578.1 million for fiscal 2006. The treasury stock purchases in fiscal 2008, 2007 and
2006 were primarily funded by cash flow from operations, and at times, by increases in debt levels.
Proceeds from issuance of debt reflected $750.0 million for fiscal 2008, none for fiscal 2007 and
$200.0 million for fiscal 2006. Debt repayments totaled $229.8 million for fiscal 2008, $5.8
million for fiscal 2007 and $152.7 million for fiscal 2006. As discussed in Note F, in August
2008, we issued $500.0 million in 6.50% Senior Notes due 2014 and $250.0 million in 7.125% Senior
Notes due 2018. A portion of the proceeds from the issuance of debt was used to repay outstanding
commercial paper, which had increased for the repayment of the $190.0 million senior notes that
matured in July. We intend to use the remainder of the proceeds to redeem or repurchase existing
debt, for working capital needs, for capital expenditures, for the repurchase of common stock under
our stock repurchase program and for general corporate purposes. Net repayments of commercial
paper were $206.7 million for fiscal 2008 and $52.0 million for fiscal 2006. For fiscal 2007, net
proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper were $84.3 million.



We expect to invest in our business consistent with historical rates during fiscal 2009, primarily
related to our new store development program and enhancements to existing stores and systems. In
addition to the building and land costs, our new store development program requires working
capital, predominantly for inventories. Historically, we have negotiated extended payment terms
from suppliers, reducing the working capital required. We plan to continue leveraging our inventory
purchases; however, our ability to do so may be impacted by a prolonged tightening of the credit
markets which may directly limit our vendors’ capacity to factor their receivables from us.

Depending on the timing and magnitude of our future investments (either in the form of leased or
purchased properties or acquisitions), we anticipate that we will rely primarily on internally
generated funds and available borrowing capacity to support a majority of our capital expenditures,
working capital requirements and stock repurchases. The balance may be funded through new
borrowings. We anticipate that we will be able to obtain such financing in view of our credit
rating and favorable experiences in the debt markets in the past.

Credit Ratings

At August 30, 2008, AutoZone had a senior unsecured debt credit rating from Standard & Poor’s of
BBB and a commercial paper rating of A-2. Moody’s Investors Service had assigned the Company a
senior unsecured debt credit rating of Baa2 and a commercial paper rating of P-2. Fitch Ratings
assigned the Company a BBB rating for senior unsecured debt and an F-2 rating for commercial paper.
As of August 30, 2008, Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch had AutoZone listed as having a
“stable” outlook. If our credit ratings drop, our interest expense may increase; similarly, we
anticipate that our interest expense may decrease if our investment ratings are raised. If our
commercial paper ratings drop below current levels, we may have difficulty continuing to utilize
the commercial paper market and our interest expense will likely increase, as we will then be
required to access more expensive bank lines of credit. If our senior unsecured debt ratings drop
below investment grade, our access to financing may become more limited.

Debt Facilities

We maintain $1.0 billion of revolving credit facilities with a group of banks to primarily support
commercial paper borrowings, letters of credit and other short-term unsecured bank loans. The
credit facilities may be increased to $1.3 billion at AutoZone’s election and subject to bank
credit capacity and approval, may include up to $200 million in letters of credit, and may include
up to $100 million in capital leases. As the available balance is reduced by commercial paper
borrowings and certain outstanding letters of credit, the Company had $879.7 million in available
capacity under these facilities at August 30, 2008. The rate of interest payable under the credit
facilities is a function of Bank of America’s base rate or a Eurodollar rate (each as defined in
the facility agreements), or a combination thereof. These facilities expire in May 2010.

Our $300.0 million bank term loan entered in December 2004 was amended in April 2006 to have
similar terms and conditions as the $1.0 billion credit facilities, but with a December 2009
maturity, and was further amended in August 2007 to reduce the interest rate on Eurodollar loans.
That credit agreement with a group of banks provides for a term loan, which consists of, at our
election, base rate loans, Eurodollar loans or a combination thereof. The interest accrues on base
rate loans at a base rate per annum equal to the higher of the prime rate or the Federal Funds Rate
plus 1/2 of 1%. Interest accrues on Eurodollar loans at a defined Eurodollar rate plus the
applicable percentage, which can range from 30 basis points to 90 basis points, depending upon our
senior unsecured (non-credit enhanced) long-term debt rating. Based on our ratings at August 30,
2008, the applicable percentage on Eurodollar loans is 35 basis points. We may select interest
periods of one, two, three or six months for Eurodollar loans, subject to availability. Interest is
payable at the end of the selected interest period, but no less frequently than quarterly. We
entered into an interest rate swap agreement on December 29, 2004, to effectively fix, based on
current debt ratings, the interest rate of the term loan at 4.4%. We have the option to extend
loans into subsequent interest period(s) or convert them into loans of another interest rate type.
The entire unpaid principal amount of the term loan will be due and payable in full on December 23,
2009, when the facility terminates. We may prepay the term loan in whole or in part at any time
without penalty, subject to reimbursement of the lenders’ breakage and redeployment costs in the
case of prepayment of Eurodollar borrowings.



On June 25, 2008, we entered into an agreement with ESL Investments, Inc., setting forth certain
understandings and agreements (see Exhibit 10.32 for complete details) regarding the voting by ESL
Investments, Inc., on behalf of itself and its affiliates (collectively, “ESL”), of certain shares
of common stock of AutoZone, Inc. and related matters. Among other things, we agreed to use our
commercially reasonable efforts to increase our adjusted debt/EBITDAR target ratio from 2.1:1 to
2.5:1 no later than February 14, 2009. We calculate adjusted debt as the sum of total debt,
capital lease obligations and rent times six; and we calculate EBITDAR by adding interest, taxes,
depreciation, amortization, rent and options expenses to net income.

During July 2008, our $190.0 million Senior Notes maturing at that time were repaid with an
increase in commercial paper. On August 4, 2008, we issued $500.0 million in 6.50% Senior Notes
due 2014 and $250.0 million in 7.125% Senior Notes due 2018 under our shelf registration statement
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 29, 2008. We used a portion of the
proceeds to pay down our commercial paper and intend to use the remainder for general corporate
purposes, including repaying, redeeming or repurchasing outstanding debt and for working capital,
capital expenditures, new store openings, stock repurchases and acquisitions.

During April 2006, our $150.0 million Senior Notes maturing at that time were repaid with an
increase in commercial paper. On June 8, 2006, we issued $200.0 million in 6.95% Senior Notes due
2016 under our existing shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on August 17, 2004. That shelf registration allowed us to sell up to $300 million in
debt securities to fund general corporate purposes, including repaying, redeeming or repurchasing
outstanding debt, and for working capital, capital expenditures, new store openings, stock
repurchases and acquisitions. The remainder of the shelf registration was cancelled in February,
2007.

The 6.50% and 7.125% notes issued during August, 2008, are subject to an interest rate adjustment
if the debt ratings assigned to the notes are downgraded and a provision where repayment of the
notes may be accelerated if AutoZone experiences a change in control (as defined in the
agreements). Our borrowings under our other Senior Notes arrangements contain minimal covenants,
primarily restrictions on liens. Under our other borrowing arrangements, covenants include
limitations on total indebtedness, restrictions on liens, a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio and
a change of control provision that may require acceleration of the repayment obligations under
certain circumstances. All of the repayment obligations under our borrowing arrangements may be
accelerated and come due prior to the scheduled payment date if covenants are breached or an event
of default occurs. As of August 30, 2008, we were in compliance with all covenants and expect to
remain in compliance with all covenants.

Stock Repurchases

During 1998, we announced a program permitting us to repurchase a portion of our outstanding shares
not to exceed a dollar maximum established by our Board of Directors. The program was amended in
June 2008 to increase the repurchase authorization to $6.4 billion from $5.9 billion. From
January 1998 to August 30, 2008, we have repurchased a total of 106.1 million shares at an
aggregate cost of $6.3 billion. We repurchased 6.8 million shares of common stock at an aggregate
cost of $849.2 million during fiscal 2008, 6.0 million shares of its common stock at an aggregate
cost of $761.9 million during fiscal 2007, and 6.2 million shares of its common stock at an
aggregate cost of $578.1 million during fiscal 2006.

On September 23, 2008, the Board of Directors raised the repurchase authorization from $6.4 billion
to $6.9 billion. From August 31, 2008 to October 20, 2008, we repurchased 1.6 million shares for
$204.4 million.



Financial Commitments

The following table shows AutoZone’s significant contractual obligations as of August 30, 2008:

Total

Payment Due by Period

Contractual

Less than

Between

Between

Over 5

(in thousands)

Obligations

1 year

1-3 years

4-5 years

years

Long-term debt (1)

$

2,250,000

$

—

$

500,000

$

500,000

$

1,250,000

Interest payments (2)

764,985

134,153

237,208

205,362

188,262

Operating leases (3)

1,372,451

161,435

283,836

219,645

707,535

Capital leases (4)

68,710

16,341

31,568

20,801

—

Self-insurance reserves (5)

147,594

49,081

44,986

22,637

30,890

Construction commitments

19,972

19,972

—

—

—

$

4,623,712

$

380,982

$

1,097,598

$

968,445

$

2,176,687

(1)

Long-term debt balances represent principal maturities, excluding interest.

(2)

Represents obligations for interest payments on long-term debt, including the effect of
interest rate hedges.

(3)

Operating lease obligations are inclusive of amounts accrued within deferred rent and closed
store obligations reflected in our consolidated balance sheets.

(4)

Capital lease obligations include related interest.

(5)

The Company retains a significant portion of the risks associated with workers compensation,
employee health, general and product liability, property, and automotive insurance. These
amounts represent undiscounted estimates based on actuarial calculations. Although these
obligations do not have scheduled maturities, the timing of future payments are predictable
based upon historical patterns. Accordingly, the Company reflects the net present value of
these obligations in its consolidated balance sheets.

We have other obligations reflected in our consolidated balance sheet that are not reflected in the
table above due to the absence of scheduled maturities or due to the nature of the account.
Therefore, the timing of these payments cannot be determined, except for amounts estimated to be
payable in 2009 that are included in current liabilities.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

The following table reflects outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds as of August 30, 2008.

Total

Other

(in thousands)

Commitments

Standby letters of credit

$

93,993

Surety bonds

13,844

$

107,837

A substantial portion of the outstanding standby letters of credit (which are primarily renewed on
an annual basis) and surety bonds are used to cover reimbursement obligations to our workers’
compensation carriers. There are no additional contingent liabilities associated with them as the
underlying liabilities are already reflected in our consolidated balance sheet. The standby letters
of credit and surety bonds arrangements expire within one year, but have automatic renewal clauses.

In conjunction with our commercial sales program, we offer credit to some of our commercial
customers. The majority of our receivables related to the credit program are sold to a third party
at a discount for cash with limited recourse. AutoZone has recorded a reserve for this recourse. At
August 30, 2008, the receivables facility had an outstanding balance of $55.4 million and the
balance of the recourse reserve was $1.2 million.



Value of Pension Assets

At August 30, 2008, the fair market value of AutoZone’s pension assets was $160.9 million, and the
related accumulated benefit obligation was $156.7 million based on a May 31, 2008 measurement date.
On January 1, 2003, our defined benefit pension plans were frozen. Accordingly, plan participants
earn no new benefits under the plan formulas, and no new participants may join the plans. The
material assumptions for fiscal 2008 are an expected long-term rate of return on plan assets of
8.0% and a discount rate of 6.90%. For additional information regarding AutoZone’s qualified and
non-qualified pension plans refer to “Note I — Pensions and Savings Plans” in the accompanying
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures

“Selected Financial Data” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations” include certain financial measures not derived in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). These non-GAAP financial measures provide additional
information for determining our optimum capital structure and are used to assist management in
evaluating performance and in making appropriate business decisions to maximize stockholders’
value.

Non-GAAP financial measures should not be used as a substitute for GAAP financial measures, or
considered in isolation, for the purpose of analyzing our operating performance, financial position
or cash flows. However, we have presented the non-GAAP financial measures, as we believe they
provide additional information that is useful to investors as it indicates more clearly the
Company’s comparative year-to-year operating results. Furthermore, our management and Compensation
Committee of the Board of Directors use the abovementioned non-GAAP financial measures to analyze
and compare our underlying operating results and to determine payments of performance-based
compensation. We have included a reconciliation of this information to the most comparable GAAP
measures in the following reconciliation tables.

Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measure: Cash Flow Before Share Repurchases and Changes in
Debt

The following table reconciles net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents to cash flow
before share repurchases and changes in debt, which is presented in the “Selected Financial Data”.

Fiscal Year Ended August

(in thousands)






Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

$

155,807

$

(4,904

)

$

16,748

$

(2,042

)

$

(16,250

)

Less: Increase (decrease) in debt

313,473

78,461

(4,693

)

(7,400

)

322,405

Less: Share repurchases

(849,196

)

(761,887

)

(578,066

)

(426,852

)

(848,102

)

Cash flow before share repurchases and
changes in debt

$

691,530

$

678,522

$

599,507

$

432,210

$

509,447



Reconciliation
of Non-GAAP Financial Measure: After-Tax Return on Invested
Capital

The following table reconciles the percentages of after-tax return on invested capital, or “ROIC.”
After-tax return on invested capital is calculated as after-tax operating profit (excluding rent)
divided by average invested capital (which includes a factor to capitalize operating leases). The
ROIC percentages are presented in the “Selected Financial Data.”

Fiscal Year Ended August

(in thousands, except percentage data)






Net income

$

641,606

$

595,672

$

569,275

$

571,019

$

566,202

Adjustments:

After-tax interest

74,355

75,793

68,089

65,533

58,003

After-tax rent

105,166

97,050

90,808

96,367

73,086

After-tax return

$

821,127

$

768,515

$

728,172

$

732,919

$

697,291

Average debt (1)

$

2,015,186

$

1,955,652

$

1,909,011

$

1,969,639

$

1,787,307

Average equity (2)

353,411

478,853

510,657

316,639

292,802

Rent x 6 (3)

990,726

915,138

863,328

774,706

701,621

Average capital lease obligations (4)

60,824

30,538

—

—

—

Pre-tax invested capital

$

3,420,147

$

3,380,181

$

3,282,996

$

3,060,984

$

2,781,730

ROIC

24.0

%

22.7

%

22.2

%

23.9

%

25.1

%

(1)

Average debt is equal to the average of our long-term debt measured at the end of the prior
fiscal year and each of the 13 fiscal periods in the current fiscal year. Long-term debt (in
thousands) was $1,546,845 at August 30, 2003.

(2)

Average equity is equal to the average of our stockholders’ equity measured at the end of
the prior fiscal year and each of the 13 fiscal periods of the current fiscal year.
Stockholders’ equity (in thousands) was $373,758 at August 30, 2003.

(3)

Rent is multiplied by a factor of six to capitalize operating leases in the determination of
pre-tax invested capital. This calculation excludes the impact from the cumulative lease
accounting adjustments recorded in the second quarter of fiscal 2005.

(4)

Average of the capital lease obligations relating to vehicle capital leases entered into at
the beginning of fiscal 2007 is computed as the average over the trailing 13 periods. Rent
expense associated with the vehicles prior to the conversion to capital leases is included in
the rent for purposes of calculating return on invested capital.

Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measure: Fiscal 2008 Results Excluding Impact of

rd

Week:

The following table summarizes the favorable impact of the additional week of the 53 week fiscal
year ended August 30, 2008.

Fiscal 2008

Results of

Fiscal 2008

Results of

Operations

Results of

Percent of

Operations for

Excluding

Percent of

(in thousands, except per share and percentage data)

Operations

Revenue


rd

Week


rd

Week

Revenue

Net sales

$

6,522,706

100.0

%

$

(125,894

)

$

6,396,812

100.0

%

Cost of sales

3,254,645

49.9

%

(62,700

)

3,191,945

49.9

%

Gross profit

3,268,061

50.1

%

(63,194

)

3,204,867

50.1

%

Operating expenses

2,143,927

32.9

%

(36,087

)

2,107,840

33.0

%

Operating profit

1,124,134

17.2

%

(27,107

)

1,097,027

17.1

%

Interest expense, net

116,745

1.8

%

(2,340

)

114,405

1.8

%

Income before taxes

1,007,389

15.4

%

(24,767

)

982,622

15.4

%

Income taxes

365,783

5.6

%

(8,967

)

356,816

5.6

%

Net income

$

641,606

9.8

%

$

(15,800

)

$

625,806

9.8

%

Diluted earnings per share

$

10.04

$

(0.24

)

$

9.80



Recent Accounting Pronouncements

On August 26, 2007, we adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Interpretation No. 48,
“Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes” (“FIN 48”). This interpretation establishes new
standards for the financial statement recognition, measurement and disclosure of uncertain tax
positions taken or expected to be taken in income tax returns. For additional information on the
impact of adoption of FIN 48, refer to “Note D — Income Taxes” to the accompanying consolidated
financial statements.

On August 25, 2007, we adopted the recognition and disclosure provisions of FASB Statement No. 158,
“Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans” (“SFAS 158”).
SFAS 158 requires recognition in the balance sheet of the funded status of defined benefit pension
and other postretirement plans, and the recognition in accumulated other comprehensive income
(“AOCI”) of unrecognized gains or losses and prior service costs or credits. The funded status is
measured as the difference between the fair value of the plan’s assets and the projected benefit
obligation (“PBO”) of the plan. Refer to “Note I, Pension and Savings Plans” for further
description of this adoption.

Additionally, SFAS 158 requires the measurement date for plan assets and liabilities to coincide
with the sponsor’s year end. We currently use a May 31 measurement date for our plans; therefore,
this standard will require us to change our measurement date to our fiscal year end beginning in
fiscal 2009. The impact from adopting the measurement provisions is not expected to have a
material impact on the Company’s results of operations.

In September 2006, the FASB issued FASB Statement No. 157, “Fair Value Measurements” (“SFAS 157”).
This new standard defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally
accepted accounting principles, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS 157
will be effective at the beginning of fiscal 2009 for financial assets and liabilities and at the
beginning of fiscal 2010 for nonfinancial assets and liabilities. The adoption of this statement
is not expected to have an immediate material impact on our consolidated financial statements.

In February 2007, the FASB issued FASB Statement No. 159, “The Fair Value Option for Financial
Assets and Financial Liabilities” (“SFAS 159”). This new standard permits entities to choose to
measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value. SFAS 159 will be
effective for AutoZone in fiscal 2009. The adoption of this statement is not expected to have a
material impact on our consolidated financial statements because we do not currently intend to
elect to apply fair value to any financial instruments that are not already reported at fair value.

In December 2007, the FASB issued FASB Statement 141R, “Business Combinations,” (“SFAS 141R”). This
standard significantly changes the accounting for and reporting of business combinations in
consolidated financial statements. Among other things, SFAS 141R requires the acquiring entity in
a business combination to recognize the full fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed
at the acquisition date and requires the expensing of most transaction and restructuring costs. The
standard is effective for us beginning August 30, 2009 (fiscal 2010) and is applicable only to
transactions occurring after the effective date.

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, “Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial
Statements, including an amendment for ARB No. 51,” (“SFAS 160”). SFAS 160 amends ARB No. 51 to
establish accounting and reporting standards for the noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary and
for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. It clarifies that a noncontrolling interest in a
subsidiary is an ownership interest in the consolidated entity that should be reported as equity in
the consolidated financial statements. SFAS 160 is effective for us beginning August 30, 2009.
The adoption of SFAS 160 is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial
statements.

In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, “Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities, an amendment of SFAS No. 133,” (“SFAS 161”). SFAS 161 amends SFAS No. 133 to change
the disclosure requirements for derivative instruments and hedging activities. Entities are
required to provide enhanced disclosures about how and why an entity uses derivative instruments,
how derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for under SFAS No. 133 and its
related interpretations, and how derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entity’s
financial position, financial performance, and cash flows. SFAS 161 is effective for AutoZone
beginning in fiscal 2010. We are currently evaluating the provisions of SFAS 161.



In May 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 162, “The Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles,” (“SFAS 162”). SFAS 162 identifies the sources of accounting principles and the
framework for selecting the principles to be used in the preparation of financial statements of
nongovernmental entities that are presented in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles (GAAP) in the United States. SFAS No. 162 is effective 60 days after the SEC’s approval
of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board amendments to AU section 411.

Critical Accounting Policies

Preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions
affecting the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements,
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period and related disclosures of
contingent liabilities. In the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, we describe our
significant accounting policies used in preparing the consolidated financial statements. Our
policies are evaluated on an ongoing basis and are drawn from historical experience and other
assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ
under different assumptions or conditions. Our senior management has identified the critical
accounting policies for the areas that are materially impacted by estimates and assumptions and
have discussed such policies with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. The following
items in our consolidated financial statements require significant estimation or judgment:

Inventory and Cost of Sales

We state our inventories at the lower of cost or market using the last-in, first-out (“LIFO”)
method. Included in inventory are related purchasing, storage and handling costs. Due to price
deflation on the Company’s merchandise purchases, the Company’s inventory balances are effectively
maintained under the first-in, first-out method as the Company’s policy is not to write up
inventory for favorable LIFO adjustments, resulting in cost of sales being reflected at the higher
amount. The nature of our inventory is such that the risk of obsolescence is minimal and excess
inventory has historically been returned to our vendors for credit. We provide reserves where less
than full credit will be received for such returns and where we anticipate that items will be sold
at retail prices that are less than recorded costs. Additionally, we reduce inventory for
estimated losses related to shrinkage. Our shrink estimate is based on historical losses verified
by ongoing physical inventory counts.

Vendor Allowances

AutoZone receives various payments and allowances from its vendors through a variety of programs
and arrangements. Monies received from vendors include rebates, allowances and promotional funds.
The amounts to be received are subject to purchase volumes and the terms of the vendor agreements,
which generally do not state an expiration date, but are subject to ongoing negotiations that may
be impacted in the future based on changes in market conditions, vendor marketing strategies and
changes in the profitability or sell-through of the related merchandise.

Rebates and other miscellaneous incentives are earned based on purchases or product sales and are
accrued ratably over the purchase or sale of the related product, but only if it is reasonably
certain that the required volume levels will be reached. These monies are recorded as a reduction
of inventories and are recognized as a reduction to cost of sales as the related inventories are
sold.

Allowances and promotional funds earned under vendor funding programs are accounted for pursuant to
the Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 02-16, “Accounting by a Customer (Including a Reseller)
for Cash Consideration Received from a Vendor” (“EITF 02-16”). The majority of the vendor funds
received is recorded as a reduction of the cost of inventories and is recognized as a reduction to
cost of sales as these inventories are sold. For arrangements that provide for reimbursement of
specific, incremental, identifiable costs incurred by the Company in selling the vendor’s products,
the vendor funds are recorded as a reduction to selling, general and administrative expenses in the
period in which the specific costs were incurred.



Impairments

In accordance with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144,
“Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets” (“SFAS 144”), we evaluate the
recoverability of the carrying amounts of long-lived assets, such as property and equipment,
covered by this standard annually and more frequently if events or changes in circumstances dictate
that the carrying value may not be recoverable. As part of the evaluation, we review performance at
the store level to identify any stores with current period operating losses that should be
considered for impairment. We compare the sum of the undiscounted expected future cash flows with
the carrying amounts of the assets.

Under the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets” (“SFAS 142”), we perform an annual test of goodwill to compare the estimated
fair value of goodwill to the carrying amount to determine if any impairment exists. We perform the
annual impairment assessment in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, unless circumstances
dictate more frequent assessments.

If impairments are indicated by either of the above evaluations, the amount by which the carrying
amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets is recognized as an impairment loss. Such
evaluations require management to make certain assumptions based upon information available at the
time the evaluation is performed, which could differ from actual results.

Self-Insurance

We retain a significant portion of the risks associated with workers’ compensation, vehicle,
employee health, general and product liability and property losses; and we maintain stop-loss
coverage to limit the exposure related to certain of these risks. Liabilities associated with
these losses include estimates of both claims filed and losses incurred but not yet reported.
Through various methods, which include analyses of historical trends and utilization of actuaries,
the Company estimates the costs of these risks. The long-term portions of these liabilities are
recorded at our estimate of their net present value. We believe the amounts accrued are adequate,
although actual losses may differ from the amounts provided.

Income Taxes

We accrue and pay income taxes based on the tax statutes, regulations and case law of the various
jurisdictions in which we operate. Income tax expense involves management judgment as to the
ultimate resolution of any tax matters in dispute with state, federal and foreign tax authorities.
We measure and record income tax contingency accruals in accordance with Financial Accounting
Standards Board Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes.”

We recognize liabilities for uncertain income tax positions based on a two-step process. The first
step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available
evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit,
including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step requires
us to estimate and measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely to be
realized upon ultimate settlement. It is inherently difficult and subjective to estimate such
amounts, as we must determine the probability of various possible outcomes. We reevaluate these
uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis or when new information becomes available to
management. These reevaluations are based on factors including, but not limited to, changes in
facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, successfully settled issues under audit, expirations
due to statues, and new audit activity. Such a change in recognition or measurement could result in
the recognition of a tax benefit or an increase to the tax accrual.

We classify interest related to income tax liabilities as income tax expense, and if applicable,
penalties are recognized as a component of income tax expense. The income tax liabilities and
accrued interest and penalties that are due within one year of the balance sheet date are presented
as current liabilities. The remaining portion of our income tax liabilities and accrued interest
and penalties are presented as noncurrent liabilities because payment of cash is not anticipated
within one year of the balance sheet date. These noncurrent income tax liabilities are recorded in
the caption “Other liabilities” in our consolidated balance sheets.

Litigation and Other Contingent Liabilities

We have received claims related to and been notified that we are a defendant in a number of legal
proceedings resulting from our business, such as employment matters, product liability claims and
general liability claims related to our store premises. We calculate contingent loss accruals using
our best estimate of our probable and reasonably estimable contingent liabilities.



Pension Obligation

Prior to January 1, 2003, substantially all full-time employees were covered by a defined benefit
pension plan. The benefits under the plan were based on years of service and the employee’s highest
consecutive five-year average compensation. On January 1, 2003, the plan was frozen. Accordingly,
pension plan participants will earn no new benefits under the plan formula and no new participants
will join the pension plan. On January 1, 2003, the Company’s supplemental defined benefit pension
plan for certain highly compensated employees was also frozen. Accordingly, plan participants will
earn no new benefits under the plan formula and no new participants will join the pension plan. As
the plan benefits are frozen, the annual pension expense and recorded liabilities are not impacted
by increases in future compensation levels, but are impacted by the use of two key assumptions in
the calculation of these balances:

i.

Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets:

estimated by considering the composition
of our asset portfolio, our historical long-term investment performance and current market
conditions.

ii.

Discount rate used to determine benefit obligations:

adjusted annually based on the
interest rate for long-term high-quality corporate bonds as of the
measurement date (May 31)
using yields for maturities that are in line with the duration of our pension liabilities. This
same discount rate is also used to determine pension expense for the following plan year.

If such assumptions differ materially from actual experience, the impact could be material to our
financial statements.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

AutoZone is exposed to market risk from, among other things, changes in interest rates, foreign
exchange rates and fuel prices. From time to time, we use various financial instruments to reduce
interest rate and fuel price risks. To date, based upon our current level of foreign operations,
hedging costs and past changes in the associated foreign exchange rates, no derivative instruments
have been utilized to reduce foreign exchange rate risk. All of our hedging activities are governed
by guidelines that are authorized by our Board of Directors. Further, we do not buy or sell
financial instruments for trading purposes.

Interest Rate Risk

AutoZone’s financial market risk results primarily from changes in interest rates. At times, we
reduce our exposure to changes in interest rates by entering into various interest rate hedge
instruments such as interest rate swap contracts, treasury lock agreements and forward-starting
interest rate swaps.

AutoZone has historically utilized interest rate swaps to convert variable rate debt to fixed rate
debt and to lock in fixed rates on future debt issuances. We reflect the current fair value of all
interest rate hedge instruments in our consolidated balance sheets as a component of other assets.
All of the Company’s interest rate hedge instruments are designated as cash flow hedges. We had an
outstanding interest rate swap with a fair value of ($4.3) million at August 30, 2008, and $5.8
million at August 25, 2007, to effectively fix the interest rate on the $300.0 million term loan
entered into during December 2004.

The related gains and losses on interest rate hedges are deferred in stockholders’ equity as a
component of other comprehensive income or loss. These deferred gains and losses are recognized in
income as a decrease or increase to interest expense in the period in which the related cash flows
being hedged are recognized in expense. However, to the extent that the change in value of an
interest rate hedge instrument does not perfectly offset the change in the value of the cash flow
being hedged, that ineffective portion is immediately recognized in income. The Company’s hedge
instrument was determined to be highly effective as of August 30, 2008.



The fair value of our debt was estimated at $2.235 billion as of August 30, 2008, and $1.928
billion as of August 25, 2007, based on the quoted market prices for the same or similar debt
issues or on the current rates available to AutoZone for debt having the same remaining maturities.
Such fair value is less than the carrying value of debt by $15.0 million at August 30, 2008, and
less than the carrying value of debt by $7.6 million at August 25, 2007. Considering the effect of
the interest rate swap designated and effective as a cash flow hedge, we had no variable rate debt
outstanding at August 30, 2008, and $245.6 million of variable rate debt outstanding at August 25,
2007. In fiscal 2007, at this borrowing level for variable rate debt, a one percentage point
increase in interest rates would have had an unfavorable impact on our pre-tax earnings and cash
flows of $2.5 million, which includes the effects of the interest rate swap. The primary interest
rate exposure on variable rate debt is based on LIBOR. Considering the effect of the interest rate
swap designated and effective as a cash flow hedge, we had outstanding fixed rate debt of $2.250
billion at August 30, 2008, and $1.690 billion at August 25, 2007. A one percentage point increase
in interest rates would reduce the fair value of our fixed rate debt by $90.7 million at August 30,
2008, and $60.8 million at August 25, 2007.

Fuel Price Risk

Fuel swap contracts that we utilize have not previously been designated as hedging instruments
under the provisions of SFAS 133 and thus do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment, although
the instruments were executed to economically hedge a portion of our diesel fuel and unleaded fuel
exposure. We did not enter into any fuel swap contracts during the 2008 or 2006 fiscal years.
During fiscal 2007 we entered into fuel swaps to economically hedge a portion of our diesel fuel
exposure. These swaps were settled within a few days of the fiscal year end and had no significant
impact on cost of sales for the 2007 fiscal year.



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Index

Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting


Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm


Consolidated Statements of Income


Consolidated Balance Sheets


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows


Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


Quarterly Summary (unaudited)




Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, as amended). Our internal control over financial reporting includes, among other things,
defined policies and procedures for conducting and governing our business, sophisticated
information systems for processing transactions and properly trained staff. Mechanisms are in place
to monitor the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, including regular
testing performed by the Company’s internal audit team, which is comprised of both Deloitte &
Touche LLP professionals and Company personnel. Actions are taken to correct deficiencies as they
are identified. Our procedures for financial reporting include the active involvement of senior
management, our Audit Committee and a staff of highly qualified financial and legal professionals.

Management, with the participation of our principal executive and financial officers, assessed our
internal control over financial reporting as of August 30, 2008, the end of our fiscal year.
Management based its assessment on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria).

Based on this assessment, management has concluded that our internal control over financial
reporting was effective as of August 30, 2008.

Our independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP, audited the effectiveness of
our internal control over financial reporting. Ernst & Young has issued their report concurring
with management’s assessment, which is included in this Annual Report.

Certifications

Compliance with NYSE Corporate Governance Listing Standards

On January 8, 2008, the Company submitted to the New York Stock Exchange the Annual CEO
Certification required pursuant to Section 303A.12(a) of the New York Stock Exchange Listed Company
Manual.

Rule 13a-

14(a)

Certifications of Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer

The Company has filed, as exhibits to its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
August 30, 2008, the certifications of its Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial
Officer required pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2004.



Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors and Stockholders of AutoZone, Inc.

We have audited AutoZone, Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of August 30, 2008,
based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). AutoZone, Inc.’s
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and
for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in
the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting
based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk,
and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe
that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1)
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company;
and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, AutoZone, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control
over financial reporting as of August 30, 2008, based on the COSO criteria.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of AutoZone, Inc. as of August 30, 2008 and
August 25, 2007 and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders’ equity, and cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended August 30, 2008 of AutoZone, Inc. and our
report dated October 20, 2008 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Memphis, Tennessee

October 20, 2008



Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors and Stockholders of AutoZone, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of AutoZone, Inc. as of August 30,
2008 and August 25, 2007 and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders’ equity,
and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended August 30, 2008. These financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the consolidated financial position of AutoZone, Inc. as of August 30, 2008 and August
25, 2007, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended August 30, 2008, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles.

As discussed in Note D to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted FASB
Interpretation No. 48 “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an Interpretation of FASB
Statement No. 109,” effective August 26, 2007.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the effectiveness of AutoZone, Inc.’s internal control over financial
reporting as of August 30, 2008, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated
Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our
report dated October 20, 2008 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Memphis, Tennessee

October 20, 2008



Consolidated Statements of Income

Year Ended

August 30,

August 25,

August 26,




(in thousands, except per share data)

(53 Weeks)

(52 Weeks)

(52 Weeks)

Net sales

$

6,522,706

$

6,169,804

$

5,948,355

Cost of sales, including warehouse and delivery expenses

3,254,645

3,105,554

3,009,835

Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses

2,143,927

2,008,984

1,928,595

Operating profit

1,124,134

1,055,266

1,009,925

Interest expense, net

116,745

119,116

107,889

Income before income taxes

1,007,389

936,150

902,036

Income taxes

365,783

340,478

332,761

Net income

$

641,606

$

595,672

$

569,275

Weighted average shares for basic earnings per share

63,295

69,101

75,237

Effect of dilutive stock equivalents




Adjusted weighted average shares for diluted earnings per share

63,875

69,844

75,859

Basic earnings per share

$

10.14

$

8.62

$

7.57

Diluted earnings per share

$

10.04

$

8.53

$

7.50

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



Consolidated Balance Sheets

August 30,

August 25,

(in thousands, except per share data)



Assets

Current assets:

Cash and cash equivalents

$

242,461

$

86,654

Accounts receivable

71,241

59,876

Merchandise inventories

2,150,109

2,007,430

Other current assets

122,490

116,495

Total current assets

2,586,301

2,270,455

Property and equipment:

Land

643,699

625,992

Buildings and improvements

1,814,668

1,720,172

Equipment

850,679

780,199

Leasehold improvements

202,098

183,601

Construction in progress

128,133

85,581

3,639,277

3,395,545

Less: Accumulated depreciation and amortization

1,349,621

1,217,703

2,289,656

2,177,842

Goodwill, net of accumulated amortization

302,645

302,645

Deferred income taxes

38,283

21,331

Other long-term assets

40,227

32,436

381,155

356,412

$

5,257,112

$

4,804,709

Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity

Current liabilities:

Accounts payable

$

2,043,271

$

1,870,668

Accrued expenses and other

327,664

307,633

Income taxes payable

11,582

25,442

Deferred income taxes

136,803

82,152

Total current liabilities

2,519,320

2,285,895

Long-term debt

2,250,000

1,935,618

Other liabilities

258,105

179,996

Commitments and contingencies

—

—

Stockholders’ equity:

Preferred stock, authorized 1,000 shares; no shares issued

—

—

Common stock, par value $.01 per share, authorized 200,000 shares; 63,600
shares issued and 59,608 shares outstanding in 2008 and 71,250
shares issued and 65,960 shares outstanding in 2007



Additional paid-in capital

537,005

545,404

Retained earnings

206,099

546,049

Accumulated other comprehensive loss

(4,135

)

(9,550

)

Treasury stock, at cost

(509,918

)

(679,416

)

Total stockholders’ equity

229,687

403,200

$

5,257,112

$

4,804,709

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

Year Ended

August 30,

August 25,

August 26,




(in thousands)

(53 Weeks)

(52 Weeks)

(52 Weeks)

Cash flows from operating activities:

Net income

$

641,606

$

595,672

$

569,275

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided
by operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization of property and equipment

169,509

159,411

139,465

Amortization of debt origination fees

1,837

1,719

1,559

Income tax benefit from exercise of stock options

(10,142

)

(16,523

)

(10,608

)

Deferred income taxes

67,474

24,844

36,306

Share-based compensation expense

18,388

18,462

17,370

Changes in operating assets and liabilities:

Accounts receivable

(11,145

)

20,487

37,900

Merchandise inventories

(137,841

)

(160,780

)

(182,790

)

Accounts payable and accrued expenses

175,733

186,228

184,986

Income taxes payable

(3,861

)

17,587

28,676

Other, net

9,542

(1,913

)


Net cash provided by operating activities

921,100

845,194

822,747

Cash flows from investing activities:

Capital expenditures

(243,594

)

(224,474

)

(263,580

)

Purchase of marketable securities

(54,282

)

(94,615

)

(159,957

)

Proceeds from sale of investments

50,712

86,921

145,369

Disposal of capital assets

4,014

3,453

9,845

Net cash used in investing activities

(243,150

)

(228,715

)

(268,323

)

Cash flows from financing activities:

Net (repayments of) proceeds from commercial paper

(206,700

)

84,300

(51,993

)

Proceeds from issuance of debt

750,000

—

200,000

Repayment of debt

(229,827

)

(5,839

)

(152,700

)

Net proceeds from sale of common stock

27,065

58,952

38,253

Purchase of treasury stock

(849,196

)

(761,887

)

(578,066

)

Income tax benefit from exercise of stock options

10,142

16,523

10,608

Payments of capital lease obligations

(15,880

)

(11,360

)

—

Other

(8,286

)

(2,072

)

(3,778

)

Net cash used in financing activities

(522,682

)

(621,383

)

(537,676

)

Effect of exchange rate changes on cash


—

—

Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

155,807

(4,904

)

16,748

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year

86,654

91,558

74,810

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

$

242,461

$

86,654

$

91,558

Supplemental cash flow information:

Interest paid, net of interest cost capitalized

$

107,477

$

116,580

$

104,929

Income taxes paid

$

313,875

$

299,566

$

267,913

Assets acquired through capital lease

$

61,572

$

69,325

$

—

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity

Accumulated

Common

Additional

Other

Shares

Common

Paid-in

Retained

Comprehensive

Treasury

(in thousands)

Issued

Stock

Capital

Earnings

Loss

Stock

Total

Balance at August 27, 2005

81,111

$


$

462,289

$

370,276

$

(36,581

)

$

(405,788

)

$

391,007

Net income

569,275

569,275

Minimum pension liability, net
of taxes of $14,624

22,532

22,532

Foreign currency translation
adjustment

(4,410

)

(4,410

)

Unrealized loss adjustment on
marketable securities, net of taxes
of
($98)

(181

)

(181

)

Net gains on outstanding
derivatives, net of taxes of $2,152

3,752

3,752

Reclassification of net gains on
derivatives into earnings

(612

)

(612

)

Comprehensive income

590,356

Purchase of 6,187 shares of
treasury stock

(578,066

)

(578,066

)

Retirement of treasury stock

(4,600

)

(46

)

(27,633

)

(380,343

)

408,022

—

Sale of common stock under
stock option and stock
purchase plans



38,246

38,253

Share-based compensation expense

17,370

17,370

Income tax benefit from exercise of
stock options

10,608

10,608

Balance at August 26, 2006

77,240


500,880

559,208

(15,500

)

(575,832

)

469,528

Net income

595,672

595,672

Minimum pension liability, net
of taxes of $9,176

14,218

14,218

Foreign currency translation
adjustment

(3,240

)

(3,240

)

Unrealized gain adjustment on
marketable securities, net of taxes
of
$56



Net losses on outstanding
derivatives, net of taxes of
($1,627)

(2,813

)

(2,813

)

Reclassification of net gains on
derivatives into earnings

(612

)

(612

)

Comprehensive income

603,329

Cumulative effect of adopting SFAS
158, net of taxes of ($1,089)

(1,707

)

(1,707

)

Purchase of 6,032 shares of
treasury stock

(761,887

)

(761,887

)

Retirement of treasury stock

(6,900

)

(68

)

(49,404

)

(608,831

)

658,303

—

Sale of common stock under
stock option and stock
purchase plans



58,943

58,952

Share-based compensation expense

18,462

18,462

Income tax benefit from exercise of
stock options

16,523

16,523

Balance at August 25, 2007

71,250


545,404

546,049

(9,550

)

(679,416

)

403,200

Net income

641,606

641,606

Pension liability adjustments, net
of taxes of ($1,145)

(1,817

)

(1,817

)

Foreign currency translation
adjustment

13,965

13,965

Unrealized gain adjustment on
marketable securities, net of taxes
of
$142



Net losses on outstanding
derivatives, net of taxes of
($3,715)

(6,398

)

(6,398

)

Reclassification of net gains on
derivatives into earnings

(598

)

(598

)

Comprehensive income

647,021

Cumulative effect of adopting FIN 48

(26,933

)

(26,933

)

Purchase of 6,802 shares of
treasury stock

(849,196

)

(849,196

)

Retirement of treasury stock

(8,100

)

(81

)

(63,990

)

(954,623

)

1,018,694

—

Sale of common stock under
stock option and stock
purchase plans



27,061

27,065

Share-based compensation expense

18,388

18,388

Income tax benefit from exercise of
stock options

10,142

10,142

Balance at August 30, 2008

63,600

$


$

537,005

$

206,099

$

(4,135

)

$

(509,918

)

$

229,687

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Note A — Significant Accounting Policies

Business:

AutoZone, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries (“AutoZone” or the “Company”) is
principally a retailer and distributor of automotive parts and accessories. At the end of fiscal
2008, the Company operated 4,092 domestic stores in the United States and Puerto Rico, and 148
stores in Mexico. Each store carries an extensive product line for cars, sport utility vehicles,
vans and light trucks, including new and remanufactured automotive hard parts, maintenance items,
accessories and non-automotive products. Many of the stores have a commercial sales program that
provides commercial credit and prompt delivery of parts and other products to local, regional and
national repair garages, dealers and service stations. The Company also sells the ALLDATA brand
automotive diagnostic and repair software. On the web at www.autozone.com, the Company sells
diagnostic and repair information, auto and light truck parts, and accessories.

Fiscal Year:

The Company’s fiscal year consists of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the last Saturday in
August. Accordingly, fiscal 2008 represented 53 weeks ended on August 30, 2008. Fiscal 2007 and
fiscal 2006 represented 52 weeks ended on August 25, 2007 and August 26, 2006, respectively.

Basis of Presentation:

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of AutoZone, Inc.
and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany transactions and balances have been
eliminated in consolidation.

Use of Estimates:

Management of the Company has made a number of estimates and assumptions relating
to the reporting of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities to prepare
these financial statements. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Cash Equivalents:

Cash equivalents consist of investments with original maturities of 90 days or
less at the date of purchase. Cash equivalents include proceeds due from credit and debit card
transactions with settlement terms of less than 5 days. Credit and debit card receivables included
within cash equivalents were $22.7 million at August 30, 2008 and August 25, 2007.

Marketable Securities:

The Company invests a portion of its assets held by the Company’s wholly
owned insurance captive in marketable debt securities. The Company accounts for these securities
in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 115, “Accounting for
Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities” (“SFAS 115”) and accordingly, classifies them as
available-for-sale. The Company includes these securities within the other current assets caption
and records the amounts at fair market value, which is determined using quoted market prices at the
end of the reporting period. Unrealized gains and losses on these marketable securities are
recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax.

The Company’s available-for-sale financial instruments consisted of the following:

Amortized

Gross

Gross

Fair

Cost

Unrealized

Unrealized

Market

(in thousands)

Basis

Gains

Losses

Value

August 30, 2008

$

58,517

$


$

(171

)

$

58,803

August 25, 2007

$

57,245

$


$

(152

)

$

57,126

The debt securities held at August 30, 2008, had contractual maturities ranging from less than one
year to approximately 3 years. The Company did not realize any material gains or losses on its
marketable securities during fiscal 2008.



Accounts Receivable:

Accounts receivable consists of receivables from commercial customers and
vendors, and are presented net of an allowance for uncollectible accounts. AutoZone routinely
grants credit to certain of its commercial customers. The risk of credit loss in its trade
receivables is substantially mitigated by the Company’s credit evaluation process, short collection
terms and sales to a large number of customers, as well as the low revenue per transaction for most
of its sales. Allowances for potential credit losses are determined based on historical experience
and current evaluation of the composition of accounts receivable. Historically, credit losses have
been within management’s expectations and the allowances for uncollectible accounts were $16.3
million at August 30, 2008, and $17.7 million at August 25, 2007. The Company routinely sells the
majority of its receivables to a third party at a discount for cash with limited recourse. AutoZone
has recorded a $1.2 million recourse reserve related to $55.4 million in outstanding factored
receivables at August 30, 2008. The recourse reserve at August 25, 2007, was $1.8 million related
to $55.3 million in outstanding factored receivables.

Merchandise Inventories:

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market using the last-in,
first-out (LIFO) method. Included in inventory are related purchasing, storage and handling costs.
Due to price deflation on the Company’s merchandise purchases, the Company’s inventory balances
are effectively maintained under the first-in, first-out method. The Company’s policy is not to
write up inventory in excess of replacement cost, resulting in cost of sales being reflected at the
higher amount. The cumulative balance of this unrecorded adjustment, which will be reduced upon
experiencing price inflation on our merchandise purchases, was $225.4 million at August 30, 2008,
and $227.9 million at August 25, 2007.

AutoZone has entered into pay-on-scan (“POS”) arrangements with certain vendors, whereby AutoZone
will not purchase merchandise supplied by a vendor until that merchandise is ultimately sold to
AutoZone’s customers. Title and certain risks of ownership remain with the vendor until the
merchandise is sold to AutoZone’s customers. Since the Company does not own merchandise under POS
arrangements until just before it is sold to a customer, such merchandise is not recorded in the
Company’s balance sheet. Upon the sale of the merchandise to AutoZone’s customers, AutoZone
recognizes the liability for the goods and pays the vendor in accordance with the agreed-upon
terms. Although AutoZone does not hold title to the goods, AutoZone controls pricing and has
credit collection risk and therefore, gross revenues under POS arrangements are included in net
sales in the income statement. Sales of merchandise under POS arrangements approximated $38.2
million in fiscal 2008, $170.0 million in fiscal 2007, and $390.0 million in fiscal 2006.
Merchandise under POS arrangements was $6.7 million at August 30, 2008 and $22.4 million at August
25, 2007.

Property and Equipment:

Property and equipment is stated at cost. Depreciation and amortization are
computed principally using the straight-line method over the following estimated useful lives:
buildings, 40 to 50 years; building improvements, 5 to 15 years; equipment, 3 to 10 years; and
leasehold improvements, over the shorter of the asset’s estimated useful life or the remaining
lease term, which includes any reasonably assured renewal periods. Depreciation and amortization
include amortization of assets under capital lease.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets:

In accordance with the provisions of Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets”
(“SFAS 144”), the Company evaluates the recoverability of the carrying amounts of the assets
covered by this standard annually and more frequently if events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. As part of the evaluation, the Company
reviews performance at the store level to identify any stores with current period operating losses
that should be considered for impairment. The Company compares the sum of the undiscounted expected
future cash flows with the carrying amounts of the assets. If impairments are indicated, the amount
by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets is recognized as an
impairment loss. No impairment losses were recorded in the three years ended August 30, 2008.

Goodwill:

The cost in excess of fair value of identifiable net assets of businesses acquired is
recorded as goodwill. In accordance with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” (“SFAS 142”), goodwill has not been
amortized since fiscal 2001, but an analysis is performed at least annually to compare the fair
value of the reporting unit to the carrying amount to determine if any impairment exists. The
Company performs its annual impairment assessment in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, unless
circumstances dictate more frequent assessments. No impairment losses were recorded in the three
years ended August 30, 2008. Goodwill was $302.6 million, net of accumulated amortization of $51.2
million, as of August 30, 2008, and August 25, 2007.



Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities:

AutoZone is exposed to market risk from, among other
things, changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and fuel prices. From time to time, the
Company uses various financial instruments to reduce such risks. To date, based upon the Company’s
current level of foreign operations, hedging costs and past changes in the associated foreign
exchange rates, no derivative instruments have been utilized to reduce foreign exchange rate risk.
All of the Company’s hedging activities are governed by guidelines that are authorized by
AutoZone’s Board of Directors. Further, the Company does not buy or sell financial instruments for
trading purposes.

AutoZone’s financial market risk results primarily from changes in interest rates. At times,
AutoZone reduces its exposure to changes in interest rates by entering into various interest rate
hedge instruments such as interest rate swap contracts, treasury lock agreements and
forward-starting interest rate swaps. The Company complies with Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards Nos. 133, 137, 138 and 149 (collectively “SFAS 133”) pertaining to the accounting for
these derivatives and hedging activities which require all such interest rate hedge instruments to
be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. All of the Company’s interest rate hedge
instruments are designated as cash flow hedges. Refer to “Note E – Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities” for additional disclosures regarding the Company’s derivative instruments and
hedging activities. Cash flows related to these instruments designated as qualifying hedges are
reflected in the accompanying consolidated statements of cash flows in the same categories as the
cash flows from the items being hedged. Accordingly, cash flows relating to the settlement of
interest rate derivatives hedging the forecasted issuance of debt have been reflected upon
settlement as a component of financing cash flows. The resulting gain or loss from such settlement
is deferred to other comprehensive loss and reclassified to interest expense over the term of the
underlying debt. This reclassification of the deferred gains and losses impacts the interest
expense recognized on the underlying debt that was hedged and is therefore reflected as a component
of operating cash flows in periods subsequent to settlement. The periodic settlement of interest
rate derivatives hedging outstanding variable rate debt is recorded as an adjustment to interest
expense and is therefore reflected as a component of operating cash flows.

Foreign Currency:

The Company accounts for its Mexican operations using the Mexican peso as the
functional currency and converts its financial statements from Mexican pesos to U.S. dollars in
accordance with SFAS No. 52, “Foreign Currency Translation.” The cumulative loss on currency
translation is recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss and approximated
$1.8 million at August 30, 2008, and $15.8 million at August 25, 2007.

Self-Insurance Reserves:

The Company retains a significant portion of the risks associated with
workers’ compensation, employee health, general, products liability, property and automotive
insurance. Through various methods, which include analyses of historical trends and utilization of
actuaries, the Company estimates the costs of these risks. The costs are accrued based upon the
aggregate of the liability for reported claims and an estimated liability for claims incurred but
not reported. Estimates are based on calculations that consider historical lag and claim
development factors. The long-term portions of these liabilities are recorded at our estimate of
their net present value.

Deferred Rent:

The Company recognizes rent expense on a straight-line basis over the course of the
lease term, which includes any reasonably assured renewal periods, beginning on the date the
Company takes physical possession of the property (see “Note J – Leases”). Differences between this
calculated expense and cash payments are recorded as a liability in accrued expenses and other
liabilities on the accompanying balance sheet. This deferred rent approximated $51.0 million as of
August 30, 2008, and $42.6 million as of August 25, 2007.

Financial Instruments:

The Company has financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents,
accounts receivable, other current assets and accounts payable. The carrying amounts of these
financial instruments approximate fair value because of their short maturities. A discussion of the
carrying values and fair values of the Company’s debt is included in “Note F – Financing,”
marketable securities is included in “Note A – Marketable Securities,” and derivatives is included
in “Note E – Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.”

Income Taxes:

The Company accounts for income taxes under the liability method. Deferred tax assets
and liabilities are determined based on differences between financial reporting and tax bases of
assets and liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect
when the differences are expected to reverse.
We measure and record income tax contingency accruals in accordance with Financial Accounting
Standards Board Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes”.



We recognize liabilities for uncertain income tax positions based on a two-step process. The first
step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available
evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit,
including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step requires
us to estimate and measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely to be
realized upon ultimate settlement. It is inherently difficult and subjective to estimate such
amounts, as we must determine the probability of various possible outcomes. We reevaluate these
uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis or when new information becomes available to
management. These reevaluations are based on factors including, but not limited to, changes in
facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, successfully settled issues under audit, expirations
due to statutes, and new audit activity. Such a change in recognition or measurement could result
in the recognition of a tax benefit or an increase to the tax accrual.

We classify interest related to income tax liabilities as income tax expense, and if applicable,
penalties are recognized as a component of income tax expense. The income tax liabilities and
accrued interest and penalties that are due within one year of the balance sheet date are presented
as current liabilities. The remaining portion of our income tax liabilities and accrued interest
and penalties are presented as noncurrent liabilities because payment of cash is not anticipated
within one year of the balance sheet date. These noncurrent income tax liabilities are recorded in
the caption “Other liabilities” in our consolidated balance sheets.

Sales and Use Taxes:

Governmental authorities assess sales and use taxes on the sale of goods and
services. The Company excludes taxes collected from customers in its reported sales results; such
amounts are reflected as accrued expenses and other until remitted to the taxing authorities.

Revenue Recognition:

The Company recognizes sales at the time the sale is made and the product is
delivered to the customer. Revenue from sales are presented net of allowances for estimated sales
returns, which are based on historical return rates.

A portion of the Company’s transactions include the sale of auto parts that contain a core
component. The core component represents the recyclable portion of the auto part. Customers are not
charged for the core component of the new part if a used core is returned at the point of sale of
the new part; otherwise the Company charges customers a specified amount for the core component.
The Company refunds that same amount upon the customer returning a used core to the store at a
later date. The Company does not recognize sales or cost of sales for the core component of these
transactions when a used part is returned or expected to be returned from the customer.

Vendor Allowances and Advertising Costs:

The Company receives various payments and allowances from
its vendors through a variety of programs and arrangements. Monies received from vendors include
rebates, allowances and promotional funds. The amounts to be received are subject to purchase
volumes and the terms of the vendor agreements, which generally do not state an expiration date,
but are subject to ongoing negotiations that may be impacted in the future based on changes in
market conditions, vendor marketing strategies and changes in the profitability or sell-through of
the related merchandise.

Rebates and other miscellaneous incentives are earned based on purchases or product sales and are
accrued ratably over the purchase or sale of the related product, but only if it is reasonably
certain that the required volume levels will be reached. These monies are recorded as a reduction
of inventories and are recognized as a reduction to cost of sales as the related inventories are
sold.

Allowances and promotional funds earned under vendor funding programs are accounted for pursuant to
the Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 02-16, “Accounting by a Customer (Including a Reseller)
for Cash Consideration Received from a Vendor” (“EITF 02-16”). The majority of the vendor funds
received is recorded as a reduction of the cost of inventories and is recognized as a reduction to
cost of sales as these inventories are sold. For arrangements that provide for reimbursement of
specific, incremental, identifiable costs incurred by the Company in selling the vendors’ products,
the vendor funds are recorded as a reduction to selling, general and administrative expenses in the
period in which the specific costs were incurred.

Advertising expense was approximately $89.0 million in fiscal 2008, $85.9 million in fiscal 2007,
and $78.1 million in fiscal 2006. The Company expenses advertising costs as incurred.



Warranty Costs:

The Company or the vendors supplying its products provide its customers limited
warranties on certain products that range from 30 days to lifetime warranties. In most cases, the
Company’s vendors are primarily responsible for warranty claims. Warranty costs relating to
merchandise sold under warranty not covered by vendors are estimated and recorded as warranty
obligations at the time of sale based on each product’s historical return rate. These obligations,
which are often funded by vendor allowances, are recorded as a component of accrued expenses. For
vendor allowances that are in excess of the related estimated warranty expense for the vendor’s
products, the excess is recorded in inventory and recognized as a reduction to cost of sales as the
related inventory is sold.

Shipping and Handling Costs:

The Company does not generally charge customers separately for
shipping and handling. Substantially all the cost the Company incurs to ship products to our
stores is included in cost of sales.

Pre-opening Expenses:

Pre-opening expenses, which consist primarily of payroll and occupancy costs,
are expensed as incurred.

Earnings Per Share:

Basic earnings per share is based on the weighted average outstanding common
shares. Diluted earnings per share is based on the weighted average outstanding shares adjusted for
the effect of common stock equivalents, which are primarily stock options. Stock options that were
not included in the diluted computation because they would have been anti-dilutive were
approximately 31,000 shares at August 30, 2008, 8,000 shares at August 25, 2007, and 700,000 shares
at August 26, 2006.

Stock Options:

At August 30, 2008, the Company had stock option plans that provide for the purchase
of the Company’s common stock by certain of its employees and directors. Effective August 28,
2005, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R) “Share-Based
Payment” (“SFAS 123(R)”) and began recognizing compensation expense for its share-based payments
based on the fair value of the awards. See “Note B – Share-Based Payments” for further discussion.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements:

On August 26, 2007, we adopted Financial Accounting Standards
Board (“FASB”) Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes” (“FIN 48”).
This interpretation establishes new standards for the financial statement recognition, measurement
and disclosure of uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in income tax returns. For
additional information on the impact of adoption of FIN 48, refer to “Note D – Income Taxes” to the
accompanying consolidated financial statements.

On August 25, 2007, we adopted the recognition and disclosure provisions of FASB Statement No. 158,
“Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans” (“SFAS 158”).
SFAS 158 requires recognition in the balance sheet of the funded status of defined benefit pension
and other postretirement plans, and the recognition in accumulated other comprehensive income
(“AOCI”) of unrecognized gains or losses and prior service costs or credits. The funded status is
measured as the difference between the fair value of the plan’s assets and the projected benefit
obligation (“PBO”) of the plan. Refer to “Note I – Pension and Savings Plans” for further
description of this adoption.

Additionally, SFAS 158 requires the measurement date for plan assets and liabilities to coincide
with the sponsor’s year end. We currently use a May 31 measurement date for our plans; therefore,
this standard will require us to change our measurement date to our fiscal year end beginning in
fiscal 2009. The impact from adopting the measurement provisions is not expected to have a
material impact on the Company’s results of operations. For additional information on the adoption
of SFAS 158, refer to Note I to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.

In September 2006, the FASB issued FASB Statement No. 157, “Fair Value Measurements” (“SFAS 157”).
This new standard defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally
accepted accounting principles, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS 157
will be effective at the beginning of fiscal 2009 for financial assets and liabilities and at the
beginning of fiscal 2010 for non-financial assets and liabilities. The adoption of this statement
is not expected to have an immediate material impact on our consolidated financial statements.



In February 2007, the FASB issued FASB Statement No. 159, “The Fair Value Option for Financial
Assets and Financial Liabilities” (“SFAS 159”). This new standard permits entities to choose to
measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value. SFAS 159 will be
effective for AutoZone in fiscal 2009. The adoption of this statement is not expected to have a
material impact on our consolidated financial statements because we do not currently intend to
elect to apply fair value to any financial instruments that are not already reported at fair value.

In December 2007, the FASB issued FASB Statement 141R, “Business Combinations,” (“SFAS 141R”). This
standard significantly changes the accounting for and reporting of business combinations in
consolidated financial statements. Among other things, SFAS 141R requires the acquiring entity in a
business combination to recognize the full fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at
the acquisition date and requires the expensing of most transaction and restructuring costs. The
standard is effective for us beginning August 30, 2009 (fiscal 2010) and is applicable only to
transactions occurring after the effective date.

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, “Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial
Statements, including an amendment for ARB No. 51,” (“SFAS 160”).  SFAS 160 amends ARB No. 51 to
establish accounting and reporting standards for the noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary and
for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary.  It clarifies that a noncontrolling interest in a
subsidiary is an ownership interest in the consolidated entity that should be reported as equity in
the consolidated financial statements.  SFAS 160 is effective for us beginning August 30, 2009.
The adoption of SFAS 160 is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial
statements.

In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, “Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities, an amendment of SFAS No. 133,” (“SFAS 161”).  SFAS 161 amends SFAS No. 133 to change
the disclosure requirements for derivative instruments and hedging activities.  Entities are
required to provide enhanced disclosures about how and why an entity uses derivative instruments,
how derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for under SFAS No. 133 and its
related interpretations, and how derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entity’s
financial position, financial performance, and cash flows.  SFAS 161 is effective for AutoZone
beginning in fiscal 2010. We are currently evaluating the provisions of SFAS 161.

In May 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 162, “The Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles,” (“SFAS 162”).   SFAS 162 identifies the sources of accounting principles and the
framework for selecting the principles to be used in the preparation of financial statements of
nongovernmental entities that are presented in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles (GAAP) in the United States.  SFAS No. 162 is effective 60 days after the SEC’s approval
of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board amendments to AU section 411.

Note B
— Share-Based Payments

Effective August 28, 2005, the Company adopted SFAS 123(R) and began recognizing compensation
expense for its share-based payments based on the fair value of the awards. Share-based payments
include stock option grants and certain transactions under the Company’s other stock plans.

In accordance with SFAS 123(R), share-based compensation expense is based on the following: a)
grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the original provisions of SFAS 123 for unvested
options granted prior to the adoption date; b) grant date fair value estimated in accordance with
the provisions of SFAS 123(R) for options granted subsequent to the adoption date; and c) the
discount on shares sold to employees post-adoption, which represents the difference between the
grant date fair value and the employee purchase price.

Total share-based expense (a component of operating, selling, general and administrative expenses)
was $18.4 million related to stock options and share purchase plans for fiscal 2008, $18.5 million
for fiscal 2007 and $17.4 million in fiscal 2006. Tax deductions in excess of recognized
compensation cost are classified as a financing cash inflow in accordance with SFAS 123(R).



Under SFAS 123(R), forfeitures are estimated at the time of valuation and reduce expense ratably
over the vesting period. This estimate is adjusted periodically based on the extent to which
actual forfeitures differ, or are expected to differ, from the previous estimate.

AutoZone grants options to purchase common stock to certain of its employees and directors under
various plans at prices equal to the market value of the stock on the date of grant. Options have
a term of 10 years or 10 years and one day from grant date. Director options generally vest three
years from grant date. Employee options generally vest in equal annual installments on the first,
second, third and fourth anniversaries of the grant date. Employees and directors generally have
30 days after the service relationship ends, or one year after death, to exercise all vested
options. The fair value of each option grant is separately estimated for each vesting date. The
fair value of each option is amortized into compensation expense on a straight-line basis between
the grant date for the award and each vesting date. The Company has estimated the fair value of
all stock option awards as of the date of the grant by applying the Black-Scholes-Merton
multiple-option pricing valuation model. The application of this valuation model involves
assumptions that are judgmental and highly sensitive in the determination of compensation expense.

The weighted average for key assumptions used in determining the fair value of options granted and
a summary of the methodology applied to develop each assumption are as follows:

Year Ended

August 30,

August 25,

August 26,




Expected price volatility


%


%


%

Risk-free interest rates

4.1

%

4.6

%

4.1

%

Weighted average expected lives in years

4.0

3.9

3.3

Forfeiture rate


%


%


%

Dividend yield


%


%


%

Expected Price Volatility —

This is a measure of the amount by which a price has fluctuated or
is expected to fluctuate. The Company uses actual historical changes in the market value of our
stock to calculate the volatility assumption as it is management’s belief that this is the best
indicator of future volatility. We calculate daily market value changes from the date of grant
over a past period representative of the expected life of the options to determine volatility.
An increase in the expected volatility will increase compensation expense.

Risk-Free Interest Rate —

This is the U.S. Treasury rate for the week of the grant having a term
equal to the expected life of the option. An increase in the risk-free interest rate will
increase compensation expense.

Expected Lives —

This is the period of time over which the options granted are expected to
remain outstanding and is based on historical experience. Separate groups of employees that have
similar historical exercise behavior are considered separately for valuation purposes. Options
granted have a maximum term of ten years or ten years and one day. An increase in the expected
life will increase compensation expense.

Forfeiture Rate —

This is the estimated percentage of options granted that are expected to be
forfeited or canceled before becoming fully vested. This estimate is based on historical
experience. An increase in the forfeiture rate will decrease compensation expense.

Dividend Yield —

The Company has not made any dividend payments nor does it have plans to pay
dividends in the foreseeable future. An increase in the dividend yield will decrease
compensation expense.



The Company generally issues new shares when options are exercised. A summary of outstanding stock
options is as follows:

Weighted

Average

Number

Exercise

of Shares

Price

Outstanding August 25, 2007

2,956,765

$

79.24

Granted

666,480

116.01

Exercised

(450,425

)

62.01

Canceled

(71,583

)

88.93

Outstanding August 30, 2008

3,101,237

$

89.42

The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at August 30, 2008:

Options Outstanding

Options Exercisable

Weighted

Average

Weighted

Remaining

Weighted

Average

Contractual

Average

Range of Exercise

Number

Exercise

Life

Number

Exercise

Prices

Outstanding

Price

(in Years)

Exercisable

Price

$22.00 - $75.64

882,159

$

62.55

4.34

741,495

$

60.07

$82.00 - $89.18

828,399

85.23

6.18

565,828

86.67

$89.30 - $103.44

694,699

101.48

7.84

204,653

99.67

$112.83 - $116.35

627,350

115.41

9.02

—

—

$117.20 - $137.09

68,630

125.80

9.15

5,000

129.63

$22.00 - $137.09

3,101,237

$

89.42

6.68

1,516,976

$

75.56

At August 30, 2008, the aggregate intrinsic value of all outstanding options was $148 million with
a weighted average remaining contractual term of 6.7 years, of which 1,516,976 of the outstanding
options are currently exercisable with an aggregate intrinsic value of $93.5 million, a weighted
average exercise price of $75.56 and a weighted average remaining contractual term of 5.1 years.
Shares reserved for future option grants approximated 4.0 million at August 30, 2008. The weighted
average grant date fair value of options granted was $30.28 during fiscal 2008, $29.04 during
fiscal 2007 and $22.86 during fiscal 2006. The intrinsic value of options exercised was $29
million in fiscal 2008, $47 million in fiscal 2007 and $27 million in fiscal 2006.

Under the AutoZone, Inc. 2003 Director Compensation Plan, a non-employee director may receive no
more than one-half of their director fees immediately in cash, and the remainder of the fees must
be taken in common stock. The director may elect to receive up to 100% of the fees in stock or
defer all or part of the fees in units (“Director Units”) with value equivalent to the value of
shares of common stock as of the grant date. At August 30, 2008, the Company has $3.2 million
accrued related to 23,424 director units issued under the current and prior plans with 81,996
shares of common stock reserved for future issuance under the current plan.

Under the AutoZone, Inc. 2003 Director Stock Option Plan (the “Director Stock Option Plan”), each
non-employee director receives an option grant on January 1 of each year, and each new non-employee
director receives an option to purchase 3,000 shares upon election to the Board of Directors, plus
a portion of the annual directors’ option grant prorated for the portion of the year actually
served in office. Under the Director Compensation Program effective January 1, 2008 each
non-employee director may choose between two pay options, and the number of stock options a
director receives under the Director Stock Option Plan depends on which pay option the director
chooses. Directors who elect to be paid only the Base Retainer will receive, on January 1 during
their first two years of services as a director, an option to purchase 3,000 shares of AutoZone
common stock. After the first two years, such directors will receive, on January 1 of each year,
an option to purchase 1,500 shares of common stock, and each such director who owns common stock or
Director Units worth at least five times the Base Retainer will receive an additional option to
purchase 1,500 shares. Directors electing to be paid a Supplemental Retainer in addition to the
Base Retainer will receive, on January 1 during their first two years of service as a director, an
option to purchase 2,000 shares of AutoZone common stock. After the first two years, such
directors will receive an option to purchase 500 shares of common stock, and each such director who
owns common stock or Stock Units worth at least five times the Base Retainer will receive an
additional option to purchase 1,500 shares. These stock option grants are made at the fair market
value as of the grant date. At August 30, 2008, there were 123,604 outstanding options with
259,896 shares of common stock reserved for future issuance under this plan.



The Company recognized $0.7 million in expense related to the discount on the selling of shares to
employees and executives under various share purchase plans in fiscal 2008 and $1.1 million in the
prior year. The employee stock purchase plan, which is qualified under Section 423 of the
Internal Revenue Code, permits all eligible employees to purchase AutoZone’s common stock at 85% of
the lower of the market price of the common stock on the first day or last day of each calendar
quarter through payroll deductions. Maximum permitted annual purchases are $15,000 per employee or
10 percent of compensation, whichever is less. Under the plan, 36,147 shares were sold to
employees in fiscal 2008, 39,139 shares were sold to employees in fiscal 2007, and 51,167 shares
were sold in fiscal 2006. The Company repurchased 39,235 shares at fair value in fiscal 2008,
65,152 shares at fair value in fiscal 2007, and 62,293 shares at fair value in fiscal 2006 from
employees electing to sell their stock. Issuances of shares under the employee stock purchase plans
are netted against repurchases and such repurchases are not included in share repurchases disclosed
in “Note H — Stock Repurchase Program.” At August 30, 2008, 349,750 shares of common stock were
reserved for future issuance under this plan. Once executives have reached the maximum under the
employee stock purchase plan, the Amended and Restated Executive Stock Purchase Plan permits all
eligible executives to purchase AutoZone’s common stock up to 25 percent of his or her annual
salary and bonus. Purchases under this plan were 1,793 shares in fiscal 2008, 1,257 shares in
fiscal 2007, and 811 shares in fiscal 2006. At August 30, 2008, 261,244 shares of common stock
were reserved for future issuance under this plan.

On December 13, 2006, stockholders approved the AutoZone, Inc. 2006 Stock Option Plan and the
AutoZone, Inc. Fourth Amended and Restated Executive Stock Purchase Plan. There have been no other
material modifications to the Company’s stock plans during fiscal 2008, 2007, or 2006.

Note C — Accrued Expenses and Other

Accrued expenses consisted of the following:

August 30,

August 25,

(in thousands)



Medical and casualty insurance claims (current portion)

$

55,270

$

52,037

Accrued compensation, related payroll taxes and benefits

98,054

101,467

Property and sales taxes

69,443

61,570

Accrued interest

26,375

22,241

Accrued sales and warranty returns

9,983

8,634

Capital lease obligations

15,917

16,015

Other

52,622

45,669

$

327,664

$

307,633

The Company retains a significant portion of the insurance risks associated with workers’
compensation, employee health, general, products liability, property and automotive insurance.
Beginning in fiscal 2004, a portion of these self-insured losses is managed through a wholly owned
insurance captive. The Company maintains certain levels for stop-loss coverage for each
self-insured plan in order to limit its liability for large claims. The limits are per claim and
are $1.5 million for workers’ compensation and property, $0.5 million for employee health, and $1.0
million for general, products liability, and automotive.



Note D — Income Taxes

The provision for income tax expense consisted of the following:

Year Ended

August 30,

August 25,

August 26,

(in thousands)




Current:

Federal

$

285,516

$

292,166

$

272,916

State

20,516

23,468

23,539

306,032

315,634

296,455

Deferred:

Federal

51,997

22,878

30,065

State

7,754

1,966

6,241

59,751

24,844

36,306

$

365,783

$

340,478

$

332,761

A reconciliation of the provision for income taxes to the amount computed by applying the federal
statutory tax rate of 35% to income before income taxes is as follows:

Year Ended

August 30,

August 25,

August 26,

(in thousands)




Federal tax at statutory U.S. income tax rate

$

352,586

$

327,653

$

315,713

State income taxes, net

18,375

16,532

19,357

Other

(5,178

)

(3,707

)

(2,309

)

$

365,783

$

340,478

$

332,761

Significant components of the Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities were as follows:

August 30,

August 25,

(in thousands)



Net deferred tax assets:

Domestic net operating loss and credit carryforwards

$

20,259

$

18,573

Foreign net operating loss and credit carryforwards

4,857

6,257

Insurance reserves

7,933

13,683

Derivatives

1,502

—

Accrued benefits

27,991

20,750

Other

37,702

15,640

Total deferred tax assets

100,244

74,903

Less: Valuation allowances

(7,551

)

(8,154

)

Net deferred tax assets

92,693

66,749

Deferred tax liabilities:

Property and equipment

24,186

8,296

Inventory

149,318

103,233

Derivatives

—

2,068

Pension

1,620

2,369

Prepaid expenses

13,658

10,192

Other

2,431

1,412

Deferred tax liabilities

191,213

127,570

Net deferred tax liabilities

$

(98,520

)

$

(60,821

)

Deferred taxes are not provided for temporary differences of approximately $67.7 million at August
30, 2008, and $47.4 million at August 25, 2007, representing earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries that
are intended to be permanently reinvested. Computation of the potential deferred tax liability
associated with these undistributed earnings and other basis differences is not practicable.



At August 30, 2008, and August 25, 2007, the Company had deferred tax assets of $8.6 million and
$9.1 million from federal tax operating losses (“NOLs”) of $24.6 million and $25.9 million, and
deferred tax assets of $1.5 million and $1.8 million from state tax NOLs of $32.8 million and $51.3
million, respectively. At August 30, 2008, and August 25, 2007, the Company had deferred tax assets
of $3.8 million and $3.1 million from Non-U.S. NOLs of $9.7 million and $7.9 million, respectively.
The federal, state, and Non-U.S. NOLs expire between fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2028. At August 30,
2008, and August 25, 2007, the Company had a valuation allowance of $7.0 million and $7.2 million,
respectively, for certain federal and state NOLs resulting primarily from annual statutory usage
limitations. At August 30, 2008, the Company had deferred tax assets of $11.2 million for federal,
state and Non-U.S. income tax credit carryforwards. Certain tax credit carryforwards have no
expiration date and others will expire in fiscal 2009 through fiscal 2030. At August 30, 2008, and
August 25, 2007, the Company had a valuation allowance of $0.5 million and $1.0 million for credits
subject to such expiration periods, respectively.

AutoZone adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for
Uncertainty in Income Taxes,” (“FIN 48”) on August 26, 2007. FIN 48 prescribes a recognition
threshold that a tax position is required to meet before being recognized in the financial
statements and provides guidance on derecognition, measurement, classification, interest and
penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition issues. The adoption of FIN 48
resulted in a decrease to the beginning balance of retained earnings of $26.9 million at the date
of adoption. Including this cumulative effect amount, the liability recorded for total unrecognized
tax benefits upon adoption at August 26, 2007, was $49.2 million.

A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:

(in thousands)

Balance at August 26, 2007

$

49,240

Additions based on tax positions related to the current year

6,181

Additions for tax positions of prior years


Reductions for tax positions of prior years

(8,890

)

Reductions due to settlements

(3,201

)

Reductions due to statue of limitations

(2,636

)

Balance at August 30, 2008

$

40,759

Included in the August 30, 2008, balance is $26.5 million of unrecognized tax benefits that, if
recognized, would reduce the Company’s effective tax rate.

The Company accrues interest on unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense.
Penalties, if incurred, would be recognized as a component of income tax expense. Upon adoption of
FIN 48, the Company had approximately $16.3 million of such accrued interest and penalties included
in accrued liabilities associated with unrecognized tax benefits, and has a balance at August 30,
2008, of approximately $15 million.

The major jurisdictions where the Company files income tax returns are the United States and
Mexico. Generally, returns filed for tax years 2003 through 2007 remain open and subject to
examination by the relevant tax authorities. The Company is typically engaged in various tax
examinations at any given time, both by U. S. federal and state taxing jurisdictions and Mexican
tax authorities. As of August 30, 2008, the Company estimates that the amount of unrecognized tax
benefits could be reduced by approximately $10 million over the next 12 months as a result of tax
audit closings, settlements, and the expiration of statutes to examine such returns in various
jurisdictions.

Note E — Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities

AutoZone has utilized interest rate swaps to convert variable rate debt to fixed rate debt and to
lock in fixed rates on future debt issuances. AutoZone reflects the current fair value of all
interest rate hedge instruments in its consolidated balance sheets as a component of other assets.
All of the Company’s interest rate hedge instruments are designated as cash flow hedges. The
Company had an outstanding interest rate swap with a fair value of ($4.3) million at August 30,
2008 and $5.8 million at August 25, 2007, to effectively fix the interest rate on the $300.0
million term loan entered into during December 2004.

The related gains and losses on interest rate hedges are deferred in stockholders’ equity as a
component of other comprehensive income or loss. These deferred gains and losses are recognized in
income as a decrease or increase to interest expense in the period in which the related cash flows
being hedged are recognized in expense. However, to the extent that the change in value of an
interest rate hedge instrument does not perfectly offset the change in the value of the cash flows
being hedged, that ineffective portion is immediately recognized in income. The Company’s hedge
instruments have been determined to be highly effective as of August 30, 2008.



The following table summarizes the fiscal 2008 and 2007 activity in accumulated other comprehensive
loss as it relates to interest rate hedge instruments:

Before-Tax

Income

After-Tax

(in thousands)

Amount

Tax

Amount

Accumulated net gains as of August 26, 2006

$

15,910

$

(3,741

)

$

12,169

Net losses on outstanding derivatives

(4,440

)

1,627

(2,813

)

Reclassification of net gains on derivatives into earnings

(612

)

—

(612

)

Accumulated net gains as of August 25, 2007

10,858

(2,114

)

8,744

Net losses on outstanding derivatives

(10,113

)

3,715

(6,398

)

Reclassification of net gains on derivatives into earnings

(598

)

—

(598

)

Accumulated net gains as of August 30, 2008

$


$

1,601

$

1,748

The Company primarily executes derivative transactions of relatively short duration with strong
creditworthy counterparties. These counterparties expose the Company to credit risk in the event of
non-performance. The amount of such exposure is limited to the unpaid portion of amounts due to the
Company pursuant to the terms of the derivative financial instruments, if any. Although there are
no collateral requirements, if a downgrade in the credit rating of these counterparties occurs,
management believes that this exposure is mitigated by provisions in the derivative agreements
which allow for the legal right of offset of any amounts due to the Company from the counterparties
with amounts payable, if any, to the counterparties by the Company. Management considers the risk
of counterparty default to be minimal.

As of August 30, 2008, the Company estimates $600,000 of gains currently included in accumulated
other comprehensive income to be reclassed into earnings within the next 12 months.

Note F — Financing

The Company’s long-term debt consisted of the following:

August 30,

August 25,

(in thousands)



Bank Term Loan due December 2009, effective interest rate of 4.40%

$

300,000

$

300,000

5.875% Senior Notes due October 2012, effective interest rate of 6.33%

300,000

300,000

5.5% Senior Notes due November 2015, effective interest rate of 4.86%

300,000

300,000

4.75% Senior Notes due November 2010, effective interest rate of 4.17%

200,000

200,000

4.375% Senior Notes due June 2013, effective interest rate of 5.65%

200,000

200,000

6.95% Senior Notes due June 2016, effective interest rate of 7.09%

200,000

200,000

6.5% Senior Notes due July 2008

—

190,000

6.5% Senior Notes due January 2014, effective interest rate of 6.63%

500,000

—

7.125% Senior Notes due August 2018, effective interest rate of 7.28%

250,000

—

Commercial paper, weighted average interest rate of 6.1% at August 25, 2007

—

206,700

Other

—

38,918

$

2,250,000

$

1,935,618

The Company maintains $1.0 billion of revolving credit facilities with a group of banks to
primarily support commercial paper borrowings, letters of credit and other short-term unsecured
bank loans. These facilities expire in May 2010, may be increased to $1.3 billion at AutoZone’s
election and subject to bank credit capacity and approval, may include up to $200 million in
letters of credit, and may include up to $100 million in capital leases. As the available balance
is reduced by commercial paper borrowings and certain outstanding letters of credit, the Company
had $879.7 million in available capacity under these facilities at August 30, 2008. The rate of
interest payable under the credit facilities is a function of Bank of America’s base rate or a
Eurodollar rate (each as defined in the facility agreements), or a combination thereof.



During July 2008, our $190.0 million Senior Notes maturing at that time were repaid with an
increase in commercial paper. On August 4, 2008, we issued $500.0 million in 6.50% Senior Notes
due 2014 and $250.0 million in 7.125% Senior Notes due 2018 under our shelf registration statement
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 29, 2008. We used a portion of the
proceeds to pay down our commercial paper and intend to use the remaining for general corporate
purposes, including repaying, redeeming or repurchasing outstanding debt and for working capital,
capital expenditures, new store openings, stock repurchases and acquisitions.

The $300.0 million bank term loan entered in December 2004 was amended in April 2006 to have
similar terms and conditions as the $1.0 billion credit facilities, but with a December 2009
maturity, and was further amended in August 2007 to reduce the interest rate on Eurodollar loans.
That credit agreement with a group of banks provides for a term loan, which consists of, at the
Company’s election, base rate loans, Eurodollar loans or a combination thereof. The interest
accrues on base rate loans at a base rate per annum equal to the higher of the prime rate or the
Federal Funds Rate plus 1/2 of 1%. Interest accrues on Eurodollar loans at a defined Eurodollar
rate plus the applicable percentage, which can range from 30 basis points to 90 basis points,
depending upon the Company’s senior unsecured (non-credit enhanced) long-term debt rating. Based on
AutoZone’s ratings at August 30, 2008, the applicable percentage on Eurodollar loans is 35 basis
points. The Company may select interest periods of one, two, three or six months for Eurodollar
loans, subject to availability. Interest is payable at the end of the selected interest period, but
no less frequently than quarterly. AutoZone entered into an interest rate swap agreement on
December 29, 2004, to effectively fix, based on current debt ratings, the interest rate of the term
loan at 4.4%. AutoZone has the option to extend loans into subsequent interest period(s) or convert
them into loans of another interest rate type. The entire unpaid principal amount of the term loan
will be due and payable in full on December 23, 2009, when the facility terminates. The Company may
prepay the term loan in whole or in part at any time without penalty, subject to reimbursement of
the lenders’ breakage and redeployment costs in the case of prepayment of Eurodollar borrowings.

During April 2006, the $150.0 million Senior Notes maturing at that time were repaid with an
increase in commercial paper. On June 8, 2006, the Company issued $200.0 million in 6.95% Senior
Notes due 2016 under its existing shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on August 17, 2004. That shelf registration allowed the Company to sell up to
$300 million in debt securities to fund general corporate purposes, including repaying, redeeming
or repurchasing outstanding debt, and for working capital, capital expenditures, new store
openings, stock repurchases and acquisitions. The remainder of the shelf registration was
cancelled in February, 2007.

The 6.50% and 7.125% notes issued during August, 2008, are subject to an interest rate adjustment
if the debt ratings assigned to the notes are downgraded and a provision where repayment of the
notes may be accelerated if AutoZone experiences a change in control (as defined in the
agreements). The Company’s borrowings under its other Senior Notes arrangements contain minimal
covenants, primarily restrictions on liens. Under its other borrowing arrangements, covenants
include limitations on total indebtedness, restrictions on liens, a minimum fixed charge coverage
ratio and a change of control provision that may require acceleration of the repayment obligations
under certain circumstances. All of the repayment obligations under the Company’s borrowing
arrangements may be accelerated and come due prior to the scheduled payment date if covenants are
breached or an event of default occurs. As of August 30, 2008, the Company was in compliance with
all covenants and expects to remain in compliance with all covenants.

All of the Company’s debt is unsecured. Scheduled maturities of long-term debt are as follows:

Fiscal Year

Amount

(in thousands)


$

—


300,000


200,000


—


500,000

Thereafter

1,250,000

$

2,250,000

The fair value of the Company’s debt was estimated at $2.235 billion as of August 30, 2008, and
$1.928 billion as of August 25, 2007, based on the quoted market prices for the same or similar
issues or on the current rates available to the Company for debt of the same remaining maturities.
Such fair value is less than the carrying value of debt by $15.0 million at August 30, 2008, and
$7.6 million at August 25, 2007.



Note G — Interest Expense

Net interest expense consisted of the following:

Year Ended

August 30,

August 25,

August 26,

(in thousands)




Interest expense

$

121,843

$

123,311

$

112,127

Interest income

(3,785

)

(2,819

)

(2,253

)

Capitalized interest

(1,313

)

(1,376

)

(1,985

)

$

116,745

$

119,116

$

107,889

Note H — Stock Repurchase Program

During 1998, the Company announced a program permitting the Company to repurchase a portion of its
outstanding shares not to exceed a dollar maximum established by the Company’s Board of Directors.
The program was amended in June 2008 to increase the repurchase authorization to $6.4 billion from
$5.9 billion. From January 1998 to August 30, 2008, the Company has repurchased a total of 106.1
million shares at an aggregate cost of $6.3 billion.

The following table summarizes our share repurchase activity for the following fiscal years:

Year Ended

August 30,

August 25,

August 26,

(in thousands)




Amount

$

849,196

$

761,887

$

578,066

Shares

6,802

6,032

6,187

On September 23, 2008, the Board of Directors raised the repurchase authorization from $6.4 billion
to $6.9 billion. From August 31, 2008 to October 20, 2008, the Company repurchased 1.6 million
shares for $204.4 million.

Note I — Pension and Savings Plans

Prior to January 1, 2003, substantially all full-time employees were covered by a defined benefit
pension plan. The benefits under the plan were based on years of service and the employee’s highest
consecutive five-year average compensation. On January 1, 2003, the plan was frozen. Accordingly,
pension plan participants will earn no new benefits under the plan formula and no new participants
will join the pension plan.

On January 1, 2003, the Company’s supplemental defined benefit pension plan for certain highly
compensated employees was also frozen. Accordingly, plan participants will earn no new benefits
under the plan formula and no new participants will join the pension plan.

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158, “Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension
and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)”
(“SFAS 158”). SFAS 158 requires plan sponsors of defined benefit pension and other postretirement
benefit plans (collectively postretirement benefit plans) to: recognize the funded status of their
postretirement benefit plans in the statement of financial position, measure the fair value of plan
assets and benefit obligations as of the date of the fiscal year-end statement of financial
position, and provide additional disclosures.

We adopted the recognition and disclosure provisions of SFAS 158 on August 25, 2007. The
recognition provisions of SFAS 158 required us to recognize the funded status, which is the
difference between the fair value of plan assets and the projected benefit obligations, of our
defined benefit pension plans in the August 25, 2007 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position,
with a corresponding adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax. The
adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive income at adoption represents the net unrecognized
actuarial losses and unrecognized prior service costs, both of which were previously netted against
the plans’ funded status in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position pursuant to the
provisions of SFAS No. 87, “Employers’ Accounting for Pensions” (“SFAS 87”). These amounts will be
subsequently recognized as net periodic pension expense pursuant to our historical accounting
policy for amortizing such amounts. Further, actuarial gains and losses that arise in subsequent
periods and are not recognized as net periodic pension expense in the same periods will be
recognized as a component of other comprehensive income. Those amounts will be subsequently
recognized as a component of net periodic pension expense on the same basis as the amounts
recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income at adoption of SFAS 158. The adoption of the
recognition provisions of SFAS 158 had an immaterial impact on our consolidated financial
statements at August 25, 2007.



SFAS 158’s provisions regarding the change in the measurement date of pension benefit plans will
require the Company to change its measurement date, beginning in fiscal year 2009, from May 31 to
its fiscal year end date, August 29, 2009.

The investment strategy for pension plan assets is to utilize a diversified mix of domestic and
international equity portfolios, together with other investments, to earn a long-term investment
return that meets the Company’s pension plan obligations. Active management and alternative
investment strategies are utilized within the plan in an effort to minimize risk, while realizing
investment returns in excess of market indices.

The weighted average asset allocation for our pension plan assets was as follows at May 31:



Current

Target

Current

Target

Domestic equities

22.7

%

27.5

%

30.7

%

33.5

%

International equities

33.3

29.0

27.8

23.0

Alternative investments

31.4

30.5

27.7

30.5

Real estate

11.8

11.0

11.2

11.0

Cash and cash equivalents

0.8

2.0

2.6

2.0

100.0

%

100.0

%

100.0

%

100.0

%

The following table sets forth the plans’ funded status and amounts recognized in the Company’s
financial statements:

August 30,

August 25,

(in thousands)



Change in Projected Benefit Obligation:

Projected benefit obligation at beginning of year

$

161,064

$

154,942

Interest cost

9,962

9,593

Actuarial gains

(10,818

)

(550

)

Benefits paid

(3,534

)

(2,921

)

Benefit obligations at end of year

$

156,674

$

161,064

Change in plan assets:

Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year

$

161,221

$

126,892

Actual return on plan assets

(940

)

26,677

Employer contributions

4,151

10,573

Benefits paid

(3,534

)

(2,921

)

Fair value of plan assets at end of year

$

160,898

$

161,221

Reconciliation of funded status:

Funded status of the plans

$

4,224

$


Contributions from measurement date to fiscal year-end

—

2,836

Net amount recognized

$

4,224

$

2,993

Amount Recognized in the Statement of Financial Position:

Noncurrent other assets

$

7,264

$

5,984

Current liabilities

(17

)

(2,991

)

Long-term liabilities

(3,023

)

—

Net amount recognized

$

4,224

$

2,993

Amount Recognized in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
and not yet reflected in Net Periodic Benefit Cost:

Net actuarial loss

$

(6,891

)

$

(3,830

)

Prior service cost

(60

)

(159

)

AOCI

$

(6,951

)

$

(3,989

)



Net Pension Benefits (Income) Expense:

Year Ended

August 30,

August 25,

August 26,

(in thousands)




Components of net periodic benefit cost:

Interest cost

$

9,962

$

9,593

$

9,190

Expected return on plan assets

(13,036

)

(10,343

)

(8,573

)

Amortization of prior service cost


(54

)

(627

)

Recognized net actuarial losses



5,645

Net periodic benefit (income) expense

$

(2,878

)

$

(53

)

$

5,635

The actuarial assumptions were as follows:




Weighted average discount rate

6.90

%

6.25

%

6.25

%

Expected long-term rate of return on assets

8.00

%

8.00

%

8.00

%

As the plan benefits are frozen, increases in future compensation levels no longer impact the
calculation and there is no service cost. The discount rate is determined as of the measurement
date and is based on the calculated yield of a portfolio of high-grade corporate bonds with cash
flows that generally match our expected benefit payments in future years. The expected long-term
rate of return on plan assets is based on the historical relationships between the investment
classes and the capital markets, updated for current conditions.

The Company makes annual contributions in amounts at least equal to the minimum funding
requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. The Company contributed $1.3
million to the plans in fiscal 2008, $13.4 million to the plans in fiscal 2007, and $9.2 million to
the plans in fiscal 2006. We do not expect to contribute to the plan in fiscal 2009; however, a
change to the expected cash funding may be impacted by a change in interest rates or a change in
the actual or expected return on plan assets.

Based on current assumptions about future events, benefit payments are expected to be paid as
follows for each of the following fiscal years. Actual benefit payments may vary significantly
from the following estimates:

Amount

(in thousands)


$

4,159


4,778


5,353


5,924


6,631

2014 — 2018

43,085

The Company has a 401(k) plan that covers all domestic employees who meet the plan’s participation
requirements. The plan features include Company matching contributions, immediate 100% vesting of
Company contributions and a savings option to 25% of qualified earnings. The Company makes matching
contributions, per pay period, up to a specified percentage of employees’ contributions as approved
by the Board of Directors. The Company made matching contributions to employee accounts in
connection with the 401(k) plan of $10.8 million in fiscal 2008, $9.5 million in fiscal 2007, and
$8.6 million in fiscal 2006.



Note J — Leases

The Company leases some of its retail stores, distribution centers, facilities, land and equipment,
including vehicles. Most of these leases are operating leases and include renewal options, at the
Company’s election, and some include options to purchase and provisions for percentage rent based
on sales. Rental expense was $165.1 million in fiscal 2008, $152.5 million in fiscal 2007, and
$143.9 million in fiscal 2006. Percentage rentals were insignificant.

The Company has a fleet of vehicles used for delivery to our commercial customers and travel for
members of field management. The majority of these vehicles are held under capital lease. At
August 30, 2008, the Company had capital lease assets of $62.4 million, net of accumulated
amortization of $14.4 million, and capital lease obligations of $64.1 million. The $15.9 million
current portion of these obligations was recorded as a component of other current liabilities and
the $48.2 million long-term portion was recorded as a component of other long-term liabilities in
the consolidated balance sheet. At August 25, 2007, the Company had capital lease assets of $54.4
million, net of accumulated amortization of $11.2 million and capital lease obligations of $55.1
million, of which $16.0 million was recorded as current liabilities and $39.1 million was recorded
as long term liabilities.

The Company records rent for all operating leases on a straight-line basis over the lease term,
including any reasonably assured renewal periods and the period of time prior to the lease term
that the Company is in possession of the leased space for the purpose of installing leasehold
improvements. Differences between recorded rent expense and cash payments are recorded as a
liability in accrued expenses and other long-term liabilities on the balance sheet. This deferred
rent approximated $51.0 million on August 30, 2008, and $42.6 million on August 25, 2007.
Additionally, all leasehold improvements are amortized over the lesser of their useful life or the
remainder of the lease term, including any reasonably assured renewal periods, in effect when the
leasehold improvements are placed in service.

Minimum annual rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases and capital leases were as
follows at the end of fiscal 2008:

(amounts in thousands)

Operating

Capital

Fiscal Year

Leases

Leases


$

161,435

$

16,341


149,999

17,161


133,837

14,407


117,610

12,968


102,035

7,833

Thereafter

707,535

—

Total minimum payments required

$

1,372,451

68,710

Less: interest

(4,649

)

Present value of minimum capital lease payments

$

64,061

In connection with the Company’s December 2001 sale of the TruckPro business, the Company subleased
some properties to the purchaser for an initial term of not less than 20 years. The Company’s
remaining aggregate rental obligation at August 30, 2008 of $23.7 million is included in the above
table, but the obligation is entirely offset by the sublease rental agreement.

Note K — Commitments and Contingencies

Construction commitments, primarily for new stores, totaled approximately $20.0 million at August
30, 2008.

The Company had $94.0 million in outstanding standby letters of credit and $13.8 million in surety
bonds as of August 30, 2008, which all have expiration periods of less than one year. A substantial
portion of the outstanding standby letters of credit (which are primarily renewed on an annual
basis) and surety bonds are used to cover reimbursement obligations to our workers’ compensation
carriers. There are no additional contingent liabilities associated with these instruments as the
underlying liabilities are already reflected in the consolidated balance sheet. The standby letters
of credit and surety bonds arrangements have automatic renewal clauses.



Note L — Litigation

AutoZone, Inc. is a defendant in a lawsuit entitled “Coalition for a Level Playing Field, L.L.C.,
et al., v. AutoZone, Inc. et al.,” filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of
New York in October 2004. The case was filed by more than 200 plaintiffs, which are principally
automotive aftermarket warehouse distributors and jobbers (collectively “Plaintiffs”), against a
number of defendants, including automotive aftermarket retailers and aftermarket automotive parts
manufacturers. In the amended complaint, the plaintiffs allege, inter alia, that some or all of
the automotive aftermarket retailer defendants have knowingly received, in violation of the
Robinson-Patman Act (the “Act”), from various of the manufacturer defendants benefits such as
volume discounts, rebates, early buy allowances and other allowances, fees, inventory without
payment, sham advertising and promotional payments, a share in the manufacturers’ profits, benefits
of pay on scan purchases, implementation of radio frequency identification technology, and
excessive payments for services purportedly performed for the manufacturers. Additionally, a subset
of plaintiffs alleges a claim of fraud against the automotive aftermarket retailer defendants based
on discovery issues in a prior litigation involving similar Robinson-Patman Act claims. In the
prior litigation, the discovery dispute, as well as the underlying claims, were decided in favor of
AutoZone and the other automotive aftermarket retailer defendants who proceeded to trial, pursuant
to a unanimous jury verdict which was affirmed by the Second Circuit Court of Appeals. In the
current litigation, plaintiffs seek an unspecified amount of damages (including statutory
trebling), attorneys’ fees, and a permanent injunction prohibiting the aftermarket retailer
defendants from inducing and/or knowingly receiving discriminatory prices from any of the
aftermarket manufacturer defendants and from opening up any further stores to compete with
plaintiffs as long as defendants allegedly continue to violate the Act. The Company believes this
suit to be without merit and is vigorously defending against it. Defendants have filed motions to
dismiss all claims with prejudice on substantive and procedural grounds. Additionally, the
Defendants have sought to enjoin plaintiffs from filing similar lawsuits in the future. If granted
in their entirety, these dispositive motions would resolve the litigation in Defendants’ favor.

The Company currently, and from time to time, is involved in various other legal proceedings
incidental to the conduct of its business. Although the amount of liability that may result from
these other proceedings cannot be ascertained, the Company does not currently believe that, in the
aggregate, these matters will result in liabilities material to the Company’s financial condition,
results of operations or cash flows.

Note M — Segment Reporting

The Company manages its business on the basis of one reportable segment. See “Note A — Significant
Accounting Policies” for a brief description of the Company’s business. As of August 30, 2008, the
majority of the Company’s operations were located within the United States. Other operations
include ALLDATA and the Mexico locations, each of which comprises less than 4% of consolidated net
sales. The following data presents sales by primary business focus:

Year Ended

August 30,

August 25,

August 26,

(in thousands)




Primary business focus:

Domestic Retail

$

5,393,498

$

5,160,511

$

4,989,266

Domestic Commercial

753,731

705,567

708,715

Other

375,477

303,726

250,374

Net sales

$

6,522,706

$

6,169,804

$

5,948,355



Quarterly Summary (1)

(unaudited)

Seventeen

Twelve Weeks Ended

Weeks Ended

November 17,

February 9,

May 3,

August 30,

(in thousands, except per share data)




2008 (2)

Net sales

$

1,455,655

$

1,339,244

$

1,517,293

$

2,210,514

Increase (decrease) in domestic
comparable store sales

1.3

%

(0.3

)%

(0.3

)%

0.6

%

Gross profit

726,448

667,795

762,006

1,111,812

Operating profit

237,375

196,885

273,034

416,839

Income before income taxes

209,313

168,297

247,703

382,075

Net income

132,516

106,704

158,638

243,747

Basic earnings per share

2.04

1.69

2.51

3.92

Diluted earnings per share

2.02

1.67

2.49

3.88

November 18,

February 10,

May 5,

August 25,

(in thousands, except per share data)




2007 (2)

Net sales

$

1,393,069

$

1,300,357

$

1,473,671

$

2,002,707

Increase (decrease) in domestic
comparable store sales

0.3

%

(0.3

)%

0.4

%

(0.2

)%

Gross profit

685,295

639,212

735,399

1,004,344

Operating profit

222,996

188,923

264,977

378,369

Income before income taxes

195,903

162,105

237,862

340,279

Net income

123,889

103,016

151,591

217,175

Basic earnings per share

1.74

1.46

2.19

3.26

Diluted earnings per share

1.73

1.45

2.17

3.23

(1)

The sum of quarterly amounts may not equal the annual amounts reported due to rounding and
due to per share amounts being computed independently for each quarter while the full year is
based on the annual weighted average shares outstanding.

(2)

The fiscal 2008 fourth quarter was based on a 17-week period and the fiscal 2007 fourth
quarter was based on a 16-week period. All other quarters presented are based on a 12-week
period.



Item 9. Changes In and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

Not applicable.

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures

As of August 30, 2008, an evaluation was performed under the supervision and with the participation
of AutoZone’s management, including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, of
the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of
August 30, 2008. Based on that evaluation, our management, including the Chief Executive Officer
and the Chief Financial Officer, concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were
effective. During or subsequent to the fiscal year ended August 30, 2008, there were no changes in
our internal controls that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect
internal controls over financial reporting.

Item 9B. Other Information

Not applicable.



PART III

Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

The information set forth in Part I of this document in the section entitled “Executive Officers of
the Registrant,” is incorporated herein by reference in response to this item. Additionally, the
information contained in AutoZone, Inc.’s Proxy Statement dated October 27, 2008, in the sections
entitled “Proposal 1 — Election of Directors” and “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance,” is incorporated herein by reference in response to this item.

The Company has adopted a Code of Ethical Conduct for Financial Executives that applies to its
chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief accounting officer and persons performing
similar functions. The Company has filed a copy of this Code of Ethical Conduct as Exhibit 14.1 to
this Form 10-K. The Company has also made the Code of Ethical Conduct available on its investor
relations website at http://www.autozoneinc.com.

Item 11. Executive Compensation

The information contained in AutoZone, Inc.’s Proxy Statement dated October 27, 2008, in the
section entitled “Executive Compensation,” is incorporated herein by reference in response to this
item.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters

The information contained in AutoZone, Inc.’s Proxy Statement dated October 27, 2008, in the
sections entitled “Security Ownership of Management” and “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
Owners,” is incorporated herein by reference in response to this item.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence

Not applicable.

Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services

The information contained in AutoZone, Inc.’s Proxy Statement dated October 27, 2008, in the
section entitled “Proposal 2 — Ratification of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm,” is
incorporated herein by reference in response to this item.



PART IV

Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules

The following information required under this item is filed as part of this report

(a) Financial Statements

The following financial statements, related notes and reports of independent registered public
accounting firm are filed with this Annual Report in Part II, Item 8:

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

Consolidated Statements of Income for the fiscal years ended August 30, 2008, August 25, 2007,
and August 26, 2006

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of August 30, 2008, and August 25, 2007

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the fiscal years ended August 30, 2008, August 25, 2007,
and August 26, 2006

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity for the fiscal years ended August 30, 2008, August 25, 2007,
and August 26, 2006

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(b) Exhibits

The Exhibit Index following this document’s signature pages is incorporated herein by reference in
response to this item.

(c) Financial Statement Schedules

Schedules are omitted because the information is not required or because the information required
is included in the financial statements or notes thereto.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized.

AUTOZONE, INC.

By:

/s/ William C. Rhodes, III

William C. Rhodes, III

Chairman, President and

Chief Executive Officer

(Principal Executive Officer)

Dated: October 27, 2008

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated:

SIGNATURE

TITLE

DATE

/s/ William C. Rhodes, III

William C. Rhodes, III

Chairman, President and Chief
Executive Officer

(Principal
Executive Officer)

October 27, 2008

/s/ William T. Giles

William T. Giles

Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice
President, Finance, Information Technology and Store
Development

(Principal Financial Officer)

October 27, 2008

/s/ Charlie Pleas, III

Charlie Pleas, III

Senior Vice President, Controller

(Principal
Accounting Officer)

October 27, 2008

/s/ William C. Crowley

William C. Crowley

Director

October 27, 2008

/s/ Charles M. Elson

Charles M. Elson

Director

October 27, 2008

/s/ Sue E. Gove

Sue E. Gove

Director

October 27, 2008

/s/ Earl G. Graves, Jr.

Earl G. Graves, Jr.

Director

October 27, 2008

/s/ Robert R. Grusky

Robert R. Grusky

Director

October 27, 2008

/s/ N. Gerry House

N. Gerry House

Director

October 27, 2008

/s/ J.R. Hyde, III

J.R. Hyde, III

Director

October 27, 2008

/s/ W. Andrew McKenna

W. Andrew McKenna

Director

October 27, 2008

/s/ George R. Mrkonic, Jr.

George R. Mrkonic, Jr.

Director

October 27, 2008

/s/ Luis P. Nieto

Luis P. Nieto

Director

October 27, 2008

/s/ Theodore W. Ullyot

Theodore W. Ullyot

Director

October 27, 2008



EXHIBIT INDEX

3.1

Restated Articles of Incorporation of AutoZone, Inc. Incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
February 13, 1999.

3.2

Fourth Amended and Restated By-laws of AutoZone, Inc. Incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to the Form 8-K dated September 28,
2007.

4.1

Senior Indenture, dated as of July 22, 1998, between AutoZone, Inc.
and the First National Bank of Chicago. Incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 4.1 to the Form 8-K dated July 17, 1998.

4.2

Fourth Amended and Restated AutoZone, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase
Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Form 8-K
dated September 28, 2007.

4.3

Indenture dated as of August 8, 2003, between AutoZone, Inc. and
Bank One Trust Company, N.A. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
4.1 to the Form S-3 (No. 333-107828) filed August 11, 2003.

4.4

Form of 6.500% Senior Note due 2014. Incorporated by reference
from the Form 8-K dated August 4, 2008

4.5

Form of 7.125% Senior Note due 2018. Incorporated by reference
from the Form 8-K dated August 4, 2008

*10.1

Fourth Amended and Restated Director Stock Option Plan.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended May 4, 2002.

*10.2

Second Amended and Restated 1998 Director Compensation Plan.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Form 10-K for the
fiscal year ended August 26, 2000.

*10.3

Third Amended and Restated 1996 Stock Option Plan. Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended August 30, 2003.

*10.4

Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement. Incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10.2 to the Form 10-Q for the quarter ended November 23,
2002.

*10.5

Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement. Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
November 23, 2002.

*10.6

AutoZone, Inc. Executive Deferred Compensation Plan. Incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
February 12, 2000.

*10.7

Form of Amended and Restated Employment and Non-Compete Agreement
between AutoZone, Inc. and various executive officers. Incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
November 22, 1999.

*10.8

Form of Employment and Non-Compete Agreement between AutoZone,
Inc., and various officers. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.2 to the Form 10-Q for the quarter ended November 18, 2000.

*10.9

AutoZone, Inc. 2003 Director Stock Option Plan. Incorporated by
reference to Appendix C to the definitive proxy statement dated
November 1, 2002, for the annual meeting of stockholders held
December 12, 2002.

*10.10

AutoZone, Inc. 2003 Director Compensation Plan. Incorporated by
reference to Appendix D to the definitive proxy statement dated
November 1, 2002, for the annual meeting of stockholders held
December 12, 2002.

*10.11

Amended and Restated AutoZone, Inc. Executive Deferred Compensation
Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended February 15, 2003.



10.12

Amended and Restated Five-Year Credit Agreement dated as of May 17,
2004, among AutoZone, Inc., as borrower, the several lenders from
time to time party thereto, and Fleet National Bank, as
Administrative Agent and Citicorp USA, Inc., as Syndication Agent.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended May 8, 2004.

*10.13

AutoZone, Inc. 2005 Executive Incentive Compensation Plan.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to the Company’s Proxy
Statement dated October 27, 2004, for the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders held December 16, 2004.

10.14

Credit Agreement dated as of December 23, 2004, among AutoZone,
Inc., as Borrower, the Several Lenders from time to time party
thereto, Fleet National Bank, as Administrative Agent, Wachovia
Bank, National Association, as Syndication Agent, Wachovia Capital
Markets, LLC, as Joint Lead Arranger and Sole Book Manager, Banc of
America Securities LLC as Joint Lead Arranger, and Calyon New York
Branch, BNP Paribas and Regions Bank as Co-Documentation Agents.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Form 8-K dated
December 23, 2004 (filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on December 29, 2004).

10.15

Lenders’ consent to extend the termination date of the Company’s
Amended and Restated 5-Year Credit Agreement dated as of May 17,
2004 for an additional period of one year, to May 17, 2010.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended May 7, 2005.

10.16

First Amendment dated as of May 5, 2006, to the Credit Agreement
dated as of December 23, 2004, among AutoZone, Inc., as Borrower,
the Several Lenders from time to time party thereto, Bank of
America, N.A, as Administrative Agent, and Wachovia Bank, National
Association, as Syndication Agent. Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.3 to the Form 10-Q for the quarter ended May 6, 2006.

10.17

Second Amendment dated as of August 3, 2007, to the Credit
Agreement dated as of December 23, 2004, (as amended by the First
Amendment to Credit Agreement dated as of May 5, 2006) among
AutoZone, Inc., as Borrower, the Several Lenders from time to time
party thereto, Bank of America, N.A, as Administrative Agent, and
Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Syndication Agent. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.22
to the From 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 25, 2007.

10.18

Four-Year Credit Agreement dated as of May 5, 2006, among AutoZone,
Inc. as Borrower, the Several Lenders from time to time party
thereto, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, and
Citicorp USA, Inc. as Syndication Agent. Incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10.4 to the Form 10-Q for the quarter ended May 6, 2006.

10.19

Second Amended and Restated Five-Year Credit Agreement dated as of
May 5, 2006, among AutoZone, Inc. as Borrower, the Several Lenders
from time to time party thereto, Bank of America, N.A. as
Administrative Agent and Swingline Lender, and Citicorp USA, Inc.
as Syndication Agent. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to
the Form 10-Q for the quarter ended May 6, 2006.

*10.20

AutoZone, Inc. 2006 Stock Option Plan. Incorporated by reference to
Appendix A to the definitive proxy statement dated October 25,
2006, for the annual meeting of stockholders held December 13,
2006.

*10.21

Form of Stock Option Agreement. Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.26 to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 25,
2007.

*10.22

AutoZone, Inc. Fourth Amended and Restated Executive Stock Purchase
Plan. Incorporated by reference to Appendix B to the definitive
proxy statement dated October 25, 2006, for the annual meeting of
stockholders held December 13, 2006.

*10.23

Offer letter dated March 19, 2007, to Larry Roesel. Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
May 5, 2007.

*10.24

AutoZone, Inc. Director Compensation Program. Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Form 8-K dated February 15, 2008.



*10.25

Amended and Restated AutoZone, Inc. 2003 Director Compensation
Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to Form 8-K dated
January 4, 2008.

*10.26

Amended and Restated AutoZone, Inc. 2003 Director Stock Option
Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.3 to Form 8-K dated
January 4, 2008.

*10.27

AutoZone, Inc. Enhanced Severance Pay Plan. Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Form 8-K dated February 15, 2008.

*10.28

Form of non-compete and non-solicitation agreement signed by each
of the following executive officers: Jon A. Bascom, Timothy W.
Briggs, Mark A. Finestone, William T. Giles, William W. Graves,
Lisa R. Kranc, Thomas B. Newbern, Charlie Pleas III, Larry M.
Roesel and James A. Shea; and by AutoZone, Inc., with an effective
date of February 14, 2008, for each. Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 99.2 to the Form 8-K dated February 15, 2008.

*10.29

Form of non-compete and non-solicitation agreement approved by
AutoZone’s Compensation Committee for execution by non-executive
officers. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.3 to the Form
8-K dated February 15, 2008.

*10.30

Agreement dated February 14, 2008, between AutoZone, Inc. and
William C. Rhodes, III. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.3
to the Form 8-K dated February 15, 2008.

*10.31

Form of non-compete and non-solicitation agreement signed by each
of the following officers: Rebecca W. Ballou, Dan Barzel, Craig
Blackwell, Brian L. Campbell, Philip B. Daniele, III, Wm. David
Gilmore, Stephany L. Goodnight, James C. Griffith, William R.
Hackney, Rodney Halsell, Diana H. Hull, Jeffery Lagges, Grantland
E. McGee, Jr., Mitchell Major, Ann A. Morgan, J. Scott Murphy,
Jeffrey H. Nix, Raymond A. Pohlman, Elizabeth Rabun, Juan A.
Santiago, Joe L. Sellers, Jr., Brett Shanaman and Solomon
Woldeslassie. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended May 3, 2008.

10.32

Agreement, dated as of June 25, 2008 between AutoZone, Inc. and ESL
Investments, Inc. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
Form 8-K dated June 26, 2008.

12.1

Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

14.1

Code of Ethical Conduct. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 14.1
of the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 30, 2003.

21.1

Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

23.1

Consent of Ernst & Young LLP.

31.1

Certification of Principal Executive Officer Pursuant to Rules
13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as Adopted Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002.

31.2

Certification of Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to Rules
13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as Adopted Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002.

32.1

Certification of Principal Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350 as adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

32.2

Certification of Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350 as adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

*

Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

65