10-K


g91360e10vk.htm

AUTOZONE, INC. - FORM 10-K

AUTOZONE, INC. - FORM 10-K


\

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

[X]

Annual Report under section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of

For the fiscal year ended August 28, 2004, or

[  ]

Transition report pursuant to section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934

For the transition period
from

to

.

Commission file number 1-10714

AUTOZONE, INC.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Nevada

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

62-1482048

(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

123 South Front Street, Memphis, Tennessee 38103

(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)

(901) 495-6500

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class

Common Stock

($.01 par value)

Name of each exchange

on which registered

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [  ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K § 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will
not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [  ]

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes [X] No [  ]



The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by
non-affiliates computed by reference to the price at which the common equity
was last sold, or the average bid and asked price of such common equity, as of
the last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal
quarter was $5,705,229,019.

The number of shares of Common Stock outstanding as of October 21, 2004, was
79,786,346.

Documents Incorporated By Reference

Portions of the definitive Proxy Statement to be filed within 120 days of
August 28, 2004, pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held December 16, 2004,
are incorporated by reference into Part III.





Forward-Looking Statements

Certain statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are
forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements typically use words such
as “believe,” “anticipate,” “should,” “intend,” “plan,” “will,” “expect,”
“estimate,” “project,” “positioned,” “strategy,” and similar expressions. These
are based on assumptions and assessments made by our management in light of
experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions, expected
future developments and other factors that we believe to be appropriate. These
forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties,
including without limitation, competition; product demand; the economy; the
ability to hire and retain qualified employees; consumer debt levels;
inflation; raw material costs of our suppliers; gasoline prices; war and the
prospect of war, including terrorist activity; availability of commercial
transportation; construction delays; access to available and feasible
financing; and our ability to continue to negotiate pay-on-scan and other
arrangements with our vendors. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of
future performance and actual results; developments and business decisions may
differ from those contemplated by such forward-looking statements, and such
events could materially and adversely affect our business. Forward-looking
statements speak only as of the date made. Except as required by applicable
law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking
statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Actual results may materially differ from anticipated results. Please refer to
the Risk Factors section contained in Item 1 under Part I. of this Form 10-K,
for more details.



PART I

Item 1. Business

Introduction

We are the nation’s leading specialty retailer of automotive parts and
accessories, with most of our sales to do-it-yourself (“DIY”) customers. We
began operations in 1979 and at August 28, 2004, operated 3,420 auto parts
stores in the United States and 63 in Mexico. Each of our stores carries an
extensive product line for cars, sport utility vehicles, vans and light trucks,
including new and remanufactured automotive hard parts, maintenance items,
accessories and non-automotive products. In many of our domestic stores we also
have a commercial sales program that provides commercial credit and prompt
delivery of parts and other products to local, regional and national repair
garages, dealers and service stations. We also sell the ALLDATA brand
automotive diagnostic and repair software. On the web at www.autozone.com, we
sell diagnostic and repair information, auto and light truck parts, and
accessories. We do not derive revenue from automotive repair or installation.

At August 28, 2004, our stores were in the following locations:

Alabama


Arizona


Arkansas


California


Colorado


Connecticut


Delaware


Florida


Georgia


Idaho


Illinois


Indiana


Iowa


Kansas


Kentucky


Louisiana


Maine


Maryland


Massachusetts


Michigan


Minnesota


Mississippi


Missouri


Montana


Nebraska


Nevada


New Hampshire


New Jersey


New Mexico


New York


North Carolina


North Dakota


Ohio


Oklahoma


Oregon


Pennsylvania


Rhode Island


South Carolina


South Dakota


Tennessee




Texas


Utah


Vermont


Virginia


Washington


West Virginia


Wisconsin


Wyoming


Washington, DC


Domestic Total

3,420

Mexico


TOTAL

3,483

Marketing and Merchandising Strategy

We are dedicated to providing customers with superior service, value and
quality automotive parts and products at conveniently located, well-designed
stores. Key elements of this strategy are:

Customer Service

We believe that our customers value service; therefore, customer service
is the most important element in our marketing and merchandising strategy. We
emphasize that our AutoZoners (employees) should always put customers first by
providing prompt, courteous service and trustworthy advice. Our electronic
parts catalog assists in the selection of parts; and lifetime warranties are
offered by us or our vendors on many of the parts we sell. Our satellite system
in our auto parts stores helps us expedite credit or debit card and check
approval processes and locate parts at neighboring AutoZone stores.

Our stores generally open at 8 a.m. and close between 8 and 10 p.m. Monday
through Saturday and typically open at 9 a.m. and close between 6 and 8 p.m. on
Sunday. Some stores are open 24 hours, and some have extended hours of 6 a.m or
7 a.m. until midnight seven days a week.

We also provide specialty tools through our Loan-A-Tool program. Customers
can borrow a specialty tool, such as a steering wheel puller, for which a DIY
customer or a repair shop would have little or no use other than for a single
job. AutoZoners also provide other free services, including check engine light
readings; battery charging and installation assistance; oil recycling; and
testing of starters, alternators, batteries, sensors and actuators.

Merchandising

The following table shows some of the types of products that we sell:

Hard Parts

Maintenance Items

Accessories and Non-Automotive

A/C Compressors

Antifreeze

Air Fresheners

Alternators

Belts and Hoses

Cell Phone Accessories

Batteries

Brake Fluid

Decorative Lighting

Brake Drums, Rotors,

Chemicals

Dent Filler

Shoes and Pads

Fuses

Floor Mats

Carburetors

Lighting

Neon

Clutches

Oil

Mirrors

CV Axles

Oil and Fuel Additives

Paint

Engines

Oil, Air and Fuel Filters

Scooters and Go-carts

Fuel Pumps

Power Steering Fluid

Seat Covers

Mufflers

Refrigerant

Steering Wheel Covers

Shock Absorbers

Spark Plugs

Stereos

Starters

Transmission Fluid

Sunglasses

Struts

Wash and Wax

Tools

Water Pumps

Windshield Wipers

Toys



We believe that the satisfaction of DIY customers and professional
technicians is often impacted by our ability to provide specific automotive
products as requested. Our stores generally offer between 21,000 and 23,000
stock keeping units (“SKUs”), covering a broad range of vehicle types. Each
store carries the same basic product line, but we tailor our parts inventory to
the makes and models of the automobiles in each store’s trade area. Our hub
stores carry a larger assortment of products that can be delivered to
commercial customers or local satellite stores. Slower-selling products are
generally available through our vendor direct program (VDP) which offers
overnight delivery.

We are constantly updating the products that we offer to assure that our
inventory matches the products that our customers want, when they want them.

Pricing

We want to be perceived by our customers as the value leader in our
industry by consistently providing quality merchandise at a good price, backed
by a good warranty and outstanding customer service. On many of our products we
offer multiple value choices in a good/better/best assortment, with appropriate
price and quality differences from the “good” products to the “better” and
“best” products. We believe that our overall prices compare favorably to those
of our competitors.

Marketing

We believe that targeted advertising and marketing play important roles in
succeeding in today’s environment. We are constantly working to understand our
customers’ wants and needs so that we can build long-lasting, loyal
relationships. We utilize marketing and advertising primarily to educate
customers about the overall importance of vehicle maintenance. We also seek to
convey the message that AutoZone is THE brand known for “relentlessly creating
the most exciting Zone for vehicle solutions!” Broadcast and print media are
designed primarily to increase store traffic. In-store signage and creative
product placement help to educate customers about products they need as a means
to increase average sales dollars per transaction.

Store Design and Visual Merchandising

We design and build stores for a high visual impact. The typical AutoZone
store has an industrial “high tech” appearance by utilizing colorful exterior
and interior signage, exposed beams and ductwork and brightly lighted
interiors. Maintenance products, accessories and miscellaneous items are
attractively displayed for easy browsing by customers. In-store signage and
special displays promote products in floor displays, end caps and on the shelf.
Store managers are able to customize certain areas of the store to prominently
display products that are in demand in the local community.

Commercial

We believe our commercial sales program is the third largest aftermarket
seller of automotive parts and other products to local, regional and national
repair garages, dealers and service stations in the United States. As a part
of the program we offer credit and delivery to some of our commercial
customers. The program operated out of 2,209 stores as of August 28, 2004.
Through our hub stores, we offer a greater range of parts and products desired
by professional technicians and can also be used as additional available
inventory for local stores. In addition, some of our commercial customers
receive shipments directly from our distribution centers. Commercial has a
national sales team focused on national and regional commercial accounts, as
well as an outside sales force for customers located around our commercial
stores.

Store Operations

Store Formats

Substantially all AutoZone stores are based on standard store formats
resulting in generally consistent appearance, merchandising and product mix.
Approximately 85% to 90% of each store’s square footage is selling space, of
which approximately 40% to 45% is dedicated to hard parts inventory. The hard
parts inventory area is



generally fronted by a counter or pods that run the depth or length of the
store, dividing the hard parts area from the remainder of the store. The
remaining selling space contains displays of maintenance, accessories, and
non-automotive items.

We have knowledgeable AutoZoners available to assist customers with their
parts needs utilizing our proprietary electronic parts catalog with a display
screen that is visible to both the AutoZoner and the customer. In addition to
helping ensure fast, accurate parts lookup in English or Spanish, the parts
catalog will suggest additional items that a customer should purchase in order
to properly install the merchandise being purchased.

We believe that our stores are “destination stores,” generating their own
traffic rather than relying on traffic created by adjacent stores. Therefore,
we situate most stores on major thoroughfares with easy access and good
parking.

Store Personnel and Training

Each auto parts store typically employs from 10 to 16 AutoZoners,
including a manager and, in some cases, an assistant manager. AutoZoners
typically have prior automotive experience. All AutoZoners are encouraged to
complete courses resulting in certification by the National Institute for
Automotive Service Excellence (ASE), which is broadly recognized for training
certification in the automotive industry. Although we do on-the-job training,
we also provide formal training programs, including an annual national sales
meeting, regular store meetings on specific sales and product issues,
standardized training manuals and a specialist program that trains AutoZoners
in several areas of technical expertise from both the Company and from
independent certification agencies. Training is supplemented with frequent
store visits by management.

Store managers receive financial incentives through performance-based
bonuses. In addition, our growth has provided opportunities for the promotion
of qualified AutoZoners. We believe these opportunities are important to
attract, motivate and retain quality AutoZoners.

All domestic store support functions are centralized in our store support
center in Memphis, Tennessee. We believe that this centralization enhances
consistent execution of our merchandising and marketing strategies at the store
level, while reducing expenses and cost of sales.

Store Automation

All of our stores have a proprietary electronic parts catalog that
provides parts information based on the make, model and year of an automobile.
The electronic catalog also tracks inventory availability at the store, at
other nearby stores and through special order. The catalog display screens are
placed on the hard parts counter or pods where both AutoZoners and customers
can view the screen. In addition, our satellite system enables the stores to
expedite credit or debit card and check approval processes, immediately access
national warranty data, implement real-time inventory controls and locate and
hold parts at neighboring AutoZone stores.

Our domestic auto parts stores utilize our computerized Store Management
System, which includes bar code scanning and point-of-sale data collection
terminals. The Store Management System provides administrative assistance and
improved personnel scheduling at the store level, as well as enhanced
merchandising information and improved inventory control. We believe the Store
Management System also enhances customer service through faster processing of
transactions and simplified warranty and product return procedures.



Store Development

The following table reflects store development during the past five fiscal
years:

Fiscal Year






Beginning Domestic Stores

3,219

3,068

3,019

2,915

2,711

New Stores






Replaced Stores






Closed Stores






Net New Stores






Ending Domestic Stores

3,420

3,219

3,068

3,019

2,915

Ending Mexico Stores






Ending Total Stores

3,483

3,268

3,107

3,040

2,928

We believe that expansion opportunities exist both in markets that we do
not currently serve, and in markets where we can achieve a larger presence. We
attempt to obtain high visibility sites in high traffic locations and undertake
substantial research prior to entering new markets. The most important criteria
for opening a new store are its projected future profitability and its ability
to achieve our required investment hurdle rate. Key factors in selecting new
site and market locations include population, demographics, vehicle profile,
number and strength of competitors’ stores and the cost of real estate. In
reviewing the vehicle profile, we also consider the number of vehicles that are
seven years old and older, “our kind of vehicles” (OKVs), as these are
generally no longer under the original manufacturers’ warranty and will require
more maintenance and repair than younger vehicles. We generally seek to open
new stores within or contiguous to existing market areas and attempt to cluster
development in markets in a relatively short period of time. In addition to
continuing to lease or develop our own stores, we evaluate and may make
strategic acquisitions.

Purchasing and Supply Chain

Merchandise is selected and purchased for all stores through our Store
Support Center in Memphis, Tennessee. No one class of product accounts for as
much as 10 percent of our total sales. In fiscal 2004, no single supplier
accounted for more than 10 percent of our total purchases. We generally have
few long-term contracts for the purchase of merchandise. We believe that we
have good relationships with suppliers. We also believe that alternative
sources of supply exist, at similar cost, for most types of product sold. Most
of our merchandise flows through our distribution centers to our stores.

Our hub stores have increased our ability to distribute products on a
timely basis to each store. A hub store is able to provide replenishment of
sold products and deliver special order products to a store in its coverage
area generally within 24 hours. Hub stores are generally replenished from
distribution centers multiple times per week.

Competition

The sale of automotive parts, accessories and maintenance items is highly
competitive in many areas, including name recognition, product availability,
customer service, store location and price. AutoZone competes in both the
retail DIY and commercial do it for me (“DIFM”) auto parts and accessories
markets.

Competitors include national and regional auto parts chains, independently
owned parts stores, wholesalers and jobbers, repair shops, car washes and auto
dealers, in addition to discount and mass merchandise stores, department
stores, hardware stores, supermarkets, drugstores and home stores that sell
aftermarket vehicle parts and supplies, chemicals, accessories, tools and
maintenance parts. AutoZone competes on the basis of customer service,
including the trustworthy advice of our AutoZoners, merchandise selection and
availability, price, product warranty, store layouts and location.



Trademarks and Patents

We have registered several service marks and trademarks in the United
States Patent and Trademark office as well as in other countries, including our
service marks, “AutoZone” and “Get in the Zone,” and trademarks, “AutoZone,”
“Duralast,” “Duralast Gold,” “Valucraft,” and “ALLDATA.” We believe that the
“AutoZone” service marks and trademarks are important components of our
merchandising and marketing strategy.

Employees

As of August 28, 2004, we employed approximately 49,000 persons,
approximately 59 percent of whom were employed full-time. About 91 percent of
our AutoZoners were employed in stores or in direct field supervision,
approximately 7 percent in distribution centers and approximately 2 percent in
store support functions. Included in the above numbers are approximately 800
persons employed in our Mexico operations.

We have never experienced any material labor disruption and believe that
relations with our AutoZoners are generally good.

AutoZone Website

AutoZone’s primary website is at http://www.autozone.com. We make
available, free of charge, at our investor relations website,
http://www.autozoneinc.com, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports
on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed
or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably feasible after we electronically
file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange
Commission.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following list describes our executive officers. The title of each
executive officer includes the words “Customer Satisfaction” which reflects our
commitment to customer service. Officers are elected by and serve at the
discretion of the Board of Directors.

Steve Odland, 46—Chairman, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director

Steve Odland has been Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and a Director
since January 2001, and President since May 2001. Previously, he was an
executive with Ahold USA from 1998 to 2000. Mr. Odland was President of the
Foodservice Division of Sara Lee Bakery from 1997 to 1998. He was employed by
The Quaker Oats Company from 1981 to 1996 in various executive positions.

Michael G. Archbold, 44—Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer

Michael G. Archbold was elected Executive Vice President, Chief Financial
Officer during fiscal 2005. Prior to fiscal 2005, he was Senior Vice
President, Chief Financial Officer since fiscal 2002. Previously he was Vice
President & Chief Financial Officer for the Booksellers division of Barnes &
Noble, Inc., since 1996. He was employed by Woolworth Corporation (now Foot
Locker, Inc.) from 1988 to 1996 in various financial positions, including
Assistant Controller.

Michael E. Longo, 43—Executive Vice President, Supply Chain, Information
Technology, Mexico and Store Development

Michael E. Longo was elected Executive Vice President, Supply Chain,
Information Technology, Mexico and Store Development during fiscal 2005. Prior
to that, he was Senior Vice President–Growth Initiatives since fiscal 2004.
Previously he was Senior Vice President–Operations, Commercial and ALLDATA
since 2002. Prior to that time he was Senior Vice President–Operations since
February 2001, Senior Vice President–Supply Chain since 1998 and Vice
President–Distribution since 1996. Mr. Longo has been employed by AutoZone
since 1992.



William C. Rhodes, III, 39

—

Executive Vice President

–Store Operations and
Commercial

William C. Rhodes, III, was elected Executive Vice President–Store
Operations and Commercial during fiscal 2005. Prior to fiscal 2005, he was
Senior Vice President–Supply Chain and Information Technology since fiscal
2002. Previously he was Senior Vice President

–

Supply Chain since 2001. Prior to
that time, he served in various capacities within AutoZone, including
Vice-President–Stores in 2000, Senior Vice President

–

Finance and Vice
President

–

Finance in 1999 and Vice President

–

Operations Analysis and Support
from 1997 to 1999. Prior to that, Mr. Rhodes was a manager with Ernst & Young,
LLP.

James A. Shea,

59— Executive Vice President–Merchandising and Marketing

James A. Shea was elected Executive Vice President–Merchandising and
Marketing during fiscal 2005. He was President and Co-founder of Drop Shop
Store during 2004. Prior to 2004, he was Chief Executive Officer of Party City
from 1999 to 2003. From 1995 to 1999, he was President of Lechter’s
Housewares.

Bradley W. Bacon, 51— Senior Vice President–Retail Operations

Bradley W. Bacon was elected Senior Vice President–Retail Operations in
fiscal 2004. Previously he was Vice President–General Manager, Retail
Operations since joining AutoZone in fiscal 2003. Prior to that time, he was
Executive Vice President — Operations for Tops Markets LLC since 2000 and was
Senior Vice President- Operations for First National Supermarkets from 1996 to
1999.

Harry L. Goldsmith, 53—Senior Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel

Harry L. Goldsmith was elected Senior Vice President, Secretary and
General Counsel in 1996. Previously he was Vice President, General Counsel and
Secretary from 1993 to 1996.

Stephen C. Handschuh, 52—Senior Vice President– Commercial

Stephen C. Handschuh was elected Senior Vice President–Commercial in
fiscal 2004. Previously he was President of NAPA Auto Parts since 1997 and Vice
President, NAPA Wholesale since 1994. He was employed by NAPA since 1987.

Lisa R. Kranc, 51—Senior Vice President–Marketing

Lisa R. Kranc was elected Senior Vice President

–

Marketing during fiscal
2001. Previously, she was Vice President

–

Marketing for Hannaford Bros. Co., a
Maine-based grocery chain, since 1997, and was Senior Vice President

–

Marketing
for Bruno’s, Inc., from 1996 to 1997. Prior to 1997, she was Vice President
Marketing for Giant Eagle, Inc. since 1992.

Robert D. Olsen, 51—Senior Vice President–Mexico and Store Development

Robert D. Olsen was elected Senior Vice President in fiscal 2000. Mr.
Olsen has primary responsibility for store development and Mexico operations.
From 1993 to 2000, Mr. Olsen was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer of Leslie’s Poolmart. From 1985 to 1989, Mr. Olsen held several
positions with AutoZone, including Controller, Vice President

–

Finance, and
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

Daisy L. Vanderlinde, 53

—

Senior Vice President–Human Resources and Loss
Prevention

Daisy L. Vanderlinde was elected Senior Vice President–Human Resources and
Loss Prevention in fiscal 2002. She joined AutoZone as Senior Vice
President

–

Human Resources in 2001. Previously, she was Vice President

–

Human
Resources for Tractor Supply Company since 1996 and Vice President–Human
Resources for Marshalls, Inc., from 1990.

Charlie Pleas, III, 39 —Vice President and Controller

Charlie Pleas, III, was elected Vice President and Controller during
fiscal 2003. Previously, he was Vice President–Accounting since 2000, and
Director of General Accounting since 1996. Prior to that, Mr. Pleas was a
Division Controller with Fleming Companies, Inc. where he served in various
capacities from 1988.



Risk Factors

We may not be able to increase sales by the same historic growth rates.

We have increased our store count in the past five fiscal years, growing
from 2,717 stores at August 28, 1999, to 3,483 stores at August 28, 2004, an
average store count increase per year of 5%. Additionally, we have increased
annual revenues in the past five fiscal years from $4.1 billion in fiscal 1999
to $5.6 billion in fiscal 2004, an average increase per year of 7%. Annual
revenue growth is driven by the opening of new stores and improving same-store
sales, which were flat in fiscal 2004. We cannot provide any assurance that we
can continue to open stores or increase same-store sales.

Our business depends upon qualified employees.

At the end of fiscal 2004, our consolidated employee count was
approximately 49,000. We can not assure that we can continue to hire and retain
qualified employees at current wage rates. If we do not maintain competitive
wages, our customer service could suffer by reason of a declining quality of
our workforce or, alternatively, our earnings could decrease if we increase our
wage rates.

If demand for our products slows, then our business may be materially affected.

Demand for products sold by our stores depends on many factors. In the
short term, it may depend upon:

•

the number of miles vehicles are driven annually, as higher vehicle
mileage increases the need for maintenance and repair. Mileage levels
may be affected by gas prices and other factors.

•

the number of vehicles in current service that are seven years old
and older, as these vehicles are no longer under the original vehicle
manufacturers’ warranty and will need more maintenance and repair than
younger vehicles.

•

the weather, as vehicle maintenance may be disrupted due to
catastrophic weather conditions impacting a wide geographic area.

•

the economy. In periods of rapidly declining economic conditions,
both retail DIY and commercial DIFM customers may defer vehicle
maintenance or repair. During periods of expansionary economic
conditions, more of our DIY customers may pay others to repair and
maintain their cars instead of working on their own vehicles or they may
purchase new vehicles.

For the long term, demand for our products may depend upon:

•

the quality of the vehicles manufactured by the original vehicle
manufacturers and the length of the warranty or maintenance offered on
new vehicles.

•

restrictions on access to diagnostic tools and repair information
imposed by the original vehicle manufacturers or by governmental
regulation.

If we are unable to compete successfully against other businesses that sell the
products that we sell, we could lose customers and our sales and profits may
decline.

The sale of automotive parts, accessories and maintenance items is highly
competitive in many areas, including name recognition, product availability,
customer service, store location and price. Competitors are rapidly opening
locations near our existing stores. AutoZone competes in both the DIY and DIFM
auto parts and accessories markets.

Competitors include national and regional auto parts chains, independently
owned parts stores, wholesalers and jobbers, repair shops, car washes and auto
dealers, in addition to discount and mass merchandise stores, department
stores, hardware stores, supermarkets, drugstores and home stores that sell
aftermarket vehicle parts and supplies,



chemicals, accessories, tools and maintenance parts. Although we believe
we compete effectively on the basis of customer service, including the
knowledge and expertise of our AutoZoners, merchandise quality, selection and
availability, product warranty, store layout, location and convenience, price,
and the strength of our AutoZone brand name, trademarks and service marks; some
competitors may have competitive advantages, such as greater financial and
marketing resources, larger stores with more merchandise, longer operating
histories, more frequent customer visits and more effective advertising. If we
are unable to continue to develop successful competitive strategies, or if our
competitors develop more effective strategies, we could lose customers and our
sales and profits may decline.

If we cannot profitably increase market share in the commercial auto parts
business, our sales growth may be limited.

Although we are one of the largest sellers of auto parts in the commercial
DIFM market, to increase commercial sales we must compete against automotive
aftermarket jobbers and warehouse distributors, in addition to other auto parts
retailers that have entered the commercial business. Although we believe we
compete effectively on the basis of customer service, merchandise quality,
selection and availability, and distribution locations, some automotive
aftermarket jobbers and warehouse distributors have been in business for
substantially longer periods of time than we have, have developed long-term
customer relationships and have larger available inventories. We can make no
assurances that we can profitably develop new commercial customers or make
available inventories required by commercial customers.

If our vendors continue to consolidate, we may pay higher prices for our
merchandise.

In recent years, several of our vendors have merged and others have
announced plans to merge. Further vendor consolidation could limit the number
of vendors from which we may purchase products and could materially affect the
prices we pay for these products.

Consolidation among our competitors may negatively impact our business.

In recent years, several large auto parts chains have merged. We do not
know the impact these mergers will have upon competition in the retail
automotive aftermarket. If our competitors are able to achieve efficiencies in
their mergers, then there may be greater competitive pressures in the markets
in which they are stronger.

War or acts of terrorism or the threat of either may negatively impact
availability of merchandise and adversely impact our sales.

War, or acts of terrorism or the threat of either, may have a negative
impact on our ability to obtain merchandise available for sale in our stores.
Some of our merchandise is imported from other countries. If imported goods
become difficult or impossible to bring into the United States, and if we
cannot obtain such merchandise from other sources at similar costs, our sales
and profit margins may be negatively affected.

In the event that commercial transportation is curtailed or substantially
delayed, our business may be adversely impacted, as we may have difficulty
shipping merchandise to our distribution centers and stores.

Rising fuel prices may negatively impact our profitability.

As mentioned above, rising fuel prices may negatively impact miles driven,
which may reduce demand for the products that we sell, overall transaction
count and our profitability. Fuel prices impact our merchandise distribution,
commercial delivery and store utility costs.



Item 2. Properties

The following table reflects the square footage and number of leased and
owned properties for our stores as of August 28, 2004:

No. of Stores

Square Footage

Leased

1,512

8,938,575

Owned

1,971

13,198,121

Total

3,483

22,136,696

We have 3,341,459 square feet in distribution centers servicing our
stores, most of which is owned, except for 998,237 square feet that is leased.
Our distribution centers are located in Arizona, California, Georgia, Illinois,
Louisiana, Ohio, Tennessee, Texas and Mexico. During fiscal 2004, we announced
the opening of a new distribution center near Dallas, Texas. Upon opening this
facility in fiscal 2005, we will close our smaller facility in San Antonio,
Texas.

Our store support center, which we own, is located in Memphis, Tennessee,
and consists of 260,000 square feet. We also own and lease other properties
that are not material in the aggregate.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

AutoZone is involved in various legal proceedings incidental to the
conduct of our business. Although the amount of liability that may result from
these proceedings cannot be ascertained, we do not currently believe that, in
the aggregate, they will result in liabilities material to our financial
condition, results of operations, or cash flows.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

None.



PART II

Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters

AutoZone’s common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the
symbol “AZO.” On October 21, 2004, there were 3,391 stockholders of record,
which does not include the number of beneficial owners whose shares were
represented by security position listings.

We currently do not pay a cash dividend on our common stock. Any payment
of dividends in the future would be dependent upon our financial condition,
capital requirements, earnings, cash flow and other factors.

The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices per share of
common stock, as reported by the New York Stock Exchange, for the periods
indicated:

Price Range of Common Stock

High

Low

Fiscal Year Ended August 28, 2004:

Fourth quarter

$

89.80

$

72.25

Third quarter

$

90.55

$

81.49

Second quarter

$

97.76

$

80.25

First quarter

$

103.53

$

86.03

Fiscal Year Ended August 30, 2003:

Fourth quarter

$

92.29

$

73.80

Third quarter

$

87.00

$

61.11

Second quarter

$

86.45

$

58.21

First quarter

$

89.34

$

68.55

During 1998 the Company announced a program permitting the Company to
repurchase a portion of its outstanding shares not to exceed a dollar maximum
established by the Company’s Board of Directors. The program was most recently
amended in March 2004, to increase the repurchase authorization to $3.9 billion
from $3.3 billion. The program does not have an expiration date.



Shares of common stock repurchased by the Company during the quarter ended
August 28, 2004, were as follows:

Total Number of

Maximum Dollar

Shares Purchased

Value that May Yet

Total Number

Average

as Part of Publicly

Be Purchased

of Shares

Price Paid

Announced Plans

Under the Plans or

Period

Purchased

per Share

or Programs

Programs

May 9, 2004, to
June 5, 2004

330,500

$

87.24

78,599,259

$

514,052,206

June 6, 2004, to
July 3, 2004

1,237,300

86.51

79,836,559

407,011,766

July 4, 2004, to
July 31, 2004

1,698,500

77.16

81,535,059

275,962,216

August 1, 2004, to
August 28, 2004

678,700

74.96

82,213,759

225,086,764

Total

3,945,000

$

80.56

82,213,759

$

225,086,764

The Company also repurchased, at fair value, 102,084 shares in fiscal
2004, 134,972 shares in fiscal 2003, and 260,805 shares in fiscal 2002 from
employees electing to sell their stock under the Company’s Second Amended and
Restated Employee Stock Purchase Plan, qualified under Section 423 of the
Internal Revenue Code, under which all eligible employees may purchase
AutoZone’s common stock at 85% of the lower of the market price of the common
stock on the first day or last day of each calendar quarter through payroll
deductions. Maximum permitted annual purchases are $15,000 per employee or 10
percent of compensation, whichever is less. Under the plan, 66,572 shares were
sold to employees in fiscal 2004, 84,310 shares were sold in fiscal 2003, and
112,922 shares were sold in fiscal 2002. At August 28, 2004, 535,682 shares of
common stock were reserved for future issuance under this plan.

The Company also has an Amended and Restated Executive Stock Purchase Plan
that permits senior Company executives to purchase common stock up to 25
percent of their annual salary and bonus after the limits under the Second
Amended and Restated Employee Stock Purchase Plan have been exceeded.
Purchases by executives under this plan were 11,005 shares in fiscal 2004 and
18,524 shares in fiscal 2003. At August 28, 2004, 270,471 shares of common
stock were reserved for future issuance under this plan

Item 6. Selected Financial Data

The information contained in AutoZone, Inc.’s 2004 Annual Report in the
section entitled “Selected Financial Data,” is incorporated herein by reference
in response to this item.

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations

The information contained in AutoZone, Inc.’s 2004 Annual Report in the
section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations,” is incorporated herein by reference in response to
this item.



Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

The information contained in AutoZone, Inc.’s 2004 Annual Report in the
section entitled “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,”
is incorporated herein by reference in response to this item.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The information contained in AutoZone, Inc.’s 2004 Annual Report in the
sections entitled “Consolidated Financial Statements,” is incorporated herein
by reference in response to this item.

Item 9. Changes In and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure

Not applicable.

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures

As of August 28, 2004, an evaluation was performed under the supervision
and with the participation of AutoZone’s management, including the Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the
design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures. Based on that
evaluation, our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer, concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were
effective as of August 28, 2004. No significant changes in our internal
controls or in other factors have occurred that could significantly affect
controls subsequent to August 28, 2004.

PART III

Item 10. Directors and Officers of the Registrant

The information set forth in Part I of this document in the section
entitled “Executive Officers of the Registrant,” is incorporated herein by
reference in response to this item. Additionally, the information contained in
AutoZone, Inc.’s Proxy Statement dated October 27, 2004, in the sections
entitled “Proposal 1 – Election of Directors” and “Section 16(a) Beneficial
Ownership Reporting Compliance”, is incorporated herein by reference in
response to this item.

The Company has adopted a Code of Ethical Conduct for Financial Executives
that applies to its chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief
accounting officer and persons performing similar functions. The Company has
filed a copy of this Code of Ethical Conduct (“Code of Ethics”) as Exhibit 14.1
to this Form 10-K. The Company has also made the Code of Ethics available on
its investor relations website at http://www.autozoneinc.com.

Item 11. Executive Compensation

The information contained in AutoZone, Inc.’s Proxy Statement dated
October 27, 2004, in the section entitled “Executive Compensation,” is
incorporated herein by reference in response to this item.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

The information contained in AutoZone, Inc.’s Proxy Statement dated
October 27, 2004, in the sections entitled “Security Ownership of Management”
and “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners,” is incorporated herein
by reference in response to this item.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

Not applicable.



Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services

The information contained in AutoZone, Inc.’s Proxy Statement dated
October 27, 2004, in the section entitled “Proposal 2 – Ratification of
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm,” is incorporated herein by
reference in response to this item.

PART IV

Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports On Form 8-K

(a) 1. Financial Statements

The following financial statements, related notes and report of
independent registered public accounting firm from AutoZone, Inc.’s 2004 Annual
Report are incorporated herein by reference in response to this item:

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

Consolidated Statements of Income for the fiscal years ended August 28, 2004, August 30, 2003, and
August 31, 2002

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of August 28, 2004, and August 30, 2003

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the fiscal years ended August 28, 2004, August 30, 2003, and
August 31, 2002

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity for the fiscal years ended August 28, 2004, August
30, 2003, and
August 31, 2002

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

2. Financial Statement Schedules

Schedules are omitted because the information is not required or because
the information required is included in the financial statements or notes
thereto.

3. Exhibits

The Exhibit Index following this document’s signature pages is
incorporated herein by reference in response to this item.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K.

During the quarter ended August 28, 2004, the Company filed the following
reports on Form 8-K:

i.

Dated May 26, 2004, furnishing a press release regarding the
financial results for the quarter ended May 8, 2004.

ii.

Dated June 30, 2004, furnishing a press release regarding a sales
update.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Dated: October 27, 2004

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:

SIGNATURE

TITLE

DATE

/s/ Steve Odland

Steve Odland

Chairman, President, Chief Executive Officer,

& Director (Principal Executive Officer)

October 27, 2004

/s/ Michael Archbold

Michael Archbold

Executive Vice President, Chief Financial
Officer

(Principal Financial Officer)

October 27, 2004

/s/ Charlie Pleas, III

Charlie Pleas, III

Vice President & Controller

(Principal Accounting Officer)

October 27, 2004

/s/ Charles M. Elson

Charles M. Elson

Director

October 27, 2004

/s/ Earl G. Graves, Jr.

Earl G. Graves, Jr.

Director

October 27, 2004

/s/ N. Gerry House

N. Gerry House

Director

October 27, 2004

/s/ J.R. Hyde, III

J.R. Hyde, III

Director

October 27, 2004

/s/ Edward S. Lampert

Edward S. Lampert

Director

October 27, 2004

/s/ W. Andrew McKenna

W. Andrew McKenna

Director

October 27, 2004

/s/ James J. Postl

James J. Postl

Director

October 27, 2004



EXHIBIT INDEX

3.1

Restated Articles of Incorporation of AutoZone, Inc.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended February 13, 1999.

3.2

Third Amended and Restated By-laws of AutoZone, Inc.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Form 8-K dated
October 1, 2002.

4.1

Senior Indenture, dated as of July 22, 1998, between AutoZone,
Inc. and the First National Bank of Chicago. Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Form 8-K dated July 17, 1998.

4.2

Third Amended and Restated AutoZone, Inc. Employee Stock
Purchase Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended February 15, 2003.

4.3

Indenture dated as of August 8, 2003, between AutoZone, Inc. and
Bank One Trust Company, N.A. Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 4.1 to the Form S-3 (No. 333-107828) filed August 11,
2003.

*10.1

Fourth Amended and Restated Director Stock Option Plan.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended May 4, 2002.

*10.2

Second Amended and Restated 1998 Director Compensation Plan.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Form 10-K for
the fiscal year ended August 26, 2000.

*10.3

Third Amended and Restated 1996 Stock Option Plan. Incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the Form 10-K for the fiscal
year ended August 30, 2003.

*10.4

Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement. Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
November 23, 2002.

*10.5

Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement. Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
November 23, 2002.

*10.6

AutoZone, Inc. Amended and Restated 2000 Executive Incentive
Compensation Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 of
the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 30, 2003.

*10.7

AutoZone, Inc. Executive Deferred Compensation Plan.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended February 12, 2000.

*10.8

Form of Amended and Restated Employment and Non-Compete
Agreement between AutoZone, Inc. and various executive officers.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended November 22, 1999.

*10.9

Form of Employment and Non-Compete Agreement between AutoZone,
Inc. and various executive officers. Incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10.2 to the Form 10-Q for the quarter ended November
22, 1999.

10.10

Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of May 21, 2002,
among AutoZone, Inc., as borrower, the several lenders from time
to time party thereto, and Fleet National Bank, as
Administrative Agent and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Syndication
Agent. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the Form 8-K
dated October 1, 2002.



10.11

Amendment No. 1, Consent and Waiver dated as of May 19, 2003, to
Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of May 21, 2002,
among AutoZone, Inc., as borrower, the several lenders from time
to time party thereto, and Fleet National Bank, as Administrative
Agent and as Syndication Agent. Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.12 of the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August
30, 2003.

10.12

Five-Year Credit Agreement dated as of May 23, 2000, among
AutoZone, Inc., as borrower, the several lenders from time to
time party thereto, and Bank of America, as Administrative Agent
and The Chase Manhattan Bank, as Syndication Agent. Incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended May 6, 2000.

10.13

Amendment No. 1 dated May 23, 2001, to Five-Year Credit Agreement
dated as of May 23, 2000, among AutoZone, Inc., as borrower, the
several lenders from time to time party thereto, and Bank of
America, as Administrative Agent and The Chase Manhattan Bank, as
Syndication Agent. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to
the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 25, 2001.

10.14

Amendment No. 2 dated August 9, 2002, to Five-Year Credit
Agreement dated as of May 23, 2000, (as amended by the certain
Amendment No. 1 to Five-Year Credit Agreement dated May 23, 2001)
among AutoZone, Inc., as borrower, the several lenders from time
to time party thereto, and Bank of America, as Administrative
Agent and The Chase Manhattan Bank, as Syndication Agent.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Form 8-K dated
October 1, 2001.

*10.15

Form of Employment and Non-Compete Agreement between AutoZone,
Inc., and various officers. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.2 to the Form 10-Q for the quarter ended November 18, 2000.

*10.16

AutoZone, Inc., Amended and Restated Executive Stock Purchase
Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to the Form 10-K
for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2002.

*10.17

AutoZone, Inc. 2003 Director Stock Option Plan. Incorporated by
reference to Appendix C to the definitive proxy statement dated
November 1, 2002, for the annual meeting of stockholders held
December 12, 2002.

*10.18

AutoZone, Inc. 2003 Director Compensation Plan. Incorporated by
reference to Appendix D to the definitive proxy statement dated
November 1, 2002, for the annual meeting of stockholders held
December 12, 2002.

*10.19

Amended and Restated AutoZone, Inc. Executive Deferred
Compensation Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to
the Form 10-Q for the quarter ended February 15, 2003.

*10.20

Amended and Restated Employment and Non-Compete Agreement between
Steve Odland and AutoZone, Inc., dated October 23, 2003.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended November 22, 2003.

*10.21

Non-Compete Agreement between Steve Handschuh and AutoZone, Inc.,
dated January 13, 2004. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.1 to the Form 10-Q for the quarter ended February 14, 2004.

*10.22

Second Amended and Restated Executive Stock Purchase Plan.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended February 14, 2004.

10.23

Amended and Restated Five-Year Credit Agreement dated as of May
17, 2004, among AutoZone, Inc., as borrower, the several lenders
from time to time party thereto, and Fleet National Bank, as
Administrative Agent and Citicorp USA, Inc., as Syndication
Agent. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form
10-Q for the quarter ended May 8, 2004.

10.24

Amended and Restated 364-Day Credit Agreement dated as of May 17,
2004, among AutoZone, Inc., as borrower, the several lenders from
time to time party thereto, and Fleet National Bank, as
Administrative Agent and Citicorp USA, Inc., as Syndication
Agent. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended May 8, 2004.

12.1

Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges



13.1

Fiscal 2004 Annual Report.

14.1

Code of Ethics. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 14.1 of the
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 30, 2003.

21.1

Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

23.1

Consent of Ernst & Young LLP.

31.1

Certification of Principal Executive Officer Pursuant to Rules
13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002.

31.2

Certification of Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to Rules
13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002.

32.1

Certification of Principal Executive Officer Pursuant to 18
U.S.C. Section 1350 as adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

32.2

Certification of Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to 18
U.S.C. Section 1350 as adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

*

Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

22