
10-K
FORM 10-K PSE&G, PS ENTERPRISE


   
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
                            ------------------------
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
/X/            ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                     THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                 FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995

                        COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-9120

                 PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)


          NEW JERSEY                                  22-2625848
(State or other jurisdiction of        (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
incorporation or organization)            

         80 PARK PLAZA, P.O. BOX 1171                 07101-1171
              NEWARK, NEW JERSEY                      (Zip Code)
   (Address of principal executive offices)
 
        REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: 201 430-7000
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

                                                  NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE
                TITLE OF EACH CLASS                ON WHICH REGISTERED
- ---------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
Common Stock without par value                    New York Stock Exchange
                                               Philadelphia Stock Exchange
 
                          COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-973

                    PUBLIC SERVICE ELECTRIC AND GAS COMPANY
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
                  NEW JERSEY                          22-1212800
       (State or other jurisdiction of    (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
        incorporation or organization)

         80 PARK PLAZA, P.O. BOX 570                            07101-0570
              NEWARK, NEW JERSEY                                (Zip Code)
   (Address of principal executive offices)
 
        REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: 201 430-7000
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
PART OF FORM 10-K                 DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
- -----------------                 -----------------------------------

         III   Portions of the definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting
               of Stockholders of Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated
               to be held April 16, 1996, which definitive Proxy Statement is
               expected to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
               on or about March 1, 1996, as specified herein.
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
   
           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:
  

  


   
                          

                                i


                                  ii




                               iii

   

                                iv

   
                                GLOSSARY OF TERMS
  
The following is a glossary of frequently used abbreviations or
acronyms that are found in this report:


                                  v

   
                    vi

   
                             vii

   
  





                                 viii

   
                                      PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS
  
General
  
  Enterprise 

       Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated (Enterprise),
incorporated under the laws of the State of New Jersey with its
principal executive offices located at 80 Park Plaza, Newark, New
Jersey 07101, is a public utility holding company that neither owns nor
operates any physical properties.  Enterprise has two direct
wholly-owned subsidiaries, Public Service Electric and Gas Company
(PSE&G) and Enterprise Diversified Holdings Incorporated (EDHI).
Enterprise's principal subsidiary, PSE&G, is an operating public
utility providing electric and gas service in certain areas in the
State of New Jersey. Enterprise has claimed an exemption from
regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as a
registered holding company under the Public Utility Holding Company Act
of 1935 (PUHCA), except for Section 9(a)(2) thereof which relates to
the acquisition of voting securities of an electric or gas utility
company. PSE&G is subject to direct regulation by the New Jersey Board
of Public Utilities (BPU) and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
(FERC).  EDHI is the parent of Enterprise's nonutility businesses:
Energy Development Corporation (EDC), an oil and gas exploration and
production and marketing company; Community Energy Alternatives
Incorporated (CEA), an investor in and developer and operator of
cogeneration and independent power production facilities; Public
Service Resources Corporation (PSRC), which makes primarily passive
investments; Enterprise Group Development Corporation (EGDC), a
diversified nonresidential real estate development and investment
business; PSEG Capital Corporation (Capital), which provides debt
financing on the basis of a minimum net worth maintenance agreement
from Enterprise; and Enterprise Capital Funding Corporation (Funding),
which provides privately placed debt financing on the basis of the
consolidated financial position of EDHI without direct support from
Enterprise. As of December 31, 1995 and 1994,  PSE&G comprised 85% of
Enterprise's assets. PSE&G's 1995, 1994 and 1993 revenues were 93% of
Enterprise's revenues and PSE&G's earnings available to Enterprise for
such years were 88%, 91% and 96%, respectively, of Enterprise's net
income.  Production of electricity and electric and gas distribution
will continue as the principal business of Enterprise for the
foreseeable future.  Enterprise has announced that it intends to divest
EDC in 1996.  See EDHI - EDC and Item 7. Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A).



     Financial information with respect to business segments of PSE&G
and Enterprise is set forth in Note 15 -- Financial Information by
Business Segments of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
(Notes). 

  PSE&G 

     PSE&G, a New Jersey corporation with its principal executive
offices at 80 Park Plaza, Newark, New Jersey 07101, is an operating
public utility company engaged principally in the generation,
transmission, distribution and sale of electric energy service and in
the transmission, distribution and sale of gas service in New Jersey.
PSE&G supplies electric and gas service in areas of New Jersey in which
approximately 5,500,000 persons, about 70% of the State's population,
reside.  (See General -- Enterprise.)

     PSE&G's electric and gas service area is a corridor of
approximately 2,600 square miles running diagonally across New Jersey
from Bergen County in the northeast to an area below the City of Camden
in the southwest. The greater portion of this area is served with both
electricity and gas, but some parts are served with electricity only
and other parts with gas only. This heavily populated, commercialized
and industrialized territory encompasses most of New Jersey's largest
municipalities, including its six largest cities -- Newark, Jersey
City, Paterson, Elizabeth, Trenton and Camden -- in addition to
approximately 300 suburban and rural communities. It contains a
diversified mix of commerce and industry, including major facilities
of many corporations of national prominence.  

     Under the general laws of New Jersey, PSE&G has the right to use
the public highways, streets and alleys in New Jersey for erecting,
laying and maintaining poles, conduits and wires necessary for its
electric operations.  PSE&G must, however, first obtain the consent in
writing of the owners of the soil for the purpose of erecting poles.
In incorporated cities and towns, PSE&G must obtain from the
municipality a designation of the streets in which the poles are to be
placed and the manner of placing them.  PSE&G's rights are also subject
to regulation by municipal authorities with respect to street openings
and the use of streets for erecting poles in incorporated cities and
towns.  

     PSE&G, by virtue of a special charter granted by the State of New
Jersey to one of its predecessors, has the right to use the roads,
streets, highways and public grounds in New Jersey for pipes and
conduits for distributing gas.

     PSE&G believes that it has all the franchises (including consents)
necessary for its electric and gas operations in the territory it
serves. Such franchises are non-exclusive. 



     For discussion of the significant changes which PSE&G's electric
and gas utility businesses have been and are undergoing, see
Competition and Regulation.   

Industry Issues

     Enterprise and PSE&G are affected by many issues that are common
to the electric and gas industries, such as: deregulation and the
unbundling of energy supplies and services; an increasingly competitive
energy marketplace, sales retention and growth potential in a mature
service territory and a need to contain costs (see Competition,
Regulation and MD&A - Competition); ability to operate nuclear plants
in a cost effective way (see PSE&G - Nuclear Operations); ability to
obtain adequate and timely rate relief, cost recovery, including the
potential impact of stranded assets, and other necessary regulatory
approvals (see PSE&G -- Rate Matters; Regulation and Item 7. MD&A -
Competition); costs of construction (see Construction and Capital
Requirements); operating restrictions, increased costs and construction
delays attributable to environmental regulations (see Environmental
Controls); controversies regarding electric and magnetic fields (EMF)
(see Environmental Controls); nuclear decommissioning and the
availability of reprocessing and storage facilities for spent nuclear
fuel (see Electric Fuel Supply and Disposal); and credit market
concerns with these issues.   

Competition 

  Overview

     The energy utility industry is in transition. Changes in Federal
and state law and regulation are encouraging new entrants to the
traditional markets of electric and gas utilities. New technologies are
creating opportunities for new energy services.  Customers, more aware
and sophisticated about their choices and dissatisfied with prices and
the often limited range of options available from the local utility,
are increasingly turning elsewhere for energy supplies and services. 
As a consequence of competition, the traditional utility structure --
consisting of a vertically integrated system and functioning as a
natural monopoly -- is being dramatically altered.  Further, PSE&G's
ability to meet competition and change prices to meet customer's needs
is impacted by state regulation, including the historic utility mandate
to serve all customers.  (See MD&A -- Competition.)  For a discussion
of PSE&G's alternative plan of rate regulation, "New Jersey Partners
in Power" (Alternative Rate Plan) as a response to these demands, see
MD&A and Note 2 -- Rate Matters of Notes.

     Non health and safety related Federal energy laws and regulations
are designed to make more efficient use of all energy, introduce price
competition, encourage the use of nonconventional energy sources and



limit oil imports by increasing production of domestic energy
resources.  Among other things, these actions (1) encourage development
of alternative energy generation, (2) require wheeling of power for
wholesale transactions, (3) require state regulatory authorities to
consider certain standards on rate design and certain other utility
practices, (4) encourage conservation of energy through certain
financial incentives, including incentives by individual utilities to
customers to help them to conserve energy and (5) deregulate prices on
natural gas.

     Also, Federal and State laws designed to reduce air and water
pollution and control hazardous substances have had the effect of
increasing the costs of operation and replacement of existing utility
plants and other facilities. (See Environmental Controls.) 

     Competition from nonutility generators (NUGs), such as
cogenerators, independent power producers (IPP) and exempt wholesale
generators (EWGs), as permitted by the Public Utility Regulatory
Policies Act of 1978 (PURPA) and the National Energy Policy Act of 1992
(EPAct), continues to impact PSE&G.  As a result of changes brought
about by EPAct, along with proposals in some states to authorize retail
wheeling, discussed below, electric customers and suppliers, including
PSE&G and its customers, have increased opportunities for purchase and
sale of electricity from and to sellers and buyers outside of
traditional franchised territories.  Retention of existing customers
and potential sales growth will depend upon the ability of PSE&G to
contain costs, meet customer expectations and respond to changing
economic conditions and energy regulation. As a result of such
competitive forces, Enterprise Ventures & Services Corporation
(Ventures) has been established as a subsidiary of PSE&G to develop and
market new energy-related products and services beyond traditional
geographic and/or industry boundaries.  Competition may also adversely
impact upon the economics of certain regulatory-created incentives,
such as Demand Side Management (DSM) and conservation.  For additional
information, including a discussion of the potential effects of
competition upon rates, cost recovery and assets, see MD&A --
Competition.  For information relating to the Alternative Rate Plan see
MD&A and Note 1--Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies, Note 2--Rate Matters and Note 5--Deferred Items of Notes.


  Electric

     In the electric utility industry, competitive pressures began with
the enactment of PURPA.  This law, together with subsequent changes in
Federal regulation, has increasingly opened the electric utility
industry to competition.  PURPA created a class of generating
facilities exempt from Federal and State public utility regulation --
cogeneration and small power producers known as "qualifying facilities"
(QFs) -- and created an instant market for them by requiring regulated
utilities to purchase their excess power production.  EPAct, by
facilitating the development of the wholesale power market, has led to
even stronger competition.  The increasing competitiveness of the
electric wholesale markets, along with consideration of retail wheeling
or "direct retail access" within utility franchise areas in several
states, has brought to the forefront the issue of potential stranded
costs within the electric utility industry (see MD&A - Competition).

     EPAct provides FERC with increased authority to order "wheeling"
of wholesale, but not retail, electric power on the transmission
systems of electric utilities, provided that certain requirements are
met. In order to facilitate the transition to increased competition in
wholesale power markets made possible by EPAct, in March 1995, FERC
issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NOPR) which, if adopted, would
require electric utilities, including PSE&G, to provide open access to
the interstate transmission network pursuant to non-discriminatory
tariffs available to all wholesale sellers and buyers of electric
energy.  Utilities would be required to offer transmission to eligible
customers comparable to the service they provide themselves and to take
service under the tariffs for their own wholesale sales and purchases. 
Further, transmission and ancillary service components would be
unbundled and, when buying or selling power, utilities would have to
rely on the same network for transmission system information as their
customers.

     The NOPR states FERC's general principle that utilities should be 
entitled to full recovery of legitimate and verifiable stranded costs
at the Federal and State levels and reiterates its prior proposal that
such costs be directly assigned to departing customers.  The NOPR
further provides that stranded costs due to retail wheeling are a state
matter, while stranded costs due to wholesale wheeling,
municipalization or a change from retail to wholesale customer class
are within FERC's jurisdiction.  PSE&G cannot predict the impact of any
regulations that may be adopted.  See MD&A -- Competition.  For
discussion of the Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Maryland Interconnection
(PJM) proposal in response to the FERC NOPR, see Pennsylvania--New
Jersey--Maryland Interconnection.  For a discussion of PSE&G's actions
and comments related to the potential environmental impact of the NOPR,
see Environmental Controls - Air Pollution Control.




     EPAct also amended PUHCA to create a new category of generation
owners known as EWGs, which are not subject to PUHCA regulation.  EPAct
permits both independent companies and utility affiliates to
participate in the development of EWG projects regardless of the
location and ownership of other generating resources. The transmission
access provisions apply to wholesale, but not retail, "wheeling" of
power, subject to FERC review. See PSE&G -- Integrated Resource Plan,
Construction and Capital Requirements, Financing Activities and PSE&G
- -- Customers. For information concerning the activities of CEA, which
is an owner-developer of QFs and EWGs, see EDHI -- CEA.   

     Another key factor in determining how competition will affect
PSE&G's electric business is the extent to which New Jersey public
utility regulation may be modified to be reflective of these new
competitive realities.  The BPU presented the first phase of the New
Jersey Energy Master Plan to Governor Whitman on March 8, 1995. This
Phase I Plan acknowledged the need for regulatory flexibility as
competition unfolds and called for legislation that would allow New
Jersey utilities to propose, subject to BPU approval, alternatives to
existing rate base/rate of return pricing, allow for pricing
flexibility under certain standards for customers with competitive
options and equalize the impact of tax policies, such as New Jersey
Gross Receipts and Franchise Tax (NJGRT) which is currently assessed
only on utility retail energy sales.  On July 20, 1995, Governor
Whitman signed into law legislation which provides utilities the
flexibility to propose alternative regulatory pricing and to offer
negotiated off-tariff agreements (See PSE&G - Customers).  On January
16, 1996, PSE&G filed a petition with the BPU for its Alternative Rate
Plan designed to fulfill the objectives of this new regulatory reform
legislation.  This Alternative Rate Plan represents a regulatory
transition designed to provide PSE&G with the mechanisms and incentives
to compete more effectively on several fronts, including the ability
to develop revenue from non-regulated products and services, accelerate
or modify depreciation schedules to help mitigate any potential
stranded asset issue and more aggressively manage costs.  For more
information regarding the Alternative Rate Plan see MD&A and Note 1 --
Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, Note 2 --
Rate Matters and Note 5 -- Deferred Items of Notes.

     On June 1, 1995, the BPU issued its Order initiating a formal
Phase II proceeding to the New Jersey Energy Master Plan. This
proceeding is intended to investigate and consider the future long term
structure of the electric power industry in New Jersey.  The proceeding
will address wholesale and retail competition, ownership of generation,
transmission and distribution facilities, operation of the transmission
system and stranded investments.  A Phase II report proposing policy
restructuring is expected by March 1996. PSE&G cannot predict what
impact, if any, the Phase II report will have.



  Gas

     Over the last decade the natural gas industry has experienced a
dramatic transformation as several FERC initiatives have subjected the
industry to competitive market forces.  On the interstate level, the
pipeline suppliers that serve PSE&G have unbundled gas supply and
service and now offer transportation services that move gas purchased
from numerous natural gas producers and marketers to PSE&G's service
territory. 

     This unbundling effort has moved to the local level and, in late
1994, the BPU approved unbundled transport tariffs for PSE&G.  These
tariffs allow any non-residential customer, regardless of size, to
purchase its own gas, transport it to PSE&G and require PSE&G to
deliver such gas to the customer's facility.  To date, over 5,000
commercial and industrial customers out of a potential of 180,000
customers have decided to utilize this service.  It is expected that
this number will continue to grow as marketers become more active in
New Jersey and encourage customers to convert from sales service.  The
transportation rate schedules produce the same non-fuel revenue per
therm as existing sales service rate schedules.  Thus, PSE&G's earnings
are unaffected whether the customers remain on sales service or convert
to transportation service.  See Gas Operations and Supply.  In meeting
the challenges and opportunities presented by this unbundling of gas
supply and service, Enterprise initiated a gas marketing company, U.S.
Energy Partners (USEP). For more information see EDHI - PSRC.
 

Construction and Capital Requirements

     For information concerning investments, construction and capital
requirements see MD&A, Note 6 -- Schedule of Consolidated Debt, Note
7 -- Long-Term Investments and Note 12 -- Commitments and Contingent
Liabilities -- Construction and Fuel Supplies of Notes.

Financing Activities

     For a discussion of issuance, book value and market value of
Enterprise's Common Stock and external financing activities of
Enterprise, PSE&G and EDHI for the year 1995, see MD&A -- Liquidity and
Capital Resources and Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and
Related Stockholder Matters.



     For a discussion of Capital and Funding, see EDHI -- Capital and
EDHI - Funding.  For further discussion of long-term debt and
short-term debt, see Note 6 -- Schedule of Consolidated Debt of Notes.

Federal Income Taxes

     For information regarding Federal income taxes, see Note 1 -- 
Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, Note 2 -- 
Rate Matters and Note 10 -- Federal Income Taxes of Notes.   

Credit Ratings

     The current ratings of securities of Enterprise's subsidiaries set
forth below reflect the respective views of the rating agency
furnishing the same, from whom an explanation of the significance of
such ratings may be obtained. There is no assurance that such ratings
will continue for any given period of time or that they will not be
revised downward or withdrawn entirely by such rating agencies, if, in
their respective judgments, circumstances so warrant. Any such downward
revision or withdrawal of any of such ratings may have an adverse
effect on the market price of Enterprise's Common Stock and PSE&G's
securities and serve to increase the cost of capital of PSE&G and EDHI. 



(A) Supported by commercial bank letter of credit (see MD&A --
Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 6-- Schedule of Consolidated
Debt -- Short-Term of Notes.)

PSE&G
 
  Rate Matters
 
     For information concerning PSE&G's Alternative Rate Plan, rate
matters, and environmental remediation and fuel adjustment clauses see
Note 1 -- Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
and Note 2 -- Rate Matters of Notes.  For information concerning
PSE&G's Under (Over) recovered Electric Energy and Gas Fuel Costs, see
Note 5 -- Deferred Items of Notes.

  Nuclear Performance Standard
 
     The BPU has established a nuclear performance standard (NPS) for
nuclear generating stations  owned by New Jersey electric utilities,
including the five nuclear units in which PSE&G has an ownership
interest:  Salem Nuclear Generating Station, Units 1 and 2 (Salem 1 and
2) -- 42.59%; Hope Creek Nuclear Generating Station (Hope Creek) --
95%; and Peach Bottom Atomic Power Station, Units 2 and 3 (Peach Bottom
2 and 3) -- 42.49%.  PSE&G operates Salem and Hope Creek, while Peach
Bottom is operated by PECO Energy, Inc. (PECO).  The following table
sets forth the capacity factor in accordance with the NPS of each of
PSE&G's nuclear units for the years indicated:




 
     For information concerning the NPS, see Nuclear Operations and
Note 12 -- Commitments and Contingent Liabilities of Notes. 

  Customers 

     As of December 31, 1995, PSE&G provided service to approximately
1,900,000 electric customers and 1,500,000 gas customers.  PSE&G is not
dependent on a single customer or a few customers for its electric or
gas sales.  For the year ended December 31, 1995, PSE&G's operating
revenues aggregated $5.7 billion, of which 70% was from its electric
operations and 30% from its gas operations.  PSE&G's business is
seasonal in that sales of electricity are higher during the summer
months because of air conditioning requirements and sales of gas are
greater in the winter months due to the use of gas for space-heating
purposes. 



These revenues were derived as follows:

                     

     Customers of PSE&G, as well as those of other New Jersey electric
and gas utilities, pay the NJGRT which, in effect, adds approximately
13% to their bills. The NJGRT is a unit tax based on electric
kilowatthour and gas therm sales. This tax differential provides an
incentive to large-volume electric and gas customers to seek to obtain
their energy supplies from nonutility sources not subject to NJGRT. 
To the extent PSE&G experiences a loss of customers seeking to avoid
this cost, it could result in a significant decrease in PSE&G's
revenues and earnings.   

     On November 17, 1995, the BPU issued an order approving a
Stipulation regarding PSE&G's proposed Experimental Hourly Energy
Pricing Tariff and the first service agreement thereunder with its
second largest customer.  Under the agreement, the tariff will result
in a bill reduction for the customer of approximately $7 million or
about 27%.  This reduction in revenues will be partially offset by a
decrease of $1.25 million in PSE&G's NJGRT liability. Under the
agreement between the customer and PSE&G, the customer will forego an
opportunity to relocate to another state and remain a PSE&G customer
for ten years.  On January 2, 1996, an appeal seeking to overturn the
BPU's November 17, 1995 Decision and Order was filed by a third party
in the Appellate Division of the Superior Court of New Jersey.  PSE&G
cannot predict the outcome of this matter.




     PSE&G has signed each of its three existing wholesale electric
customers, aggregating 40 mw of load, to 5-year full service agreements
with mid-term extension options. In addition, under the terms of a
previously negotiated 10-year wholesale power transaction, PSE&G
receives $12.5 million in annual revenues from an out of state electric
cooperative.  For further information on the impact of competition on
PSE&G's customer and revenue base - See Competition and MD&A -
Competition.

  Integrated Resource Plan

     PSE&G's construction program focuses on upgrading electric and gas
transmission and distribution systems and constructing new transmission
and distribution facilities to serve new load. 

     Pursuant to its Integrated Resource Plan (IRP), PSE&G periodically
reevaluates its forecasted customer load and peak growth and the
sources of electric generating capacity and DSM to meet such projected
growth (see Demand Side Management below). The IRP takes into account
assumptions concerning future customer demand, future cost trends,
especially fuel and purchased power expenses, the effectiveness of
conservation and load management activities, the long-term condition
of and projected additions to PSE&G's plants and capacity available
from other electric utilities and nonutility suppliers.  PSE&G's IRP
consists principally of plant additions, power purchases through PJM
and from NUGs and DSM.  

     Pennsylvania -- New Jersey -- Maryland Interconnection

     PSE&G is a member of the PJM which integrates the bulk power
generation and transmission supply operations of 11 utilities in
Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia and the District
of Columbia, and, in turn, is interconnected with other major electric
utility companies in the northeastern part of the United States.  The
PJM is operated as one system and provides for the purchase and sale
of power among members on the basis of reliability of service and
operating economy.  As a result, the most economical mix of generating
capability available is used to meet PJM daily load requirements.
PSE&G's output, as shown under Electric Fuel Supply and Disposal,
reflects significant amounts of purchased power because at times it is
more economical for PSE&G to purchase power from PJM and others than
to produce it.  As of December 31, 1995, the aggregate installed
generating capacity of the PJM companies was 56,098 megawatts (MW). 
The all time record peak one-hour demand experienced by the PJM power
pool was 48,524 MW which occurred on August 2, 1995.  The 1995 peak was
2,532 MW higher than the record-setting 1994 summer peak of 45,992 MW
which occurred on July 8, 1994.  PSE&G's capacity obligations to the
PJM system vary from year to year due to changes in system
characteristics.  PSE&G expects to have sufficient installed capacity
to meet its obligations during the 1996-2000 period.



     PJM has developed a comprehensive proposal intended to meet or
exceed the goals expressed by FERC in its open access NOPR, including
a number of innovations that were designed to harmonize the
requirements of the NOPR with the benefits of power pooling.  In this
proposal, PJM intends to satisfy the NOPR's goals by building upon the
foundation of PJM's power pooling operations.  The member companies of
PJM intend to file this proposal with FERC by May 1996 and implement
a restructured pool by year-end 1996.

     Under this proposal, the current members of PJM and other load-
serving entities in the PJM control area will purchase regional
"network" transmission rights that are intended to enable them to
reliably and economically integrate generation and load.  For
deliveries to retail customers, this service will remain part of the
bundled rates for retail electric service, subject to state
jurisdiction, but with terms and conditions comparable to the service
provided for wholesale users.  Because this service will cover all
deliveries to loads located in the pool, generators selling power to
serve pool load will not have to purchase transmission service
independently.  This is intended to create a regional wholesale power
market in which all sellers and buyers operate on a level playing
field.

     Under the proposal, transmission service will be provided under
a regional point-to-point transmission service tariff.  This tariff
will apply a uniform ratemaking methodology to all wholesale
transactions involving deliveries outside the pool, including off-
system sales by the current members of PJM and other load-serving
entities in the pool.  Accordingly, all transmission service associated
with sales outside the pool will be provided on a comparable basis.

     In order to meet the requirements to functionally unbundle
transmission, PJM has proposed to reorganize into an independent System
Operator (ISO) with responsibility for operating the bulk power system,
administering the regional transmission service tariffs and managing



the pool's competitive energy market.  The ISO will be governed by a
Board of Directors that is not controlled by the transmission-owning
members of PJM or their affiliates, and its responsibilities will be
set forth in contracts filed with the FERC.  The ISO will contract with
the various pool participants to supply control area services,
administer the transmission service tariffs and be responsible for
maintaining the reliable operation of the system throughout each day.

     One of the key elements of PJM's restructuring proposal is the
creation of an expanded regional market for energy transactions.  PJM
will replace the existing system of cost-based centralized dispatch
with an expanded, hourly bid/price pool in which all sellers will be
able to bid their energy into the pool and all load-serving entities
will be able to buy energy from the pool.  The energy market will
"clear" in each hour at the highest bid price for energy that must be
dispatched to serve load.

     Further, under the proposal, PJM will retain most of the existing
pool procedures for ensuring reliable electric service, but will create
new contractual mechanisms to ensure participation by all entities
responsible for serving load in decisions affecting reliability.  Each
load-serving entity that chooses to operate in the PJM control area
will be required to execute an agreement to maintain adequate
generation reserves and to share those reserves on a reciprocal basis. 
PJM will establish an enhanced regional planning process, under the
supervision of the ISO, to meet Mid-Atlantic Area Reliability Council
(MAAC) reliability requirements applicable to both generation and
transmission.  In short, all load-serving entities in the pool will be
subject to the same reliability standards and will participate in
decisions relating to the establishment of regional reliability
requirements.

     Power Purchases  

     A component of PSE&G's IRP consists of expected capacity additions
from NUGs.  These additions are projected to aggregate 46 MW and are
scheduled for service by 1998.  NUG projects are expected to comprise
approximately 6.5% of energy resources by 2004.  This availability of
NUG generation will reduce the need for PSE&G to build or acquire
additional generation.  

     PSE&G is also a party to the MAAC which provides for review and
evaluation of plans for generation and transmission facilities and
other matters relevant to reliability of the bulk electric supply
systems in the Mid-Atlantic area.



     PSE&G expects to be able to continue to meet the demand for
electricity on its system through operation of available equipment and
by power purchases. However, if periods of unusual demand should
coincide with outages of equipment, PSE&G could find it necessary at
times to reduce voltage or curtail load in order to safeguard the
continued operation of its system.     

     Demand Side Management
 
     Integrated resource planning brings together demand-side and
supply-side strategies.  In order to encourage DSM, the BPU adopted
rules in 1991 providing special incentives to encourage utilities to
offer these load management conservation services.  The rules are
designed to place DSM on an equal regulatory footing with supply side
or energy production investments.  Both EPAct and Phase I of the Energy
Master Plan call for conservation to play a significant role in meeting
New Jersey's energy needs over the coming decade.  PSE&G's DSM Plan has
been approved by the BPU. The IRP calls for PSE&G to utilize
conservation and DSM to meet most of the incremental resource needs for
the next decade (see Competition).

     PSE&G's DSM Plan is designed to encourage investment in
energy-saving DSM activities in New Jersey. These activities involve
new techniques and technologies, such as high-efficiency lighting and
motors, that help reduce customer demand for energy. The DSM Plan
consists of two major program areas for both electric and gas: (1) a
core program which includes many specialized programs such as energy
audits, seal-ups and rebates for high efficiency heating and cooling
equipment; and (2) a standard offer program which is performance based
and provides payment for measurable energy savings resulting from the
installation of qualified measures that improve the energy efficiency
of end-uses. PSE&G's most recent IRP includes a demand forecast average
compound annual rate of growth through the year 2004 of electric system
peak demand of 1.3%.  PSE&G's IRP projects 597 MW of passive DSM and
815 MW of active DSM by the year 2004.
 
     PSE&G has established a wholly owned subsidiary, Public Service
Conservation Resources Corporation (PSCRC), to offer DSM services. 
PSCRC has its principal office at 9 Campus Drive, Parsippany, N.J.
07054.  PSCRC finances, markets and develops energy conservation
projects, mostly within the PSE&G service territory.  At December 31,
1995, its assets totaled $110 million, of which $88.2 million were
project assets and work in progress.  



  Electric Generating Capacity
 
     The following table sets forth certain information as to PSE&G's
installed generating capacity as of December 31, 1995:
 

 
     For additional information, see Item 2. Properties -- PSE&G --
Electric Properties.

     The capacity available at any time may be less than the installed
capacity because of temporary outages for inspection, maintenance,
repairs, legal and regulatory requirements or unforeseen circumstances.
 


     The maximum one-hour demand (peak load) which PSE&G experienced
in 1995 was 9,467 MW, an all time record which occurred on August 2,
1995, when the day's output was 182,404 Megawatthours (MWH) of
electricity. (For information concerning sales, output and capacity
factors, see Operating Statistics.) The peak load in 1994 was 9,001 MW
which occurred on June 15, 1994, when the day's output was 172,362 MWH
of electricity. 

  Nuclear Operations
 
     Operation of nuclear generating units involves continuous close
regulation by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC). Such regulation
involves testing, evaluation and modification of all aspects of plant
operation in light of NRC safety and environmental requirements and
continuous demonstrations to the NRC that plant operations meet
applicable requirements.  The NRC has the ultimate authority to
determine whether any nuclear generating unit may operate. For
information concerning the performance of the nuclear units, see
Nuclear Performance Standard and Note 12 -- Commitments and Contingent
Liabilities of Notes.  
 
     The scheduled 1996, 1997, and 1998 refueling outages, each
estimated at eight to ten weeks duration, for PSE&G's five licensed
nuclear units are expected to commence in the following months:





     Salem     

     Salem Generating Station consists of two 1100 MW pressurized water
nuclear reactors (PWR) located in southern New Jersey on the Delaware
River. PSE&G owns 42.59% of the Salem units and operates them on behalf
of itself and three other owners: PECO - 42.59%: Atlantic Electric
Company - 7.41%; and Delmarva Power and Light Company - 7.41%.  As of
January 31, 1996, PSE&G's net book value for Salem nuclear production
units is approximately $285 million for Salem 1, $250 million for Salem
2 and $93 million in common plant between the two units.  Each Salem
unit represents approximately 4% of PSE&G's installed electric
generating capacity and approximately 2% of its total assets.

     Salem 1 and 2 have been out of service since May 16, 1995 and June
7, 1995, respectively.  Since that time, PSE&G has been engaged in a
thorough assessment of each unit to identify and complete the work
necessary to achieve safe, sustained, reliable and economic operation. 
PSE&G has stated that it will keep each unit off line until it is
satisfied that the unit is ready to return to service and to operate
reliably over the long term and the NRC has agreed that the unit is
sufficiently prepared to restart.  On June 9, 1995, the NRC issued a
Confirmatory Action Letter documenting these commitments of PSE&G.

     On December 11, 1995, PSE&G presented its restart plan for both
units to the NRC at a public meeting.  On February 13, 1996, the NRC
staff issued a letter to PSE&G indicating that it had concluded that
PSE&G's overall restart plan, if implemented effectively, should
adequately address the numerous Salem issues to support a safe plant
restart, and describing further actions the NRC will undertake to
confirm that PSE&G's actions have resulted in the necessary performance
improvements to support safe plant restart.

     As a part of PSE&G's comprehensive review, an extensive
examination is being performed on the steam generators, which are large
heat exchangers used to produce steam to drive the turbines.  Within
the industry, certain PWRs other than Salem have experienced cracking
in a sufficient number of the steam generator tubes to require various
modifications to these tubes and  replacement of the steam generators
in some cases.  Until the current outage, regular periodic inspections
of the steam generators for each Salem unit have resulted in repairs
of a small number of tubes well within NRC limits. As a result of the
experience of other utilities with cracking in steam generator tubes,
in April 1995 the NRC issued a generic letter to all utilities with
pressurized water reactors. This generic letter requested utilities
with pressurized water reactors to conduct steam generator examinations
with more sensitive inspection devices capable of detecting evidence
of degradation. Subsequently, PSE&G conducted steam generator
inspections of the Salem units using the latest technology available,
including a new, more sensitive, eddy current testing device.



     With respect to Salem 1, the most recent inspection of the steam
generators is not complete, but partial results from eddy current
inspections in February 1996 using this new technology show 
indications of degradation in a significant number of tubes.  The 
inspections are continuing and PSE&G has decided to remove several
tubes for laboratory examination to confirm the results of the 
inspections. Removal of the tubes should be completed in March and
preliminary results of the state of the Salem 1 tubes from the
subsequent laboratory examinations should be known in April. However,
based on the results of inspections to date, PSE&G has concluded that
the Salem 1 outage, which was expected to be completed in the second
quarter of 1996, will be required to be extended for a substantial
additional period to evaluate the state of the steam generators and to
subsequently determine an appropriate course of action.  Degradation
of steam generators in PWRs has become of increasing concern for the
nuclear industry.  Nationally and internationally, utilities have
undertaken actions to repair or replace steam generators.  In the
extreme, degradation of steam generators has contributed to the
retirement of several American nuclear power reactors.  After the Salem
1 tubes are fully examined, PSE&G will be able to evaluate its course
of action in light of NRC and other industry requirements. 

     The examination of the Salem 2 steam generators was completed in
January 1996 using the same testing device used in Salem 1.  The
results of the Salem 2 inspection are being reviewed again to confirm
their results in light of the experience with Salem 1. Although this
review has not yet been completed, results to date appear to confirm
that the condition of the Salem 2 steam generators is well within
current repair limits at the present time.  PSE&G will also remove
tubes from the Salem 2 steam generators for laboratory analysis to
further confirm the results of this testing.

     PSE&G had planned to return Salem 1 to service in the second
quarter of 1996 and Salem 2 in the third quarter of 1996.  As a result
of the extent of the recently discovered degradation in the Salem 1
steam generators, PSE&G is focusing its efforts on the return of Salem
2 to service in the third quarter. The conduct of the additional steam
generator inspections and testing on Salem 2 is not expected to
adversely affect the timing of its restart. However, the timing of the
restart is subject to completion of the requirements of the restart
plan to the satisfaction of PSE&G and the NRC as well as to the normal
uncertainties associated with such a substantial review and improvement
of the systems of a large nuclear unit, so that no assurance can be
given that the projected return date will be met.



     PSE&G's share of additional operating and maintenance expenses
associated with Salem restart activities in 1995 was $16 million, and
capital was $1.9 million. PSE&G's share of total operating and
maintenance expenses for both Salem units for the year was $111 million
and capital costs were $50.8 million. For 1996, PSE&G does not
presently expect its share of operating and maintenance expenses or
capital costs for Salem station to exceed 1995 amounts; however this
could change as a result of the steam generator inspection results
referred to above. The outage of a Salem unit causes PSE&G to incur
replacement power costs of approximately $4 to $6 million per month.
Such amounts vary, however, depending on the availability of other
generation, the cost of purchased energy and other factors, including
modifications to maintenance schedules of other units. 

     PSE&G's 1995 aggregate capacity factor for its five nuclear units
was 62%, below the 65% minimum annual standard established by the BPU
(see Nuclear Performance Standard), resulting in a penalty of
approximately $3.5 million. Based upon current projections and
assumptions regarding PSE&G's five nuclear units during 1996, including
the return of Hope Creek to service in early March, the return of Salem
2 in the third quarter, and the continued outage of Salem 1 for the
remainder of the year, the 1996 aggregate capacity factor would be
approximately 57%, which would result in a penalty ranging from $11 to
$12 million. For a discussion of the proposed elimination of the NPS
under the proposed Alternate Rate Plan, see Note 2 -- Rate Matters of
Notes.

     An NRC enforcement conference was held on July 28, 1995 related
to certain violations of NRC requirements at Salem. The violations
included valves that were incorrectly positioned following a plant
modification in May 1993, non-conservatisms in setpoints for a
pressurizer overpressure protection system and several examples of
inadequate root cause determination of events,  leading to insufficient
corrective actions.  On October 16, 1995, the NRC imposed cumulative
civil penalties of $600,000 related to these violations.  PSE&G did not
contest the penalties.  



     On January 3, 1995, the NRC provided PSE&G with its latest
Systematic Assessment of Licensee Performance (SALP) report on Salem
for the period between June 20, 1993 and November 5, 1994.  SALP is a
process pursuant to which the NRC periodically reviews the performance
of nuclear power plant operations.  SALP reports rate licensee
performance in four assessment areas: Operations, Maintenance,
Engineering and Plant Support (the Plant Support area includes
security, emergency preparedness, radiological controls, fire
protection, chemistry and housekeeping).  Ratings range from a high of
"1" to a low of "3" for each assessment area.  Salem received a rating
of "3" in the Operations and Maintenance areas, a rating of "2" in
Engineering, and a rating of "1" in the Plant Support area.  The NRC
noted an overall decline in performance and evidenced particular
concern with plant and operator challenges caused by repetitive
equipment problems and personnel errors.  The  NRC also noted that
although PSE&G has initiated several comprehensive actions within the
past year to improve plant performance, and some recent incremental
gains have been made, these efforts have yet to noticeably change
overall performance at Salem.

     On March 21, 1995, representatives of the NRC Staff met with the
Boards of Directors of Enterprise and PSE&G to reiterate the previously
expressed concerns with regard to Salem's operations.  The NRC staff
acknowledged that PSE&G had made efforts to improve Salem's operations,
including making senior management changes, but indicated that
demonstrated sustained results have not yet been achieved.

     PSE&G's own assessments, as well as those by the NRC and the
Institute of Nuclear Power Operations, indicate that additional efforts
are required to further improve operating performance, as reflected in
the restart plans referred to above.  PSE&G is committed to taking the
necessary actions to address Salem's performance needs. It is
anticipated that the NRC will continue to maintain a close watch on
Salem's restart activities and subsequent operational performance.  No
assurance can be given as to what, if any, further or additional
actions may be taken or required by the NRC to improve Salem's
performance.

     For certain litigation and potential claims relating to Salem, see
Item 3. Legal Proceedings and Note 12 -- Commitments and Contingent
Liabilities of Notes.




     Hope Creek
 
     An outage at Hope Creek causes PSE&G to incur replacement energy
costs of approximately $10 to $16 million per month. Such amounts vary,
however, depending upon the availability of other generation, the cost
of purchased energy and other factors including modifications to
maintenance schedules of other units.

     Hope Creek is currently undergoing a refueling and maintenance
outage which commenced November 11, 1995.  Replacement power costs
incurred during the outage are expected to be approximately $10 million
per month.  Hope Creek is presently scheduled to return to service in
early March 1996.

     As a result of an internal allegation report, PSE&G submitted a
Licensee Event Report to the NRC on October 14, 1994 which stated that
in 1992, the Hope Creek control room was understaffed for approximately
three minutes and a decision was made by those involved that the
incident did not warrant initiation of NRC reporting documentation. 
A meeting with Region I NRC personnel was held on October 18, 1994 in
which the NRC expressed a high degree of concern over the issue.  Both
the NRC and PSE&G investigated the validity of the allegation and, on
September 19, 1995, the NRC issued two Level IV violations with no
civil penalty for this incident.

     A small amount of low-level radioactive material was released to
the atmosphere at Hope Creek on April 5, 1995.  The release did not
exceed federal limits nor pose any danger to the public or plant
employees; however, a trailer driven offsite had exceeded the limit for
releasing materials and was later cleaned.  PSE&G and the NRC



have investigated the event, and on June 16, 1995 an enforcement
conference was held.  On July 20, 1995, the NRC issued a Notice Of
Violation for the Hope Creek unplanned release which noted four
violations.  No fine was issued, partly because of the comprehensive
corrective actions taken following the event and the plant's history
of limited enforcement action.

     On June 29, 1995, the NRC provided PSE&G with the latest periodic
SALP report for Hope Creek for the period between June 20, 1993 and
April 22, 1995.  The Operations, Maintenance and Engineering areas each
received a rating of "2", while the Plant Support area received a
rating of "1".  However, the NRC noted an overall decline in
performance in the Operations, Maintenance and Engineering areas
compared to the previous SALP period and cited weak root cause analysis
as a dominant factor.

     On July 8, 1995, during a manual shutdown of Hope Creek in order
to repair control room ventilation equipment, operators partially
opened a valve for a period of time and inadvertently reduced the
effectiveness of the shutdown cooling system.  Although the impact of
the event to plant safety was minimal, the positioning of the valve and
the resulting temperature change violated plant procedures and
technical specifications.  On July 31, 1995, NRC staff met with plant
management concerning this issue and subsequently determined to assign
a special inspection team to independently evaluate this event as well
as PSE&G s response to it, including PSE&G s procedures and training
for operator handling of abnormal conditions.  An NRC enforcement
conference was held on November 6, 1995.  On December 12, 1995, the NRC
issued a Level III violation for this event, with a civil penalty of
$100,000.  PSE&G did not challenge the fine.

     By letter dated January 29, 1996, the NRC requested a meeting with
PSE&G senior management to discuss its concerns regarding declining
trends in performance at Hope Creek.  The meeting has not yet been
scheduled but is expected to occur after the restart of Hope Creek from
its current refueling and maintenance outage.





     Peach Bottom
 
     The outage of a Peach Bottom unit causes PSE&G to incur additional
replacement energy costs of approximately $4 to $6 million per month
per unit. Such amounts vary, however, depending upon the availability
of other generation, the cost of purchased energy and other factors
including modifications to maintenance schedules of other units.
 
     PSE&G has been advised by PECO that on January 19, 1996, the NRC
issued its periodic SALP Report for Peach Bottom for the period May 1,
1994 to October 14, 1995.  Peach Bottom received a rating of "1" in the
areas of Plant Operations, Maintenance, and Plant Support.  Engineering
received a rating of "2".  The NRC found continued improvement in
performance during the period.  Operator performance continued to be
a strength as well as operations management oversight. Effective
engineering management actions to improve the overall self assessment
and system performance evaluation programs were noted, as well as good
management oversight activities.  Response to emerging issues,
equipment problems and event related issues were noted as particularly
strong.  However, lapses in the quality of technical work and in
modification implementation indicated inconsistent performance, and
resulted in a repeat rating of "2" for the Engineering area.  PECO has
advised PSE&G that it will be taking actions to address weaknesses
discussed in the SALP Report.
 
     PSE&G has been advised by PECO that, by letter dated October 18,
1994, the NRC has approved PECO's request to re-rate the authorized
maximum reactor core power levels of both Peach Bottom units by 5% to
3,458 MW from the current limits of 3,293 MW.  The amendment of the
Peach Bottom 2 facility operating license was effective upon the date
of the NRC approval letter and the hardware changes were completed
during the Fall 1994 refueling outage.  The amendment of the Peach
Bottom 3 facility operating license became effective when the hardware 
changes for Unit 3 were completed during its Fall 1995 refueling
outage.

     PSE&G has been advised by PECO that on August 2, 1995, the NRC
held an enforcement conference regarding three alleged violations
identified by the NRC at Peach Bottom.  The NRC s findings included
alleged violations in control and design activities and technical
specification requirements regarding operability of the emergency
diesel generators.  As a result, on August 17, 1995, the NRC issued
PECO a Level III violation with no civil penalty.




     Other Nuclear Matters

     In 1990, General Electric (GE) reported that crack indications
were discovered near the seam welds of the core shroud assembly in a
GE Boiling Water Reactor (BWR) located outside the United States.  As
a result, GE issued a letter requesting that the owners of GE BWR
plants take interim corrective actions, including a review of
fabrication records and visual examinations of accessible areas of the
core shroud seam welds.  PSE&G (Hope Creek) and PECO (Peach Bottom) 
participated in a GE BWR Owners' Group to evaluate this issue and
develop long-term corrective actions.  

     During the Spring 1994 refueling outage, PSE&G inspected the
shroud of Hope Creek in accordance with GE's recommendations and found
no cracks.  In June 1994, an industry group was formed and subsequently
established generic inspection guidelines which were approved by the
NRC.  Due to the age and materials of the Hope Creek shroud and the
historical maintenance of low conductivity water chemistry, Hope Creek
has been placed in the lowest susceptibility category under these
guidelines. Hope Creek must do another shroud inspection during its
next refueling outage in 1997, or install a preemptive repair that
would maintain the structural integrity of the shroud under all normal
and design basis accident conditions for the remaining life of the
plant.

     PECO has advised PSE&G that Peach Bottom 3 was last examined
during its Fall 1995 refueling outage and the extent of cracking
identified was determined to be within industry-established guidelines. 
In a letter to the NRC dated November 3, 1995, PECO concluded that
there is a substantial margin for each core shroud weld to allow for
continued operation of Unit 3.  PECO has also advised that Peach Bottom
2 was examined in October 1994 during its refueling outage.  Although
some crack indications were identified, PECO advised that they were
considered to be much less severe than those found on Unit 3, and no
repairs were required to operate Unit 2 for another two-year cycle.

     As a separate matter, as a result of several BWR's experiencing
clogging of some emergency core cooling system suction strainers, which
supply water from the suppression pool for emergency cooling of the
core and related structures, the NRC is drafting rules which
tentatively require compliance by December 1997.  Alternative
resolution options will be subject to NRC approval.  PSE&G cannot
predict what other actions, if any, the NRC may take on this matter.



     Nuclear Decommissioning

     In accordance with Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1992, as amended
(NWPA), utilities owning an interest in nuclear generating facilities
are required to determine the costs and funding methods necessary to
decommission such facilities upon termination of operation. As a
general practice, each nuclear utility places funds in independent
external trust accounts it maintains to provide for decommissioning.
PSE&G currently recovers from its customers the amounts paid into the
trust fund over a period of years and would continue to do so under its
proposed Alternative Rate Plan (see Note 2 -- Rate Matters of Notes).
For information concerning enrichment of nuclear fuel and nuclear
decommissioning costs, see Note 3 -- PSE&G Nuclear Decommissioning and
Amortization of Nuclear Fuel of Notes.



 

 
  Electric Fuel Supply and Disposal

     The following table indicates PSE&G's KWH output by source of energy:
 

 

 



     Nuclear Fuel
 
     The supply of fuel for nuclear generating units involves the
mining and milling of uranium ore to uranium concentrate, conversion
of the uranium concentrate to uranium hexafluoride, enrichment of the
uranium hexafluoride gas, conversion of the enriched gas to fuel
pellets and fabrication of fuel assemblies.  

     PSE&G has several long-term contracts with ore operators to
process uranium ore to uranium concentrate to meet the currently
projected requirements for the Salem and Hope Creek units fully through
the year 2000 and, thereafter, 60% of their requirements through the
year 2002.
 
     Present contracts for conversion, enrichment and fabrication
services to meet the fuel cycle requirements for Salem and Hope Creek
units through the years shown in the following table:  


 
(1)  100% coverage through 1998; approximately 50% through 2002; and
     approximately 30% through 2004.  PSE&G does not anticipate any
     difficulties in obtaining necessary enrichment service for its
     Salem and Hope Creek units.

     PSE&G has been advised by PECO that it has contracts for the
purchase of uranium which will satisfy the fuel requirements of Peach
Bottom 2 and 3 through 2002. PSE&G has also been advised by PECO that
it has contracts for the conversion of uranium concentrates which will
be allocated to Peach Bottom 2 and 3 and two other nuclear generating
units in which PSE&G does not have an interest, on an as-needed basis.



     PECO has also advised PSE&G that it has contracted for the
following segments of the nuclear fuel supply cycle for Peach Bottom
2 and 3 through the following years:
 




     For information regarding the decontamination and decommissioning
funds, see Note 3 -- PSE&G Nuclear Decommissioning and Amortization of
Nuclear Fuel of Notes.

     Coal
 
     Approximately 40% of PSE&G's coal supply for its New Jersey
facilities is obtained under a contract which expires in 1999. The
balance of the supply is contracted annually from various suppliers,
many of whom PSE&G has dealt with on a continuing basis for a number
of years, and is supplemented by spot market purchases.  The New Jersey
Air Pollution Control Code (NJAPCC) permits the burning of coal with
a sulfur content of up to 1% at existing coal-fired generating stations
including PSE&G's three coal-fired New Jersey units, Hudson 2 and
Mercer 1 and 2.  The weighted monthly average sulfur content of the
coal received at Hudson Station and at Mercer Station must not exceed
1.0% (dry weight basis).  PSE&G has been able to obtain sufficient
quantities of 1% (or less) sulfur coal and does not presently
anticipate any difficulties in obtaining adequate coal supplies to
replace expiring contracts. (See Environmental Controls -- Air
Pollution Control).
 
     PSE&G has approximately a 23% interest in the Keystone and
Conemaugh coal-fired generating stations located in Western
Pennsylvania and operated by Pennsylvania Electric Company. At least
71% of the fuel required by the Keystone station is supplied by one
coal company under a contract which expires December 31, 2004. At least
30% of the fuel required by Conemaugh station is supplied by



another coal company under a contract which expires on December 31,
1997. In addition, approximately 18% of Conemaugh's coal requirements
is supplied by a short-term contract which expires on November 30,
1996.  The balance of the fuel requirements for each station is
supplied through spot purchases obtained from local suppliers. The
Keystone Conemaugh Projects Office, which runs project administration
at these plants on a day to day basis, has advised PSE&G that it does
not expect any difficulties in obtaining adequate coal supplies. (See
Environmental Controls).

     Natural Gas  

     PSE&G utilizes natural gas available from various spot, short-term
and long-term gas contracts, to replace other fuels for electric
generation.  Presently, there are no effective legal restrictions on
the use of natural gas for electric generation in existing plants.
However, approval by FERC is required for the interstate transportation
of natural gas, either by virtue of existing blanket authority or
through individual proceedings. PSE&G does not expect any difficulties
in obtaining natural gas supplies.  

     Oil
 
     PSE&G uses residual oil in its conventional fossil-fired,
steam-electric units. The supply of residual oil is furnished by
contract suppliers, supplemented by occasional spot market purchases.
PSE&G uses distillate fuel in its combustion turbines which is acquired
by spot market purchases. PSE&G does not presently anticipate any
difficulties in obtaining oil supplies.   

     Nuclear Fuel Disposal

     After spent fuel is removed from a nuclear reactor, it is placed
in temporary storage for cooling in a spent fuel pool at the nuclear
station site. Under NWPA, the Federal government has entered into
contracts for transportation and ultimate disposal of the spent fuel. 
The Federal government's present policy is that spent nuclear fuel will
be accepted for long-term storage at government-owned and operated
repositories.  However, at present, no such repositories are in service
or under construction.  In December 1989, the U.S. Department of Energy
(DOE) announced that it would not be able to open a permanent, high-
level nuclear waste storage facility until 2010, at the earliest.  
However, the DOE has also indicated that progress on the repository
will be delayed beyond 2010 if sufficient funds are not appropriated
by the Congress for this program.


 
     In conformity with the NWPA, PSE&G entered into contracts with the
DOE for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel from Salem and Hope Creek.
Similarly, PECO contracted with the DOE in connection with Peach Bottom
2 and 3. Under these contracts, the DOE is required to take title to
the spent fuel at the site, then transport it and provide for its
permanent disposal at a cost of one mil per KWH of nuclear generation,
subject to such escalation as may be required to assure full cost
recovery by the Federal government. In addition, a one-time payment was
made to the DOE for permanently discharged spent fuels irradiated prior
to 1983.  

     On April 28, 1995, the DOE published its final interpretation on
the nuclear waste acceptance issues in which it stated that it had no
legal obligation to begin waste acceptance in 1998, in the absence of
a repository or other storage facility.  PSE&G s contracts with DOE
call for DOE to begin accepting spent fuel from PSE&G in 1998.  As a
result, on September 7, 1995, PSE&G, along with 24 other utilities and
a combination of 48 States, state regulatory agencies and municipal
power agencies, filed a lawsuit in the US District Court of Appeals for
the District of Columbia Circuit against the DOE to protect its
contractual rights.

     Pursuant to NRC rules, spent nuclear fuel generated in any reactor
can be stored safely and without significant environmental impact in
reactor facility storage pools or in independent spent fuel storage
installations located at reactor or away-from-reactor sites for at
least 30 years beyond the licensed life for reactor operation (which
may include the term of a revised or renewed license).

     As a result of reracking the two spent fuel pools at Salem, the
availability of adequate spent fuel storage capacity is conservatively
estimated through 2008 for Salem 1 and 2012 for Salem 2, prior to
losing an operational full core discharge reserve.  The Hope Creek pool
is also fully racked and it is conservatively expected to provide
storage capacity until 2006, again prior to losing an operational full
core discharge reserve. The units can be safely operated for many years
beyond these dates, as pool storage capacity will continue to be
available.  These dates simply assist in planning the need for
additional storage capacity that may be needed to operate the units
until the expiration of their operating license.  In addition, PECO has
advised PSE&G that spent fuel racks at Peach Bottom have storage
capacity until 2000 for Unit 2 and 2001 for Unit 3, prior to losing
full core reserve capability, and that expansion of storage capacity
beyond such dates is being investigated.



     Low Level Radioactive Waste (LLRW)

     As a by-product of their operations, nuclear generating units,
including those in which PSE&G owns an interest, produce LLRW.  Such
wastes include paper, plastics, protective clothing, water purification
materials and other materials.  Such materials are accumulated on site
and disposed of at a federally licensed permanent disposal facility in
Barnwell, South Carolina.

     In 1991, New Jersey enacted legislation providing for funding of
the estimated $90 million cost of establishing a LLRW disposal
facility.  The State would recover the costs through fees paid by LLRW
generators.  PSE&G's overall share is expected to be about 40% of the
total cost and has provided about $4.8 million to date.  New Jersey has
introduced a volunteer siting process to establish a LLRW disposal
facility by the year 2000.  Public meetings have been held across the
state in an effort to provide information to and obtain feedback from
the public.  To date, there have been no volunteers identified.

     Because of the uncertainties in disposal, PSE&G built an on-site
facility completed in September 1994.  This facility provides five
years storage for LLRW from Hope Creek and Salem. The facility was used
from July 1994 through June 1995, while the Barnwell facility was
temporarily unavailable, and emptied when Barnwell re-opened in 1995. 
It will be used for interim storage of radioactive materials and waste,
and if it proves necessary in the future, to temporarily store waste
until New Jersey provides a permanent disposal facility.

     PECO has advised PSE&G that it has an on-site LLRW storage
facility for Peach Bottom, which will provide at least 5 years of
temporary storage.  PECO has also advised PSE&G that Pennsylvania is
pursuing its own LLRW site development via state-selected candidate
sites, along with a volunteer plan option.  PSE&G has paid $2.5 million
as its share of siting costs due to its ownership in the Peach Bottom
units.

 



  Gas Operations and Supply

     PSE&G supplies its gas customers principally with natural gas.
PSE&G supplements natural gas with purchased refinery gas and liquefied
petroleum gas produced from propane. The adequacy of supply of all
types of gas is affected by the nationwide availability of all sources
for energy production.


     As of December 31, 1995, the daily gas capacity of PSE&G was as
follows:
 

 
     About 40% of the daily gas capacity is high load factor natural
gas and is available every day of the year. The remainder comes from
field storage, liquefied natural gas, seasonal sales, contract peaking
supply, propane and refinery gas.

     PSE&G's total gas sold to and transported for its various customer
classes in 1995 was 3.9 billion therms which consisted of approximately
96% natural gas.  Included in this amount is 1.6 billion therms of gas
delivered to customers under PSE&G's transportation tariffs and
individual cogeneration contracts. (See Operating Statistics of PSE&G).
During 1995, PSE&G purchased approximately 3.3 billion therms of gas
for its combined gas and electric operations directly from natural gas
producers and marketers and the balance from interstate pipeline
suppliers. These supplies were transported to New Jersey by PSE&G's
four interstate pipeline suppliers.  This diversification of supply
sources provides PSE&G with reliability of supply, purchasing
flexibility and lower overall costs.
 
     PSE&G's gas supply contracts expire at various times over the next
two to ten years. PSE&G does not presently anticipate any difficulty
in negotiating replacement contracts. Since the quantities of gas
available to PSE&G under its supply contracts are more than adequate



in warm months, PSE&G nominates part of such quantities for storage,
to be withdrawn during the winter season, under storage contracts with
its principal suppliers. Underground storage capacity currently is
approximately 770 million therms.  PSE&G does not presently anticipate
any difficulty in obtaining adequate supplies of natural gas.   

     PSE&G's annual average cost of natural gas sendout is shown below: 
 

 
(A)  Excludes contribution by PSE&G's electric operating units for a
     gas reservation charge and natural gas refunds from suppliers.
 
     Substantially all of PSE&G's gas sales are made under rates which
are currently designed to permit the recovery of projected increases
in the cost of natural gas and gas from supplemental sources, when
compared to levels included in base rates, on a current annual basis.
(See Note 2 -- Rate Matters of Notes.)

     The demand for gas by PSE&G's customers is affected by customer
conservation, economic conditions, weather, the price relationship
between gas and alternative fuels and other factors not within PSE&G's
control. Presently, the majority of gas sold in interstate commerce has
become deregulated. The ability of gas prices to respond to market
conditions has improved in recent years because of actions taken by the
FERC. Pipeline companies are able to adjust their gas rates up or down
through their purchased gas adjustment mechanism more often than the
semi-annual filings of prior years.  As discussed above in Competition,
FERC actions provided pipeline customers, such as PSE&G, with the
opportunity to convert a portion of their pipeline sales contracts to
transportation agreements and purchase natural gas supplies directly
from a producer or other seller of natural gas. This has increased
competition in the gas market by encouraging pipeline companies to act
as non-discriminatory transporters of natural gas. PSE&G has taken
advantage of these actions to lower its overall gas costs through the
displacement of higher cost contract supplies with lower cost spot gas
purchases and long-term producer contract supplies. (See Competition.)


 
     PSE&G was able to meet all of the demands of its firm customers
during the 1994-95 winter season and expects to continue to meet such
energy-related demands of its firm customers during the 1995-96 winter
season. However, the sufficiency of supply could be affected by several
factors not within PSE&G's control, including curtailments of natural
gas by its suppliers, the severity of the winter, the extent of energy
conservation by its customers and the availability of feedstocks for
the production of supplements to its natural gas supply. During the
1995-96 heating season through February 14, 1996, it was  necessary for
PSE&G to interrupt service to 'interruptible' customers for 25 days as
permitted by the applicable tariff. During the 1994-95 heating season,
service to such customers was interrupted for eight days.  

Employee Relations
 
     Enterprise has no employees. As of December 31, 1995, PSE&G and
its subsidiaries employed 11,452 persons.  Four-year bargaining
agreements between PSE&G and its unions, representing 6,746 employees,
will expire April 30, 1996.  Also at December 31, 1995, EDHI and its
subsidiaries employed 523 persons, of which 38 were represented by
unions.   PSE&G, EDHI and their subsidiaries believe that they maintain
satisfactory relationships with their employees.
 
     For information concerning the employee pension plan and other
postretirement benefits, see Note 1 -- Organization and Summary of
Significant Accounting Policies, Note 13 -- Postretirement Benefits
Other Than Pensions and Note 14 -- Pension Plan of Notes.
 
Regulation
 
     Enterprise has claimed an exemption from regulation by the SEC as
a registered holding company under PUHCA, except for Section 9(a)(2)
thereof, which relates to the acquisition of 5% or more of the voting
securities of an electric or gas utility company. Enterprise is not
subject to direct regulation by the BPU, except potentially with
respect to certain transfers of control and reporting requirements, and
is not subject to regulation by the FERC. The BPU may also impose
certain requirements with respect to affiliate transactions between and
among PSE&G, Enterprise and Enterprise's nonutility subsidiaries. (See
EDHI.)

     As a New Jersey public utility, PSE&G is subject to comprehensive
regulation by the BPU including, among other matters, regulation of
intrastate rates and service and the issuance and sale of securities.




As a participant in the ownership and operation of certain generation
and transmission facilities in Pennsylvania, PSE&G is subject to
regulation by the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission (PPUC) in
limited respects in regard to such facilities.  

     PSE&G is subject to regulation by FERC and by the Economic
Regulatory Administration, both within DOE, with respect to certain
matters, including regulation by FERC with respect to interstate sales
and exchanges of electric transmission, capacity and energy, including
cogeneration and small power production projects being constructed
pursuant to PURPA, and accounts, records and reports. PSE&G is also
subject to regulation by the United States Department of Transportation
(USDOT) with respect to safety standards for pipeline facilities and
the transportation of gas under the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of
1968.
 
     In addition, the New Jersey Need Assessment Act (NJNAA) provides
that no public utility shall commence construction of any electric
facility (as defined in the NJNAA) without having first obtained a
Certificate of Need (Certificate of Need) from the Division of Energy
Planning and Conservation within the New Jersey Department of
Environmental Protection (NJDEP). A Certificate of Need, if granted,
is valid for three years, renewable subject to review by the
Commissioner of the NJDEP. Under the NJNAA, no state or local agency
may issue any license or permit required for any such construction or
substantial expansion prior to the issuance of the Certificate of Need.
An electric facility is defined under the NJNAA as any electric power
generating unit or combination of units at a single site with a
capacity of 100 MW or more or any such units added to an existing
electric generating facility which will increase its installed capacity
by 25% or by more than 100 MW, whichever is smaller. Under NJNAA, a
Certificate of Need will be issued only if the NJDEP Commissioner
determines that the proposed facility is necessary to meet the
projected need for electricity in the area to be served and that no
more efficient, economical or environmentally sound alternative is
available.
 
     For information concerning nuclear insurance coverages, the BPU's
NPS and assessments and the Price-Anderson Amendments Act of 1988, as
amended, (Price Anderson) see Note 12 -- Commitments and Contingent
Liabilities of Notes.


 
     The New Jersey Public Utility Accident Fault Determination Act
(Fault Act) requires the BPU to make a determination of fault with
regard to any accident at any electric generating or transmission
facility prior to granting a request by any utility for a rate increase
to cover accident-related costs in excess of $10 million. Fault, as
defined in the Fault Act, means any negligent action or omission of any
party which either contributed substantially to causing the accident
or failed to mitigate its severity. 

     However, the Fault Act allows the affected utility to file for
non-accident related rate increases during such fault determination
hearings and to recover contributions to federally mandated or
voluntary cost-sharing plans and allows the BPU to authorize the
recovery of certain fault-related repair, clean-up, power replacement
and damage costs if substantiated by the evidence presented and if
authorized in writing by the BPU. The Fault Act could have a material
adverse effect on PSE&G's financial position if such an accident were
to occur at a PSE&G facility, it was ultimately determined that the
accident was due to the fault of PSE&G and the BPU were to deny
recovery of all or a portion of the costs related thereto.  The
Alternative Rate Plan filed by PSE&G proposes discontinuing LEAC and
NPS and would substantially shift the risks and opportunities involved
in managing changes in fuel and replacement power costs from customers
to PSE&G.  See Note 2 - Rate Matters -- Alternative Rate Plan and LEAC
of Notes. 

     Under New Jersey law, the BPU is required to audit all or a
portion of the operating procedures and other internal workings of
every gas or electric utility subject to its jurisdiction, including
PSE&G, at least once every six years. Under the law, the audit may be
performed either by the BPU Staff or under the supervision of
designated members of such Staff by an independent management
consulting firm, chosen by the utility from a list provided by the BPU.
The BPU may, upon completion of the audit and after notice and hearing,
order the utility to adopt such new practices and procedures that it
shall find reasonable and necessary to promote efficient and adequate
service to meet public convenience and necessity. The last such
management audit of PSE&G was completed in 1991.  
 
     In 1992, as a follow-up to its 1991 management audit, the BPU
conducted a focused audit of Enterprise's nonutility businesses to
ascertain whether nonutility activities had harmed PSE&G. Enterprise
has consistently maintained a clear and distinct separation of its
utility and nonutility operations and believes that its nonutility
activities have not in any way adversely affected the utility.  The
results of the focused audit confirmed that there has been no harm to
PSE&G as a result of Enterprise's nonutility activities.  However, as
a result of recommendations made by the BPU's auditors regarding
operations and intercompany relationships between PSE&G and EDHI's



nonutility businesses, the BPU approved a plan which, among other
things, provides: (1) that Enterprise will not permit EDHI's nonutility
investments to exceed 20% of Enterprise's consolidated assets without
prior notice to the BPU (such assets at December 31, 1995 were
approximately 15%); (2) for a restructuring of the PSE&G Board to
include nonemployee Enterprise directors with an annual certification
by such Board that the business and financing plans of EDHI will not
adversely affect PSE&G; (3) for an Enterprise agreement to (a) limit
debt supported by the minimum net worth maintenance agreement between
Enterprise and Capital to $750 million, and (b) make a good-faith
effort to eliminate such support over a six to ten year period from
April 1993; and (4) the payment by EDHI to PSE&G of an affiliation fee
of up to $2 million a year which will be applied by PSE&G through its
LGAC and LEAC to reduce utility rates. Effective January 31, 1995, the
debt supported by the minimum net worth maintenance agreement will be
limited to $650 million and such affiliation fee will be
proportionately reduced as such supported debt is reduced.  In
addition, Enterprise and EDHI and its subsidiaries continue to
reimburse PSE&G for all costs of services provided by employees of
PSE&G.

     The issue of Enterprise sharing the benefits of consolidated tax
savings with PSE&G or its ratepayers was not resolved by the plan
approved as a result of the focused audit and remains open. Enterprise
believes that PSE&G's taxes should be treated on a stand-alone basis
for rate-making purposes, based on the separate nature of the utility
and nonutility businesses. However, neither Enterprise nor PSE&G is
able to predict what action, if any, the BPU may take concerning
consolidation of tax benefits in future proceedings.  On July 28, 1995,
the BPU reported to PSE&G that it had fully evaluated all available
information regarding the 18 recommendations of the Focused Audit
conducted by the BPU's consultant and determined that 17 have been
implemented pursuant to the BPU's Order Approving Audit Implementation
Plans.  The remaining issue regarding Enterprise sharing the benefits
of consolidated taxes with PSE&G or its ratepayers may be considered
in the context of a future base rate case, or in a filing that
considers an alternative form of regulation.  PSE&G cannot predict what
actions, if any, the BPU may take regarding the consolidated tax issue.
(See Note 2 -- Rate Matters - Consolidated Tax Benefits of Notes.)


     Construction and operation of nuclear generating facilities are
regulated by the NRC. For additional information relating to regulation
by the NRC, see Nuclear Operations. In addition, the Federal Emergency
Management Agency is responsible for the review in conjunction with the
NRC of certain aspects of emergency planning relating to the operation
of nuclear plants.    
 


     CEA invests in and participates in the development and operation
of domestic and foreign cogeneration and power production facilities,
which include QFs and EWGs. For additional information, see EDHI --
CEA.  

     The BPU has authority to regulate power sales agreements within
the BPU's pricing guidelines to utilities in the State of New Jersey
and ascertain that the terms and conditions of agreements with New
Jersey utilities are fair and reasonable. For additional information,
see EDHI.  

Environmental Controls
 
     PSE&G, like most industrial enterprises, is subject to regulation
with respect to the environmental impacts of its operations, including
air and water quality control, limitations on land use, disposal of
wastes, aesthetics and other matters, by various federal, regional,
state and local authorities, including the United States Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA), the United States Department of Transportation
(USDOT), NJDEP, the New Jersey Department of Health, the BPU, the
Interstate Sanitation Commission, the Hackensack Meadowlands
Development Commission, the Pinelands Commission, the Delaware River
Basin Commission, the United States Coast Guard and the United States
Army Corps of Engineers.  EDC, CEA and EGDC are also subject to similar
regulation with respect to operation of their facilities.  (See EDHI)

     Environmental laws generally require air emissions and water
discharges to meet specified limits. They also impose potential joint
and several liability, without regard to fault, on the generators of
various hazardous substances to manage these materials properly and to
clean up property affected by the production and discharge of such
substances.  Compliance with environmental requirements has caused
PSE&G to modify the day-to-day operation of its facilities, to
participate in the cleanup of various properties that have been
contaminated and to modify, supplement and replace existing equipment
and facilities.  During 1995, PSE&G expended approximately $148 million
for capital related expenditures to improve the environment and comply
with changing regulations.  It is estimated that PSE&G will expend
approximately $81 million, $43 million, $35 million, $30 million and
$13 million in the years 1996 through 2000, respectively, for such
purposes. Such amounts are included in PSE&G's estimates of
construction expenditures. (See MD&A -- Liquidity and Capital
Resources.)


 
     Preconstruction analyses and projections of the environmental
impacts of contemplated activities, discharges and emissions are
frequently required by the permitting agency. Before licensing
approvals and permits are granted, the agency usually requests a
modeling analysis of the effects of a specific action, and of its
effect in combination with other existing and permitted activities, and
may request the applicant to address emerging environmental issues.
Such environmental reviews have caused delays in the proceedings for
licensing facilities and similar delays can be expected in the future.

     An industry issue with respect to the construction and operation
of electric transmission and distribution lines is the alleged adverse
health effects of EMF exposure. In 1990, the New Jersey Commission on
Radiation Protection (CORP) decided against setting a limit on magnetic
fields produced by high-voltage power lines citing the lack of
convincing evidence required to determine dangerous levels. Proposed
power regulations are currently under study by CORP to cover new power
lines and allow existing power lines to continue to function regardless
of new rule changes. If revised, the rules would authorize the NJDEP
to screen all new power line projects of 100 kilovolts or more using
a principle of "as low as reasonably achievable" to demonstrate that
all steps within reason, including modest cost, were taken to reduce
EMFs. The outcome of EMF study and/or regulations and the public
concerns will affect PSE&G's design and location of future electric
power lines and facilities and the cost thereof. Such amounts as may
be necessary to comply with these new EMF rules and address public
concerns cannot be determined at this time, but such amounts could be
material.

     The New Jersey Environmental Rights Act provides that any person
may maintain a court action against any other person to enforce, or to
restrain the violation of any statute, regulation or ordinance which
is designed to prevent or minimize pollution, impairment or destruction
of the environment, or where no such violation exists, to protect the
environment from pollution, impairment or destruction. Certain Federal
legislation confers similar rights on individuals. The principal laws
and regulations relating to the protection of the environment which
affect PSE&G's operations are described below.
 


  Air Pollution Control
 
     The Federal Clean Air Act ("CAA") imposes emission control
requirements across the United States, including requirements related
to the emissions of sulfur dioxide and Nitrogen Oxides ("NOx") and
requires attainment of National Ambient Air Quality Standards
("NAAQS").

     PSE&G's two wholly-owned and operated coal-fired generating
stations in New Jersey are presently expected to be able to meet CAA
sulfur dioxide requirements with only modest expenditures.

     PSE&G also has approximately a 23% interest in Conemaugh and
Keystone, coal-fired generating stations located in western
Pennsylvania.  With respect to Conemaugh, in order to comply with the
CAA Sulfur Dioxide Requirements, the station's co-owners, including
PSE&G, approved the installation of scrubbers (flue gas desulfurization
systems).  PSE&G's share of the remaining Conemaugh scrubber cost is
less than $1.0 million and is included in PSE&G's estimate of
construction expenditures.  Scrubber construction at Conemaugh Unit 2
was completed in November 1995.  Keystone is presently expected to
comply with the Sulfur Dioxide Requirements by utilizing excess
emission allowances from the over-scrubbing of the Conemaugh units.

     The CAA established a national emission trading system for Sulfur
Dioxide allowances.  Yearly allowances have been allocated according
to a formula specified by the CAA and applicable to owner/operators of
large boilers and power generating equipment.

     New Jersey and other Northeastern states have imposed Reasonably
Available Control Technology ("RACT") requirements on each major source
of NOx.  Additionally, these states have committed to additional
overall NOx emission reductions on power plants and large industrial
boilers of .2 pounds per million BTUs by 1999 with potential additional
reductions of .15 pounds per million BTUs by 2003.  All of PSE&G's
Fossil Generating units are currently in compliance with RACT
requirements.

     The NJDEP, in concert with other states in the Northeast, is
implementing a regional CAA NOx allowance emission trading system for
power plants and large industrial boilers.  This includes the
allocation of emission allowances to these sources in 1996.  The NOx
allowance trading system is scheduled to be operational by the
beginning of 1999 and could result in additional changes to equipment,
methods of operation or fuel.

     EPA has promulgated six NAAQS.  PSE&G's Fossil Generating Stations
are all located in areas of non-attainment for ozone.  Each state has
the responsibility under the CAA to adopt a plan, and regulations, to
attain and maintain compliance to these standards.



     In New Jersey, NJDEP is using the New Jersey Air Pollution Control
Code ("NJAPCC") to achieve compliance with, and maintenance of, the
NAAQS.  The NJAPCC provides stringent requirements restricting the
sulfur content in coal and oil fuels.  (See PSE&G -- Electric Fuel
Supply and Disposal -- Coal.)  The increased cost of purchasing low-
sulfur fuel is offset by rates which are designed to permit the
recovery of fuel costs on a current annual basis.  In accordance with
the proposed Alternative Rate Plan, separate mechanisms would be
established to ensure continued recovery of costs associated with
activities mandated or approved by state or federal agencies or
otherwise out of PSE&G's control.  (See PSE&G -- Electric Fuel Supply
and Disposal and Note 2 -- Rate Matters of Notes.)

     The CAA also requires that each major facility apply for and
receive a facility-wide operating permit.  The facility-wide operating
permit terms and conditions are enforceable by both the EPA and NJDEP. 
PSE&G filed permit applications for its major facilities in New Jersey
in 1995.  The operating permit program will require some PSE&G
facilities to assess emissions, which could require the installation
of emission monitoring equipment and changes to facility operations or
technology.  To the extent estimates of the costs of complying with
these requirements through the year 2000 are quantifiable, they are
included in PSE&G's construction expenditures.  In accordance with the
filed Alternative Rate Plan, PSE&G has requested to have separate
mechanisms to ensure continued recovery of costs associated with
activities mandated or approved by State or Federal agencies, although
no assurances can be given as to what action may be taken by the BPU. 
In addition, the revised CAA requirements will increase the cost of
producing electricity for the Pennsylvania and Ohio Valley Region
Generating units supplying electricity to the PJM and New Jersey.  All
of PSE&G's current purchased power costs are included in PSE&G's LEAC.
(See Note 2 -- Rate Matters of Notes.)

     In non-attainment areas, one of the effects of the CAA is to allow
construction or expansion of a facility only upon a showing that any
additional emissions from the source will be more than offset by
reductions in similar emissions from existing sources.  In prevention
of significant deterioration areas, construction or expansion of a
facility would be permitted only if emissions from the source, together
with emissions from other expected new sources, would not violate air
quality increments for particulates and sulfur dioxide that are more
stringent than NAAQS.  All of these requirements may affect PSE&G's
ability to locate, construct or expand generating facilities in the
future.



     PSE&G has been working collaboratively with environmentalists, a
select number of other electric utilities in the Northeast, NJDEP and
other Northeast environmental regulators, EPA, and a number of large
manufacturing companies to achieve significant emission reductions from
power plants in the Midwest.  PSE&G has also been working with these
respective groups to establish a flexible NOx and Volatile Organic
Compound ("VOC") emissions trading system as a compliance alternative
to CAA compliance requirements for industrial facilities, highway and
off-highway emission sources, state transportation CAA conformity and
automobile inspection and maintenance.  Significant emission reductions
from Midwest are expected to improve New Jersey's and the Northeast's
air quality thereby lessening the need for additional New Jersey
emission controls over and beyond those already regulatorily adopted.

     These collaborative efforts, coupled with growing environmental
regulator and industry concerns for cost-effective compliance with CAA
requirements, have resulted in the creation of a thirty-seven state
environment forum called Ozone Transport Assessment Group ("OTAG"). 
This includes Midwest, Northeast and Southern states east of the
Mississippi River.  OTAG's charter is to produce consensus
recommendations concerning the need for additional emission controls
and to identify the level and sources to which those controls should
be applied.  OTAG is expected to conclude its work by the fall of 1996. 
If the OTAG process fails to produce consensus that leads to an
agreement by individual states to undertake timely necessary control
actions, affected downwind states such as those in the Northeast are
required as part of their EPA approved 1994 CAA State Implementation
Plans to submit petitions to EPA seeking EPA's imposition of controls
on upwind states.  It is difficult to determine at this time the likely
outcome of this process.

     Recently, the issue of transported air pollution from the Midwest
power plants and their negative impact on air quality in the Northeast
has become the subject of concern before the FERC.  The FERC has
performed a draft environmental impact statement to assess the
environmental impact of developing a generic rule by which electric
utilities will be required to provide full non-discriminatory
transmission access to all wholesale power providers.  PSE&G and a
number of other utilities, environmental groups and regulators have
submitted comments seeking FERC's mitigation of expected additional
power plant emissions resulting from the implementation of FERC's open
access policies. It is too soon to determine to what extent FERC will
act on the concerns raised.



  Water Pollution Control
 
     The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (FWPCA) authorizes the
imposition of technology and water-quality based effluent limitations
to regulate the discharge of pollutants into the surface waters of the
United States through the issuance of National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) permits.  The New Jersey Water Pollution
Control Act (NJWPCA) authorizes the NJDEP to regulate discharges to
surface waters and ground waters of the State through the New Jersey
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NJPDES) permits.  NJDEP also
administers the NPDES/NJPDES permit program.   Certain PSE&G facilities
are directly regulated by NJPDES permits issued pursuant to FWPCA and
the NJWPCA.

     In addition, the FWPCA also imposes additional requirements with
respect to the control of toxic discharges to degraded waterbodies
under Section 304(1).  Although five PSE&G electric generating stations
(Bergen, Hudson, Kearny, Linden and Sewaren) were originally subject
to requirements imposed pursuant to Section 304(l), the NJDEP and EPA
have proposed delisting these stations from the 304(l) program for the
present time.  

     The FWPCA also authorizes the imposition of less stringent thermal
limits pursuant to a variance procedure set forth in Section 316(a) and
the regulation of cooling water intake structures pursuant to Section
316(b).  PSE&G has filed information with the NJDEP in support of
Section 316(a) variance requests and Section 316(b) best technology
available determinations for several of its electric generating
stations which are pending before the NJDEP presently and may be
required to submit information for other stations as a result of the
permit renewal process.  With respect to Section 316(b) requirements,
the EPA initiated a rulemaking procedure in 1994 to develop regulations
implementing this provision.  Pursuant to a Consent Decree entered by
a Federal District Court resolving an action to compel the rulemaking
brought by a number of environmental groups including certain of those
who opposed the 1994 Salem NJPDES permit, EPA must propose draft
regulations on or before July 2, 1999 and promulgate final regulations
by August 2001.  While the content and scope of these regulations can
not be predicted at this time, they may have a considerable effect on
agency review of section 316(b) determinations pending in 1999 or
after.  (see discussions on Hudson, Mercer, and Salem NJPDES permits
below.)

     The FWPCA and the NJWPCA also authorize the discharge of
stormwater from certain facilities including steam electric generating
stations.  In many instances, this is accomplished through the
development of Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plans (SPPP). 
Similarly, both laws authorize Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTW)
to issue permits for significant industrial users (SIU) of the
treatment facility.  Certain of PSE&G's facilities have permits under
the SPPP and SIU programs.

 


     A brief discussion on pending permit proceedings which have the
potential to impose new or more stringent terms or conditions which
could require changes to operations or significant expenditures
follows:

     Hudson Station's NJPDES permit is in the process of being renewed
by the NJDEP.  As part of that renewal, the NJDEP has requested updated
information in connection with PSE&G's 316(a) and 316(b)
demonstrations, in part, to address issues identified by a consultant
hired by NJDEP.  The consultant recommended that Hudson be retrofit to
operate with closed cycle cooling to address alleged adverse impacts
associated with the thermal discharge and intake structure.  PSE&G is
in the process of collecting additional data which will be used in the
updated demonstrations.  PSE&G anticipates submitting these documents
to NJDEP in the first quarter of 1998.  It is impossible to predict the
NJDEP's determinations on these demonstrations; however, PSE&G
presently estimates that the cost of retrofitting Hudson to operate
with closed cycle cooling could be in excess of $59 million in 1998
dollars.

     NJDEP has advised PSE&G that it is preparing a renewal permit for
Mercer Station and, in connection with that renewal, will also be
reexamining Mercer's compliance with Section 316(a) & 316(b).  This may
result in PSE&G's being required to submit updated 316(a) and 316(b)
demonstrations for NJDEP review.  It is impossible to predict at this
time the outcome of such review.

     PSE&G is implementing the 1994 NJPDES permit issued for Salem
Station which requires, among other things, water intake screen
modifications and wetlands restoration.  In addition, PSE&G is seeking
permits and approvals from various agencies needed to fully implement
the special conditions of the permit.  No assurances can be given as
to receipt of any such additional permits or approvals.  The estimated
capital cost of compliance with the final permit is approximately $100
million, of which PSE&G's share is 42.59% and is included in PSE&G's
1996-2000 construction program.  In accordance with the filed
Alternative Rate Plan PSE&G has requested to have separate mechanisms
to ensure continued recovery of costs associated with activities
mandated or approved by State or Federal agencies, although no
assurances can be given as to what action may be taken by the BPU.
PSE&G must apply to renew the Salem permit in March 1999 which renewal
application must provide updated Section 316(a) and 316(b)
demonstrations for the NJDEP's review. (See the discussion above
regarding EPA's Section 316(b) rulemaking.)  (See MD&A -- Liquidity and
Capital Resources -- Construction, Investments and Other Capital
Requirements Forecast.)



     In June, 1995, PSE&G filed an application with the Delaware River
Basin Commission (DRBC) seeking a modification to the heat dissipation
area previously established based upon the NJDEP's grant of a Section
316(a) variance for Salem Station.  DRBC issued a modified Docket in
September 1995 granting PSE&G's request. PSE&G must reapply to the DRBC
in 1999 for a continuation of this heat dissipation area.

     PSE&G anticipates that NJDEP will issue a draft renewal permit for
Hope Creek Station in 1996 which will not propose effluent limitations
or other requirements significantly more stringent than those in the
existing permit.

     CEA Eagle Point, Inc. (Eagle Point), an indirect subsidiary of
CEA, is a partner in a partnership which owns the Eagle Point
Cogeneration Facility (EPC), located in West Deptford, New Jersey.  EPC
is operated by an affiliate of Eagle Point's partner and provides
electricity and steam for an adjacent petroleum refinery (owned and
operated by another affiliate of Eagle Point's partner) and sells
excess electricity to PSE&G.  On January 15, 1995, Eagle Point received
a Notice of Violation (NOV) from Region II of EPA alleging violations
of certain CAA requirements and limitations related to the air permit
at EPC and the adjacent refinery and demanding that such violations be
corrected.  Eagle Point, its partner and the operator of the refinery
are contesting the EPA conclusion that violations have occurred and
have met with staff of EPA and NJDEP to discuss issues related to the
NOV.  Eagle Point cannot predict whether EPA will take action with
respect to the NOV and, if so, what action it may take.  Applicable
regulations provide EPA with the power to seek to collect criminal and
civil penalties for continued violation of the provisions of air
permits.

   Control of Hazardous Substances
 
     PSE&G Manufactured Gas Plant Remediation Program
 
     For information regarding PSE&G's Manufactured Gas Plant
Remediation Program, see Note 12 -- Commitments and Contingent
Liabilities of Notes.   

     Other Sites  

     A preliminary review of possible mercury contamination at the
Kearny Station concluded that an additional study and investigations
are required.  In 1995, PSE&G entered into a Memorandum of Agreement
(MOA) with NJDEP for the Kearny Generating Station pursuant to which
PSE&G will conduct a Remedial Investigation (RI) of the site.  A
Remedial Investigation Work Plan (RIWP) has been filed and is currently
under review by the NJDEP.  Field work activities associated with the
RI will begin after NJDEP approval of the RIWP.



     Hazardous Substances

     The Federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and
Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), as amended by the Superfund Amendments
and Reauthorization Act of 1986 and the Federal Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act of 1976 (RCRA), authorize EPA to issue orders and/or
to bring an enforcement action to compel responsible parties to take
investigative and/or cleanup actions at any site that is determined to
present an imminent and substantial danger to the public or to the
environment because of an actual or threatened release of one or more
hazardous substances. The New Jersey Spill Compensation and Control Act
(Spill Act) provides similar authority to NJDEP.  Because of the nature
of  PSE&G's business, including the production of electricity, the
distribution of gas and, formerly, the manufacture of gas, various
by-products and substances are or were produced or handled which
contain constituents classified as hazardous under one or more of the
above laws.

     PSE&G generally provides for the disposal or processing of such
substances through licensed independent contractors. However, these
statutory provisions impose joint and several liability without regard
to fault on all allegedly responsible parties, including the generators
of the hazardous  substances for certain investigative and cleanup
costs at sites where these substances were disposed or processed. These
statutes also authorize private rights of action for recovery of these
costs.  

     PSE&G has been notified with respect to  a number of such sites
and the cleanup of these potentially hazardous sites is receiving
greater attention from the government agencies involved.
Generally,actions directed at funding such site investigations and
cleanups include  suspected or known allegedly responsible parties.
PSE&G's past operations suggest that some remedial action may be
required. PSE&G does not expect its expenditures for any such site to
have a material effect on its financial position, results of operations
or net cash flows.

     EPA has determined that a portion of the Passaic River from a
point at its confluence with Hackensack River to a point six miles up-
river (the Site) is a "facility" within the meaning of that term as
defined under CERCLA.  EPA has also determined that five corporations
are persons within the meaning of CERCLA for purposes of liability
under CERCLA with respect to remedial actions at the Site.  EPA has
publicly indicated that it is continuing an assessment of available
information with respect to the identification of other responsible
parties.  One of these corporations has entered into a consent order
with EPA pursuant to which it is obligated to conduct a remedial
investigation, human and ecological risk assessment and feasibility



study relating to the Site.  Field work activities associated with
these actions were initiated in the spring of 1995.  A report
presenting the results of the remedial investigation and risk
assessment is scheduled to be filed in the fall of 1997.

     PSE&G and certain of its predecessors conducted operations at
properties along the Passaic River both within and outside the Site. 
EPA has not named PSE&G as a responsible party.  PSE&G cannot predict
what, if any, action EPA or others may take against PSE&G with respect
to the Site or, in such event, what contributions PSE&G may be required
to make to the costs of these initiatives.

     Presently, significant CERCLA/Spill Act actions involving PSE&G
include the following:

     (1) Claim made in 1985 by U. S. Department of the Interior under
CERCLA with respect to the Pennsylvania Avenue and Fountain Avenue
municipal landfills in Brooklyn, New York for damages to natural
resources. The U.S. Government alleges damages of approximately $200
million.  To PSE&G's knowledge, there has been no action on this matter
since 1988.  

     (2) Claim by EPA, Region III, under CERCLA with respect to a site
operated by Sealand Ltd. in Mount Pleasant Township, New Castle County,
Delaware. PSE&G and other companies have entered into an Administrative
Consent Order (ACO) obligating the signatories thereto to fund a
Remedial Investigation and Feasibility Study (RI/FS).  PSE&G's share
of the costs of actions taken at this site have approximated 25% of
such costs.  In 1991, EPA entered a Record of Decision (ROD) which
determined that no further action was required at the site. The State
of Delaware filed comments objecting to this ROD and hired a consultant
which has recommended that additional actions be taken at the site
based on its review of EPA's files. The State of Delaware required the
potentially responsible parties (PRPs) to conduct additional
groundwater analyses during 1994.  Based on its review of the
monitoring data, in 1995, the State of Delaware proposed to require the
PRPs to conduct additional groundwater monitoring for a five year
period and to reimburse it for its past and future oversight costs
associated with this site.  Delaware has not yet provided an estimate
on its oversight costs.

     (3) At the Duane Marine Salvage Corporation Superfund Site in
Perth Amboy, Middlesex County, New Jersey, PRPs including PSE&G, had
completed an EPA-approved surface removal action during 1986 and EPA



had required no further response actions.  However, NJDEP ordered that
an RI/FS be performed to address or disprove an alleged subsurface
contamination and, following negotiations with the PRPs, including
PSE&G, an ACO was executed.  The PRPs have submitted an RI/FS and a
second revised Draft Feasibility Study.  In 1994, NJDEP selected a
remedy for the site, the total cost of which is estimated to be
$1,500,000.  Based upon the claims made and activities taken to date,
PSE&G anticipates that its obligations with respect to this site will
be de minimis.

     (4) Spill Act Directive issued by NJDEP in 1987 to PRPs, including
PSE&G, with respect to a site formerly owned and operated by Borne
Chemical Company in Elizabeth, Union County, New Jersey, ordering
certain interim actions directed at both site security and the off-site
removal of certain hazardous substances. Certain PRPs, including PSE&G,
signed an ACO with NJDEP to secure the site, which has been completed.
After further negotiations, certain other PRPs, including PSE&G, signed
a further ACO requiring them to perform a removal action at the site,
which was completed in 1992. In 1994, NJDEP issued a third Directive
requiring the performance of an RI/FS.  Following negotiations with
certain PRPs including PSE&G, an MOA regarding the conduct of the RI/FS
was executed in 1995.  Based upon the claims made and activities taken
to date, PSE&G anticipates that its obligations with respect to this
site will be de minimis.

     (5) A second Directive pursuant to the Spill Act was issued by
NJDEP in 1989 to PRPs, including PSE&G, with respect to the PJP
Landfill in Jersey City, Hudson County, New Jersey (PJP), ordering
payment of operating and maintenance costs of approximately $150,000
and reasserting claims made in an initial  Directive for all past and
future costs associated with investigations and remediation of the
alleged contamination. Additionally, in 1990, also pursuant to the
Spill Act, NJDEP issued a Multi-Site Directive concerning four sites,
including PJP. With respect to the PJP site, NJDEP reasserted demands
for payment made in earlier Directives. The NJDEP alleges that it has
spent approximately $23 million in interim remedial measures at the PJP
site. The NJDEP also alleges that it will incur approximately $2
million in costs to complete a remedial investigation of the PJP site.
PSE&G has made a good-faith payment of approximately $21,000 to NJDEP
pursuant to the Multi-Site Directive in accordance with actions taken
by certain other PRPs named in these Directives.  The NJDEP has filed
a cost recovery action in Superior Court against certain of the other
PRPs named in the Directives.  Based upon the claims made and
activities taken to date, PSE&G anticipates that its obligations with
respect to this site will be de minimis.



     (6) Claim by EPA, Region III, under CERCLA with respect to a
Superfund Site in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, owned and formerly
operated by Metal Bank, Inc., as a non-ferrous scrap reclamation
facility. PSE&G, together with several other utilities, is alleged to
be liable either to conduct an RI/FS and undertake the necessary
cleanup, if any, or to reimburse EPA for the cost of performing these
functions. In 1991 these utilities, including PSE&G, entered into an
ACO with the EPA to perform an RI/FS, Docket No. III-91-34-DC.  The
RI/FS was completed and the RI/FS Report was submitted to EPA in
October 1994.  The RI/FS Report proposes various remedial alternatives
for consideration by EPA in its selection of a remedy for the site. 
In July 1995, the EPA issued its Proposed Remedial Action Plan (PRAP)
for the site.  The PRAP details the EPA's intention to select a remedy
that will cost between $17 and $30 million.  It is anticipated that EPA
will assert a claim against PSE&G and the other utility companies, and
perhaps others as well, for the performance or funding of the selected
remedy.  PSE&G's share of the costs of the proposed remedy is between
$4 and $8 million or approximately 26% of the total.

     (7)  The Klockner Road site is located in Hamilton Township,
Mercer County, New Jersey and occupies approximately two acres on the
Trenton Switching Station property.  In May 1995, the NJDEP formally
notified PSE&G that the Klockner Road site is an open case and that
absent voluntary action by PSE&G, the NJDEP would prioritize the site
and thereafter take appropriate enforcement action.  As a result of
this notice, PSE&G is in the process of filing an application for a
MOA.  Preliminary investigations indicate the potential presence of
soil and groundwater contamination at the site.  PSE&G's preliminary
estimate is that an environmental characterization of the site will
cost approximately $800,000.  The cost of any remediation of potential
site contamination is not presently estimable.

     (8) In U.S. v. CDMG Realty Co., et al., Civil Action No. 89-4246
(NHP) (RJH), pending in the United States District Court for the
District of New Jersey, PSE&G and over 60 other entities were joined
in January 1995 as additional third-party defendants.  Third-party
plaintiffs, an association of 44 entities, are essentially seeking
contribution and/or indemnification for the expenses they have incurred
and will incur as a result of having settled the direct claims of the
NJDEP and EPA related to the investigation and remediation of Sharkey's
Landfill, located in Parsippany-Troy Hills, Morris County, New Jersey. 
The claims are all alleged to be brought pursuant to CERCLA and PSE&G
is alleged to have arranged for the disposal of industrial wastes at
Sharkey's Landfill.  The claims with respect to this matter are
presently the subject of an alternative dispute resolution proceeding.
Based upon the claims made and activities to date, PSE&G estimates that
its obligations for this site will be de minimis.



     (9) In 1991, the NJDEP issued Directive and Notice to Insurers
Number Two (Directive Two) to 24 Insurers and 52 Respondents, including
PSE&G in connection with an investigation and remediation of the Global
Landfill Site in Old Bridge Township, Middlesex County New Jersey
(Global Site). Directive Two seeks recovery of past and anticipated
future NJDEP response costs ($37.4 million).  PSE&G's alleged liability
is based on assertions that it generated asbestos-containing materials
which were disposed of at the Global Site.  In 1991, PSE&G entered into
an agreement with the NJDEP and 29 other Directive Two Respondents
effecting a partial settlement of the foregoing costs subject to a
subsequent reallocation based upon the parties' further development of
information concerning their respective proportionate waste
contributions to the Global Site.  Negotiations are ongoing regarding
resolution of the balance of the response costs sought pursuant to
Directive Two. In 1993, the NJDEP and various participating PRPs,
including PSE&G, executed a Consent Decree whereby the participating
PRPs agreed to perform the remedial design and remedial action for the
operable unit one remedy as specified in a 1991 ROD (approximate total
cost $30 million). The Consent Decree was executed and entered by the
United States District Court for the District of New Jersey in 1993. 
Subject to a subsequent reallocation, the various parties to the
Consent Decree have agreed that PSE&G's contribution under the Consent
Decree settlement will be $300,000 (approximately 1% of the total
cost).  

     (10) In 1991, the New Jersey Department of Law and Public Safety,
Division of Law, issued Directive and Notice To Insurers Number One
(Directive One) to 50 Insurers and 20 Respondents, including PSE&G,
seeking from the Respondents payment of $5.5 million of NJDEP's
anticipated costs of remedial action and of administrative oversight
at the Combe Fill South Sanitary Landfill in Washington and Chester
Townships, Morris County, New Jersey (Combe Site). The $5.5 million
represents the NJDEP's 10% share of such anticipated costs pursuant to
a cooperative agreement with the United States regarding the selected
remedial action. Therefore, total site remediation costs approximate
$50 million. Further, the Directive One Respondents are directed to
perform the operation and maintenance of the remedial action including
all remedial facilities on the Combe Site. PSE&G's alleged liability
is based on the assertion that PSE&G-generated waste oil and water,
containing hazardous substances, was transported to the Combe Site and
applied to Combe Site roads for dust control.  Based upon the claims
made and PSE&G's investigation and response to same, PSE&G anticipates
that its obligations, if any, with respect to this site will be de
minimis.   



     (11) In United States of America v. Superior Tube Company, et al.,
Docket No. 89-7421 in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District
of Pennsylvania, PSE&G was served in 1990 with a Third-Party Complaint.
Pursuant to CERCLA, the United States filed suit against Superior Tube
Company (Superior) and others seeking recovery of past and future costs
incurred or to be incurred in the cleanup of the Moyer Landfill located
in Collegeville, Pennsylvania. Superior filed a Third-Party Complaint
naming approximately 150 third-party defendants, including PSE&G. 
Superior alleges that PSE&G generated, transported, arranged for the
disposal of and/or caused to be deposited certain hazardous substances
at the Moyer Landfill. On the basis of those allegations, Superior
seeks contribution and/or indemnification from the third-party
defendants, including PSE&G, on the United States' action against it.
PSE&G has participated in negotiations concerning resolution of the
United States' and Superior Tube's claims. Pursuant to settlement
negotiations amongst certain direct defendants, certain third party
defendants and the plaintiffs, the defending parties participating in
said negotiations are currently pursuing the possibility of resolving
all potential liability concerning the above referenced matter
(excluding any potential liability associated with a future claim, if
any, for natural resource damages) on behalf of certain de minimis
defending parties, including PSE&G.  Based upon the claims made and the
above referenced negotiations, PSE&G anticipates that its obligations
with respect to this site will be de minimis.

     (12) Spill Act Multi-Site Directive (Directive) issued by the
NJDEP to PRPs, including PSE&G, listing four separate sites, including
the former bulking and transfer facility called the Marvin Jonas
Transfer Station (Sewell Site) in Deptford Township, Gloucester County,
New Jersey. With regard to the Sewell Site, this Directive ordered
approximately 350 PRPs, including PSE&G, to enter into an ACO with
NJDEP, requiring them to remediate the Sewell Site. Certain PRPs,
including PSE&G, have completed the interim actions directed at both
site security and off-site disposal of containers, trailers and
contaminated surface soils. PRPs, including PSE&G, are currently
fulfilling the terms of a MOA entered into with NJDEP in 1993 to
conduct an RI/FS and, if necessary, take remedial action.  Based upon
the claims made and activities taken to date, PSE&G anticipates that
its obligations with respect to this site will be de minimis. 

     (13) In Transtech Industries, Inc. et al v. A&Z Septic Clean et
al., Docket No. 2-90-2578(HAA), filed on October 5, 1992, in the U.S.
District Court for the District of New Jersey, PSE&G has been named a
defendant in a Complaint which has been filed pursuant to CERCLA,
against several hundred parties seeking recovery of past and future



response costs incurred or to be incurred in the investigation and/or
remediation of the Kin-Buc Landfill, located in Edison Township,
Middlesex County, New Jersey. Plaintiffs allege that all named
defendants, including PSE&G, are PRPs as generators and/or transporters
of various hazardous substances ultimately deposited at the Kin-Buc
Landfill.  Based upon the claims made and activities taken to date,
PSE&G anticipates that its obligations with respect to this site will
be de minimis. 

     (14) In 1993, PSE&G acknowledged service of Plaintiff's Summons
and Complaint in a matter entitled The Fishbein Family Partnership v.
PPG Industries, Inc. and Public Service Electric and Gas Company. 
Pursuant to CERCLA, the Spill Act and various common law theories of
liability, the Plaintiff filed an action seeking declaratory relief
regarding responsibility for and recovery of damages and response costs
incurred and/or to be incurred as a result of the release or threatened
release of hazardous substances at property located in Jersey City,
Hudson County, New Jersey.  Plaintiff named PPG Industries, Inc. (PPG)
and PSE&G as defendants in the above-referenced action.  The Plaintiff
alleges that defendants are liable for the damages and relief sought
based on their past conduct of industrial operations at the site.  The
industrial operations referenced in Plaintiff's Complaint include
chromium ore processing operations (PPG and its predecessors) and coal
gasification operations (PSE&G and its predecessors).  PSE&G filed its
response to the Plaintiff's Complaint including cross-claims for
indemnity and contribution against co-defendant PPG.  PSE&G also filed
a Third Party Complaint against UGI Utilities, Inc. (UGI) seeking
indemnification and contribution as to any liability imposed upon PSE&G
attributable to UGI's past conduct of industrial operations on a
portion of the site.  In March 1995, PSE&G filed an Amended Third Party
Complaint extending the time period of PSE&G's allegations concerning
UGI's past conduct of industrial operations at the site.  In May 1995,
an Administrative Stay of this matter was entered pending either an
agreement between the NJDEP and PPG as to a cleanup plan for the site
or a determination of certain cross-motions for summary judgement filed
by Plaintiff and PPG.  Based upon the claims made and activities taken
to date, PSE&G's potential liability in this matter, if any, is not
currently estimable.

Other Potential Liability

     In addition to the sites individually listed above, PSE&G has
received 14 claims and/or inquiries concerning prospective enforcement
actions by the EPA and/or NJDEP. Such claims/inquiries relate to
alleged properties/sites where it has been alleged that an imminent and
substantial danger to the public or to the environment exists as a
result of an actual or threatened release of one or more hazardous
substances.  PSE&G's investigation and initial response concerning each
such claim and/or inquiry suggests that PSE&G's potential liability,
if any, is de minimis.

 
 
                                                  Enterprise
                                                  ----------
Consolidated Financial Statistics (A)





Operating Statistics

PSE&G
- -----



 
EDHI
 
     EDHI, a wholly owned, direct subsidiary of Enterprise, is
incorporated under the laws of New Jersey and is the parent company of
EDC, CEA, PSRC, EGDC, Capital and Funding. EDHI's principal executive
offices are located at One Riverfront Plaza, Newark, New Jersey 07102.
EDHI's focus is on investment in the independent energy market. For a
discussion of the impact on EDHI of Enterprise's agreement with the BPU
regarding utility/nonutility activities, see Regulation.
 
  EDC
 
     On December 6, 1995, Enterprise announced that EDHI is pursuing
the divestiture of EDC.  Enterprise anticipates that, subject to
satisfying certain conditions, EDHI will divest EDC during 1996, but
no formal plan of divestiture has been approved.  The decision stems
from Enterprise's belief that EDC is not fully recognized in the value
of Enterprise's Common Stock and that, with the advent of the energy
futures market, it is not necessary for Enterprise to own large volumes
of oil and gas. 

     EDC, a New Jersey corporation, has its principal executive offices
at 1000 Louisiana Street, Suite 2900, Houston, Texas 77002. EDC is an
oil and gas exploration and production and marketing company with
principal operations both onshore and offshore in the southern United
States and a growing international production base. EDC will continue
to pursue a program to grow its reserve base through a combination of
strategic acquisitions, high potential exploration activities and
exploitation of its acquired properties and new discoveries.  EDC's
worldwide 1995 production totaled 99 BCFE.  Year-end 1995 proved
reserves were 630 billion cubic feet of gas and 48 million barrels of
oil, an increase of 6% and a decrease of 1%, respectively, compared to
1994. As of December 31, 1995 and 1994, EDC's consolidated assets
aggregated $756 million and $729 million, respectively.  EDC has
operations encompassing about 5.6 million net acres in 13 states,
offshore in the Gulf of Mexico and both onshore and offshore in the
United Kingdom, Argentina, Senegal, Ireland, Tunisia and China. EDC is
exempt from direct regulation by the BPU and FERC except that certain
FERC approval is required to transport its gas interstate from its
discovery fields.  (See Note 1 -- Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies of Notes.)





  CEA
 
     CEA, a New Jersey corporation, has its principal executive offices
at 1200 East Ridgewood Avenue, Ridgewood, New Jersey 07450. CEA invests
and participates in the development and operation of cogeneration,
thermal and power production facilities, which include domestic QFs,
two foreign EWGs and one foreign utility company. CEA is expected to
be the primary vehicle for EDHI's business growth for the foreseeable
future, with emphasis on international projects.  CEA's two direct
subsidiaries, CEA New Jersey, Inc. (CEA New Jersey) and CEA USA, Inc.
(CEA USA), hold certain of its investments.  CEA New Jersey's
subsidiaries invest in projects in New Jersey selling power to PSE&G. 
CEA USA's subsidiaries invest in projects selling power to other
domestic and foreign entities. CEA and/or its subsidiaries and
affiliates have investments in 22 commercially operating cogeneration
or independent power projects, one anthracite coal mine and one project
under construction.  CEA continuously evaluates the status of project
development and construction in light of the realities of timely
completion and the costs incurred. 

     CEA's investments in QF projects have been undertaken with other
participants because CEA, together with any other utility affiliate,
may not own more than 50% of a QF under applicable law subsequent to
the in-service date.  Projects involving EWGs are not restricted to a
50% investment limitation.  CEA's projects are diversified
internationally and technologically and are generally financed through
non-recourse debt. CEA is an investor in these projects and the
electricity produced by the facilities is not part of PSE&G's installed
capacity. However, some of such power is being purchased by PSE&G
pursuant to long-term contracts with the applicable projects.   

     As of December 31, 1995 and 1994, CEA's consolidated assets
aggregated $271 million and $232 million, respectively.  (See Note 7 --
Long-Term Investments of Notes.)
  
  PSRC

     PSRC, a New Jersey corporation, has its principal executive
offices at One Riverfront Plaza, Newark, New Jersey 07102. PSRC makes
primarily passive investments in assets that can provide funds for
future growth as well as provide incremental earnings for Enterprise.
Investments have been made in leveraged and direct financing leases,
project financings, venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds, real
estate limited partnerships and  securities. The maturities of the
portfolio's investments are also fairly diverse, with some having terms
exceeding 30 years. PSRC's leveraged lease investments include a wide



range of asset sectors. Some of the transactions in which PSRC and its
subsidiaries participate involve other equity investors. PSRC plans to
limit new investments to existing commitments and investments related
to the energy business.

     PSRC has a gas marketing subsidiary which markets natural gas and
associated services on an unregulated basis to commercial and
industrial gas consumers nationwide.
 
     PSRC is a limited partner in various partnerships and is committed
to make investments from time to time, upon the request of the
respective general partners. On December 31, 1995, $58 million remained
as PSRC's unfunded commitment subject to call. As of year-end 1995 and
1994, PSRC's long-term investments aggregated $1.4 and $1.3 billion,
respectively.  

  EGDC
 
     EGDC, a New Jersey corporation having its principal executive
offices at One Riverfront Plaza, Newark, New Jersey 07102, is a
nonresidential real estate development and investment business. EGDC
has investments in ten commercial real estate properties (two of which
are developed) in several states. EGDC's strategy is to preserve and
build the value of its assets to allow for the controlled disposition
of its properties as the real estate market improves. As of December
31, 1995 and 1994, EGDC's consolidated assets aggregated $116 million
and $189 million, respectively.  

  Capital
 
     Capital, a New Jersey corporation, has its principal executive
offices at 80 Park Plaza, Newark, New Jersey 07101. Capital serves as
a financing vehicle for EDHI's businesses, borrowing on their behalf
on the basis of a minimum net worth maintenance agreement with
Enterprise.  That agreement provides, among other things, that
Enterprise (i) maintain its ownership, directly or indirectly, of all
outstanding common stock of Capital, (ii) cause Capital to have at all
times a positive tangible net worth of at least $100,000 and (iii) make
sufficient contributions of liquid assets to Capital in order to permit
it to pay its debt obligations.  In 1993, Enterprise agreed with the
BPU to make a good-faith effort to eliminate such Enterprise support
within six to ten years.  Intercompany borrowing rates are established
based upon Capital's cost of funds. Effective January 31, 1995, Capital
will not have more than $650 million of debt outstanding at any time. 
Capital's assets consist principally of demand notes of EDC, CEA and 



PSRC. As of December 31, 1995 and 1994, Capital had outstanding $477.5
million and $632 million, respectively, of its long-term debt. For
additional information, see Construction and Capital Requirements --
Financing Activities and MD&A -- Liquidity and Capital Resources --
EDHI.
 
  Funding
 
     Funding, a New Jersey corporation, has its principal executive
offices at 80 Park Plaza, Newark, New Jersey 07101. Funding serves as
a financing vehicle for EDHI's businesses (excluding EGDC), borrowing
on their behalf, as well as investing their short-term funds.
Short-term investments are made only if the funds cannot be employed
in intercompany loans. Intercompany borrowing rates are established
based upon Funding's cost of funds. Funding is providing both long and
short-term capital for the nonutility businesses other than EGDC on the
basis of an unconditional guaranty from EDHI, but without direct
support from Enterprise. As of December 31, 1995 and 1994, Funding's
assets consisted principally of demand notes of EDC, CEA and PSRC, all
of which are pledged to Funding's lenders and which aggregated $492
million and $334 million, respectively. For additional information, see
MD&A -- Liquidity and Capital Resources -- EDHI.



ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

PSE&G
 
     The statements under this Item as to ownership of properties are
made without regard to leases, tax and assessment liens, judgments,
easements, rights of way, contracts, reservations, exceptions,
conditions, immaterial liens and encumbrances and other outstanding
rights affecting such properties, none of which is considered to be
significant in the operations of PSE&G, except that PSE&G's First and
Refunding Mortgage (Mortgage), securing the bonds issued thereunder,
constitutes a direct first mortgage lien on substantially all of such
property. 

     PSE&G maintains insurance coverage against loss or damage to its
principal plants and properties, subject to certain exceptions, to the
extent such property is usually insured and insurance is available at
a reasonable cost. For a discussion of nuclear insurance, see Note 12
- -- Commitments and Contingent Liabilities of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.   
 
     The electric lines and gas mains of PSE&G are located over or
under public highways, streets, alleys or lands, except where they are
located over or under  property owned by PSE&G or occupied by it under
easements or other rights. These  easements and rights are deemed by
PSE&G to be adequate for the purposes for  which they are being used.
Generally, where payments are minor in amount, no  examinations of
underlying titles as to the rights of way for transmission or 
distribution lines or mains have been made.  



  Electric Properties
 
     As of December 31, 1995, PSE&G's share of installed
generating capacity was 10,400 MW, as shown in the following
table:
 


 

     As of December 31, 1995, PSE&G owned and operated approximately
15,467 miles of gas mains, owned 12 gas distribution headquarters and
one subheadquarters and leased one other subheadquarters all in two
operating regions located in New Jersey and owned one meter shop in New
Jersey serving all such areas. In addition, PSE&G operated 61 natural
gas metering or regulating stations, all located in New Jersey, of
which 28 were located on land owned by customers or natural gas
pipeline companies supplying PSE&G with natural gas and were operated
under lease, easement or other similar arrangement. In some instances,
portions of the metering and regulating facilities were owned by the
pipeline companies.
 
Office Buildings and Facilities
 
     PSE&G leases substantially all of a 26-story office tower for its
corporate headquarters at 80 Park Plaza, Newark, New Jersey, together
with an adjoining three-story building. PSE&G also leases other office
space at various locations throughout New Jersey for district offices
and offices for various corporate groups and services. PSE&G also owns
various other sites for training, testing, parking, records storage,
research, repair and maintenance, warehouse facilities and for other
purposes related to its business.
 
     EDHI owns no real property. EDHI leases its corporate headquarters
at One Riverfront Plaza, Newark, New Jersey 07102. For a brief general
description of the properties of the subsidiaries of EDHI, see Item 1.
Business -- EDHI.



ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     In October 1995, Enterprise received a letter from a
representative of a purported shareholder demanding that it commence
legal action against certain of its officers and directors with regard
to nuclear operations and the current shutdown of the Salem generating
station.  In January, 1996, Enterprise and each of its directors except
Forrest J. Remick were served with a civil complaint in a shareholder
derivative action by such purported shareholder on behalf of Enterprise
shareholders (Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated by G.E.
Stricklin, derivatively vs. E. James Ferland, et al., Docket No.
L1068395, Superior Court of New Jersey, Law Division, Camden County
filed December 27, 1995).  The complaint seeks removal of certain
executive officers of PSE&G and Enterprise, certain changes in the
composition of Enterprise's Board of Directors, recovery of damages and
certain other relief for alleged losses purportedly arising out of
PSE&G's operation of the Salem and Hope Creek generating stations.  The
Board of Directors has commenced an investigation of the matters raised
in the October demand letter, and that investigation has not yet been
completed.  Following conclusion of the investigation, the Board will
meet to determine what action, if any, should be taken with respect to
the complaint filed in the shareholder derivative action. 

     In addition, see the following, at the pages indicated:
 
     (1) Page 5. Proceedings before FERC relating to competition and
electric wholesale power markets. (Inquiry Concerning the Pricing
Policy for Transmission Services Provided by Utilities Under the
Federal Power Act, Docket No. RM93-19.)
 
     (2)  Page 11. Proceedings before the BPU relating to PSE&G's
Second Largest Customer, filed January 6, 1995, in Docket No.
ER95010005.

     (3) Page 44. Requests filed in 1974 and later supplemented, to EPA
and NJDEP to establish thermal discharges and intake structures for
PSE&G's electric generating stations (Sewaren Generating Station, NJ
0000680; Hudson Generating Station, NJ 0000647; Kearny Generating
Station, NJ 0000655; Salem Generating Station, NJ 0005622; Linden
Generating Station, NJ 0000663). 

     (4) Page 46. Notice of Violation issued by EPA against Eagle Point
Cogeneration Partnership regarding alleged violations of air permit.

     (5) Pages 48 through 53. Various administrative actions, claims,
litigation and requests for information by federal and/or state
agencies, and/or private parties, under CERCLA, RCRA, and state
environmental laws to compel PRPs, which may include PSE&G, to provide
information with respect to transportation and disposal of hazardous
substances and wastes, and/or to undertake or contribute to the costs
of investigative and/or cleanup actions at various locations because
of actual or threatened releases of one or more potentially hazardous
substances and/or wastes. 



     (6)  Page 74. Proceedings before The BPU relating to New Jersey
Partners in Power Plan filed January 16, 1996, in Docket No.
E096010028.

     (7) Page 115. Proceedings before the BPU relating to PSE&G's LGAC,
filed October 2, 1995, in Docket No. GR9510456.

     (8) Page 116. Proceedings before the BPU relating to recovery of
replacement power costs in connection with the Salem 1 shutdown, May
5, 1995, Docket No. ER94070293.
 
     (9) Page 116. Proceedings before the BPU relating to PSE&G's LEAC
Remediation Program Costs (RAC), filed July 21, 1995, in Docket No.
GR95070344.

     (10) Page 117. Generic proceeding before the BPU relating to
recovery of capacity costs associated with power purchases from
cogenerators, September 16, 1994, in Docket No. EX93060255.




ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
     Enterprise and PSE&G, inapplicable.



 
ITEM 10.  EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANTS
 
     Enterprise and PSE&G.  Information regarding executive officers
required by this Item is set forth in Part III, Item 10 hereof. 

 
                                PART II
 
ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND 
         RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
 
     Enterprise's Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock
Exchange, Inc. and the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc. All of PSE&G's
common stock is owned by Enterprise, its corporate parent. As of
December 31, 1995, there were 175,831 holders of record of Enterprise
Common Stock.  

     The following table indicates the high and low sale prices for
Enterprise's Common Stock, as reported in The Wall Street Journal as
Composite Transactions and dividends paid for the periods indicated:


     Since 1986, PSE&G has made regular cash payments to Enterprise in
the form of dividends on outstanding shares of PSE&G's Common Stock.
PSE&G has paid quarterly dividends on its common stock in each year
commencing in 1948, the year of the distribution of PSE&G's common
stock by Public Service Corporation of New Jersey, the former parent
of PSE&G.  Since 1992, EDHI has made regular cash payments to
Enterprise in the form of dividends on outstanding shares of EDHI's
common stock. Enterprise has paid quarterly dividends in each year
commencing with the corporate restructuring of PSE&G when Enterprise
became the owner of all the outstanding common stock of PSE&G. While
the Board of Directors of Enterprise intends to continue the practice
of paying dividends quarterly, amounts and dates of such dividends as
may be declared will necessarily be dependent upon Enterprise's future
earnings, financial requirements and other factors.  See MD&A --
Dividends.

 

     The ability of Enterprise to declare and to pay dividends is
contingent upon its receipt of dividend payments from its subsidiaries.
PSE&G has restrictions on the payments of dividends which are contained
in its Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, certain of
the indentures supplemental to its Mortgage and certain debenture bond
indentures. Under these restrictions, dividends on PSE&G's common stock
may be paid only out of PSE&G's earned surplus and may not reduce
PSE&G's earned surplus to less than $10 million.  PSE&G dividends on
common stock would be limited to 75% of Earnings Available for Public
Service Enterprise Group Incorporated if payment thereof would reduce
PSE&G's Stock Equity to less than 33 1/3% of PSE&G's Total
Capitalization and would be limited to 50% of Earnings Available for
Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated if payment thereof would
reduce Stock Equity to less than 25% of PSE&G's Total Capitalization,
as each of said terms is defined in said PSE&G's debenture bond
indentures.  Further, under an indenture relating to the loan to PSE&G
of the proceeds of the Monthly Income Preferred Securities of Public
Service Electric and Gas Capital, L.P. (see Note 4. -- Schedule of
Consolidated Capital Stock and Other Securities of Notes), dividends
may not be paid on PSE&G's capital stock as long as any payments on
PSE&G's deferrable interest subordinated debentures issued under said
indenture have been deferred or there is a default under said indenture
or PSE&G's guarantee relating to the Monthly Income Preferred
Securities.  None of these restrictions presently limits the payment
of dividends out of current earnings. The amount of Enterprise's and
PSE&G's consolidated retained earnings not subject to these
restrictions at December 31, 1995 was $1.6 billion and $1.4 billion,
respectively.  


 
ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
Enterprise


 
  PSE&G
 


   
 
ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL 
         CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
                                ENTERPRISE
 
     Significant factors affecting the consolidated financial condition
and the results of operations of Public Service Enterprise Group
Incorporated (Enterprise) and its subsidiaries are described below.
This discussion refers to the Consolidated Financial Statements and
related Notes of Enterprise and should be read in conjunction with such
statements and notes.
 
  Overview
 
     Enterprise has two direct wholly owned subsidiaries, Public
Service Electric and Gas Company (PSE&G) and Enterprise Diversified
Holdings Incorporated (EDHI). Enterprise's principal subsidiary, PSE&G,
is an operating public utility providing electric and gas service in
certain areas in the State of New Jersey. 
 
     EDHI is the parent of Enterprise's nonutility businesses: Energy
Development Corporation (EDC), an oil and gas exploration and
production and marketing company; Community Energy Alternatives
Incorporated (CEA), an investor in and developer and operator of
cogeneration and independent power production (IPP) facilities and
exempt wholesale generators (EWGs); Public Service Resources
Corporation (PSRC), which has made primarily passive investments; and
Enterprise Group Development Corporation (EGDC), a diversified
nonresidential real estate development and investment business.  EDHI
also has two finance subsidiaries: PSEG Capital Corporation (Capital),
which provides privately placed debt financing on the basis of a
minimum net worth maintenance agreement from Enterprise and Enterprise
Capital Funding Corporation (Funding), which provides privately placed
debt financing guaranteed by EDHI but without direct support from
Enterprise.  Enterprise has been conducting a controlled exit from the
real estate business since 1993 and, in December 1995, announced that
it intends to divest EDC.
 
     As of December 31, 1995 and December 31, 1994, PSE&G comprised 85%
of Enterprise assets. For each of the years 1995, 1994 and 1993, PSE&G
revenues were 93% of Enterprise's revenues and PSE&G's earnings
available to Enterprise for such years were 88%, 91% and 96%,
respectively, of Enterprise's net income.
 
     The major factors which will affect Enterprise's future results
include general and regional economic conditions, PSE&G's customer
retention and growth, the ability of PSE&G and EDHI to meet competitive
pressures and to contain costs, the ability to respond to and take
advantage of opportunities arising from increasing competition in the



utility business, the adequacy and timeliness of rate relief, cost
recovery and necessary regulatory approvals, the ability to continue
to operate and maintain nuclear programs in accordance with Nuclear
Regulatory Commission (NRC) and New Jersey Board of Public Utilities
(BPU) requirements, the impact of environmental regulations, continued
access to the capital markets and continued favorable regulatory
treatment of consolidated tax benefits. (See Note 2 -- Rate Matters,
Note 10 -- Federal Income Taxes and Note 12 -- Commitments and
Contingent Liabilities of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
("Notes").)

  Competition

     The regulatory structure which has historically embraced the
electric and gas industry is in the process of transition.  Legislative
and regulatory initiatives, at both the federal and state levels, are
designed to promote competition and will continue to impose additional
pressures on PSE&G's ability to retain customers.  In addition, new
technology and interest in self generation and cogeneration have
provided customers with alternative sources of energy.

     Over the last several years, the gas industry has been
transformed.  Today, commercial and industrial customers can negotiate
their own gas purchases directly with producers or brokers, while PSE&G
is required to provide intrastate transportation of such purchased gas
to the customers' facilities.  Although PSE&G is not providing gas
sales service to certain commercial and industrial customers, to date
there has been no negative impact on earnings since sales service and
transportation service tariffs result in the same non-fuel revenue per
therm.  Additionally, as a result of this restructuring, PSE&G has been
able to negotiate lower cost gas supplies for those customers who
continue to be part of its bundled rate schedules.  A potential
significant competitive challenge could emerge if interstate pipeline
companies are permitted to expand their facilities into PSE&G territory
and provide intrastate transportation to customers.  However, this type
of expansion would require federal and state regulatory approvals not
currently in existence.

     The restructuring of the electric industry is more complex and
evolving at a slower pace than that of the gas industry. Federal
legislation, such as the National Energy Policy Act (EPAct) has eased
restrictions on independent power producers (IPP) in an effort to
increase competition in the wholesale electric generation market. As
the barriers to entry in the power production business have been
lowered, the construction of cogeneration facilities and independent



power production facilities has been growing, with the result of
creating lower cost alternatives for large commercial and industrial
customers. Presently, PSE&G is in the process of assessing the 
potential for individual arrangements with commercial and industrial
customers which have such competitive alternatives, but PSE&G believes
that it does not currently have a material exposure with respect to
such customers.

     Further, EPAct authorized the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
(FERC) to mandate utilities to transport and deliver or "wheel" energy
for the supply of bulk power to wholesale customers. In March 1995,
FERC issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NOPR) that would require
utilities to (1) establish open access to all wholesale sellers and
buyers, (2) offer transmission service comparable to service they
provide themselves and (3) take transmission service under the same
tariffs offered to other buyers and sellers. FERC's stated position is
that it will ensure that utilities have a fair opportunity to recover
prudently incurred investments that could become stranded costs as a
result of the NOPR.  

     In the wholesale electric market, other competitive pressures,
such as municipalization, may also have an impact on utilities in the
evolving electric power industry.  Municipalization involves the
acquisition and operation of existing investor-owned facilities by a
municipal utility (MUNI) through condemnation, purchase or lease or the
construction and operation of duplicate, parallel facilities within a
municipal boundary.  As a result, utilities, such as PSE&G, could lose
customers (residential, commercial and industrial) in the municipality
that is served by the MUNI, as well as lose the municipal entity itself
as a customer.
      
     EPAct granted the states sole authority to mandate retail
wheeling. New Jersey regulators have been reviewing existing
regulations in an effort to develop a revised regulatory structure that
would afford public utilities, such as PSE&G, increased flexibility to
meet the competitive challenges of the future.  Phase I of the New
Jersey Energy Master Plan (Phase I), a two-phase plan to better manage
the future energy needs of the State, has been completed.  Phase I
called for legislation that would allow New Jersey utilities to
propose, subject to BPU approval, alternatives to rate base/rate of
return pricing, allow for pricing flexibility under certain standards
for customers with competitive options and equalize the impact of tax
policies, such as the New Jersey Gross Receipts and Franchise Tax
(NJGRT) currently assessed on retail energy utility sales, upon all
energy producers.  On July 20, 1995, Governor Whitman signed into law
legislation which provides utilities the flexibility



to propose, subject to BPU approval, alternatives to existing rate
base/rate of return pricing and offer negotiated off-tariff agreements
to customers with competitive options.  On June 1, 1995, the BPU issued
its order initiating a formal Phase II proceeding of the Master Plan. 
The proceeding will address wholesale and retail competition in New
Jersey.

     Recoverability of stranded costs is largely dependent on the
transition rules established by regulators, including FERC and the BPU. 
Stranded costs that could result as the industry moves to a more
competitive environment include investments in generating facilities,
transmission assets, purchase power agreements where the price being
paid under such an agreement exceeds the market price for electricity
and regulatory assets for which recovery is based solely on continued
cost based regulation. At this time, management cannot predict the
level of stranded costs, if any, or the extent to which regulators will
allow recovery of such costs.

     Increased competition and the shift of risks and opportunities
between rate payers and PSE&G resulting from PSE&G's filing of its
proposed Alternative Rate Plan (discussed below) will increase the
emphasis upon electric operational reliability, efficiency and cost. 
While the incremental cost of nuclear production is less expensive than
PSE&G's other sources of generation, comparatively high embedded costs
for nuclear plants increase the need for PSE&G to optimize the
utilization of its nuclear generating capacity in order to make its
actual generation output cost competitive.

     In order to succeed in this increasingly competitive environment,
Enterprise and its subsidiaries have taken the following steps designed
to retain customers, reduce costs, improve operations and strategically
position itself for future operation:

1) On January 16, 1996, PSE&G filed its proposed alternative rate plan,
the "New Jersey Partners in Power" Plan (Alternative Rate Plan).  This
seven-year proposed Alternative Rate Plan allows for a transition to
a competitive energy marketplace while substantially shifting the
business and financial risks and opportunities involved in such
transition away from customers to PSE&G.  Some of the key features of
the proposal are: (a) an indexed or price-capped approach to replace
the rate base/rate of return form of regulation including the
discontinuance of the electric Levelized Energy Adjustment Clause
(LEAC)  and the BPU's Nuclear Performance Standard (NPS), (b) a
productivity gains sharing mechanism with electric and gas customers,
(c) continued recovery of costs associated with activities mandated by
state or federal agencies and (d) a program of rewards and penalties
based on the performance of certain key overall service indicators,
such as the



duration of customer power outages compared to a five year average. 
For a full discussion of the Alternative Rate Plan, see Note  2 -- Rate
Matters of Notes.

2) PSE&G reorganized its senior nuclear leadership team to address
operation and performance issues at PSE&G operated nuclear facilities
and completed a thorough work scope assessment of Salem 1 and Salem 2
in order to return these units to safe, reliable operation over the
long-term.

3) PSE&G reorganized to reflect the evolution toward stand-alone energy
and energy services businesses designed to compete successfully in the
future.  The reorganization "unbundled" the services previously
provided by the electric and gas businesses.  The focus is now on areas
of business: Generation, Transmission and Distribution and Customer
Services.  

4) Also as part of the corporate reorganization, a new business was
created, Enterprise Ventures & Services Corporation, to pursue products
and services which can be marketed beyond traditional geographic and
industry boundaries.  Among these are: natural gas marketing in the
wake of deregulation of that industry, conservation and energy
management services and a product development venture with AT&T Corp.
to pilot and eventually market two-way customer communications systems
and services.

5) PSE&G developed initiatives, including the announced closure of five
older, less efficient generating units, to reduce annual fossil
generation operating and maintenance expenses, as well as to reduce
annual fossil capital expenditures.

6) PSE&G has established a deleveraging plan to retire more than $1
billion of outstanding debt over the next five years and to fund its
current five-year construction program entirely through internally
generated cash.

7) PSE&G became the first utility in the Northeast to implement a
service guarantee program.  It covers nine key service areas and
provides direct bill credits to customers should PSE&G fail to live up
to its promises.

8) The Strategic Account Marketing Organization was created within
PSE&G to provide more individualized service to its 200 largest
customers. 

9) PSE&G received BPU approval for its proposed Experimental Hourly
Energy Pricing Tariff and the first service agreement thereunder with
its second largest customer.  This type of agreement serves as an
incentive to retain customers with other energy alternatives in PSE&G's
customer base, as well as in New Jersey. 



10) Also in 1995, PSE&G completed the Bergen Repowering Project which
improved the efficiency and environmental effectiveness of the
facility.  Fuel costs for the facility will be reduced by approximately
$30 million annually.

11) CEA pursued business opportunities in certain international
markets.  During 1995, CEA closed on three projects and a strategic
alliance in China and South America.

12) Enterprise announced that EDHI will pursue the divestiture of EDC. 
The decision to divest EDC stems from Enterprise's conclusion that
ownership of large oil and natural gas reserves is no longer necessary
to provide efficient energy solutions to customers and that the true
market value of EDC is not reflected in the price of Enterprise Common
Stock.

     Enterprise and its subsidiaries remain committed to the pursuit
of initiatives to contain costs and retain customers.

  Accounting for the Effects of Regulation

     Currently, PSE&G accounts for the effects of regulation in
accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 71
"Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation" (SFAS 71). 
In accordance with the provisions of SFAS 71, PSE&G defers certain
expenses (regulatory assets) on the basis that they will be recovered
from customers as part of the ratemaking process.  PSE&G believes that
if its proposed Alternative Rate Plan is approved essentially as
proposed, it would continue to meet the criteria to account for certain
utility revenues and expenses in accordance with SFAS 71.  However, if
future events or regulatory changes limit PSE&G's ability to establish
prices to recover its costs, PSE&G might conclude that it no longer
meets the application criteria to defer certain expenses in accordance
with SFAS 71. If PSE&G were to discontinue the application of SFAS 71,
the accounting impact would be an extraordinary, non-cash charge to
operations that could be material to the financial position and results
of operations of Enterprise and PSE&G.  

     PSE&G has certain regulatory assets resulting from the use of a
level of depreciation expense in the rate making process that is less
than the amount that would be recorded under Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles (GAAP) for non-regulated companies. PSE&G cannot
presently quantify what the financial statement impact may be if
depreciation expense were required to be determined absent regulation,
but the impact on the financial position and results of operations of
PSE&G and Enterprise could be material.



     Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 121 "Accounting
for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets" (SFAS 121) effective for 1996,
establishes accounting standards for the impairment of long-lived
assets.  SFAS 121 also requires that regulatory assets which are no
longer probable of recovery through future revenues be charged to
earnings.  The adoption of SFAS 121 is not expected to have a material
impact on the financial position or results of operations of PSE&G and
Enterprise.

  PSE&G Energy and Fuel Adjustment Clauses
 
     Under the existing regulatory framework, PSE&G has fuel and energy
tariff rate adjustment clauses, the Levelized Gas Adjustment Charge
(LGAC) and the LEAC, which are designed to permit adjustments for
changes in electric energy and gas supply costs and certain other costs
as approved by the BPU, when compared to cost recovery included in base
rates. Presently, charges under the clauses are primarily based on
energy and gas supply costs which are normally projected over
twelve-month periods except for large gas commercial and industrial
customers for which commencing January 1, 1996, gas supply costs are
projected monthly. The changes in the clauses do not directly affect
earnings because such costs are adjusted monthly to match amounts
recovered through revenues except for the financing costs of carrying
underrecovered balances and required interest payments on net
overrecovered balances. Under the clauses, if actual costs differ from
the costs recovered, the amount of the underrecovery or overrecovery
is deferred. Actual costs otherwise includable in the LEAC are subject
to adjustment by the BPU in accordance with the NPS. (See Note 2 --
Rate Matters and Note 12 -- Commitments and Contingent Liabilities of
Notes.)  The Alternative Rate Plan proposes discontinuing LEAC and NPS
and would substantially shift the risks and opportunities involved in
managing changes in fuel and replacement power costs from customers to
PSE&G.

  Accounting for Stock Compensation

     Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 "Accounting
for Stock-Based Compensation" (SFAS 123) is effective for fiscal years
that begin after December 15, 1995.  SFAS 123 establishes financial
accounting and reporting standards for stock based compensation plans
and includes all arrangements by which employees receive shares of
stock or other equity instruments of the employer or by which the
employer incurs liabilities to employees in amounts based on the price
of the employer's stock.  The adoption of SFAS 123 is not expected to
have a material impact on the financial position or results of
operations of PSE&G and Enterprise.




  Corporate Policy for the Use of Derivatives

     Enterprise and its subsidiaries have established a policy to use
derivatives only for the purpose of managing financial risk and not for
speculative purposes.  EDHI currently uses derivatives to manage
financial risk for EDC and PSRC, including its subsidiary United States
Energy Partners (USEP).  The derivatives are used to mitigate the
impact on earnings of volatile gas prices for EDC and USEP and volatile
security prices for PSRC's investing activities. For details, see Note
8 -- Financial Instruments and Risk Management of Notes.  Although
PSE&G does not currently use derivatives, if the Alternative Rate Plan
is approved as proposed, PSE&G could find derivatives to be a useful
and appropriate tool in managing the volatility of fuel prices, among
other things.  

  Nuclear Operations

     Operation of the Salem units has continued to present challenges
to PSE&G.  The units have experienced equipment failures which,
combined with personnel errors, have precipitated or contributed to
plant events or trips which have led to a number of outages over the
lifetime of the units.  

     Both of the Salem units are currently out of service and their
return dates are subject to completion of testing, analysis, repair
activity and NRC concurrence that they are prepared to restart. 
Restart of Salem 1, which had originally been scheduled for the second
quarter of 1996, will be delayed for a substantial period as a result
of the ongoing steam generator inspection and analysis.  Salem 2, which
is also undergoing steam generator inspection and analysis is still
scheduled to return to service in the third quarter of 1996.  The
inability to successfully return these units to continuous, safe
operation could have a material effect on the financial position,
results of operation and net cash flows of Enterprise and PSE&G.



  Results of Operations

     Earnings per share of Enterprise Common Stock were $2.71 in 1995,
$2.78 in 1994 and $2.50 in 1993.

     In 1995, Enterprise earnings decreased principally due to
increased operating expenses and lower gas sales from PSE&G.  These
decreases in earnings were partially offset by improved electric sales,
EDC revenues resulting from the settlement of litigation related to a
take or pay sales contract and from gains realized on sales of
properties by EDC.

     In 1994, the increase in Enterprise earnings was driven primarily
by increased weather related electric and gas sales.  Enterprise
earnings also benefited from higher investment income from PSRC.

     PSE&G - Earnings Available to Enterprise




 
     During 1995, electric revenues were impacted by higher residential
and commercial sales resulting from a recovering economy, warm summer
weather and a modest increase in customer base.  In addition, other
electric revenues increased principally due to higher miscellaneous
revenues from increased capacity sales to unaffiliated utilities and
to wholesale customers, service reconnections, temporary services and
revenues from Public Service Conservation Resources Corporation
(PSCRC), PSE&G's energy services subsidiary.  Capacity sales are sales
for the reservation of a specified quantity of PSE&G system generating
capacity and must be paid even when the energy is not taken.



     In 1995, gas revenues decreased due to the mild winter weather,
partially offset by revenues resulting from the rapidly growing off
system sales and higher gas service contract revenues.  Off system
sales are sales of excess gas to brokers and other utilities which are
not part of PSE&G's firm customer base.  Earnings on these sales are
shared between the firm customer and PSE&G on an 80/20 split,
respectively.

     In 1994, electric and gas revenues benefited from weather related
sales which primarily impacted electric commercial sales and all firm
gas rate schedules.  Other electric revenues increased principally due
to increased capacity sales to unaffiliated utilities and increased
miscellaneous revenues, partially offset by lower energy sales to the
unaffiliated utilities.  Other gas revenues were significantly impacted
by a one time $10 million legal settlement of a gas contract.

     PSE&G - Expenses

          Fuel Expenses

     As discussed in the PSE&G Energy and Fuel Adjustment Clauses
section, variances in fuel expenses do not directly affect earnings
because of the adjustment clause mechanism.  However, if the proposed
Alternative Rate Plan is adopted as filed, future changes in electric
fuel and replacement power costs could impact earnings.

          Other Operation Expenses

     During 1995, other operation expenses decreased $10 million from
1994 levels.  PSE&G had lower nuclear and miscellaneous production
expenses.  Nuclear production expenses decreased during 1995 due in
part to the extended outage of Salem Units 1 and 2.  PSE&G also secured
savings in miscellaneous expenditures, such as clerical and office
supplies in its steam production area.  These savings were partially
offset by increased marketing expenditures for customer related
programs initiated in 1995.

     During 1994, other operation expenses increased $77 million when
compared to 1993 principally due to increased nuclear production
expenses which were higher than 1993 levels when Salem had a refueling
outage, increased transmission and distribution expenses incurred
during the bitter 1994 winter and increased administrative and general
expenses primarily due to a rise in personal and property damage claim
expenses.  The increase in personal and property damage claims was
directly related to storm damage and other weather related occurrences.



          Maintenance Expenses

     Maintenance expense increased $4 million in 1995 in comparison to
1994 due to the extended outage at Salem Units 1 and 2, partially
offset by decreased expenses for electric and gas distribution
facilities.  Maintenance expense for 1994 was $4 million higher than
in 1993 primarily due to the 1994 Hope Creek refueling outage and
increased expenses for gas distribution facilities which resulted from
the extremely cold weather during January and February 1994.

          Depreciation and Amortization Expenses

     Depreciation and Amortization expenses increased $39 million in
1995 when compared to 1994 and $41 million in 1994 when compared to
1993.  The increases in 1995 and 1994 are attributable to increased
depreciation expenses directly related to increases in plant in
service.

          Federal Income Taxes

     In 1995, Federal Income Taxes increased $27 million from 1994 and
1994 Federal Income Taxes decreased $14 million from 1993.  The 1995
taxes were higher than 1994 principally due to the receipt of a non-
taxable insurance benefit in 1994 and to higher pre-tax operating
income.  Federal Income Taxes decreased in 1994 due to the receipt of
a non-taxable insurance benefit, partially offset by higher pre-tax
operating income.

          Interest Charges

     In 1995, interest charges were $11 million higher than in 1994
and, in 1994, interest charges were $6 million higher than in 1993. 
The primary reason for the 1995 increase was higher interest charges
on miscellaneous liabilities, while the driving force behind the 1994
increase was a higher average daily balance of short-term debt
outstanding at higher interest rates.

          Allowance for Funds Used During Construction

     In 1995, there was a $2 million decrease in AFDC income
principally due to a decrease in construction expenditures.  In 1994,
AFDC income was $11 million higher than the 1993 level due to increased
construction resulting from the repowering of the Bergen Generating
Station.



     Preferred Securities

     Dividend requirements on preferred securities increased $8 million
in 1995 compared to 1994 and $4 million in 1994 compared to 1993.  The
increases are the result of the issuance of higher rate Monthly Income
Preferred Securities used to redeem certain issues of PSE&G Preferred
Stock.

     EDHI - Net Income



     The net income of EDHI was $80 million in 1995, a $20 million
increase over 1994.  EDC's income increased $23 million primarily due
to the realization of a settlement related to a take-or-pay sales
contract.  EDC's gains from property sales, higher oil prices and
volumes and reduced depreciation, depletion and amortization (DD&A)
expenses also contributed to higher earnings but were substantially
offset by lower gas prices and volumes.  CEA's earnings decreased $4
million compared to 1994 due to higher interest and development
expenses. 

     The net income of EDHI was $60 million in 1994.  Excluding the
impact of an impairment of assets of $51 million, after tax, by EGDC
in 1993, EDHI's earnings in 1994 decreased $15 million in comparison
to 1993.  Increased income from PSRC (higher investment income, lower
income taxes compared to 1993 which included the effects of a Federal
income tax increase and lower interest charges) and CEA (higher income
from  operating plants) was offset by lower EDC earnings (lower gas
volumes and prices and higher exploration and development expenditures
due to increased drilling activities).



  Dividends
 
     The ability of Enterprise to declare and pay dividends is
contingent upon its receipt of dividend payments from its subsidiaries.
PSE&G has made regular payments to Enterprise in the form of dividends
on outstanding shares of its common stock since Enterprise was formed
in 1986. In addition, commencing in 1992, EDHI has also made payments
to Enterprise in the form of dividends on its outstanding common stock. 
Since 1992, Enterprise has maintained a constant rate of common stock
dividends.  Management believes that gradually reducing the common
stock dividend payout ratio is a prudent policy.

     Dividends paid to holders of Enterprise Common Stock increased $.5
million during 1995 compared to 1994 and increased $6 million during
1994 compared to 1993.  Such increases were due to the issuance of
additional shares of Enterprise Common Stock. 

     Dividends paid to holders of PSE&G's Preferred Stock decreased
$6.7 million during 1995 compared to 1994 and increased $2 million
during 1994 compared to 1993.  The 1995 decrease in such dividends was
due to the redemption of certain series of Preferred Stock.  The
increase in 1994 was due to the issuance of additional shares of
Preferred Stock.  (See Liquidity and Capital Resources.)

     Dividends paid to holders of Monthly Income Preferred Securities
of Public Service Electric and Gas Capital, L.P. (Partnership), a
limited partnership of which PSE&G is the general partner, increased 
$14 million during 1995 compared to 1994.  The Partnership's Monthly
Income Preferred Securities were first issued in 1994 and were not
outstanding for the entire year.  The increase in 1995 was due to the
issuance of additional securities coupled with the fact that Monthly
Income Preferred Securities were outstanding for the entire year.  (See
Note 4 -- Schedule of Consolidated Capital Stock and Other Securities
of Notes.) 

  Liquidity and Capital Resources
 
     Enterprise's liquidity is affected by maturing debt, investment
and acquisition activities, the capital requirements of PSE&G's and
EDHI's construction and investment programs, permitted regulatory
recovery of expenses and collection of revenues.  Capital resources
available to meet such requirements depend upon general and regional
economic conditions, PSE&G's customer retention and growth, the ability
of PSE&G and EDHI to meet competitive pressures and to contain costs,
the adequacy and timeliness of rate relief, cost recovery and necessary
regulatory approvals, the ability to continue to operate and maintain
nuclear programs in accordance with NRC and BPU requirements, the
impact of environmental regulations, continued access to the capital
markets and continued favorable regulatory treatment of consolidated
tax benefits.  (For additional information see the discussion of
Competition above and Note 12, Commitments and Contingencies of the
Notes.)



     PSE&G
 
     PSE&G had utility plant additions of $686 million, $887 million
and $890 million, for 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively, including AFDC
of $36 million, $38 million and $27 million, respectively. Construction
expenditures were related to improvements in PSE&G's existing power
plants, transmission and distribution system, gas system and common
facilities.  PSE&G also expended $30 million, $34 million and $48
million for the cost of plant removal (net of salvage) in 1995, 1994
and 1993, respectively.  Construction expenditures from 1996 through
2000 are expected to aggregate $2.8 billion, including AFDC. 
Forecasted construction expenditures are related to improvements in
PSE&G's existing power plants (including nuclear fuel), transmission
and distribution system, gas system and common facilities.  (See
Construction, Investments and Other Capital Requirements Forecast
below.)
 
     PSE&G expects that it will be able to internally generate all of
its capital requirements, including construction expenditures, over the
next five years and reduce its debt outstanding by approximately $1
billion, assuming adequate and timely recovery of costs, as to which
no assurances can be given. (See Note 2 -- Rate Matters and Note 12 --
Commitments and Contingent Liabilities of Notes.)

     EDHI
 
     During the next five years, a majority of EDHI's capital
requirements are expected to be provided from operational cash flows.
(See Construction, Investments and Other Capital Requirements Forecast
below.)  CEA is expected to be the primary vehicle for EDHI's business
growth.  A significant portion of CEA's growth is expected to occur in
the international arena due to the current and anticipated growth in
electric capacity required in certain regions of the world.  EDC will
continue to pursue a program to grow its reserve base through a
combination of strategic acquisitions, high potential exploration
activities and exploitation of its acquired properties and new
discoveries.  EDC's worldwide 1995 production totaled 99 BCFE and, at
year end, EDC had proved reserves of 920 BCFE.  EDC expended
approximately $153 million, $188 million and $109 million in 1995, 1994
and 1993, respectively, to acquire, discover or develop domestic and
international reserves.  Of these expenditures, $132 million, $160
million and $92 million in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively, were
capitalized.  These amounts included capitalized interest of $4
million, $4 million and $3 million, respectively.  For discussion
regarding the potential divestiture of EDC, see Competition.  



     PSRC will continue to limit new investments to those related to
the energy businesses, while EGDC will exit the real estate business
in a prudent manner. Over the next several years, EDHI and its
subsidiaries will also be required to refinance a portion of their
maturing debt in order to meet their capital requirements. In addition,
any divestiture of EDC will require the renegotiation of existing loan
agreements of Funding.  Any inability to extend or replace maturing
debt and or existing agreements at current levels and interest rates
may affect future earnings and result in an increase in EDHI's cost of
capital.

     PSRC is a limited partner in various limited partnerships and is
committed to make investments from time to time, upon the request of
the respective general partners. At December 31, 1995, $58 million
remained as PSRC's unfunded commitment subject to call.
 
     EDHI and each of its subsidiaries are subject to restrictive
business and financial covenants contained in existing debt agreements
and are required to not exceed various debt to equity ratios which vary
from 3:1 to 1.75:1. EDHI is also required to maintain a twelve-months
earnings before interest and taxes to interest (EBIT) coverage ratio
of at least 1.35:1. As of December 31, 1995 and 1994, EDHI had a
consolidated debt to equity ratio of 1.15:1 and, for the years ended
December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993, EBIT coverage ratios, as defined to
exclude the effects of EGDC, of 2.47:1, 1.94:1 and 2.13:1,
respectively. Compliance with applicable financial covenants will
depend upon future financial position and levels of earnings, as to
which no assurance can be given. (See Note 6 --  Schedule of
Consolidated Debt and Note 16 -- Property Impairment of Enterprise
Group Development Corporation of Notes.)

     Long-Term Investments and Real Estate

     Long-term investments and real estate increased $82 million in
1995 and decreased $58 million and $67 million in 1994 and 1993,
respectively.  The increase in 1995 was primarily due to an increase
in PSCRC's long-term investments of $49 million, PSRC's increase in
investments in partnerships and leases of $52 million and CEA's
increase in partnership investments of $27 million, partially offset
by EGDC's property sales of $53 million.  The decrease in 1994 was
primarily due to a $73 million net decrease in PSE&G's investment in
an insurance contract, partially offset by an increase in long-term
investments of $23 million.  The decrease in 1993 was due primarily to
EDHI's decrease in long-term investments of $63 million. (For more
details, see Note 7 -- long-term investments and Note 11 -- Leasing
Activities - As Lessor of Notes.)  

   

     Construction, Investments and Other Capital Requirements Forecast


 
     While the above forecast includes capital costs to comply with revised
Federal Clean Air Act (CAA) requirements through 2000, it does not include
additional requirements being developed under the CAA by Federal and State
agencies.  Such additional costs cannot be reasonably estimated at this
time.  PSE&G believes that such CAA costs would be recoverable from electric
customers.  In accordance with the proposed Alternative Rate Plan, separate
mechanisms would be established to ensure continued recovery of costs
associated with activities mandated or approved by state or federal agencies
or otherwise out of PSE&G's control.


   

     Internal Generation of Cash from Operations

     Enterprise's cash from operations is generated primarily from the
operating activities of PSE&G.

     Enterprise's cash provided by operations for 1995 increased $261
million to $1.493 billion from 1994.  This increase was primarily due
to the increase in PSE&G s revenues (partially offset by an increase
in accounts receivable and unbilled revenues), an increase in the
recovery of electric energy and gas costs through PSE&G's LEAC and LGAC
and a decrease in PSE&G s gross receipts taxes.  For additional
information see Results of Operations.

     Enterprise's cash provided by operations for 1994 increased $200
million to $1.232 billion from 1993.  This increase was primarily due
to the increase in PSE&G's revenues (plus a decrease in accounts
receivable and unbilled revenues) and an increase in the recovery of
electric energy and gas costs through PSE&G's LEAC and LGAC.  For
additional information see Results of Operations.

     External Financings - PSE&G

     In 1995, PSE&G issued $156 million of its First and Refunding
Mortgage Bonds (Bonds)/Medium-Term Notes (MTNs) for the purpose of
redeeming $56 million of its higher cost Bonds and to pay a portion of
its maturing bonds. 

     In 1995, Partnership issued $60 million of Monthly Income
Preferred Securities, the proceeds of which were used to redeem $60
million of PSE&G's Preferred Stock.

     The BPU has authorized PSE&G to issue approximately $4.375 billion
aggregate amount of additional Bonds/MTNs/Preferred Stock/Monthly
Income Preferred Securities through 1997 for refunding purposes.  Under
its Mortgage, PSE&G may issue new Bonds against retired Bonds and as
of December 31, 1995, up to $2.840 billion aggregate amount of new
Bonds against previous additions and improvements to utility plant,
provided that the ratio of earnings to fixed charges is at least 2:1. 
At December 31, 1995 the ratio was 2.77:1.

     In January 1996, PSE&G issued $350 million of Bonds.  In February
1996, the net proceeds from the sale were deposited in an escrow
account for the purpose of refunding certain higher cost bonds at their
respective first optional redemption dates in November 1996 and
February 1997.

     The BPU has authorized PSE&G to issue and have outstanding at any
one time not more than $1 billion of its short-term obligations,
consisting of commercial paper and other unsecured borrowings from
banks and other lenders through January 1, 1997.  On December 31, 1995,
PSE&G had $449 million of short-term debt outstanding.



     To provide liquidity for its commercial paper program, PSE&G has
a $500 million one year revolving credit agreement expiring in August
1996 and a $500 million five year revolving credit agreement expiring
in August 2000 with a group of commercial banks, which provides for
borrowing up to one year. On December 31, 1995, there were no
borrowings outstanding under these credit agreements.  PSE&G expects
to be able to renew the credit agreement expiring in 1996.

     PSCRC has a $30 million revolving credit facility supported by a
PSE&G subscription agreement in an aggregate amount of $30 million
which terminates on March 7, 1996.  PSCRC is presently in the process
of negotiating a one year extension for this facility.  As of December
31, 1995, PSCRC had $30 million outstanding under this facility.

     PSE&G Fuel Corporation (Fuelco) has a $150 million commercial
paper program to finance a 42.49% share of Peach Bottom nuclear fuel,
supported by a $150 million revolving credit facility with a group of
banks, which expires on June 28, 1996. PSE&G has guaranteed repayment
of Fuelco's respective obligations.  As of December 31, 1995, Fuelco
had commercial paper of $88 million outstanding under such program.

     External Financings - EDHI

     Funding has a commercial paper program, supported by a commercial
bank letter of credit and credit facility, in the amount of $225
million expiring in March 1998.  As of December 31, 1995, Funding had
$182 million of borrowings outstanding under this commercial paper
program.

     Additionally, Funding has a $225 million revolving credit facility
expiring in March 1998.  As of December 31, 1995, Funding had $100
million of borrowings outstanding under this facility.

     Capital's MTN program has previously provided for an aggregate
principal amount of up to $750 million of MTNs so that its total debt
outstanding at any time, including MTNs, would not exceed such amount. 
Effective January 31, 1995, Capital will not have more than $650
million of debt outstanding at any time.  In  1995, Capital repaid $112
million of its MTNs.  At December 31, 1995, Capital had total debt
outstanding of $478 million, including $355 million of MTNs.



                          PSE&G

     The information required by this item is incorporated herein by
reference to the following portions of Enterprise's Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations, insofar as they relate to PSE&G and its subsidiaries:
Overview; Competition; PSE&G Energy and Fuel Adjustment Clauses;
Accounting for Stock Compensation; Corporate Policy for the Use of
Derivatives; Nuclear Operations; Results of Operations; Dividends;
Liquidity and Capital Resources; Long-Term Investments and Real Estate;
Construction; Investments and Other Capital Requirements Forecast; and 
External Financings.

   

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
           FINANCIAL STATEMENT RESPONSIBILITY - ENTERPRISE

     Management of Enterprise is responsible for the preparation,
integrity and objectivity of the consolidated financial statements and
related notes of Enterprise. The consolidated financial statements and
related notes are prepared in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. The financial statements reflect estimates based
upon the judgment of management where appropriate. Management believes
that the consolidated financial statements and related notes present 
fairly Enterprise's financial position and results of operations.
Information in other parts of this Annual Report is also the
responsibility of management and is consistent with these consolidated
financial statements and related notes.
 
     The firm of Deloitte & Touche LLP, independent auditors, is
engaged to audit Enterprise's consolidated financial statements and
related notes and issue a report thereon. Deloitte & Touche's audit is
conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards.
Management has made available to Deloitte & Touche, all the
corporation's financial records and related data, as well as the
minutes of directors' meetings. Furthermore, management believes that
all representations made to Deloitte & Touche, during its audit were
valid and appropriate.
 
     Management has established and maintains a system of internal
accounting controls to provide reasonable assurance that assets are
safeguarded, and that transactions are executed in accordance with
management's authorization and recorded properly for the prevention and
detection of fraudulent financial reporting, so as to maintain the
integrity and reliability of the financial statements. The system is
designed to permit preparation of consolidated financial statements and
related notes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. The concept of reasonable assurance recognizes that the
costs of a system of internal accounting controls should not exceed the
related benefits. Management believes the effectiveness of this system
is enhanced by an ongoing program of continuous and selective training
of employees. In addition, management has communicated to all employees
its policies on business conduct, safeguarding assets and internal
controls.
 
     The Internal Auditing Department of PSE&G conducts audits and
appraisals of accounting and other operations of Enterprise and its
subsidiaries and evaluates the effectiveness of cost and other controls
and recommends to management, where appropriate, improvements thereto.



Management has considered the internal auditors' and Deloitte &
Touche's recommendations concerning the corporation's system of
internal accounting controls and has taken actions that, in its
opinion, are cost-effective in the circumstances to respond
appropriately to these recommendations. Management believes that, as
of December 31, 1995, the corporation's system of internal accounting
controls is adequate to accomplish the objectives discussed herein.

     The Board of Directors of Enterprise carries out its
responsibility of financial overview through its Audit Committee, which
presently consists of six directors who are not employees of Enterprise
or any of its affiliates. The Audit Committee meets periodically with
management as well as with representatives of the internal auditors and
Deloitte & Touche. The Audit Committee reviews the work of each to
ensure that its respective responsibilities are being carried out and
discusses related matters. Both the internal auditors and Deloitte &
Touche periodically meet alone with the Audit Committee and have free
access to the Audit Committee, and its individual members, at any time.
 



   
            FINANCIAL STATEMENT RESPONSIBILITY - PSE&G
 
     Management of PSE&G is responsible for the preparation, integrity
and objectivity of the consolidated financial statements and related
notes of PSE&G. The consolidated financial statements and related notes
are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. The financial statements reflect estimates based upon the
judgment of management where appropriate. Management believes that the
consolidated financial statements and related notes present fairly
PSE&G's financial position and results of operations. Information in
other parts of this Annual Report is also the responsibility of
management and is consistent with these consolidated financial
statements and related notes.
 
     The firm of Deloitte & Touche LLP, independent auditors, is
engaged to audit PSE&G's consolidated financial statements and related
notes and issue a report thereon. Deloitte & Touche's audit is
conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards.
Management has made available to Deloitte & Touche, all the
corporation's financial records and related data, as well as the
minutes of directors' meetings. Furthermore, management believes that
all representations made to Deloitte & Touche, during its audit were
valid and appropriate.
 
     Management has established and maintains a system of internal
accounting controls to provide reasonable assurance that assets are
safeguarded, and that transactions are executed in accordance with
management's authorization and recorded properly for the prevention and
detection of fraudulent financial reporting, so as to maintain the
integrity and reliability of the financial statements. The system is
designed to permit preparation of consolidated financial statements and
related notes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. The concept of reasonable assurance recognizes that the
costs of a system of internal accounting controls should not exceed the
related benefits. Management believes the effectiveness of this system
is enhanced by an ongoing program of continuous and selective training
of employees. In addition, management has communicated to all employees
its policies on business conduct, safeguarding assets and internal
controls.
 
     The Internal Auditing Department conducts audits and appraisals
of accounting and other operations and evaluates the effectiveness of
cost and other controls and recommends to management, where
appropriate, improvements thereto. Management has considered the
internal auditors' and Deloitte & Touche's recommendations concerning
the corporation's system of internal accounting controls and has taken
actions that are cost-effective in the circumstances to respond
appropriately to these recommendations. Management believes that, as
of December 31, 1995, the corporation's system of internal accounting
controls is adequate to accomplish the objectives discussed herein.



     The Board of Directors carries out its responsibility of financial
overview through the Audit Committee of Enterprise, which presently
consists of six directors who are not employees of Enterprise or any
of its affiliates. The Enterprise Audit Committee meets periodically
with management as well as with representatives of the internal
auditors and Deloitte & Touche. The Audit Committee reviews the work
of each to ensure that their respective responsibilities are being
carried out and discusses related matters. Both the internal auditors
and Deloitte & Touche, periodically meet alone with the Audit Committee
and have free access to the Audit Committee, and its individual
members, at any time.
 



   
                     INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

To the Stockholders and Board of Directors of Public Service Enterprise
Group Incorporated:
 
     We have audited the consolidated balance sheets of Public Service
Enterprise Group Incorporated and its subsidiaries (the "Company") as
of December 31, 1995 and 1994, and the related consolidated statements
of income, retained earnings, and cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended  December 31, 1995. Our audits also included
the consolidated financial statement schedules listed in the Index in
Item 14(b)(1). These consolidated financial statements and the
consolidated financial statement schedules are the responsibility of
the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion
on these consolidated financial statements and consolidated financial
statement schedules based on our audits.
 
     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made
by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for
our opinion.
 
     In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Public
Service Enterprise Group Incorporated and its subsidiaries at December
31, 1995 and 1994, and the results of their operations and their cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1995
in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in
our opinion, such consolidated financial statement schedules, when
considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements
taken as a whole, present fairly in all material respects the
information set forth therein.
 
     We have also previously audited, in accordance with generally
accepted auditing standards, the consolidated balance sheets as of
December 31, 1993, 1992, and 1991, and the related consolidated
statements of income, retained earnings and cash flows for the years
ended December 31, 1992 and 1991 (none of which are presented herein)
and we expressed unqualified opinions on those consolidated financial
statements. In our opinion, the information set forth in the Selected
Financial Data for each of the five years in the period ended December
31, 1995 for the Company, presented in Item 6, is fairly stated in all
material respects, in relation to the consolidated financial statements
from which it has been derived.

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
 
February 14, 1996
Parsippany, New Jersey

   
 
                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
 
To the Board of Directors of Public Service Electric and Gas Company:

     We have audited the consolidated balance sheets of Public Service
Electric & Gas Company and its subsidiaries (the "Company") as of
December 31, 1995 and 1994, and the related consolidated statements of
income, retained earnings, and cash flows for each of the three years
in the period ended December 31, 1995.  Our audits also included the
consolidated financial statement schedules listed  in the Index in Item
14(b)(2). These consolidated financial statements and the consolidated
financial statement schedules are the responsibility of the Company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
consolidated financial statements and consolidated financial statement
schedules based on our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made
by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.  

     In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Public
Service Electric & Gas Company and its subsidiaries at December 31,
1995 and 1994, and the results of their operations and their cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1995 in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our
opinion, such consolidated financial statement schedules, when
considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements
taken as a whole, present fairly in all material respects the
information set forth therein.
 
     We have also previously audited, in accordance with generally
accepted auditing standards, the consolidated balance sheets as of
December 31, 1993, 1992, and 1991, and the related consolidated
statements of income, retained earnings and cash flows for the years
ended December 31, 1992 and 1991 (none of which are presented herein)
and we expressed unqualified opinions on those consolidated financial
statements. In our opinion, the information set forth in the Selected
Financial Data for each of the five years in the period ended December
31, 1995 for the Company, presented in Item 6, is fairly stated in all
material respects, in relation to the consolidated financial statements
from which it has been derived.

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
 
February 14, 1996
Parsippany, New Jersey

   
 
                  PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED
 
                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
 

 
                 See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

   
 
                  PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED
 
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
                                    ASSETS


 
                 See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



                  PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED
 
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
                         CAPITALIZATION AND LIABILITIES


   

                  PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED
 
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 

 
                 See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

  
 
                  PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED
 
                  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF RETAINED EARNINGS
 

 
                   See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 

 
                    PUBLIC SERVICE ELECTRIC AND GAS COMPANY
 
                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
 

 
                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
    
 
                    PUBLIC SERVICE ELECTRIC AND GAS COMPANY
 
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
                                     ASSETS
 
                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
   
                    PUBLIC SERVICE ELECTRIC AND GAS COMPANY
 
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
                         CAPITALIZATION AND LIABILITIES


   

                    PUBLIC SERVICE ELECTRIC AND GAS COMPANY
 
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 


                 See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

   
 
                    PUBLIC SERVICE ELECTRIC AND GAS COMPANY
 
                  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF RETAINED EARNINGS
 

 
                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
   

                  PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED
 
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
NOTE 1.  ORGANIZATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
Organization
 
    Public Service Enterprise Group (Enterprise) has two direct wholly
owned subsidiaries, Public Service Electric and Gas Company (PSE&G) and
Enterprise Diversified Holdings Incorporated (EDHI). Enterprise's
principal subsidiary, PSE&G, is an operating public utility providing
electric and gas service to customers in certain areas in the State of
New Jersey.  As of December 31, 1995, PSE&G comprised 85% of
Enterprise's assets and for the year ending on that date, 93% of its
revenues.  Of the 150,000,000 authorized shares of PSE&G common stock
at December 31, 1995, there were 132,450,344 shares outstanding, with
an aggregate book value of $2.6 billion.

    PSE&G has a finance subsidiary, PSE&G Fuel Corporation (Fuelco),
providing financing, unconditionally guaranteed by PSE&G, of up to $150
million aggregate principal amount at any one time of a 42.49% interest
in the nuclear fuel acquired for Peach Bottom Atomic Power Station
Units 2 and 3 (Peach Bottom).  PSE&G also has a subsidiary, Public
Service Conservation Resources Corporation (PSCRC) which offers demand
side management (DSM) services to utility customers.  In 1994, Public
Service Electric and Gas Capital, L.P. (Partnership), a limited
partnership in which PSE&G is the general partner, was formed for the
purpose of issuing Monthly Income Preferred Securities.  (See Note 4 --
Schedule of Consolidated Capital Stock and Other Securities.)  In 1995,
PSE&G created a new subsidiary, Enterprise Ventures and Services, to
pursue products and services beyond traditional geographic and industry
boundaries.

    EDHI is the parent of Enterprise's nonutility businesses: Energy
Development Corporation (EDC), an oil and gas exploration and
production and marketing company; Community Energy Alternatives
Incorporated (CEA), an investor in and developer and operator of
cogeneration and independent power production facilities; Public
Service Resources Corporation (PSRC), which makes primarily passive
investments; and Enterprise Group Development Corporation (EGDC), a
nonresidential real estate development and investment business. EDHI
also has two finance subsidiaries: PSEG Capital Corporation (Capital)
and Enterprise Capital Funding Corporation (Funding).
 
 


          NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

Consolidation Policy
 
    The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
Enterprise and its subsidiaries. All significant intercompany accounts
and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. Certain
reclassifications of prior years' data have been made to conform with
the current presentation.

Regulation -- PSE&G

    The accounting and rates of PSE&G are subject, in certain respects,
to the requirements of the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities (BPU)
and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). As a result, PSE&G
maintains its accounts in accordance with their prescribed Uniform
Systems of Accounts, which are the same. The applications of Generally
Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) by PSE&G differ in certain
respects from applications by non-regulated businesses.  PSE&G prepares
its financial statements in accordance with the provisions of Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 71 -- "Accounting for the Effects
of Certain Types of Regulation" (SFAS 71).  In general, SFAS 71
recognizes that accounting for rate-regulated enterprises should
reflect the relationship of costs and revenues.  As a result, a
regulated utility may defer recognition of cost (a regulatory asset)
or recognize an obligation (a regulatory liability) if it is probable
that, through the rate-making process, there will be a corresponding
increase or decrease in revenues. Accordingly, PSE&G has deferred
certain costs, which will be amortized over various periods.  To the
extent that collection of such costs or payment of liabilities is no
longer probable as a result of changes in regulation and/or PSE&G's
competitive position, the associated regulatory asset or liability will
be reversed with a charge or credit to income.  (See Note 5 -- Deferred
Items.) If PSE&G were to discontinue the application of SFAS 71, the
accounting impact would be an extraordinary, non-cash charge to
operations that could be material to the financial position and results
of operations of Enterprise and PSE&G.  

    Amounts charged to operations for depreciation expense reflect
estimated useful lives and methods, which include estimates of cost of
removal and salvage, prescribed and approved by regulators rather than
those that might otherwise apply to non-regulated enterprises.  PSE&G
cannot presently quantify what the financial statement impact may be
if depreciation expense were to be determined absent regulation.

Utility Plant and Related Depreciation -- PSE&G
 
    Additions to utility plant and replacements of units of property
are capitalized at original cost. The cost of maintenance, repairs and
replacements of minor items of property is charged to appropriate
expense accounts.  At the time units of depreciable property are
retired or otherwise disposed of, the original cost less net salvage
value is charged to accumulated depreciation. 


          NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
    Depreciation is computed under the straight-line method.
Depreciation is based on estimated average remaining lives of the
several classes of depreciable property. These estimates are  reviewed
on a periodic basis and necessary adjustments are made as approved by
the BPU.  Depreciation provisions stated in percentages of original
cost of depreciable property were 3.52% in 1995, 3.51% in 1994 and
3.46% in 1993.

Use of Estimates

    The process of preparing financial statements in conformity with
GAAP requires the use of estimates and assumptions regarding certain
types of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses.  Such estimates
primarily relate to unsettled transactions and events as of the date
of the financial statements.  Accordingly, upon settlement, actual
results may differ from estimated amounts.

Decontamination and Decommissioning -- PSE&G
 
    In 1993, FERC issued Order No. 557 on the accounting and rate-
making treatment of special assessments levied under the National
Energy Policy Act of 1992 (EPAct).  Order No. 557 provides that special
assessments are a necessary and reasonable current cost of fuel and
shall be fully recoverable in rates in the same manner as other fuel
costs.  In accordance with its filed Alternative Rate Plan, PSE&G has
requested to have separate mechanisms to ensure continued recovery of
costs associated with activities mandated or approved by state or
federal agencies, but no assurances can be given that the BPU will
authorize such recovery from customers.  (See Note 2 -- Rate Matters
and Note 3 -- PSE&G Nuclear Decommissioning and Amortization of Nuclear
Fuel - Uranium, Decontamination and Decommissioning Fund.)  
 
Amortization of Nuclear Fuel -- PSE&G
 
    Nuclear energy burnup costs are charged to fuel expense on a
units-of-production basis over the estimated life of the fuel. Rates
for the recovery of fuel used at all nuclear units include a provision
of one mill per kilowatthour (KWH) of nuclear generation for spent fuel
disposal costs. (See Note 3 -- PSE&G Nuclear Decommissioning and
Amortization of Nuclear Fuel.)
 
Revenues and Fuel Costs -- PSE&G
 
    Revenues are recorded based on services rendered to customers
during each accounting period. PSE&G records unbilled revenues
representing the estimated amount customers will be billed for services



rendered from the time meters were last read to the end of the
respective accounting period.  Rates include projected fuel costs for
electric generation, purchased and interchanged power, gas purchased
and materials used for gas production.  Any under or overrecoveries,
together with interest (in the case of net overrecoveries), are
deferred and included in operations in the period in which they are
reflected in rates.

Long-Term Investments
 
    PSRC has invested in securities and limited partnerships investing
in securities, which are recorded at fair value, and various leases and
other limited partnerships. EGDC is a participant in the nonresidential
real estate markets. CEA is an investor in and developer and operator
of cogeneration and power production facilities. (See Note 7 --
Long-Term Investments.)

Derivatives

    Gains and losses on hedges of existing assets or liabilities are
included in the carrying amounts of those assets and liabilities and
are ultimately recognized in income as part of those carrying amounts. 
Gains and losses related to qualifying hedges of firm commitments or
anticipated transactions also are deferred and recognized in income or
as adjustments of carrying amounts when the hedged transaction occurs.
(See Note 8 -- Financial Instruments and Risk Management.)  

Oil and Gas Accounting -- EDC
 
    EDC uses the successful efforts method of accounting under which
proved leasehold costs are capitalized and amortized over the proved
developed and undeveloped reserves on a unit-of-production basis.
Drilling and equipping costs, except exploratory dry holes, are
capitalized and depreciated over the proved developed reserves on a
unit-of-production basis.  Estimated future abandonment costs of
offshore proved properties are depreciated on a unit-of-production
basis over the proved developed reserves.  Estimated future abandonment
costs of onshore properties are estimated to be offset by the salvage
value of the tangible equipment. Unproved leasehold costs are
capitalized and not amortized, pending an evaluation of the exploration
results. Unproved leasehold and producing properties costs are assessed
periodically to determine if an impairment of the cost of significant
individual properties has occurred. The cost of an impairment is
charged to expense. Costs incurred for exploratory dry holes,
exploratory geological and geophysical work and delay rentals are
charged to expense as incurred.  



         NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

Income Taxes
 
    Enterprise and its subsidiaries file a consolidated Federal income
tax return and income taxes are allocated to Enterprise's subsidiaries
based on taxable income or loss of each. Investment tax credits are
deferred and amortized over the useful lives of the related property,
including nuclear fuel.
 
    Effective January 1, 1993, Enterprise and its subsidiaries adopted
Statement of Financial  Accounting Standards No. 109 "Accounting for
Income Taxes" (SFAS 109). Under SFAS 109, deferred income taxes are
provided for all temporary differences between the financial statement
carrying amounts and the tax bases of existing assets and liabilities
irrespective of the treatment for rate-making purposes.  For periods
prior to January 1, 1993, PSE&G provided deferred income taxes to the
extent permitted for rate-making purposes. (See Note 10 -- Federal
Income Taxes.)

Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFDC) and Capitalized
Interest
 
    PSE&G -- AFDC represents the cost of debt and equity funds used to
finance the construction of new utility facilities. The amount of AFDC
capitalized is reported in the Consolidated Statements of Income as a
reduction of interest charges for the borrowed funds component and as
other income for the equity funds component. The rates used for
calculating AFDC in 1995, 1994 and 1993 were 6.98%, 6.48% and 6.96%,
respectively. These rates were within the limits set by FERC.
 
    EDHI -- The operating subsidiaries of EDHI capitalize interest
costs allocable to construction expenditures at the average cost of
borrowed funds. 
 
Pension Plan and Other Postretirement Benefits
 
    The employees of PSE&G, other than non represented employees
commencing service after January 1, 1996, as well as those of
participating affiliates, are covered by a noncontributory trusteed
pension plan (Pension Plan) from the date of hire. New represented
employees of PSE&G who commence service after January 1, 1996 are
covered by a Cash Balance Pension Plan.  The policy is to fund pension
costs accrued. PSE&G also provides certain health care and life
insurance benefits to active and retired employees. The portion of such
costs pertaining to retirees amounted to $33 million, $29 million, and
$28 million in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively. The current cost of
these benefits is charged to expense when paid and is currently being
recovered from ratepayers.

   
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

    On January 1, 1993, Enterprise and PSE&G adopted Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 106, "Employers Accounting for
Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions" (SFAS 106), which requires
that the expected cost of employees' postretirement health care
benefits be charged to expense during the years in which employees
render service.  Prior to 1993, Enterprise and PSE&G recognized
postretirement health care costs in the year in which the benefits were
paid. PSE&G elected to amortize over 20 years its unfunded obligation
at January 1, 1993. (See Note 13 -- Postretirement Benefits Other Than
Pensions and Note 14 -- Pension Plan.)

NOTE 2.  RATE MATTERS

Alternative Rate Plan

    On January 16, 1996, PSE&G proposed to the BPU major changes in
utility regulation that include an immediate $50 million rate reduction
for its electric customers, various types of rate freezes, assurances
that future price increases related to controllable costs will be lower
than the rate of inflation and funding of up to an aggregate of $55
million in two economic development initiatives. 

     The seven-year "New Jersey Partners in Power" Plan (Plan), if
approved, would give PSE&G the mechanisms and incentives to compete
more effectively on several fronts, including the ability to develop
revenue from non-regulated products and services, accelerate or modify
depreciation schedules to help mitigate any potential stranded asset
issue and more aggressively manage the control of costs. In addition,
the Plan would provide the foundation for ongoing price flexibility
without the need for prolonged, adversarial regulatory proceedings.  

    The Plan begins the process for a transition to a more competitive
energy marketplace while substantially shifting the business and
financial risks and opportunities involved in this transition away from
customers to PSE&G and enhancing PSE&G's ability to make the necessary
human, intellectual and financial investments required to stimulate
innovation and productivity.

    Key energy pricing features of the proposed Plan are as follows:

    Upon the BPU's approval of the Plan, PSE&G will reduce electric
    rates across the board by $50 million annually as an upfront
    guaranteed share of the productivity improvements that it expects
    to achieve over the life of the Plan.


           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

    New rates for all PSE&G electric customers reflecting the
    reduction would be established through a merger of existing base
    tariffs and the electric Levelized Energy Adjustment Clause (LEAC)
    and would be frozen at these levels through December 31, 1996. In
    addition, the Plan proposes the elimination of the BPU's existing
    Nuclear Performance Standard (NPS).  This discontinuance of the
    LEAC and NPS would result in substantially shifting the risks and
    opportunities involved in managing changes in fuel and replacement
    power costs from customers to PSE&G. Gas fuel costs will continue
    to be recovered on a dollar for dollar basis from customers under
    the existing Levelized Gas Adjustment Charge (LGAC).

    In order to create incentives to lower costs and improve
    efficiency and productivity, the Plan would rely on a
    comprehensive external price cap index based upon changes in the
    Gross Domestic Product Price Index (GDPPI) and a separate fuel
    price index mechanism, reduced by a fixed productivity offset of
    0.30% to establish optional annual price changes each January 1st
    for electricity.  In addition, the Plan would rely on an index for
    non-fuel gas prices calculated on the basis of changes in the 
    GDPPI, reduced by a fixed productivity offset of 0.35%, to
    establish optional annual price changes each January 1st.  The
    price cap mechanisms would become effective on January 1, 1997 and
    would assure that any rate increase related to controllable costs
    would be below the rate of inflation, guaranteeing that these
    costs would decline in real terms.

    Under the Plan, PSE&G would establish an initial service block
    equal to the first 150 kilowatthours (KWH) of usage for
    residential electric customers who would be protected from price
    cap index increases through December 31, 2002, the proposed
    expiration date of the Plan. Similarly, an initial service block
    equal to 40 therms would be set for residential gas customers and
    protected from index increases over the same period of time. In
    addition, public street lighting prices would not be subject to
    index increases for the life of the Plan.

    The Plan includes a productivity gains sharing mechanism. This
mechanism has been designed to provide incentives to maximize
efficiency and productivity improvements and ensure that electric and
gas customers receive an increasing share of productivity gains using
returns on equity as a proxy for these gains. The gains, which would
be awarded through bill credits, would be based on a threshold earnings
level defined as PSE&G's established return on equity of 12% plus a 100
basis points neutral zone above that level. Customers would receive a
10% share of the gains from the first 50 basis points above the
threshold level. Their share would increase by an additional 10% for
each subsequent increase of 50 basis points up to a maximum of 50%. 


           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

    Separate mechanisms also would be established to ensure continued
    recovery of costs associated with activities mandated or approved
    by state or federal agencies or otherwise out of PSE&G's control.
    These costs include demand side management programs, environmental
    remediation, costs associated with non-utility electric
    generators, nuclear decommissioning funding and nuclear fuel
    assessment costs. These mechanisms would assure that PSE&G
    recovers only actual costs related to these activities.

    The Plan would allow for electric and non-fuel gas prices to be
    changed to reflect exogenous events beyond the control of PSE&G
    and would be subject to modification for industry restructuring.

    The Plan calls for an increase of $50 million in annual 
    depreciation expenses for PSE&G's Hope Creek nuclear generating
    station  -- $25 million effective January 1, 1997, and an
    additional $25 million effective January 1, 1998.  In addition,
    the Plan proposes a transfer of depreciation reserves totaling
    $253 million from transmission and distribution to fossil steam
    electric generating accounts.  The Plan would permit depreciation
    to be changed annually following BPU review and approval. 

    In addition to the pricing features, the Plan guarantees enhanced
quality of customer services through PSE&G's recently established
service guarantee program for electric and gas customers and specific
incentive and penalty mechanisms based on various service indicators.

    The Plan would establish a program of rewards and penalties in key
overall service indicators such as duration of customer power outages
compared to a historic five-year average.

    In addition to these service quality incentives, the Plan would
establish rewards and penalties based on the movement of PSE&G's
average electric residential rate measured against the national average
of residential electric rates. Rewards or penalties of up to $5 million
would be implemented if comparisons indicate that PSE&G's residential
rates decreased or increased by more than one-half of one percent
relative to the national average.

    A major component of the Plan is a proposed economic and market
development and retention assurance program. This would allow flexible
pricing and promote special economic development activities designed
to enhance the economic vitality of the State of New Jersey. One aspect
of the program would give PSE&G the ability to quickly establish new
optional electric or gas rates or individual customer contracts to
serve new markets and retain or attract individual customers.


           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

    Also under the Plan, PSE&G would fund two economic development
initiatives. The first is a private sector leadership investment of $5
million in the New Jersey Fund for Community Economic Development.  The
second new initiative is the establishment of the PSE&G Economic
Development Fund in which PSE&G would commit to investing up to $50
million for financing significant economic development projects within
PSE&G's service territory over the seven years of the Plan.

    In addition, the Plan calls for establishment of a State Emissions
Trading Bank (Bank) for economic development and environmental
improvement. PSE&G would donate 1,000 tons of nitrogen oxide emissions
credits to the Bank for use in economic development. This is intended
as a key step to linking economic development with sound environmental
policy and building on New Jersey's leadership role in seeking a
regional solution to air pollution problems.

    Under the Plan, price levels associated with the recovery of Gross
Receipts and Franchise Tax (GRFT) or successor taxes will be directly
adjusted in such a manner as to insure their full and timely recovery
from ratepayers. 

    PSE&G cannot predict what action, if any, may be taken by the BPU
with respect to the Plan.  

Levelized Gas Adjustment Charge
 
    On October 2, 1995, PSE&G petitioned the BPU for modifications to
its LGAC, requesting that:

    (a)   The LGAC be renamed to the Levelized Gas Incentive Clause
          (LGIC);

    (b)   A benchmark be established for certain gas delivered from the
          Gulf Coast, and any difference between PSE&G's actual gas
          purchase costs and the benchmark price, either positive or
          negative, be shared 50/50 between customers and PSE&G;

    (c)   The current annual LGAC rate be converted to a monthly rate
          for firm commercial and industrial customers; and

    (d)   A fixed annual margin would be credited to LGAC for certain
          interruptible rate schedules, while actual margins from such
          sales will be retained by PSE&G.  Any differences, positive
          or negative, will be absorbed by PSE&G.


           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

    On December 20, 1995, the BPU approved an interim Stipulation to
include the implementation of monthly pricing on the commodity portion
of the LGAC rate for firm commercial and industrial customers effective
January 1, 1996.  The incentive proposal relating to interruptible
sales (request (d)) above was withdrawn. The remaining aspects of
PSE&G's October 2, 1995 petition remain the subject of continued
investigation and litigation. 

Electric Levelized Energy Adjustment Clause

    By Order dated May 5, 1995, the BPU approved PSE&G's LEAC.  Such
Order also required that a hearing be convened regarding the April 1994
Salem 1 shutdown, to determine whether PSE&G should be allowed to
recover replacement power costs of approximately $8 million which have
been deferred.  On October 18, 1995, this matter was ordered to be
transmitted to the Office of Administrative Law (OAL) for hearing. 
PSE&G cannot predict the outcome of this proceeding.

Remediation Adjustment Charge

    On July 21, 1995, PSE&G petitioned the BPU to recover Remediation
Program costs incurred during the period August 1, 1994 through July
31, 1995.  In accordance with a BPU Order dated November 4, 1994, the
petition proposes to recover, effective October 1, 1995, $2.5 million
from gas customers and $1.6 million from electric customers.

Consolidated Tax Benefits

    In a case affecting another utility in which neither Enterprise nor
PSE&G were parties, the BPU considered the extent to which tax savings
generated by nonutility affiliates included in the consolidated tax
return of that utility's holding company should be considered in
setting that utility's rates.  In September, 1992, the BPU approved an
order in such case treating certain consolidated tax savings generated
after June 30, 1990 by that utility's nonutility affiliates as a
reduction of its rate base. In December, 1992, the BPU issued an order
approving a stipulation in PSE&G's 1992 base rate proceeding which
resolved the case without separate quantification of the consolidated
tax issue. The stipulation did not provide final resolution of the
consolidated tax issue for any subsequent base rate filing. While
Enterprise continues to account for its two wholly-owned subsidiaries
on a stand-alone basis, resulting in a realization of the tax benefits
by the entity generating the benefit, an ultimate unfavorable
resolution of the consolidated tax issue could reduce PSE&G's and
Enterprise's future revenue and net income. In addition, an unfavorable
resolution


           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

may adversely impact Enterprise's nonutility investment strategy. 
Enterprise believes that PSE&G's taxes should be treated on a
stand-alone basis for rate-making purposes, based on the separate
nature of the utility and nonutility businesses. However, neither
Enterprise nor PSE&G is able to predict what action, if any, the BPU
may take concerning consolidation of tax benefits in future rate
proceedings.  (See Note 10 -- Federal Income Taxes.)

Other Rate Matters

    On July 21, 1995, the BPU initiated a generic proceeding to
expeditiously adopt specific standards to guide utility "off-tariff"
negotiated rate agreement programs, which proceeding would consider
minimum prices, confidentiality, maximum contract duration, filing
requirements and such other standards as necessary for compliance with
the law.  A Written Summary Decision and Order was issued on October
27, 1995, which ordered each New Jersey electric utility, including
PSE&G, to file initial minimum tariffs, consistent with the terms of
such Order, and further, indicated that such Order will be supplemented
by a Final Decision and Order to fully discuss and explain the
rationale for the BPU's overall decision.  On November 13, 1995 PSE&G
filed its compliance filing.  PSE&G cannot predict what impact, if any,
the generic tariff may have on its electric revenues and earnings. 

    In September 1994, the BPU initiated a generic proceeding regarding
recovery of capacity costs associated with electric utility power
purchases from cogeneration and small power procedures.  The initial
phase of the proceeding, which has been transmitted to the Office of
Administrative Law, seeks to determine whether there was any such
overrecovery and, if so, the amount overrecovered.

    The New Jersey Division of Ratepayer Advocate has intervened in the
proceeding and alleges, among other things, that PSE&G has
overrecovered such costs ranging from $250 to $300 million during the
period from August 1991 to December 1994.  PSE&G denies such
overrecovery because its capacity cost recovery mechanisms were
approved by the BPU as to each of its cogeneration contracts and as to
its base rates.  Additionally, PSE&G contends that a review of any
individual cost item is inappropriate and that the BPU has previously
found that, during the period under review, PSE&G did not overearn
compared to its established return.  Moreover, PSE&G contends that the
Ratepayer Advocate's assertion is proscribed as retroactive ratemaking.

    While PSE&G cannot predict the outcome of this proceeding, the
final resolution of this issue may impact the financial position,
results from operations or net cash flows of Enterprise and PSE&G on
a prospective basis.

   
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

NOTE 3.  PSE&G NUCLEAR DECOMMISSIONING AND AMORTIZATION OF NUCLEAR FUEL
 
    The BPU decision in PSE&G's 1992 base rate case utilized studies
based on the prompt removal/dismantlement method of decommissioning for
all of PSE&G's nuclear generating stations. This method consists of
removing all fuel, source material and all other radioactive materials
with activity levels above accepted release limits from the nuclear
sites. PSE&G has an ownership interest in five nuclear units: Salem 1
and Salem 2 -- 42.59% each, Hope Creek -- 95% and Peach Bottom 2 and
3 -- 42.49% each. In accordance with rate orders received from the BPU,
PSE&G has established an external master nuclear decommissioning trust
for all of its nuclear units. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has
ruled that payments to the trust are tax deductible. PSE&G's total
estimated cost of decommissioning its share of these 5 nuclear units
is estimated at $681 million in year-end 1990 dollars (the year that
the site specific estimate was prepared), excluding contingencies.  The
1992 base rate decision provided that $15.6 million of such costs are
to be collected through base rates and an additional annual amount of
$7.0 million in 1993 and $14 million each year thereafter are to be
recovered through PSE&G's LEAC. In accordance with the filed
Alternative Rate Plan, PSE&G has requested to have separate mechanisms
to ensure continued recovery of costs associated with activities
mandated or approved by state or federal agencies, but no assurances
can be given that the BPU will authorize such recovery from customers 
(see Note 2 -- Rate Matters). At December 31, 1995 and 1994, the
accumulated provision for depreciation and amortization included
reserves for nuclear decommissioning for PSE&G's units of $292 million
and $249 million, respectively. As of December 31, 1995 and 1994, PSE&G
had contributed $220 million and $190 million, respectively, into
independent external qualified and nonqualified nuclear decommissioning
trust funds.   

    On January 3, 1996, PSE&G filed with the BPU its 1995 nuclear plant
decommissioning cost update.  The filing includes decommissioning cost
updates for PSE&G's respective ownership share of Salem, Hope Creek and
Peach Bottom.  PSE&G's filing was based on the existing Nuclear
Regulatory Commission (NRC) generic formula(s).  PSE&G does not believe
that the NRC generic estimates provide an accurate estimate of the cost
of decommissioning because the NRC formula does not factor into its
cost estimates the cost of removal of nonradiological structures and
equipment and interim spent fuel storage installations.  PSE&G is
currently completing site specific studies in order to update its
filing with the BPU during 1996.

    The Staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has
questioned certain of the current accounting practices of the electric
utility industry, including PSE&G, regarding the recognition,
measurement and classification of decommissioning costs for nuclear
generating stations in the financial statements of electric utilities. 
In response to these questions, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board (FASB) has agreed to review the accounting for removal costs,

   
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

including decommissioning.  If current electric utility industry
accounting practices for such decommissioning are changed:  (1) annual
provisions for decommissioning could increase, (2) the estimated cost
for decommissioning could be recorded as a liability rather than as
accumulated depreciation and (3) trust fund income from the external
decommissioning trusts could be reported as investment income rather
than as a reduction to decommissioning expense.  

Uranium Enrichment Decontamination and Decommissioning Fund
 
    In accordance with EPAct, domestic utilities that own nuclear
generating stations are required to pay a cumulative total of $150
million each year (adjusted for inflation) into a decontamination and
decommissioning fund, based on their past purchases of enrichment
services from the United States Department of Energy (DOE) Uranium
Enrichment Enterprise (now a federal government corporation known as
the United States Enrichment Corporation (USEC)).  These amounts are
being collected over a period of 15 years or until $2.25 billion
(adjusted for inflation) has been collected.  Under this legislation,
PSE&G's obligation for the nuclear generating stations in which it has
an interest is $67 million (adjusted for inflation).  Since 1993, PSE&G
has paid $17 million, resulting in a balance due of $50 million.  PSE&G
has deferred the expenditures incurred to date as part of deferred
underrecovered electric energy costs and expects to recover its costs
in the next LEAC.  In accordance with the filed Alternative Rate Plan,
PSE&G has requested to have separate mechanisms to ensure continued
recovery of costs associated with activities mandated or approved by
state or federal agencies, but no assurances can be given that the BPU
will authorize such recovery from customers (see Note 2 -- Rate
Matters).

Spent Nuclear Fuel Disposal Costs

    In accordance with the Nuclear Waste Policy Act (NWPA), PSE&G has
entered into contracts with the DOE for the disposal of spent nuclear
fuel.  Payments made to the DOE for disposal costs are based on nuclear
generation and are included in Fuel for Electric Generation and
Interchanged Power in the Statements of Income.  These costs are
recovered through the LEAC.  In accordance with the filed Alternative
Rate Plan, PSE&G has requested to have separate mechanisms to ensure
continued recovery of costs associated with activities mandated or
approved by state or federal agencies, but no assurances can be given
that the BPU will authorize such recovery from customers (see Note 2 --
Rate Matters).

   
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 4.  SCHEDULE OF CONSOLIDATED CAPITAL STOCK AND OTHER SECURITIES
 

    
   
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 5.  DEFERRED ITEMS
 
Property Abandonments


 
Under (Over) Recovered Electric Energy and Gas Costs -- net




   
     NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)


Unrecovered Plant and Regulatory Study Costs

    Amounts shown in the consolidated balance sheets consist of costs
associated with developing, consolidating and documenting the specific
design basis of PSE&G's jointly owned nuclear generating stations, as
well as PSE&G's share of costs associated with the cancellation of the
Hydrogen Water Chemistry System Project (HWCS Project) at Peach Bottom. 
PSE&G has received both BPU and FERC approval to defer and amortize,
over the remaining life of the Salem and Hope Creek nuclear units,
costs associated with configuration baseline documentation and the
canceled HWCS Project.  PSE&G has received FERC approval to defer and
amortize over the remaining life of the applicable Peach Bottom units,
costs associated with the configuration baseline documentation and the
canceled HWCS Project.  In accordance with the filed Alternative Rate
Plan, PSE&G has requested to have separate mechanisms to ensure
continued recovery of costs associated with activities mandated or
approved by state or federal agencies or otherwise out of PSE&G's
control (see Note 2 -- Rate Matters).

Unamortized Debt Expense

    Gains and losses and the costs of issuing and redeeming long-term
debt for PSE&G are deferred and amortized over the life of the
applicable debt.  
 
Oil and Gas Property Write-Down
 
    On December 31, 1992, the BPU approved the recovery of PSE&G's
deferral of an EDC write-down through PSE&G's LGAC over a ten-year
period beginning January 1, 1993. At December 31, 1995 and 1994, the
remaining balance to be amortized was $36.1 million and $41.2,
respectively.   




            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)


NOTE 6.  SCHEDULE OF CONSOLIDATED DEBT
 
LONG-TERM



   
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

 


           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
NOTES:
 
(A) PSE&G's Mortgage, securing the Bonds, constitutes a direct first
    mortgage lien on substantially all PSE&G'S property and franchises.
 
(B) The aggregate principal amounts of mandatory requirements for
    sinking funds and maturities for each of the five years following
    December 31, 1995 are as follows:
 




SHORT-TERM (Commercial Paper and Loans)

     Commercial paper represents unsecured bearer promissory notes sold
through dealers at a discount with a term of nine months or less.

     Bank loans represent PSE&G's unsecured promissory notes issued under
informal credit arrangements with various banks and have a term of eleven
months or less.  







   
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

NOTE 9.  CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
 
     The December 31, 1995 and 1994 balances consist primarily of working funds
and highly liquid marketable securities (commercial paper) with a maturity of
three months or less.

NOTE 10.  FEDERAL INCOME TAXES
 
     A reconciliation of reported Net Income with pretax income and of Federal
income tax expense with the amount computed by multiplying pretax income by the
statutory Federal income tax rate of 35% is as follows:
 
 

     Reconciliation between total Federal income tax provisions and tax computed
at the statutory tax rate on pretax income:
 

 
(A) The provision for deferred income taxes represents the tax effects of the
    following items:
 


   
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
    Between the years 1987 and 1994, Enterprise's Federal alternative
minimum tax (AMT) liability exceeded its regular Federal income tax
liability.  This excess can be carried forward indefinitely to offset
regular income tax liability in future years.  Enterprise commenced using
these AMT credits in 1995 and expects to continue using them in future
years as regular tax liability exceeds AMT.  As of December 31, 1995, 1994
and 1993, Enterprise had AMT credits of $203 million, $256 million and
$247 million, respectively.

    Since 1986, Enterprise has filed a consolidated Federal income tax
return on behalf of itself and its subsidiaries. Prior to 1986, PSE&G
filed consolidated tax returns. In March, 1992, the Internal Revenue
Service (IRS) issued a Revenue Agent's Report (RAR) following completion
of examination of PSE&G's consolidated tax return for 1985 and
Enterprise's consolidated tax returns for 1986 and 1987, proposing various
adjustments for such years which would increase Enterprise's consolidated
Federal income tax liability by approximately $121 million, exclusive of
interest and penalties, of which approximately $118 million is
attributable to PSE&G. Interest after taxes on these proposed adjustments
is currently estimated to be approximately $119 million as of December 31,
1995 and will continue to accrue at the Federal rate for large corporate
underpayments, currently 11% annually.
 
    The most significant of these proposed adjustments relates to the IRS
contention that PSE&G's Hope Creek nuclear unit is a partnership with a
short 1986 taxable year. In addition, the IRS contends that the tax
in-service date of that unit is four months later than the date claimed by
PSE&G.  In June 1992, Enterprise and PSE&G filed a protest with the IRS
disagreeing with certain of the proposed adjustments (including those
related to Hope Creek) contained in the RAR for taxable years 1985 through
1987 and continue to contest these issues. Any tax adjustments resulting
from the RAR would reduce Enterprise's and PSE&G's respective deferred
credits for accumulated deferred income taxes.  While PSE&G believes that
assessments attributable to it are generally recoverable from its
customers in rates, no assurances can be given as to what regulatory
treatment may be afforded by the BPU. 
 
    On January 1, 1993, Enterprise adopted SFAS 109 without restating
prior years' financial statements which resulted in Enterprise recording
a $5.4 million cumulative effect increase in its net income. Under SFAS
109, deferred taxes are provided at the enacted statutory tax rate for all
temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and
the tax bases of existing assets and liabilities irrespective of the
treatment for rate-making purposes. Since management believes that it is
probable that the effects of SFAS 109 on PSE&G, principally the
accumulated tax benefits that previously have been treated as a
flow-through item to customers, will be recovered from utility customers
in the future, an offsetting regulatory asset was established. As of
December 31, 1995, PSE&G had recorded a deferred tax liability and an
offsetting regulatory asset of $769 million representing the future
revenue expected to be recovered through rates based upon established
regulatory practices which permit recovery of current taxes payable. This
amount was determined using the 1995 Federal income tax rate of 35%.  



 SFAS 109
 
    The following is an analysis of accumulated deferred income taxes:





           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

NOTE 11.  LEASING ACTIVITIES
 
    As Lessee
 
    The Consolidated Balance Sheets include assets and related
obligations applicable to capital leases under which PSE&G is a
lessee. The total amortization of the leased assets and interest on
the lease obligations equals the net minimum lease payments included
in rent expense for capital leases.
 
    Capital leases of PSE&G relate primarily to its corporate
headquarters and other capital equipment. Certain of the leases
contain renewal and purchase options and also contain escalation
clauses.  

    Enterprise and its other subsidiaries are not lessees in any
capitalized leases.
 
     Utility plant includes the following amounts for capital leases
at December 31:
 




   
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     As Lessor
 


 

  

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 12.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES

Nuclear Performance Standard
 
    The BPU has established its NPS for nuclear generating stations
owned by New Jersey electric utilities, including the five nuclear
units in which PSE&G has an ownership interest:  Salem Units 1 and 2
- -- 42.59%; Hope Creek -- 95%; and Peach Bottom Units 2 and 3 -- 42.49%.
PSE&G operates Salem and Hope Creek, while Peach Bottom is operated by
PECO Energy, Inc. (PECO).
 
    The penalty/reward under the NPS is a percentage of replacement
power costs. (See table below.)



      Under the NPS, the capacity factor is calculated annually using
maximum dependable capability of the five nuclear units in which PSE&G
owns an interest. This method takes into account actual operating
conditions of the units.

     While the NPS does not specifically have a gross negligence
provision, the BPU has indicated that it would consider allegations of
gross negligence brought upon a sufficient factual basis. A finding of
gross negligence could result in penalties other than those prescribed
under the NPS. During 1995, the five nuclear units in which PSE&G has
an ownership interest aggregated a 62% combined capacity factor which
resulted in a penalty for 1995 of approximately $3.5 million.  On
January 16, 1996, PSE&G filed its Alternative Rate Plan with the BPU
which proposes the elimination of the NPS. See Note 2.

    Based upon current projections and assumptions regarding PSE&G's
five nuclear units during 1996, including the return of Hope Creek to
service in early March, the return of Salem 2 in the third quarter and



the continued outage of Salem 1 for the remainder of the year, the 1996
aggregate capacity factor would be approximately 57%, which would
result in a penalty ranging from $11 to $12 million.  Both of the Salem
units are currently out of service and their return dates are subject
to completion of testing, analysis, repair activity and NRC concurrence
that they are prepared to restart.  Restart of Salem 1, which had
originally been scheduled for the second quarter of 1996, will be
delayed for a substantial period as a result of the ongoing steam
generator inspection and analysis.  Salem 2, which is also undergoing
steam generator inspection and analysis is still scheduled to return
to service in the third quarter of 1996.  The inability to successfully
return these units to continuous, safe operation could have a material
effect on the financial position, results of operation and net cash
flows of Enterprise and PSE&G.

    Certain of the owners of Salem have indicated that they may seek
to hold PSE&G responsible for their share of costs of the current
outage.  PSE&G cannot predict what actions, if any, may be taken.

Nuclear Insurance Coverages and Assessments
 
    PSE&G's insurance coverages and maximum retrospective assessments
for its nuclear operations are as follows:



(A) Retrospective premium program under the Price-Anderson liability
    provisions of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (Price-
    Anderson). Subject to retrospective assessment with respect to
    loss from an incident at any licensed nuclear reactor in the
    United States. Assessment adjusted for inflation effective August
    20, 1993.


 
(B) Limit of liability for each nuclear incident under Price-
    Anderson.

(C) Industry aggregate limit representing the potential liability from
    workers claiming exposure to the hazard of nuclear radiation. This
    policy includes automatic reinstatements up to an aggregate of
    $200 million, thereby providing total coverage of $400 million.
    This policy does not increase PSE&G's obligation under Price-
    Anderson.

(D) In the event of a second industry loss triggering NEIL II -
    coverage, the maximum retrospective premium assessment can
    increase to $18.5 million.
 
(E) Represents limit of coverage available to co-owners of Salem and
    Hope Creek, for each plant.  Each co-owner purchases its own
    policy.  PSE&G is currently covered for its percent ownership
    interest of this limit for each plant.

    Price-Anderson sets the "limit of liability" for claims that could
arise from an incident involving any licensed nuclear facility in the
nation. The "limit of liability" is based on the number of licensed
nuclear reactors and is adjusted at least every five years based on the
Consumer Price Index. The current "limit of liability" is $8.9 billion.
All utilities owning a nuclear reactor, including PSE&G, have provided
for this exposure through a combination of private insurance and
mandatory participation in a financial protection pool as established
by Price-Anderson. Under Price- Anderson, each party with an ownership
interest in a nuclear reactor can be assessed its share of $79.3
million per reactor per incident, payable at $10 million per reactor
per incident per year. If the damages exceed the "limit of liability,"
the President is to submit to Congress a plan for providing additional
compensation to the injured parties. Congress could impose further
revenue raising measures on the nuclear industry to pay claims. PSE&G's
maximum aggregate assessment per incident is $210.2 million (based on
PSE&G's ownership interests in Hope Creek, Peach Bottom and Salem) and
its maximum aggregate annual assessment per incident is $26.5 million.

    Further, a recent decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Third Circuit, not involving PSE&G, held that the Price Anderson Act
did not preclude awards based on state law claims for punitive damage.

    PSE&G is a member of two industry mutual insurance companies;
Nuclear Mutual Limited (NML), and Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited
(NEIL).  NML provides the primary property insurance at Salem and Hope
Creek.  NEIL provides excess property insurance through its NEIL II and
NEIL III policies and replacement power coverage through its NEIL I
policy.  Both companies may make retrospective premium assessments in
case of adverse loss experience.  PSE&G's maximum potential liabilities


under these assessments are included in the table and notes above. 
Certain of the policies also provide that the insurer may suspend
coverage with respect to all nuclear units on a site without notice if
the NRC suspends or revokes the operating license for any unit on a
site, issues a shutdown order with respect to such unit or issues a
confirmatory order keeping such unit down.  All coverages at Salem and
Hope Creek remain fully in effect.

Construction and Fuel Supplies

    PSE&G has substantial commitments as part of its ongoing
construction program which include capital requirements for nuclear
fuel. PSE&G's construction program is continuously reviewed and
periodically revised as a result of changes in economic conditions,
revised load forecasts, changes in the scheduled retirement dates of
existing facilities, changes in business strategies, site changes, cost
escalations under construction contracts, requirements of regulatory
authorities and laws, the timing of and amount of electric and gas rate
changes and the ability of PSE&G to raise necessary capital. Pursuant
to an electric integrated resource plan (IRP), PSE&G periodically
reevaluates its forecasts of future customers, load and peak growth,
sources of electric generating capacity and demand side management
(DSM) to meet such projected growth, including the need to construct
new electric generating capacity.  The IRP takes into account
assumptions concerning future demands of customers, effectiveness of
conservation and load management activities, the long-term condition
of PSE&G's plants, capacity available from electric utilities and other
suppliers and the amounts of co-generation and other non-utility
capacity projected to be available.

    Based on PSE&G's construction program, construction expenditures
are expected to aggregate approximately $2.8 billion, which includes
$428 million for nuclear fuel and $84 million of Allowance for Funds
used During Construction (AFDC) during the years 1996 through 2000. The
estimate of construction requirements is based on expected project
completion dates and includes anticipated escalation due to inflation
of approximately 3%, annually. Therefore, construction delays or higher
inflation levels could cause significant increases in these amounts.
PSE&G expects to generate internally the funds necessary to satisfy its
construction expenditures over the next five years, assuming adequate
and timely recovery of costs, as to which no assurances can be given. 
In addition, PSE&G does not presently anticipate any difficulties in
obtaining sufficient sources of fuel for electric generation or
adequate gas supplies during the years 1996 through 2000.



Hazardous Waste

    Certain Federal and State laws authorize the United States
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the New Jersey Department of
Environmental Protection (NJDEP), among other agencies, to issue orders
and bring enforcement actions to compel responsible parties to take
investigative and remedial actions at any site that is determined to
present an imminent and substantial danger to the public or the
environment because of an actual or threatened release of one or more
hazardous substances. Because of the nature of PSE&G's business,
including the production of electricity, the distribution of gas and,
formerly, the manufacture of gas, various by-products and substances
are or were produced or handled which contain constituents classified
as hazardous. PSE&G generally provides for the disposal or processing
of such substances through licensed independent contractors.  However,
these statutory provisions impose joint and several responsibility
without regard to fault on all responsible parties, including the
generators of the hazardous substances, for certain investigative and
remediation costs at sites where these substances were disposed of or
processed. PSE&G has been notified with respect to a number of such
sites and the remediation of these potentially hazardous sites is
receiving greater attention from the government agencies involved. 
Generally, actions directed at funding such site investigations and
remediation include all suspected or known responsible parties. PSE&G
does not expect its expenditures for any such site to have a material
effect on its financial position, results of operations or net cash
flows.




PSE&G Manufactured Gas Plant Remediation Program


    In 1988, NJDEP notified PSE&G that it had identified the need for
PSE&G, pursuant to a formal arrangement, to systematically investigate
and, if necessary, resolve environmental concerns extant at PSE&G's
former manufactured gas plant sites. To date, NJDEP and PSE&G have
identified 38 former gas plant sites. PSE&G is currently working with
NJDEP under a program to assess, investigate and, if necessary,
remediate environmental concerns at these sites (Remediation Program).
The Remediation Program is periodically reviewed and revised by PSE&G
based on regulatory requirements, experience with the Remediation
Program and available technologies. The cost of the Remediation Program
cannot be reasonably estimated, but experience to date indicates that
costs of at least $20 million per year could be incurred over a period
of more than 30 years and that the overall cost could be material to
PSE&G's financial position, results of operations or net cash flows.

    Costs incurred through December 31, 1995 for the Remediation
Program amounted to $64.6 million, net of certain insurance proceeds. 
In addition, at December 31, 1995, PSE&G's estimated liability for
remediation costs through 1998 aggregated $96.3 million.

    In accordance with a Stipulation approved by the BPU in 1992, PSE&G
is recovering through its LEAC over a six-year period $32 million of
its actual remediation costs to reflect costs incurred through
September 30, 1992.  As of December 31, 1995, PSE&G has recovered $27.8
million of the $32 million of such costs.  PSE&G is expected to recover
the balance of $4.2 million in its currently filed LGAC period ending
in 1996.




NOTE 13.  POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS OTHER THAN PENSIONS
 
    On January 1, 1993, Enterprise and PSE&G adopted SFAS 106 which
requires that the expected cost of employees' postretirement health
care and insurance benefits be charged to expense during the years in
which employees render service. PSE&G elected to amortize, over 20
years, its unfunded obligation of $609.3 million at January 1, 1993.
The following table discloses the significant components of the net
periodic postretirement benefit obligation:
 


(a) Reflects change in Plan Assumptions.
 

   
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

    The discount rate used in determining the PSE&G net periodic
postretirement benefit cost was 8.50% and 7.25% for 1995 and 1994,
respectively.
 
    A one-percentage-point increase in the assumed health care cost
trend rate for each year would increase the aggregate of the service
and interest cost components of net periodic postretirement health care
cost by approximately $2.6 million, or 5.6%, and increase the
accumulated postretirement benefit obligation as of December 31, 1995
by $34.8 million, or 5.9%. 
 
    The assumed health care cost trend rates used in measuring the
accumulated postretirement benefit obligation in 1995 were: medical
costs for pre-age sixty-five retirees -- 13.0%, medical costs for
post-age sixty-five retirees -- 9.0% and dental costs -- 7.0%; such
rates are assumed to gradually decline to 5.0%, 5.0% and 5.0%,
respectively, in 2011.  The medical costs above include a provision for
prescription drugs.  
 
    In its 1992 base rate case, PSE&G requested full recovery of the
costs associated with postretirement benefits other than pensions
(OPEB) on an accrual basis, in accordance with SFAS 106. The BPU's
December 31, 1992 base rate order provided that (1) PSE&G's
pay-as-you-go basis OPEB costs will continue to be included in cost of
service and will be recoverable in base rates on a pay-as-you-go basis;
(2) prudently incurred OPEB costs, that are accounted for on an accrual
basis in accordance with SFAS 106, will be recoverable in future rates;
(3) PSE&G should account for the differences between its OPEB costs on
an accrual basis and the pay-as-you-go basis being recovered in rates
as a regulatory asset; and (4) the issue of cash versus accrual
accounting will be revisited and in the event that FASB or the SEC
requires the use of accrual accounting for OPEB costs for rate-making
purposes, the regulatory asset will be recoverable, through rates, over
an appropriate amortization period. 

    Accordingly, PSE&G is accounting for the differences between its
SFAS 106 accrual cost and the cash cost currently recovered through
rates as a regulatory asset. OPEB costs charged to expenses during 1995
were $32.6 million and accrued OPEB costs deferred were $50.7 million.
The amount of the unfunded liability, at December 31, 1995, as shown
below, is $717.9 million and funding options are currently being
explored. The primary effect of adopting SFAS 106 on Enterprise's and
PSE&G's financial reporting is on the presentation of their financial
positions with minimal effect on their results of operations. 
 

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

    During January 1993 and subsequent to the receipt of the Order, the
FASB's Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) concluded that deferral of
such costs is acceptable, provided regulators allow SFAS 106 costs in
rates within approximately five years of the adoption of SFAS 106 for
financial reporting purposes, with any cost deferrals recovered in
approximately twenty years.  In accordance with the Alternative Rate
Plan filed, PSE&G expects full SFAS 106 recovery in accordance with the
EITF's view of such standard and believes that it is probable that any
deferred costs will be recovered from utility customers within such
twenty-year time period.  As of December 31, 1995, PSE&G has deferred
$167.2 million of such costs.  However, if recovery of SFAS 106 costs
is not approved by the BPU , the impact on the financial position and
results of operations would be material.

    In accordance with SFAS 106 disclosure requirements, a
reconciliation of the funded status of the plan is as follows: 

 



            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

NOTE 14.  PENSION PLAN
 
The discount rates, expected long-term rates of return on assets and
average compensation growth rates used in determining the Pension
Plan's funded status and net pension cost as of December 31, 1995 and
1994 were as follows:
 


   
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     The following table shows the Pension Plan's funded status:
 








           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

NOTE 15.  FINANCIAL INFORMATION BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS
 


 

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)




   
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONCLUDED)
 
NOTE 16.  PROPERTY IMPAIRMENT OF ENTERPRISE GROUP DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION
 
     As a result of a management review of each property's current value
and the potential for increasing such value through operating and other
improvements, EGDC recorded an impairment in 1993 related to certain of
its properties, including properties upon which EDHI's management
revised its intent from a long-term investment strategy to a hold for
sale status, reflecting such properties on its books at their net
realizable value. This impairment reduced the estimated value of EGDC's
properties by $77.6 million and 1993 net income by $50.5 million, after
tax, or 21 cents per share of Enterprise Common Stock.

NOTE 17.  JOINTLY OWNED FACILITIES -- UTILITY PLANT
 
     PSE&G has ownership interests in and is responsible for providing
its share of the necessary financing for the following jointly owned
facilities. All amounts reflect the share of PSE&G's jointly owned
projects and the corresponding direct expenses are included in
Consolidated Statements of Income as operating expenses. (See Note 1 --
Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.)
 

 
NOTE 18.  SELECTED QUARTERLY DATA (UNAUDITED)
 
     The information shown below, in the opinion of Enterprise, includes all
adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring accruals, necessary to a fair
presentation of such amounts. Due to the seasonal nature of the utility
business, quarterly amounts vary significantly during the year. 
 

 


 
                    PUBLIC SERVICE ELECTRIC AND GAS COMPANY
 
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

PSE&G
 
    Except as modified below, the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements of Enterprise are incorporated herein by reference insofar
as they relate to PSE&G and its subsidiaries:  

    Note 1. -  Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting
               Policies
    Note 2. -  Rate Matters
    Note 3. -  PSE&G Nuclear Decommissioning and Amortization of
               Nuclear Fuel
    Note 4.-   Schedule of Consolidated Capital Stock and Other
               Securities
    Note 5. -  Deferred Items
    Note 6. -  Schedule of Consolidated Debt
    Note 7. -  Long-Term Investments
    Note 8. -  Financial Instruments and Risk Management
    Note 11.-  Leasing Activities -- As Lessee
    Note 12.-  Commitments and Contingent Liabilities
    Note 13.-  Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions
    Note 14.-  Pension Plan
    Note 15.-  Financial Information by Business Segments
    Note 17.-  Jointly Owned Facilities -- Utility Plant

NOTE 1.  ORGANIZATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
Consolidation Policy
 
    The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of PSE&G
and its subsidiaries. All significant intercompany accounts and
transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. Certain
reclassifications of prior years' data have been made to conform with
the current presentation.
 



           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

NOTE 9.  CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
 
     The December 31, 1995 and 1994 balances consist primarily of working funds.

 
NOTE 10.  FEDERAL INCOME TAXES
 

 

 

 

   
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
SFAS 109
 
     The following is an analysis of accumulated deferred income taxes:
 


   
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONCLUDED)
 
NOTE 18.  SELECTED QUARTERLY DATA (UNAUDITED)
 
     The information shown below, in the opinion of PSE&G, includes all 
adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring accruals, necessary to a fair 
presentation of such amounts. Due to the seasonal nature of the utility 
business, quarterly amounts vary significantly during the year. 
 


NOTE 19.  ACCOUNTS PAYABLE TO ASSOCIATED COMPANIES -- NET

     The balance at December 31, 1995 and 1994 consisted of the following:




   
 
                               PART III
 
ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON 
         ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
    Enterprise and PSE&G, none.
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANTS
 
DIRECTORS OF THE REGISTRANTS
 
    Enterprise
 
    The information required by Item 10 of Form 10-K with respect to
present directors who are nominees for election as directors at
Enterprise's Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on April 16,
1996, and directors whose terms will continue beyond the meeting, is
set forth under the heading "Election of Directors" in Enterprise's
definitive Proxy Statement for such Annual Meeting of Stockholders,
which definitive Proxy Statement is expected to be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on or about March 1, 1996 and which
information set forth under said heading is incorporated herein by this
reference thereto.
 
    PSE&G
 
    There is shown as to each present director information as to the
period of service as a director of PSE&G, age as of April 16, 1996,
present committee memberships, business experience during the last five
years and other present directorships.  For discussion of certain
litigation involving the directors of PSE&G, except Forrest J. Remick,
see Part I - Business, Item 3 - Legal Proceedings.
 
    LAWRENCE R. CODEY has been a director since 1988. Age 51. Member
of Executive Committee. Has been President and Chief Operating Officer
of PSE&G since September 1991. Was Senior Vice President - Electric of
PSE&G from January 1989 to September 1991. Director of Enterprise.
Director of Sealed Air Corporation, The Trust Company of New Jersey,
United Water Resources Inc. and Blue Cross & Blue Shield of New Jersey.

    E. JAMES FERLAND has been a director since 1986. Age 54. Chairman
of Executive Committee.  Chairman of the Board, President and Chief
Executive Officer of Enterprise since July 1986, Chairman of the Board
and Chief Executive Officer of PSE&G since September 1991 and Chairman
of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of EDHI since June 1989.
President of PSE&G from July 1986 to September 1991. Director of
Enterprise and of EDHI and its principal subsidiaries. Director of
Foster Wheeler Corporation and The Hartford Steam Boiler Inspection and
Insurance Company.

 
 
    RAYMOND V. GILMARTIN has been a director since 1993. Age 55.
Director of Enterprise. Has been Chairman of the Board, President and
Chief Executive Officer of Merck & Co., Inc., Whitehouse Station, New
Jersey (discovers, develops, produces and markets human and animal
health products) since November 1994.  Was President and Chief
Executive Officer from June 1994 to November 1994.  Was Chairman of the
Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of Becton Dickinson and
Company from November 1992 to June 1994 and President and Chief
Executive Officer from February 1989 to November 1992. Director of
Merck & Co., Inc. and Providian Corporation.
 
    IRWIN LERNER has been a director since 1993.  Age 65. Was
previously a director from 1981 to February 1988. Director of
Enterprise. Was Chairman, Board of Directors and Executive Committee
from January 1993 to September 1993 and President and Chief Executive
Officer from 1980 to December 1992 of Hoffmann-La Roche Inc., Nutley,
New Jersey (prescription pharmaceuticals, vitamins and fine chemicals,
and diagnostic products and services). Director of Humana Inc., Sequana
Therapeutics, Inc. and Medarex, Inc. 
  
    JAMES C. PITNEY has been a director since 1993.  Age 69. Was
previously a director from 1979 to February 1988. Member of Executive
Committee. Director of Enterprise. Has been a partner in the law firm
of Pitney, Hardin, Kipp & Szuch, Morristown, New Jersey, since 1958. 
Director of Tri-Continental Corporation, sixteen funds of the Seligman
family of funds and Seligman Quality, Inc.

    FORREST J. REMICK has been a director since May 1995.  Age 65. 
Director of Enterprise.  Has been an engineering consultant since July
1994.  Was Commissioner, United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission,
from December 1989 to June 1994.  Was Associate Vice President -
Research and Professor of Nuclear Engineering at Pennsylvania State
University, from 1985 to 1989.
 
Executive Officers of the Registrants
 
    The following table sets forth certain information concerning the
executive officers of Enterprise and PSE&G, respectively.

   
 

 


ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
  ENTERPRISE
 
     The information required by Item 11 of Form 10-K is set forth under the 
heading "Executive Compensation" in Enterprise's definitive Proxy Statement for 
the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 16, 1996, which definitive 
Proxy Statement is expected to be filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on or about March 1, 1996 and such information set forth under such 
heading is incorporated herein by this reference thereto.
 
  PSE&G
 
     Information regarding the compensation of the Chief Executive Officer and 
the four most highly compensated executive officers of PSE&G as of December 31, 
1995 is set forth below. Amounts shown were paid or awarded for all services 
rendered to Enterprise and its subsidiaries and affiliates including PSE&G.
 
                           SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE
 






      AGGREGATED OPTION EXERCISES IN LAST FISCAL YEAR (1995) AND FISCAL YEAR-END
                             OPTION VALUES (12/31/95)
 



Compensation Pursuant to Pension Plans
 
                               PENSION PLAN TABLE

 


   



 

   



 
 
                             SIGNATURES 

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be 
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
                                       PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP
                                         INCORPORATED
 
                                       By       E. JAMES FERLAND
                                          -------------------------------
                                                E. James Ferland
                                         Chairman of the Board, President
Date:  February 22, 1996                    and Chief Executive Officer
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of 
the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.




                                   SIGNATURES 


     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be 
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
                                       PUBLIC SERVICE ELECTRIC AND GAS
                                         COMPANY
 
                                       By       E. JAMES FERLAND
                                          -------------------------------
                                                E. James Ferland
                                             Chairman of the Board and
                                             Chief Executive Officer
Date: February 22, 1996
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on 
behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.




   

                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
 
     Certain Exhibits previously filed with the Commission and the appropriate
securities exchanges are indicated as set forth below. Such Exhibits are not
being refiled, but are included because inclusion is desirable for convenient
reference.
 
          (a) Filed by PSE&G with Form 8-A under the Securities Exchange Act
     of 1934, on the respective dates indicated, File No. 1-973.
 
          (b) Filed by PSE&G with Form 8-K under the Securities Exchange Act
     of 1934, on the respective dates indicated, File No. 1-973.
 
          (c) Filed by PSE&G with Form 10-K under the Securities Exchange Act
     of 1934, on the respective dates indicated, File No. 1-973.
 
          (d) Filed by PSE&G with Form 10-Q under the Securities Exchange Act
     of 1934, on the respective dates indicated, File No. 1-973.
 
          (e) Filed by Enterprise with Form 10-K under the Securities Exchange
     Act of 1934, on the respective dates indicated, File No. 1-9120.
 
          (f) Filed with registration statement of PSE&G under the Securities
     Exchange Act of 1934, File No. 1-973, effective July 1, 1935, relating to
     the registration of various issues of securities.
 
          (g) Filed with registration statement of PSE&G under the Securities
     Act of 1933, No. 2-4995, effective May 20, 1942, relating to the issuance
     of $15,000,000 First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, 3% Series due 1972.
 
          (h) Filed with registration statement of PSE&G under the Securities
     Act of 1933, No. 2-7568, effective July 1, 1948, relating to the proposed
     issuance of 200,000 shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock.
 
          (i) Filed with registration statement of PSE&G under the Securities
     Act of 1933, No. 2-8381, effective April 18, 1950, relating to the 
     issuance of $26,000,000 First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, 2 3/4% 
     Series due 1980.
 
          (j) Filed with registration statement of PSE&G under the Securities
     Act of 1933, No. 2-12906, effective December 4, 1956, relating to the
     issuance of 1,000,000 shares of Common Stock.
 
          (k) Filed with registration statement of PSE&G under the Securities
     Act of 1933, No. 2-59675, effective September 1, 1977, relating to the
     issuance of $60,000,000 First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, 8 1/8% 
     Series I due 2007.
 
          (l) Filed with registration statement of PSE&G under the Securities
     Act of 1933, No. 2-60925, effective March 30, 1978, relating to the
     issuance of 750,000 shares of Common Stock through an Employee Stock
     Purchase Plan.
 
          (m) Filed with registration statement of PSE&G under the Securities
     Act of 1933, No. 2-65521, effective October 10, 1979, relating to the
     issuance of 3,000,000 shares of Common Stock.
 
          (n) Filed with registration statement of PSE&G under the Securities
     Act of 1933, No. 2-74018, filed on June 16, 1982, relating to the Thrift
     Plan of PSE&G.
 
          (o) Filed with registration statement of Public Service Enterprise
     Group Incorporated under the Securities Act of 1933, No. 33-2935 filed
     January 28, 1986, relating to PSE&G's plan to form a holding company as
     part of a corporate restructuring.
 
          (p) Filed with registration statement of PSE&G under the Securities
     Act of 1933, No. 33-13209 filed April 9, 1987, relating to the
     registration of $575,000,000 First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds 
     pursuant to Rule 415.
 
   
 
                                   ENTERPRISE
 

 

   


 

   
 

 

   



 

   


   
 

 

   
 
                                     PSE&G
 

 

   
 

 

   
 

 

   
 

 

   
 

 

   
 



