ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS.



The
statements in this section describe major risks to our business and should be
considered carefully. In addition, these statements constitute our cautionary
statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995.



Our
disclosure and analysis in this 2009 Form 10-K contains some forward-looking
statements that are based on management’s beliefs and assumptions, current
expectations, estimates and forecasts. We also provide forward-looking
statements in other materials we release to the public as well as oral
forward-looking statements. Such statements give our current expectations or
forecasts of future events. They do not relate strictly to historical or current
facts. We have attempted, wherever possible, to identify forward-looking
statements by using words such as “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “believe,”
“plan,” “anticipate” and other words and terms of similar meaning. In
particular, these include statements relating to future actions, business plans
and prospects, new products, future performance or results of current or
anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign-exchange
rates, economic effects, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal
proceedings, and financial results.



Many
of the factors that will determine our future results are beyond our ability to
control or predict. Achievement of future results is subject to known or unknown
risks or uncertainties, and therefore, actual results could differ materially
from past results and those expressed or implied in any forward-looking
statement. You should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking
statements.



We
undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether
as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. We also refer you to
further disclosures we make on related subjects in our Quarterly Reports on Form
10-Q and 8-K reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission.



Our
operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market
conditions.



The
current uncertainty in the global economy, including the continuing effects of
recession or slow economic growth in the U.S., Europe and Asia, may negatively
affect our operating results. Examples of the effects of these continuing global
economic challenges include: our suppliers’ and our customers’ inability to
access the credit markets at commercially reasonable rates; reduction in sales
due to customers decreasing their inventories in the near-term or long-term or
due to liquidity difficulties; reduction in sales due to shortages of materials
we purchase from our suppliers; reduction in research and development efforts
and expenditures by our customers; our inability to hedge our currency and raw
material risks sufficiently or at commercially reasonable prices; insolvency of
suppliers or customers; inflationary pressures on our supplies or our products;
and increased expenses due to growing taxation of corporate profits or revenues.
Our operating results in one or more geographic regions may also be affected by
uncertain or changing economic conditions within that region. If global economic
and market conditions, or economic conditions in the U.S., Europe or Asia remain
uncertain or weaken further, we may experience material adverse impacts on our
business, financial condition and results of operations.








We
are exposed to credit risk on accounts receivable and certain prepayments made
in the normal course of business. This risk is heightened during periods when
economic conditions worsen.



A
substantial majority of our outstanding trade receivables are not covered by
collateral or credit insurance. In addition, we have made prepayments associated
with insurance premiums and other advances in the normal course of business.
While we have procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on trade
receivables and other current assets, there can be no assurance such procedures
will effectively limit our credit risk and avoid losses, which could have a
material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating
results.



We
are exposed to fluctuations in the market values and the risk of loss of our
investment portfolio.



Our
available cash and cash equivalents are held in bank deposits, money market
funds and other short-term investments. We have funds in our operating accounts
that are with third-party financial institutions. These balances in the U.S. may
exceed the FDIC (Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation) insurance limits. While
we monitor the cash balances in our operating accounts, and adjust the balances
as appropriate, we could lose this cash or be unable to withdraw it in a timely
manner if the underlying financial institutions fail. Although we have not
recognized any material losses on our cash, cash equivalents and other cash
investments, future declines in their market values or other unexpected losses
could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating
results.



Our
sales and profitability depend to a large extent on the sale of drug products
delivered by injection. If the products developed by our customers in the future
use another delivery system, our sales and profitability could
suffer.



Our
business depends to a substantial extent on customers' continued sales and
development of products that are delivered by injection. If our customers fail
to continue to sell, develop and deploy new injectable products or we are unable
to develop new products that assist in the delivery of drugs by alternative
methods, our sales and profitability may suffer.



If
we are unable to provide comparative value advantages, timely fulfillment of
customer orders, or resist pricing pressure, we will have to reduce our prices,
which may negatively impact our profit margins.



We
compete with several companies across our major product lines. Because of the
special nature of these products, competition is based primarily on product
design and performance, although total cost is becoming increasingly important
as pharmaceutical companies continue with aggressive cost control programs
across their entire operations. Competitors often compete on the basis of price.
We differentiate ourselves from our competition as a "full-service value-added"
supplier that is able to provide pre-sale compatibility studies and other
services and sophisticated post-sale technical support on a global basis.
However, we face continued pricing pressure from our customers and competitors.
If we are unable to resist or to offset the effects of continued pricing
pressure through our value-added services, improved operating efficiencies and
reduced expenditures, or if we have to reduce our prices, our sales and
profitability may suffer.



If we are
unable to expand our production capacity at our European and Asian facilities,
there may be a delay in fulfilling or we may be unable to fulfill customer
orders and this could potentially reduce our sales and our profitability may
suffer.



We
have significant indebtedness and debt service payments which could negatively
impact our liquidity.



We owe
substantial debts and have to commit significant cash flow to debt service
requirements. The level of our indebtedness, among other things,
could:



·make
      it difficult for us to obtain any necessary future financing for working
      capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other
      purposes;








·limit
      our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, our business;
      and



·make
      our financial results and share value more vulnerable in the event of a
      downturn in our business.



Our
ability to meet our debt service obligations and to reduce our total
indebtedness depends on the results of our product development efforts, our
future operating performance, our ability to generate cash flow from the sale of
our products and on general economic, financial, competitive, legislative,
regulatory and other factors affecting our operations. Many of these factors are
beyond our control and our future operating performance could be adversely
affected by some or all of these factors.



If we
incur new indebtedness in the future, the related risks that we now face could
intensify. Whether we are able to make required payments on our outstanding
indebtedness and satisfy any other future debt obligations will depend on our
future operating performance and our ability to obtain additional debt or equity
financing.



Our
intellectual property assets may not prevent competitive offerings.



Our
patents, trademarks and other intellectual property may not prevent competitors
from independently developing products and services similar to or duplicative to
ours, nor can there be any assurance that the resources invested by us to
protect our intellectual property will be sufficient or that our intellectual
property portfolio will adequately deter misappropriation or improper use of our
technology. In addition, we may be the target of aggressive enforcement of
patents held by third parties. Any litigation regarding our intellectual
property rights could be time-consuming and costly and the results could be
unpredictable.



We
are subject to regulation by governments around the world, and if these
regulations are not complied with, existing and future operations may be
curtailed, and we could be subject to liability.



The
design, development, manufacturing, marketing and labeling of certain of our
products and our customers’ products that incorporate our products are subject
to regulation by governmental authorities in the U.S., Europe and other
countries, including the FDA and the European Medicines Agency. The regulatory
process can result in required modification or withdrawal of existing products
and a substantial delay in the introduction of new products. Also, it is
possible that regulatory approval may not be obtained for a new product. In
addition, our analytical laboratories perform certain contract services for drug
manufacturers and are subject to the FDA's current good manufacturing practices
regulations. We must also register as a contract laboratory with the FDA and are
subject to periodic inspections by the FDA. The Drug Enforcement Administration
has licensed our contract analytical laboratories to handle and store controlled
substances. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result
in actions that could adversely affect our business and financial
performance.



Our
business may be adversely affected by changes in the regulation of drug products
and devices.



An effect
of the governmental regulation of our customers’ drug products, devices, and
manufacturing processes is that compliance with regulations makes it costly and
time-consuming for customers to substitute or replace components and devices
produced by one supplier with those from another. In general terms, regulation
of our customers’ products that incorporate our components and devices has
increased over time.  However, if the applicable regulations were to
be modified in a way that reduced the cost and time involved for customers to
substitute one supplier’s components or devices for those made by another, it is
likely that the competitive pressure on us would increase and adversely affect
our sales and profitability.








Our
business may be adversely affected by risks typically encountered in
international operations.



We
conduct business in most of the major pharmaceutical markets in the world. Sales
outside the U.S. account for approximately 52% of consolidated net sales.
Virtually all of these sales and related operating costs are denominated in the
currency of the local country and translated into U.S. dollars, which can result
in significant increases or decreases in the amount of those sales or earnings.
The main currencies, to which we are exposed, besides the U.S. dollar, are the
Euro, British Pound, Danish Krone and Singapore Dollar. The exchange rates
between these currencies and the U.S. dollar in recent years have fluctuated
significantly and may continue to do so in the future. In addition to
translation risks, we incur currency transaction gains or losses when we or one
of our subsidiaries enters into a purchase or sales transaction in a currency
other than that entity’s local currency.



International
operations are also exposed to the following risks: transportation delays and
interruptions; political and economic instability and disruptions; imposition of
duties and tariffs; import and export controls; the risks of divergent business
expectations or cultural incompatibility inherent in establishing and
maintaining operations in foreign countries; difficulties in staffing and
managing multi-national operations; labor strikes and/or disputes; and
potentially adverse tax consequences. Limitations on our ability to enforce
legal rights and remedies with third parties or our joint venture partners
outside of the U.S. could also create exposure. In addition, we may not be able
to operate in compliance with foreign laws and regulations, or comply with
applicable customs, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing
regulations or any other laws or regulations to which we may be subject, in the
event that these laws or regulations change.

Any of
these events could have an adverse effect on our international operations in the
future by reducing the demand for our products, decreasing the prices at which
we can sell our products or otherwise have an adverse effect on our financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows.



Raw
material and energy prices have a significant impact on our profitability. If
raw material and/or energy prices increase, and we cannot pass those price
increases on to our customers, our profitability and financial condition may
suffer.



We use
three basic raw materials in the manufacture of our products: elastomers (which
include synthetic and natural material), aluminum and plastic. In addition, our
manufacturing facilities consume a wide variety of energy products to fuel, heat
and cool our operations. Supply and demand factors, which are beyond our
control, generally affect the price of our raw materials and utility costs. If
we are unable to pass along increased raw material prices and energy costs to
our customers, our profitability, and thus our financial condition, may be
adversely affected. The prices of many of these raw materials and utilities are
cyclical and volatile. For example, the prices of certain commodities,
particularly petroleum-based raw materials, have in the recent past exhibited
rapid changes, increasing the cost of synthetic elastomers and plastic. While we
generally attempt to pass along increased costs to our customers in the form of
sales price increases, historically there has been a time delay between raw
material and/or energy price increases and our ability to increase the prices of
our products. In some circumstances, we may not be able to increase the prices
of our products due to competitive pressure and other factors.



Disruptions
in the supply of key raw materials and difficulties in the supplier
qualification process, could adversely impact our operations.



We employ
a supply chain management strategy in our reporting segments, which involves
purchasing from integrated suppliers that control their own sources of supply.
This strategy has reduced the number of raw material suppliers used by us. This
increases the risk that our supply lines may be interrupted in the event of a
supplier production problem or financial difficulties. If one of our suppliers
is unable to supply materials needed for our products or our strategies for
managing these risks are unsuccessful, we may be unable to complete the process
of qualifying new replacement materials for some programs in time to meet future
production needs. Prolonged disruptions in the supply of any of our key raw
materials, difficulty completing qualification of new sources of supply, or in
implementing the use of replacement materials or new sources of supply could
have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition or
cash flows.






Our
operations must comply with environmental statutes and regulations, and any
failure to comply could result in extensive costs which would harm our
business.



The
manufacture of some of our products involves the use, transportation, storage
and disposal of hazardous or toxic materials and is subject to various
environmental protection and occupational health and safety laws and regulations
in the countries in which we operate. This has exposed us in the past, and could
expose us in the future, to risks of accidental contamination and events of
non-compliance with environmental laws. Any such occurrences could result in
regulatory enforcement or personal injury and property damage claims or could
lead to a shutdown of some of our operations, which could have an adverse effect
on our business and results of operations. We currently incur costs to comply
with environmental laws and regulations and these costs may become more
significant.



A
loss of key personnel or highly skilled employees could disrupt our
operations.



Our
executive officers are critical to the management and direction of our
businesses. Our future success depends, in large part, on our ability to retain
these officers and other capable management personnel. With the exception of our
chief executive officer, in general, we do not enter into employment agreements
with our executive officers. We have entered into severance agreements with our
officers that allow those officers to terminate their employment under
particular circumstances, such as a change of control affecting our company.
Although we believe that we will be able to attract and retain talented
personnel and replace key personnel should the need arise, our inability to do
so could disrupt the operations of the unit affected or our overall operations.
In addition, because of the complex nature of many of our products and programs,
we are generally dependent on an educated and highly skilled engineering staff
and workforce. Our operations could be disrupted by a shortage of available
skilled employees.



The
disruption of our normal business activities as a result of the implementation
of our new enterprise resource planning system and updates to shop floor systems
could have an adverse effect on our business and results of
operations.



During
the second quarter of 2008, we successfully replaced our financial reporting,
cash disbursement and order-to-cash systems in our North American operations
with a new enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system. Phase two of the ERP
project, which focused on the replacement of planning and manufacturing systems,
as well as updates to shop floor systems, commenced in late 2008 and was
completed in the fourth quarter of 2009.



Our ERP
system is critical to our ability to accurately and efficiently maintain our
books and records, record transactions, provide critical information to our
management and prepare our financial statements. We have invested significant
capital and human resources in the design and implementation of this system. The
inability of the ERP and shop floor systems to work as anticipated could
adversely affect our ability to process and ship orders, provide services and
customer support, bill and track customers, fulfill contractual obligations and
file quarterly or annual reports with the SEC in a timely manner. The resulting
disruptions to our business could adversely affect our results of operations,
financial condition and cash flows.



Our
acquisition strategy may not yield the expected benefits.



We are
always analyzing our prospects for growth by acquisition of companies or other
entities with developing technology and other assets that we believe would be
helpful to our growth and profit. The integration of any or all completed or
planned acquisitions may not be successful. The tax and other benefits expected
from the acquisitions that we have entered into or may enter into may not
materialize due to changes in applicable laws or regulations, uncertainties in
the application of laws or regulations or the inability to achieve expected
levels of sales and operating profit.








Our
recent realignment of our business units may not deliver the expected
growth.



Effective
January 1, 2010, we realigned our business operations into two divisions,
“Pharmaceutical Packaging Systems” and “Pharmaceutical Delivery Systems.” Our
new Pharmaceutical Delivery Systems division plans to pursue growth through the
development and commercialization of proprietary multi-component systems for
injectable drug administration and other healthcare applications. Although we
believe that this effort will be successful, this division’s growth could suffer
if proprietary systems cannot be developed quickly enough or on a cost-efficient
basis or if they are not of sufficient commercial value. Growth in this division
could also suffer as a result of soft demand by our customers or if anticipated
markets for these products do not develop. Additionally, our Pharmaceutical
Delivery Systems division will be subject to further regulatory oversight than
our business has historically been subject to, and there can be no guarantee
that we will be able to successfully meet the new regulatory obligations in a
commercially reasonable manner.



The
uncertain effects of potential climate change legislation could lead to
significantly increased costs.



If
legislation or regulations are enacted or promulgated in the U.S., Europe or
Asia or any other jurisdictions in which we do business that limit or reduce
allowable greenhouse gas emissions and other emissions, such restrictions could
have a significant effect on our operating and financial decisions, including
those involving capital expenditures to reduce emissions, and our results of
operations. Our manufacturing operations may not be able to operate as planned
if we are not able to comply with new legal and regulatory legislation around
climate change, or it may become too costly to operate in a profitable manner.
Additionally, suppliers’ added expenses could be passed on to us in the form of
higher prices and we may not be able to pass on such expenses to our customers
through price increases.



The
uncertain effects of potential healthcare legislation in the U.S. could lead to
significantly increased costs and other unforeseen consequences.



Political,
economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the healthcare industry in the
U.S. to potential fundamental changes. The effects of this potential legislation
and any regulations that emanate from it are uncertain at this time. However,
based on drafts of the legislation that have passed in the U.S. Senate and the
U.S. House of Representatives and proposals put forth by the Obama
Administration, we expect that this potential reform could result in significant
costs for us and also for our customers. One proposal, an excise tax on medical
device companies, may result in a significant increase in the tax burden on our
new Pharmaceutical Delivery Systems division. In addition, this reform may
impose enhanced benefit requirements for our employees which could increase our
labor costs significantly. Until legislation is final, however, the full range
of consequences stemming from this reform is difficult to predict.



