
10-K
THE KROGER CO.



                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

                                  ANNUAL REPORT

                     Pursuant to Section 13 or 15 (d) of the
                         Securities Exchange Act of 1934


For the Fiscal Year Ended                              Commission File No. 1-303
     January 2, 1999

                                 THE KROGER CO.

An Ohio Corporation                               I.R.S. Employer Identification
                                                          No. 31-0345740

Address                                                  Telephone Number
- -------                                                  ----------------
1014 Vine St.                                             (513) 762-4000
Cincinnati, Ohio   45202

Securities registered pursuant to section 12 (b) of the Act:

                                                       Name of Exchange on
Title of Class                                          which Registered      
- --------------                                          ----------------      
Common $1 par value                                  New York Stock Exchange
257,856,756 shares outstanding on
  March 23, 1999

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes      X       No             .
    -----------     -----------

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10K or any amendment to this
Form 10K [ ].

The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity of The
Kroger Co. held by nonafflilates as of February 5, 1999:   $15,712,730,035

Documents Incorporated by Reference:
     Proxy Statement to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A of the Exchange Act
     on or before May 3, 1999 incorporated by reference into Parts II and III of
     Form 10-K.




                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

The Kroger Co. (the "Company") was founded in 1883 and incorporated in 1902. As
of January 2, 1999, the Company was the largest retailer in the United States
based on annual sales. The retail food business is highly competitive. The
Company also manufacturers and processes food for sale by its supermarkets. The
Company's principal executive offices are located at 1014 Vine Street,
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 and its telephone number is (513) 762-4000.

As of January 2, 1999, the Company operated 1,410 supermarkets, most of which
are leased. Of this number, 1,145 supermarkets were operated, directly or
through a partnership composed of the Company and wholly-owned subsidiaries of
the Company, principally under the Kroger name in the Midwest and South. Dillon
Companies, Inc. ("Dillon"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, operated
265 supermarkets directly or through wholly-owned subsidiaries (the "Dillon
Supermarkets"). The Dillon Supermarkets, principally located in Colorado,
Kansas, Arizona and Missouri, operate under the names "King Soopers", "Dillon
Food Stores", "Fry's Food Stores", "City Market", "Gerbes Supermarkets", and
"Sav-Mor". The Company employs approximately 213,000 full and part-time
employees.

As of January 2, 1999, the Company, through its Dillon subsidiary, operated 797
convenience stores under the trade names of "Kwik Shop", "Quik Stop Markets",
"Tom Thumb Food Stores", "Turkey Hill Minit Markets", "Loaf 'N Jug", and
"Mini-Mart". The Company owned and operated 684 of these stores while 113 were
operated through franchise agreements. The convenience stores offer a limited
assortment of staple food items and general merchandise and, in most cases, sell
gasoline.

The Company intends to develop new food and convenience store locations and will
continue to assess existing stores as to possible replacement, remodeling,
enlarging, or closing.

On October 19, 1998 the Company announced its intended merger with Fred Meyer,
Inc. Under the terms of the merger agreement, Fred Meyer, Inc. shareholders will
receive one newly issued share of Kroger common stock for each Fred Meyer, Inc.
common share. The transaction will be accounted for as a pooling of interests.
The Company expects to close the transaction in spring, 1999 subject to approval
of Kroger and Fred Meyer shareholders, antitrust clearance and customary closing
conditions. Additional information regarding the merger can be found in the
Company's current report on Form 8-K dated October 20, 1998.

SEGMENTS

Based on the information monitored by the Company's operating decision makers to
manage the business, the Company has identified one reportable segment. Retail
operation information consists of results from the Company's retail food and
drug store divisions and convenience store divisions. Corporate and all other
operation information relates primarily to results from the Company's Corporate
office and manufacturing operations, none of which individually meet the
quantitative thresholds of a reportable segment. All of the Company's operations
are domestic. The Company manages income taxes, LIFO charges, interest income
and interest expense on a consolidated basis at the Corporate level. For
additional information on segments, see "Segments" in the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

As of January 2, 1999, the Company operated more than 2,200 owned or leased
supermarkets, convenience stores, distribution warehouses and food processing
facilities, through divisions, marketing areas, subsidiaries or affiliates.
These facilities are located principally in the Midwest, South and Southwest. A
majority of the properties used in the conduct of the Company's business are
leased.

Store equipment, fixtures and leasehold improvements, as well as processing and
manufacturing equipment, are generally owned by the Company. The total cost of
the Company's owned assets and capitalized leases at January 2, 1999 was $6.862
billion while the accumulated depreciation was $3.077 billion.

Leased premises generally have base terms ranging from ten to twenty-five years
with renewal options for additional periods. Some options provide the right to
purchase the property after conclusion of the lease term. Store rentals are
normally payable monthly at a stated amount or at a guaranteed minimum amount
plus a percentage of sales over a stated dollar volume. Rentals for the
distribution, processing and miscellaneous facilities generally are payable
monthly at stated amounts. For additional information on leased premises, see
"Leases" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.





ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

There are pending against the Company various claims and lawsuits arising in the
normal course of business, including suits charging violations of certain
antitrust and civil rights laws. Some of these suits purport or have been
determined to be class actions and/or seek substantial damages. Any damages that
may be awarded in antitrust cases will be automatically trebled. Although it is
not possible at this time to evaluate the merits of these claims and lawsuits,
nor their likelihood of success, the Company is of the opinion that any
resulting liability will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's
financial position.


ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

None.
                                     PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER 
        MATTERS

                               Common Stock Price Range
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                1998                    1997
                       --------------------     --------------------
Quarter                  High        Low          High        Low   
- -------                --------    --------     --------    --------
   1st                 47-5/16     33-1/16      28-1/8      22-11/16
   2nd                 47-1/2      40-3/16      29-1/8      23-13/16
   3rd                 54-1/8      42           31-1/16     27-1/8
   4th                 60-13/16    44           37-5/16     28-1/2

Main trading market - New York Stock Exchange (Symbol KR)

Number of shareowners at year-end 1998:     47,124

Number of shareowners at March 23, 1999:    46,870

         Determined by number of shareholders of record

The Company has not paid dividends on its Common Stock for the past three fiscal
years. See Quarterly Data Note to Consolidated Financial Statements.




ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
                            SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 

 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(A) See Extraordinary Loss in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
(B) The Company is prohibited from paying cash dividends under the terms of its
    Credit Agreement.
 

 
ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND 
         RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
SALES
      Our total sales in the fourth quarter 1998 increased 12.9% from $6.5
billion to $7.3 billion, compared to the fourth quarter 1997. The fourth quarter
of 1998 had an extra week compared to the same quarter of 1997 because fiscal
1998 contained 53 weeks compared to a 52 week year in 1997. For the full year,
total sales increased 6.2% and food store sales increased 6.5%. In the fourth
quarter 1998, food store sales increased 13.2%. Sales by operating segments for
the three years ended January 2, 1999, were as follows:
 

 
      After adjusting for the 53rd week in 1998, fourth quarter total sales
increased 3.9%, from $6.5 billion to $6.8 billion, and food store sales rose
4.3%, from $6.1 billion to $6.3 billion. These are in comparison to fourth
quarter 1997. After adjusting for the extra week in 1998, the percentage of
change in sales by operating segments for the three years ended January 2, 1999,
were:
 

 
      Sales in identical food stores, which include stores in operation and not
expanded or relocated for five quarters, increased 0.4% in the fourth quarter
and increased 1.0% for the full year. Comparable store sales, which include
identical stores plus expanded and relocated stores, increased 2.4% in the
fourth quarter.
      The increase in food store sales is related to the 4.3% square footage
growth generated by Kroger's capital expenditure program. This program enabled
us to open, relocate or expand 96 food stores during 1998. Most of the new and
expanded stores feature our combination store format. This "one-stop shopping"
format saves time and travel for customers and is adaptable to the demographics
of individual markets.
      Total sales in our convenience stores decreased 0.2% for the year and
increased 5.8% during the fourth quarter of 1998. Adjusting for the extra week,
convenience stores total sales decreased 2.1% for the year and 2.2% in the
fourth quarter of 1998. The sales decrease during the fourth quarter can be
attributed to a 15.5% decrease in the retail price of gasoline. Total gasoline
sales dollars decreased 8.4% for the year. Total gasoline gallons sold increased
6.8% for the year. The percentage of change in convenience store identical
gasoline sales dollars, gasoline gallons sold and non-gasoline sales dollars for
the 4th quarter and year ended January 2, 1999 were:
 

 

 
      Other sales represent sales by our manufacturing plants to entities other
than Kroger. Compared to 1997, other sales increased 14.2% for the fourth
quarter and 2.2% for the year. Adjusting for the extra week in 1998, other sales
increased 7.1% for the fourth quarter and 0.6% for the year.
      Total food store square footage increased 4.3%, 5.7% and 6.7% in 1998,
1997, and 1996, respectively. Convenience store square footage decreased 1.2% in
1998 due to operational closings of 16 stores and disposition of 14 stores.
Convenience store square footage decreased 1.3% in 1997, and increased 1.5% in
1996.
      Sales per average square foot for the last three years were:
 

 
      Sales per average square foot for 1998 include an extra week compared to
1997 and 1996. Excluding the extra week, sales per average square foot for 1998
would have been $396 for food stores and $543 for convenience stores. Sales per
average square foot exclude stores operated by franchisees. Our storing program
in 1998 and 1997 has led to the decrease in sales per average square foot in our
food stores. The new stores, which are generally larger and built in developing
areas, take longer to contribute to higher sales per square foot. They also
reduce the sales per square foot at nearby stores.
 
ONE-TIME EXPENSES
      In the second quarter of 1998, we incurred a $40.8 million pre-tax, $25.3
million after-tax or $.09 per diluted share, one-time expense associated with
logistics projects. This expense included the costs associated with ending a
joint venture related to a warehouse operation that formerly served our Michigan
stores and several independent customers. The warehouse is now operated by a
third party that distributes our inventory to our Michigan stores. These
expenses also included the transition costs related to one of our new
warehouses, and one new warehouse facility operated by an unaffiliated entity
that provides services to us. These costs included carrying costs of the
facilities idled as a result of these new warehouses and the associated employee
severance costs. The expenses described above include non-cash asset writedowns
of $15.5 million and were included in merchandise costs, including warehouse and
transportation. The remaining $25.3 million of expenses are summarized as
follows:
 

 
      The employee severance costs will be paid through the second quarter of
1999 and the carrying costs of the idled warehouse facilities are projected to
be paid through 2001.
      Additionally, in the second quarter of 1998, we incurred one-time expenses
of $11.6 million pre-tax, $7.2 million after-tax or $.03 per diluted share,
associated with accounting, data and operations consolidations in Texas. These
included the costs of closing eight stores and relocating the remaining Dallas
office employees to a smaller facility. These expenses, which include non-cash
asset writedowns of $2.2 million, were included in operating, general and
administrative expenses. Cash expenses paid to date are $0.9 million and the
remaining accrual of $8.5 million at January 2, 1999 represents estimated rent
or lease termination costs that will be paid on closed stores through 2013.
 

 
ACCOUNTING CHANGE
      In the second quarter of 1998, we changed our application of the Last-In,
First-Out, or LIFO method of accounting for store inventories from the retail
method to the item cost method. The change was made to more accurately reflect
inventory value by eliminating the averaging and estimation inherent in the
retail method. The cumulative effect of this change on periods prior to December
28, 1997 cannot be determined. The effect of the change on the December 28, 1997
inventory valuation, which includes other immaterial modifications in inventory
valuation methods, was included in restated results for the quarter ended March
21, 1998. This change increased merchandise costs by $89.7 million and reduced
earnings before extraordinary loss and net earnings by $55.6 million, or $0.21
per diluted share. We have not calculated the pro forma effect on prior periods
because cost information for these periods is not determinable. The item cost
method did not have a material impact on earnings subsequent to its initial
adoption.
 
MERCHANDISE COSTS
      Merchandise costs include advertising, warehousing and transportation
expenses and charges related to valuing inventory on the LIFO method. The
following table shows the relative effect of LIFO charges, One-Time Expenses and
the Accounting Change on merchandising costs as a percent of sales.
 

 
      Our merchandise costs, adjusted for One-Time Expenses and the Accounting
Change, as a percent of sales declined during 1998 from the 1997 and 1996
levels. Merchandise costs were reduced by:
      - coordinated purchasing,
      - category management,
      - technology related efficiencies, and
      - increases in private label sales.
 
OPERATING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
      Operating, general and administrative expenses as a percent of sales were
17.42%, 17.33% and 17.36%, in 1998, 1997 and 1996 respectively. Operating,
general and administrative expenses as a percent of sales, excluding One-Time
Expenses of $11.6 million, were 17.38% for 1998. The increase is due to higher
incentive payouts based on our 1998 performance.
 
INCOME TAXES
      We have closed all tax years through 1984 with the Internal Revenue
Service. The Internal Revenue Service has completed its examination of our tax
returns for tax years 1985-1992. On September 15, 1998, the IRS voluntarily
dismissed its appeal against Kroger. This action settled a previously unresolved
issue for tax years 1984-1992. One issue remains in dispute with the IRS for tax
years 1991 and 1992. We have provided for this and other tax contingencies.
 

 
NET EARNINGS
      Net earnings and the effects of extraordinary losses, One-Time Expenses
and the Accounting Change for the three years ended January 2, 1999 were:
 

 
      Extraordinary losses are from the early retirement of debt. Net earnings
in 1998 compared to 1997 and 1996 were affected by:
      - net interest expense in 1998 of $266.9 million compared to $285.9
        million in 1997 and $300.0 million in 1996, and
      - depreciation expense in 1998 of $430.0 million, compared to $380.2
        million in 1997 and $343.8 million in 1996.
 
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
  Debt Management and Interest Expense
      The table below provides information about debt repurchases and
redemptions for the three years ended January 2, 1999.
 

 
      We used the proceeds from the issuance of new senior debt, additional bank
borrowings and cash generated from operations to make these purchases and
redemptions.
      We have a 364-Day Credit Agreement and Five Year Credit Agreement
(together, the "Credit Agreement") with a consortium of bank lenders. The
364-Day Credit Agreement is a revolving credit facility in the amount of $500
million, that terminates on May 29, 1999, unless extended. The Five Year Credit
Agreement is a revolving credit facility in the amount of $1.5 billion, that
terminates on May 28, 2002, unless extended or terminated earlier by us. The
average interest rate on our bank debt was 6.14% in 1998 compared to 6.06% in
1997 and 6.16% in 1996. Our borrowings at year-end 1998 under the Credit
Agreement totaled $844 million compared to $1.262 billion at year-end 1997 and
$1.001 billion at year-end 1996. In December 1998 we amended our Credit
Agreement to permit our merger with Fred Meyer. The amendments, which become
effective when the merger is completed, increase our rates to market rates. Our
rates under the Credit Agreement are variable. As of January 2, 1999, we had
$1.147 billion available under our Credit Agreement to meet short term liquidity
needs.
      Long-term debt, including capital leases and current portion thereof,
decreased $113.5 million to $3.404 billion at year-end 1998 from $3.517 billion
at year-end 1997 and $3.681 billion at year-end 1996. We purchased a portion of
the debt issued by the lenders of some structured financings in an effort to
further reduce
 

 
our effective interest expense. We also prefunded $200 million of employee
benefit costs at year-end 1998 compared to $160 million at year-end 1997. If we
exclude the debt incurred to make these purchases, which we classify as
investments, and the prefunding of employee benefits, our year-end 1998
long-term debt would have been $267.3 million less, or $3.1 billion, compared to
$3.2 billion at year-end 1997 and $3.4 billion at year-end 1996.
 
  Interest Rate Protection Program
      We use derivatives to limit our exposure to rising interest rates. During
1998 we followed these guidelines in using derivatives:
      - use average daily bank balance to determine annual debt amounts subject
        to interest rate exposure,
      - limit the annual amount of debt subject to interest rate reset and the
        amount of floating rate debt to a combined total of $1.0 billion or
        less,
      - include no leveraged derivative products, and
      - hedge without regard to profit motive or sensitivity to current
        mark-to-market status.
      We review compliance with these guidelines annually with the Financial
Policy Committee of our Board of Directors. In addition, our internal auditors
review compliance with these guidelines on an annual basis. These guidelines may
change as our business needs dictate.
      The table below provides information about our interest rate derivative
and underlying debt portfolio. The amounts each year represent the contractual
maturities of long-term debt, excluding capital leases, and the outstanding
notional amount of interest rate derivatives. Interest rates reflect the
weighted average for the maturing instruments. The variable component of each
interest rate derivative and variable rate debt is based on 6 month LIBOR using
the forward yield curve as of January 2, 1999. The Fair-Value column includes
only those debt instruments for which it is reasonably possible to calculate a
fair value and interest rate derivatives as of January 2, 1999. (See Fair Value
of Financial Instruments footnote.)
 

 
      It was not practicable to determine a fair value for $472.2 million of
fixed rate debt.
 

 
  Common Stock Repurchase Program
      On January 29, 1997, we began repurchasing common stock in order to reduce
dilution caused by our stock option plans. These repurchases were made using the
proceeds, including the tax benefit, from options exercised. Further repurchases
of up to $100 million of common stock were authorized by the Board of Directors
during October 1997. On October 19, 1998, we suspended the repurchase program as
result of the merger agreement between Kroger and Fred Meyer, Inc. During 1998,
we made open market purchases of 2,625,299 shares of Kroger stock for $120.8
million compared to purchases in 1997 of 3,015,887 shares for $84.9 million.
 
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES
      Capital expenditures for 1998 totaled $923.5 million, compared to $612.2
million in 1997, and $733.8 million in 1996. The 1998 capital expenditures
include the acquisition of seven Owens stores in the third quarter and five
Hilander stores in the fourth quarter. The Owens stores are located in Indiana
and the Hilander stores are located in Illinois. During 1998 we opened, acquired
or expanded 96 food stores and 11 convenience stores. The table below shows our
storing activity.
 

 
      In addition to the above activity, we also completed 74 food store and 13
convenience store remodels during 1998.
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
      During 1998, we generated $1,142.2 million in cash from operating
activities compared to $853.6 million in 1997 and $499.4 million in 1996. The
increase over 1997 is primarily due to a net decrease in operating assets and
liabilities that provided $239.2 million of cash in 1998 compared to $12.9
million in 1997. The largest components of the change in operating assets and
liabilities was a decrease in net owned inventories of $132.9 million compared
to a decrease of $16.6 million in 1997 and an increase in other liabilities of
$132.3 million compared to $51.5 million in 1997. The increase over 1997 also
includes an increase of non-cash charges for depreciation and amortization of
$49.7 million.
 

 
      Investing activities used $759.6 million of cash in 1998 compared to
$579.4 million in 1997 and $856.9 million in 1996. The increase in the use of
cash resulted from increased capital expenditures of $311.3 million, offset by
decreased purchases of investments of $101.5 million.
      Cash used by financing activities in 1998 totaled $326.7 million compared
to $275.7 million in 1997 and $345.5 million of cash provided in 1996. Compared
to 1997, our financing activities in 1998 used an additional $23.7 million of
cash for debt prepayments and finance charges, and an additional $36.7 million
to repurchase capital stock.
 
EBITDA
      Our Credit Agreement and the indentures underlying approximately $377
million of publicly issued debt, contain various restrictive covenants. Many of
these covenants are based on earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation,
amortization and LIFO charge, or EBITDA. The ability to generate EBITDA at
levels sufficient to satisfy the requirements of these agreements is a key
measure of our financial strength. We do not intend to present EBITDA as an
alternative to any generally accepted accounting principle measure of
performance. Rather, management believes the presentation of EBITDA is important
for understanding Kroger's performance compared to our debt covenants. The
calculation of EBITDA is based on the definition contained in our Credit
Agreement. This may be a different definition than other companies use. We were
in compliance with all Credit Agreement and indenture covenants on January 2,
1999.
      EBITDA for 1998, excluding one-time expenses, as described in "One-Time
Expenses" above, of $52.4 million and the $89.7 million accounting change, as
described in "Accounting Change" above, increased 12.4% to $1.556 billion
compared to $1.385 billion in 1997. EBITDA in 1996 was $1.224 billion. Excluding
the effect of strikes in the King Soopers and City Market divisions, EBITDA
would have been approximately $1.256 billion in 1996. EBITDA including One-Time
Expenses and the Accounting Change increased 2.1% in 1998 to $1.414 billion
compared to $1.385 billion in 1997.
 
OTHER ISSUES
      On October 19, 1998 we announced our intended merger with Fred Meyer, Inc.
Under the terms of the merger agreement, Fred Meyer, Inc. shareholders will
receive one newly issued share of Kroger common stock for each Fred Meyer, Inc.
common share. The transaction will be accounted for as a pooling of interests.
We expect to close the transaction in spring 1999 subject to approval of Kroger
and Fred Meyer shareholders, antitrust clearance and customary closing
conditions. Additional information regarding the merger can be found in our
Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 20, 1998.
      On January 6, 1999, we changed our fiscal year-end to the Saturday nearest
January 31 of each year. This change is disclosed in our Current Report on Form
8-K dated January 6, 1999. Our first new fiscal year will end January 29, 2000.
It will include a 16-week first quarter ending May 22, 1999, and 12-week second,
third and fourth quarters ending August 14, 1999, November 6, 1999, and January
29, 2000, respectively. We intend to file separate audited statements of
operations and cash flows covering the transition period from January 3, 1999 to
January 30, 1999 on a Current Report on Form 8-K on or before May 15, 1999.
      We are party to more than 160 collective bargaining agreements with local
unions representing approximately 158,000 employees. During 1998 we negotiated
11 labor contracts without any material work stoppages. Typical agreements are 3
to 5 years in duration and, as agreements expire, we expect to enter into new
collective bargaining agreements. In 1999, 35 collective bargaining agreements
will expire. We cannot be certain that agreements will be reached without work
stoppage. A prolonged work stoppage affecting a substantial number of stores
could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations.
 

 
OUTLOOK
      Statements elsewhere in this report and below regarding our expectations,
hopes, beliefs, intentions or strategies are forward looking statements within
the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Since the
intended merger described in the "Other Issues" section above is not expected to
close until spring 1999, the effects of the merger are not considered in making
these statements unless referred to specifically. While we believe that the
statements are accurate, uncertainties and other factors could cause actual
results to differ materially from those statements. In particular:
      - We obtain sales growth from new square footage, as well as from
        increased productivity from existing locations. We expect 1999 full year
        square footage to grow 4.5% to 5.0%. We expect to continue to realize
        savings from economies of scale in technology and logistics, some of
        which may be reinvested in retail price reductions to increase sales
        volume and enhance market share.
      - We expect combination stores to generate higher sales per customer by
        the inclusion of numerous specialty departments, such as pharmacies,
        seafood shops, floral shops and bakeries. We believe the combination
        store format will allow us to withstand continued competition from other
        food retailers, supercenters, mass merchandisers and restaurants.
      - We believe we have adequate coverage of our debt covenants to continue
        to respond effectively to competitive conditions.
      - We expect to continue capital spending in technology focusing on
        improved store operations, logistics, procurement, category management,
        merchandising and distribution practices, which should continue to
        reduce merchandising costs as a percent of sales.
      - We expect to reduce working capital over the next 2 years.
      - In the second quarter of 1998 we raised our earnings per share target to
        a 15%-17% average annual increase over fiscal years 1999-2001 from the
        previously stated target of a 13%-15% average annual increase. Assuming
        consummation of the merger referenced in the "Other Issues" section
        above, we are raising our earnings per share target to a 16%-18% average
        annual increase over the next three years effective with the year 2000.
      - We expect capital expenditures for the year to total $850-$950 million
        compared to $923.5 million during all of 1998. Capital expenditures
        reflect Kroger's strategy of growth through expansion and acquisition as
        well as our emphasis, whenever possible, on self-development and
        ownership of store real estate, and on logistics and technology
        improvements.
      - We are dependent on computer hardware, software, systems and processes
        ("IT Systems") and non-information technology systems such as
        telephones, clocks, scales and refrigeration controllers, and other
        equipment containing embedded microprocessor technology ("Non-IT
        Systems"). These systems are used in several critical operating areas
        including store and distribution operations, product merchandising and
        procurement, manufacturing plant operations, inventory and labor
        management, and accounting and administrative systems.
 
  Year 2000 Readiness Disclosure
        We are currently working to resolve the potential effect of the year
        2000 on the processing of date-sensitive information within these
        various systems. The year 2000 problem is the result of computer
        programs being written using two digits (rather than four) to define the
        applicable year. Any of our programs that have date-sensitive software
        may recognize a date using "00" as the year 1900 rather than the year
        2000, which could result in miscalculations or system failures.
 

 
        We have developed a plan to assess and update our IT Systems and Non-IT
        Systems for year 2000 compliance requirements and provide for continued
        functionality. The plan consists of three major phases:
          1) create an inventory of systems subject to the year 2000 problem and
             assess the scope of the problem as it relates to those systems
          2) remediate any year 2000 problems
          3) test and implement systems subsequent to remediation
        The chart below shows the estimated completion status of each of these
        phases expressed as a percent of completion as of the end of 1998.
 

 
        This summary includes all IT and Non-IT Systems without regard to their
        effect on the operation of the Company. We estimate that business
        critical IT Systems are 83% complete through Phase 3. We expect to
        complete assessment and remediation of these by the end of the first
        quarter of 1999. We will continue to test our systems, including a
        simulation of the year 2000, and expect to complete all work by the end
        of the third quarter of 1999.
        In addition to the remediation of the IT Systems and Non-IT Systems, we
        are contacting all critical product suppliers, service providers, and
        those with which we exchange information, to ensure they will be able to
        continue normal business operations uninterrupted. This effort also
        consists of three phases:
          1) identify the entities and verify address and contact information
          2) mail the initial request
          3) receive and accept response
        This third step includes the verification of year 2000 readiness, if
        appropriate. During the fourth quarter of 1998, we have identified
        additional external entities to contact for year 2000 compliance. To
        date, we have identified and mailed year 2000 verification requests to
        approximately 58% of the critical external entities. Approximately 20%
        of these entities have responded, and less than 10% of their year 2000
        readiness plans have been verified. We expect that substantially all
        critical external entities will have been contacted and year 2000
        readiness verified by the end of the first quarter 1999.
        We have not developed contingency plans related to all uncertainties in
        our year 2000 plan. Based on the results of our testing, implementation
        and verification efforts noted above, we will establish contingency
        plans in mission critical processes to address potential additional year
        2000 issues. Contingency plans are being developed and accessed by teams
        of programmers and users. We expect that these contingency plans will be
        in place by the end of the third quarter of 1999.
        The total estimated cost for the project, over a four year period, is
        $30.9 million, most of which is being expensed as incurred. This cost is
        being funded through operating cash flow. This represents an
 

 
        immaterial part of our information technology budget over the period.
        The breakdown of the costs are as follows.
 

 
        If we, our customers or vendors are unable to resolve processing issues
        in a timely manner, it could result in the disruption of the operation
        of IT Systems and or Non-IT Systems, and in a material financial risk.
        We believe that we have allocated the resources necessary to mitigate
        all significant year 2000 issues in a timely manner.
      Inflationary factors, increased competition, construction delays, and
labor disputes could affect our ability to obtain expected increases in sales
and earnings. Delays in store maturity, increased competition and increased
capital spending could adversely affect the anticipated increase in sales per
square foot. Increases in gross profit rate may not be achieved if start-up
costs are higher than expected or if problems associated with integrating new
systems occur. Increased operating costs and changes in inflationary trends
could prevent us from reducing operating, general and administrative expenses.
New technologies could fail to achieve the desired savings and efficiencies. Net
interest expenses could exceed expectations due to acquisitions, higher working
capital usage, inflation, or increased competition. Our ability to achieve our
storing goals could be hampered by construction delays, labor disputes,
increased competition or delays in technology projects. The effects of the
intended merger and the inherent complexity of computer software and reliance on
third party software vendors to interface with our systems could affect the
completion of necessary "Year 2000" modifications.
 


ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
 
To the Shareowners and Board of Directors
The Kroger Co.
 
      In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of The Kroger
Co. and the related consolidated statements of operations and accumulated
deficit, and cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of The Kroger Co. as of January 2, 1999 and December 27, 1997, and the
consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for the years ended
January 2, 1999, December 27, 1997, and December 28, 1996, in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company's management; our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our
audits of these statements in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above.
 
      As discussed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements, the
Company changed its application of the LIFO method of accounting for store
inventories as of December 28, 1997.
 
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Cincinnati, Ohio
January 28, 1999
 

 
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 

 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.
 

 
                    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS AND
                              ACCUMULATED DEFICIT
 
Years Ended January 2, 1999, December 27, 1997, and December 28, 1996
 

 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.
 

 
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
 
Years Ended January 2, 1999, December 27, 1997, and December 28, 1996
 

 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
All dollar amounts are in thousands except per share amounts.
 
ACCOUNTING POLICIES
      The following is a summary of the significant accounting policies followed
in preparing these financial statements:
 
  Principles of Consolidation
      The consolidated financial statements include the Company and all of its
subsidiaries. Certain prior year amounts have been restated to conform to
current year presentation.
 
  Pervasiveness of Estimates
      The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities.
Disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the
consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of consolidated
revenues and expenses during the reporting period also is required. Actual
results could differ from those estimates.
 
  Inventories
      Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Approximately 95%
of inventories for 1998 and 90% of inventories for 1997 were valued using the
LIFO method. Cost for the balance of the inventories is determined using the
FIFO method.
 
  Property Held for Sale
      Property held for sale includes the net book value of property, plant and
equipment that the Company plans to sell. The property is valued at the lower of
cost or market on an individual property basis.
 
  Property, Plant and Equipment
      Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation and
amortization, which includes the amortization of assets recorded under capital
leases, are computed principally using the straight-line method over the
estimated useful lives of individual assets, composite group lives or the
initial or remaining terms of leases. Buildings and land improvements are
depreciated based on lives varying from ten to 40 years. Equipment depreciation
is based on lives varying from three to 15 years. Leasehold improvements are
amortized over their useful lives, which vary from four to 25 years.
 
  Interest Rate Protection Agreements
      The Company uses interest rate swaps to hedge a portion of its borrowings
against changes in interest rates. The interest differential to be paid or
received is accrued as interest rates change and is recognized over the life of
the agreements currently as a component of interest expense. Gains and losses
from the disposition of hedge agreements are deferred and amortized over the
shorter of the term of the related agreements or borrowings.
 
  Advertising Costs
      The Company's advertising costs are expensed as incurred and included in
"merchandise costs, including warehousing and transportation." Advertising
expenses amounted to $341,000, $312,000, and $302,000 for 1998, 1997, and 1996,
respectively.
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED
 
  Deferred Income Taxes
      Deferred income taxes are recorded to reflect the tax consequences of
differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their financial
reporting bases. The types of differences that give rise to significant portions
of deferred income tax liabilities or assets relate to: property, plant and
equipment; inventories; accruals for compensation-related costs; and other
changes. Deferred income taxes are classified as a net current and noncurrent
asset or liability based on the classification of the related asset or liability
for financial reporting. A deferred tax asset or liability that is not related
to an asset or liability for financial reporting is classified according to the
expected reversal date. (See Taxes Based on Income footnote.)
 
  Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
      For purposes of the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the Company
considers all highly liquid debt instruments purchased with a maturity of three
months or less to be temporary cash investments. Outstanding checks, which are
included in accounts payable, represent disbursements that are funded as the
item is presented for payment.
      Cash paid during the year for interest and income taxes was as follows:
 

 
MERGER
 
      On October 19, 1998 we announced our intended merger with Fred Meyer, Inc.
Under the terms of the merger agreement, Fred Meyer, Inc. shareholders will
receive one newly issued share of Kroger common stock for each Fred Meyer, Inc.
common share. The transaction will be accounted for as a pooling of interests.
We expect to close the transaction in spring, 1999 subject to approval of Kroger
and Fred Meyer shareholders, antitrust clearance and customary closing
conditions. Additional information regarding the merger can be found in our
current report on Form 8-K dated October 20, 1998.
 
ONE-TIME EXPENSES
 
      In the second quarter of 1998, we incurred a $40,800 pre-tax, $25,300
after-tax or $.09 per diluted share, one-time expense associated with logistics
projects. This expense included the costs associated with ending a joint venture
related to a warehouse operation that formerly served our Michigan stores and
several independent customers. The warehouse is now operated by a third party
that distributes our inventory to our Michigan stores. These expenses also
included the transition costs related to one of our new warehouses, and one new
warehouse facility operated by an unaffiliated entity that provides services to
us. These costs included carrying costs of the facilities idled as a result of
these new warehouses and the associated employee severance costs. The expenses
described above included non-cash asset writedowns of $15,500 and were included
in merchandise costs, including warehouse and transportation. The remaining
$25,300 of expenses are summarized as follows:
 

 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED
 
      The employee severance costs will be paid through the second quarter of
1999 and the carrying costs of the idled warehouse facilities are projected to
be paid through 2001.
 
      Additionally, in the second quarter of 1998, we incurred one-time expenses
of $11,600 pre-tax, $7,200 after-tax or $.03 per diluted share, associated with
accounting, data and operations consolidations in Texas. These included the cost
of closing eight stores and relocating the remaining Dallas office employees to
a smaller facility. These expenses, which included non-cash asset writedowns of
$2,200, were included in operating, general and administrative expenses. Cash
expenses paid to date are $900 and the remaining accrual of $8,500 at January 2,
1999 represents estimated rent or lease termination costs that will be paid on
closed stores through 2013.
 
ACCOUNTING CHANGE
 
      In the second quarter of 1998, we changed our application of the Last-In,
First-Out, or LIFO method of accounting for store inventories from the retail
method to the item cost method. The change was made to more accurately reflect
inventory value by eliminating the averaging and estimation inherent in the
retail method. The cumulative effect of this change on periods prior to December
28, 1997 cannot be determined. The effect of the change on the December 28, 1997
inventory valuation, which includes other immaterial modifications in inventory
valuation methods, was included in restated results for the quarter ended March
21, 1998. This change increased merchandise costs by $89,700 and reduced
earnings before extraordinary loss and net earnings by $55,600, or $0.21 per
diluted share. We have not calculated the pro forma effect on prior periods
because cost information for these periods is not determinable. The item cost
method did not have a material impact on earnings subsequent to its initial
adoption.
 
PREPAID AND OTHER CURRENT ASSETS
 
      Prepaid and other current assets consists of:
 

 
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT, NET
 
      Property, plant and equipment, net consists of:
 

 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED
 
      Approximately $271,284 and $369,295, original cost, of Property, Plant and
Equipment collateralizes certain mortgage obligations at 1998 and 1997,
respectively.
 
INVESTMENTS AND OTHER ASSETS
 
      Investments and other assets consists of:
 

 
      The Company is amortizing deferred financing costs using the interest
method. Substantially all goodwill is amortized on the straight-line method over
40 years.
 
OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES
 
      Other current liabilities consists of:
 

 
TAXES BASED ON INCOME
 
      The provision for taxes based on income consists of:
 

 
      A reconciliation of the statutory federal rate and the effective rate is
as follows:
 

 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED
 
      The tax effects of significant temporary differences that comprise
deferred tax balances were as follows:
 

 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED
 
DEBT OBLIGATIONS
 
      Long-term debt consists of:
 

 
      The aggregate annual maturities and scheduled payments of long-term debt
for the five years subsequent to 1998 are:
 

 
  364-Day Credit Agreement and Five-Year Credit Agreement
      The Company has a 364-Day Credit Agreement and a Five-Year Credit
Agreement dated as of May 28, 1997 (collectively the "Credit Agreement"). The
following constitutes only a summary of the principal terms and conditions of
the Credit Agreement. Reference is directed to the Credit Agreement attached as
an exhibit to the Company's Current Reports on Form 8-K dated June 2, 1997 and
January 8, 1999.
      The 364-Day facility is a revolving credit facility in the amount of
$500,000, that terminates on May 29, 1999, unless extended in accordance with
its terms. It may be converted into a term loan maturing two years after the
conversion unless earlier terminated by the Company as provided in the Credit
Agreement. The Five-Year facility is a revolving credit facility in the amount
of $1,500,000. It terminates on May 28, 2002, unless extended or earlier
terminated by the Company as provided in the Credit Agreement.
 
  Interest Rates
      Borrowings under the Credit Agreement bear interest at the option of the
Company at a rate equal to either (i) the highest, from time to time, of (A) the
base rate of Citibank, N.A., (B)  1/2% over a moving average of secondary
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED
 
market morning offering rates for three month certificates of deposit adjusted
for reserve requirements, and (C)  1/2% over the federal funds rate or (ii) an
adjusted Eurodollar rate based upon the London Interbank Offered Rate
("Eurodollar Rate") plus an Applicable Margin.
      The Applicable Margin for the 364-Day facility varies from .125% to .200%
prior to conversion to a term loan facility and thereafter, if exercised by the
Company, from .175% to .300%. The Applicable Margin for the Five-Year facility
varies from .105% to .175%. In addition, the Company pays a Facility Fee ranging
from .050% to .100% on the entire amount of the 364-Day facility and a Facility
Fee ranging from .070% to .125% on the entire amount of the Five-Year facility.
Both the Applicable Margin and the Facility Fee vary based on the Company's
achievement of a financial ratio. As of January 2, 1999, the Applicable Margin
for the 364-Day facility was .140% and for the Five-Year facility was .120%. The
Facility Fee for the 364-Day facility was .060% and for the Five-Year facility
was .080%.
 
      In December 1998 we amended our Credit Agreement to permit our merger with
Fred Meyer (See Merger footnote). The amendments, which become effective when 
the merger is completed, increase our rates to market rates.
 
  Prepayment
      The Company may prepay the Credit Agreement, in whole or in part, at any
time, without a prepayment penalty. Certain Senior Notes totaling $900,000 are
eligible for early redemption at varying times and premiums.
 
  Certain Covenants
      The Credit Agreement contains covenants which, among other things,
restrict dividends and require the maintenance of certain financial ratios and
levels, including fixed charge coverage ratios and leverage ratios.
 
  Senior Subordinated Indebtedness
      Senior Subordinated Indebtedness consists of the following: (i) $250,000
9 7/8% Senior Subordinated Debentures due August 1, 2002, redeemable at any time
on or after August 1, 1999, in whole or in part at the option of the Company at
par (the Company has repurchased $172,755 of the 9 7/8% Senior Subordinated
Debentures in total, $4,285 in 1998); (ii) $355,774 6 3/4% to 9 5/8% Senior
Subordinated Notes due March 15, 1999 to October 15, 2009, with portions of
these issues subject to early redemption by the Company at varying times and
premiums (the Company has repurchased or redeemed $210,397 of the notes in
total, $26,532 in 1998); (iii) $250,000 10% Senior Subordinated Notes due May 1,
1999. This issue is not subject to early redemption by the Company (the Company
has repurchased $126,428 of the 10% Senior Subordinated Notes in total, $289 in
1998).
 
  Redemption Event
      Subject to certain conditions (including repayment in full of all
obligations under the Credit Agreement or obtaining the requisite consents under
the Credit Agreement), the Company's publicly issued debt will be subject to
redemption, in whole or in part, at the option of the holder upon the occurrence
of a redemption event, upon not less than five days' notice prior to the date of
redemption, at a redemption price equal to the default amount, plus a specified
premium. "Redemption Event" is defined in the indentures as the occurrence of
(i) any person or group, together with any affiliate thereof, beneficially
owning 50% or more of the voting power of the Company or (ii) any one person or
group, or affiliate thereof, succeeding in having a majority of its nominees
elected to the Company's Board of Directors, in each case, without the consent
of a majority of the continuing directors of the Company.
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED
 
  Mortgage Financing
      During 1989 the Company completed a $612,475, 10% mortgage financing of
127 of its retail properties, distribution warehouse facilities, food processing
facilities and other properties (the "Properties"), with a net book value of
$325,327 held by 13 newly formed wholly-owned subsidiaries. The wholly-owned
subsidiaries mortgaged the Properties, which are leased to the Company or
affiliates of the Company, to a newly formed special purpose corporation,
Secured Finance Inc.
      The mortgage loans had an original maturity of 15 years. The Properties
are subject to the liens of Secured Finance Inc. The mortgage loans are subject
to semi-annual payments of interest and principal on $150,000 of the borrowing
based on a 30-year payment schedule and interest only on the remaining $462,475
principal amount. The unpaid principal amount will be due on December 15, 2004.
      In total, the Company has prepaid 89 mortgages with an original balance of
$348,349. During 1998 the Company prepaid 54 mortgages with an original balance
of $198,002. The mortgage balances at the time of the prepayment totaled
$182,126. Pursuant to the terms of the mortgages a 20% premium payment was
required. The premium totaled $36,425 and was applied, on a pro-rata basis, to
the 38 remaining mortgage loans.
      Subsequent to the prepayment the remaining mortgage loans totaled
$205,301. The remaining mortgage loans are subject to semi-annual payments of
interest and principal on $45,777 based on the original 30-year payment
schedule, adjusted for the pre-payment, and interest only on the remaining
$159,524 principal amount.
 
  Commercial Paper
      Under the Credit Agreement the Company is permitted to issue up to
$2,000,000 of unrated commercial paper and borrow up to $2,000,000 from the
lenders under the Credit Agreement on a competitive bid basis. The total of
unrated commercial paper, $141,257 at January 2, 1999, however, may not exceed
$2,000,000. All commercial paper must be supported by availability under the
Credit Agreement. These borrowings have been classified as long-term because the
Company expects that during 1999 these borrowings will be refinanced using the
same type of securities. Additionally, the Company has the ability to refinance
the short-term borrowings under the Five-Year facility of the Credit Agreement
which matures May 28, 2002.
 
  Interest Rate Protection Program
      The Company uses derivatives to limit its exposure to rising interest
rates. During 1998 we followed these guidelines in using derivatives: (i) use
average daily bank balance to determine annual debt amounts subject to interest
rate exposure, (ii) limit the annual amount of debt subject to interest rate
reset and the amount of floating rate debt to a combined total of $1,000,000 or
less, (iii) include no leveraged derivative products, and (iv) hedge without
regard to profit motive or sensitivity to current mark-to-market status. We
review compliance with these guidelines annually with the Financial Policy
Committee of the Company's Board of Directors. In addition, our internal
auditors review compliance with these guidelines on an annual basis. These
guidelines may be changed at any time as our business needs dictate.
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED
 
      The table below indicates the types of swaps used, their duration, and
their respective interest rates. The variable component of each interest rate
derivative is based on the 6 month LIBOR using the forward yield curve as of
January 2, 1999.
 

 
      In addition, as of January 2, 1999, the Company had entered into a 2 year
$75,000 receive variable swap that becomes effective July 1, 1999.
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED
 
FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
      The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value
of each class of financial instruments for which it is practicable to estimate
that value:
 
  Long-term Investments
      The fair values of these investments are estimated based on quoted market
prices for those or similar investments.
 
  Long-term Debt
      The fair value of the Company's long-term debt, including the current
portion thereof, is estimated based on the quoted market price for the same or
similar issues. The fair value of $843,728 of long-term debt outstanding under
the Company's Credit Agreement approximates carrying value.
 
  Interest Rate Protection Agreements
      The fair value of these agreements is based on the net present value of
the future cash flows using the forward interest rate yield curve in effect at
the respective years-end. If the swaps and caps were cancelled as of the
respective years-end the result would have been a net cash outflow for 1998 and
1997. The swaps are linked to the Company's debt portfolio. (See Accounting
Policies and Debt Obligations footnotes.)
      The estimated fair values of the Company's financial instruments are as
follows:
 

 
      The use of different assumptions and/or estimation methodologies may have
a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts. Accordingly, the
estimates presented herein are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that
the Company could actually realize. In addition, the Company is not subjected to
a concentration of credit risk related to these instruments.
      The investments for which it was not practicable to estimate fair value
relate to equity investments accounted for under the equity method and
investments in real estate development partnerships for which there is no
market.
      It was not practicable to estimate the fair value of Industrial Revenue
Bonds of $201,330, various mortgages of $259,827, and other notes of $11,004 for
which there is no market.
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED
 
LEASES
 
      The Company operates primarily in leased facilities. Lease terms generally
range from 10 to 25 years with options to renew at varying terms. Certain of the
leases provide for contingent payments based on a percent of sales.
      Rent expense (under operating leases) consists of:
 

 
      Assets recorded under capital leases consists of:
 

 
      Minimum annual rentals for the five years subsequent to 1998 and in the
aggregate are:
 

 
EXTRAORDINARY LOSS
 
      The extraordinary loss in 1998, 1997, and 1996 relates to premiums paid to
retire certain indebtedness early and the write-off of related deferred
financing costs.
 
EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE
 
      Basic earnings per common share equals net earnings divided by the
weighted average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per
common share equals net earnings divided by the weighted average number of
common shares outstanding after giving effect to dilutive stock options.
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED
 
      The following table provides a reconciliation of earnings before
extraordinary loss and shares used in calculating basic earnings per share to
those used in calculating diluted earnings per share.
 

 
PREFERRED STOCK
      The Company has authorized 5,000,000 shares of voting cumulative preferred
stock; 2,000,000 were available for issuance at January 2, 1999. Fifty thousand
shares have been designated "Series A Preferred Shares" and are reserved for
issuance under the Company's Shareholders' rights plan. The stock has a par
value of $100 and is issuable in series.
 
COMMON STOCK
      The Company has authorized 1,000,000,000 shares of common stock, $1 par
value per share. On January 29, 1997, the Company began repurchasing its common
stock in order to reduce dilution caused by the Company's stock option plans.
These repurchases were made using the proceeds, including the tax benefit, from
options exercised. Further repurchases of up to $100,000 of the Company's common
stock were authorized by the Board of Directors during October of 1997. On
October 18, 1998, the Company suspended its repurchase program as result of the
merger agreement between the Company and Fred Meyer, Inc. The main trading
market for the Company's common stock is the New York Stock Exchange, where it
is listed under the symbol KR. For the three years ended January 2, 1999,
changes in common stock were:
 

 
STOCK OPTION PLANS
      The Company grants options for common stock to employees under various
plans, as well as to its non-employee directors owning a minimum of 1,000 shares
of common stock of the Company, at an option price equal to the fair market
value of the stock at the date of grant. In addition to cash payments, the plans
provide for the exercise of options by exchanging issued shares of stock of the
Company. At January 2, 1999, 4,992,558 shares of
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED
 
common stock were available for future options. Options generally will expire 10
years from the date of grant. Options vest in one year to five years or, for
certain options, upon the Company's stock reaching certain pre-determined market
prices within ten years from the date of grant. All grants outstanding become
immediately exercisable upon certain changes of control of the Company.
      Changes in options outstanding under the stock option plans, excluding
restricted stock grants, were:
 

 
      The Company applies Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25 "Accounting
for Stock Issued to Employees," and related interpretations in accounting for
its plans. Accordingly, no compensation expense has been recognized for its
stock-based compensation plans other than for restricted stock awards and
certain options where vesting is contingent upon the Company's stock reaching
certain pre-determined market prices. Had compensation cost for the Company's
stock option plans been determined based upon the fair value at the grant date
for awards under these plans consistent with the methodology prescribed under
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation," the Company's net income and diluted net earnings per share would
have been reduced by approximately $16,306, or $.06 per share, $13,616, or $.05
per share, and $12,800, or $.05 per share, for 1998, 1997 and 1996,
respectively. The weighted average fair value of the options granted during
1998, 1997, and 1996 was estimated as $18.72, $10.82 and $5.89, respectively, on
the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the
following weighted average assumptions: volatility of 26.6%, 24.0% and 22.7% for
1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively; risk-free interest rate of 4.6%, 5.7% and
6.3% for 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively; and an expected term of
approximately 7.8 years for 1998, 5.4 years for 1997, and 3.3 years for 1996. A
summary of options outstanding and exercisable at January 2, 1999 follows:

 
      At December 27, 1997 and December 28, 1996, options for 18,127,665 and
16,906,890 shares were exercisable at a weighted average exercise price of
$11.72 and $9.44, respectively.
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED
 
      Also, the Company may grant restricted stock awards to eligible employee
participants. In general, a restricted stock award entitles an employee to
receive a stated number of shares of common stock of the Company subject to
forfeiture if the employee fails to remain in the continuous employ of the
Company for a stipulated period. The holder of an award is entitled to the
rights of a shareowner except that the restricted shares and the related rights
to vote or receive dividends may not be transferred. The award is charged to
earnings over the period in which the employee performs services and is based
upon the market value of common stock at the date of grant for those grants
without performance contingencies. As of January 2, 1999 and December 27, 1997,
awards related to 382,898 and 354,850 shares, respectively, were outstanding.
The charge to earnings for grants with performance-contingent vesting includes
share appreciation between the grant date and the vesting date.
      Incentive shares may be granted under the 1994 plan, which consist of
shares of common stock issued subject to achievement of performance goals. No
incentive shares were outstanding as of January 2, 1999 and December 27, 1997.
 
CONTINGENCIES
      The Company continuously evaluates contingencies based upon the best
available evidence.
      Management believes that allowances for loss have been provided to the
extent necessary and that its assessment of contingencies is reasonable. To the
extent that resolution of contingencies results in amounts that vary from
management's estimates, future earnings will be charged or credited.
      The principal contingencies are described below:
 
      Income Taxes -- We have closed all tax years through 1984 with the
Internal Revenue Service. The Internal Revenue Service has completed its
examination of our tax returns for tax years through 1992. On September 15,
1998, the IRS voluntarily dismissed its appeal against Kroger. This action
settled a previously unresolved issue for tax years 1984-1992. One issue remains
in dispute with the IRS for tax years 1991 and 1992. We have provided for this
and other tax contingencies.
      Insurance -- The Company's workers' compensation risks are self-insured in
certain states. In addition, other workers' compensation risks and certain
levels of insured general liability risks are based on retrospective premium
plans, deductible plans, and self-insured retention plans. The liability for
workers' compensation risks is accounted for on a present value basis. Actual
claim settlements and expenses incident thereto may differ from the provisions
for loss. Property risks have been underwritten by a subsidiary and are
reinsured with unrelated insurance companies. Operating divisions and
subsidiaries have paid premiums, and the insurance subsidiary has provided loss
allowances, based upon actuarially determined estimates.
      Litigation -- The Company is involved in various legal actions arising in
the normal course of business. Management is of the opinion that their outcome
will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial position or
results of operations.
 
WARRANT DIVIDEND PLAN
      On February 28, 1986, the Company adopted a warrant dividend plan
providing for stock purchase rights to owners of the Company's common stock. The
Plan was amended and restated as of April 4, 1997 and further amended on October
18, 1998. Each right, when exercisable, entitles the holder to purchase from the
Company one ten-thousandth of a share of Series A Preferred Shares, par value
$100 per share, at $87.50 per one ten-thousandth of a share. The rights will
become exercisable, and separately tradeable, ten days after a person or group
acquires 10% or more of the Company's common stock or ten business days
following a tender offer or exchange offer resulting in a person or group having
beneficial ownership of 10% or more of the Company's common stock. In the event
the rights become exercisable, each right will entitle the holder the right, if
that holder pays the exercise price, to purchase the Company's common stock,
having a market value of twice the exercise


 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED
 
price of the right. Under certain other circumstances, including certain
acquisitions of the Company in a merger or other business combination
transaction, or if 50% or more of the Company's assets or earning power are sold
under certain circumstances, each right will entitle the holder to receive upon
payment of the exercise price, shares of common stock of the acquiring company
with a market value of two times the exercise price. At the Company's option,
the rights, prior to becoming exercisable, are redeemable in their entirety at a
price of $.01 per right. The rights are subject to adjustment and expire March
19, 2006. This summary description of the Plan is qualified in its entirety by
the terms of the plan more particularly set forth in the Company's Forms 8-A/A
dated April 4, 1997 and October 18, 1998.
 
OTHER POST EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS
      The Company administers non-contributory defined benefit retirement plans
for substantially all non-union employees. Funding for the pension plans is
based on a review of the specific requirements and on evaluation of the assets
and liabilities of each plan. Employees are eligible to participate upon the
attainment of age 21 (25 for participants prior to January 1, 1986) and the
completion of one year of service, and benefits are based upon final average
salary and years of service. Vesting is based upon years of service.
 
      In addition to providing pension benefits, the Company provides certain
health care and life insurance benefits for retired employees. The majority of
the Company's employees may become eligible for these benefits if they reach
normal retirement age while employed by the Company. Funding of retiree health
care and life insurance benefits occurs as claims or premiums are paid.
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED
 
      Information with respect to change in benefit obligation, change in plan
assets, net amounts recognized at end of year, weighted average assumptions and
components of net periodic benefit cost follow:
 

 

 
For measurement purposes, a 5 percent annual rate of increase in the per capita
cost of covered health care benefits was assumed for 1999 and thereafter.
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED
 

 
The accumulated benefit obligation for pension plans with no plan assets was
$26,164 as of January 2, 1999, and $23,600 as of December 27, 1997.
 
Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts
reported for the health care plans. A one-percentage-point change in the assumed
health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:
 

 
The Company also administers certain defined contribution plans for eligible
union and non-union employees. The cost of these plans for 1998, 1997, and 1996
was $27,595, $22,445, and $21,278, respectively.
 
The Company participates in various multi-employer plans for substantially all
union employees. Benefits are generally based on a fixed amount for each year of
service. Contributions and expense for 1998, 1997, and 1996 were $86,185,
$83,506, and $88,758, respectively.
 
SEGMENTS
 
The Company operates retail food and drug stores in the Midwest, South and
Southwest. The Company also manufactures and processes food for sale by its
supermarkets and others, and also operates convenience stores.
 
Based on the information monitored by the Company's operating decision makers to
manage the business, the Company has identified one reportable segment. Retail
operation information consists of results from the Company's retail food and
drug store divisions and convenience store divisions. Corporate and all other
operation information relates primarily to results from the Company's Corporate
office and manufacturing operations, none of which individually meet the
quantitative thresholds of a reportable segment. All of the Company's operations
are domestic. The Company manages income taxes, LIFO charges, interest income 
and interest expense on a consolidated basis at the Corporate level.
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED
 
      Information about the Company's operations by operating segment is as
follows:
 

 
Intercompany eliminations are not material.
 
(A) Amounts not allocated to segments include LIFO charges, interest income, and
interest expense.
 
(B) See One-Time Expenses ($52,400) and Accounting Change ($89,700) footnotes.
 
RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
      The Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial
Standards No. 133 "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities"
and No. 134 "Accounting for Mortgage Backed Securities Retained after the
Securitization of Mortgage Loans Held for Sale by a Mortgage Banking
Enterprise". The Company has not yet determined what effect, if any, these
statements will have.
 
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
      The Company has no items of other comprehensive income in any period
presented. Therefore net earnings as presented in the Consolidated Statement of
Operations equals comprehensive income.
 
SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
      On January 6, 1999, we changed our fiscal year-end to the Saturday nearest
January 31 of each year. This change is disclosed in our Current Report on Form
8-K dated January 6, 1999. Our first new fiscal year will end January 29, 2000.
It will include a 16-week first quarter ending May 22, 1999, and 12-week second,
third and fourth quarters ending August 14, 1999, November 6, 1999, and January
29, 2000, respectively. We intend to file separate audited statements of
operations and cash flows covering the transition period from January 3, 1999 to
January 30, 1999 on a Current Report on Form 8-K on or before May 15, 1999.
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONCLUDED
 
QUARTERLY DATA (UNAUDITED)
 

 

 
  Common Stock Price Range
 

 
      The number of shareowners of record of common stock as of March 23, 1999,
was 46,870.
 
      Under the Company's Credit Agreement dated May 28, 1997, the Company is
prohibited from paying cash dividends during the term of the Credit Agreement.
The Company is permitted to pay dividends in the form of stock of the Company.
 

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.


                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The information required by this item concerning directors is set forth in Item
No. 1, Election of Directors, of the definitive proxy statement to be filed by
the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission and is hereby
incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K.

             SECTION 16(a) BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING COMPLIANCE

Based solely on its review of the copies of all Section 16(a) forms received by
the Company, or written representations from certain persons that no Forms 5
were required for those persons, the Company believes that during fiscal year
1998 all filing requirements applicable to its officers, directors and ten
percent beneficial owners were timely satisfied except that Mr. Lawrence M.
Turner filed an amended Form 4 reporting the inadvertent understatement of 7,000
shares reported in the exercise of a stock option and the sale of the underlying
securities, and Ms. Lynn Marmer filed a Form 5 reporting the sale of 200 shares
of stock that inadvertently was not reported on a Form 4 during 1998.

                        EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

The following is a list of the names and ages of the executive officers and the
positions held by each such person as of February 5, 1999. Except as otherwise
noted below, each person has held office for at least five years and was elected
to that office at the 1998 Organizational Meeting of the Board of Directors held
May 14, 1998. Each officer will hold office at the discretion of the Board for
the ensuing year until removed or replaced.

















ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by this item is set forth in the section entitled
Compensation of Executive Officers in the definitive proxy statement to be filed
by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission and is hereby
incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The information required by this item is set forth in the tabulation of the
amount and nature of Beneficial Ownership of the Company's securities in the
definitive proxy statement to be filed by the Company with the Securities and
Exchange Commission and is hereby incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The information required by this item is set forth in the section entitled
Information Concerning The Board Of Directors - Certain Transactions in the
definitive proxy statement to be filed by the Company with the Securities and
Exchange Commission and is hereby incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K.








                                     PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)     Financial Statements:

        Report of Independent Public Accountants

        Consolidated Balance Sheet as of January 2, 1999 and December 27, 1997

        Consolidated Statement of Operations and Accumulated Deficit for the
         years ended January 2, 1999, December 27, 1997, and December 28, 1996

        Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the years ended January 2,
         1999, and December 27, 1997 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

        Financial Statement Schedules:

        There are no Financial Statement Schedules included with this filing for
        the reason that they are not applicable or are not required or the
        information is included in the financial statements or notes thereto

(b)     Reports on Form 8-K:

        On October 20, 1998, The Kroger Co. filed a current report on Form 8-K
        with the SEC disclosing its unaudited earnings for the third quarter
        1998, and its Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of October 18, 1998,
        between The Kroger Co., Jobsite Holdings, Inc., and Fred Meyer, Inc.

        On October 23, 1998, The Kroger Co. filed a current report on Form 8-K
        dated October 22, 1998, disclosing materials that were distributed at
        meetings with analysts conducted in October 1998, relating to The Kroger
        Co.'s proposed merger with Fred Meyer, Inc.

        On December 8, 1998, The Kroger Co. filed a current report on Form 8-K
        with the SEC disclosing Fred Meyer, Inc.'s financial information and
        proformas

        On December 11, 1998, The Kroger Co. filed a current report on Form 8-K
        with the SEC disclosing its Underwriting Agreement dated December 8,
        1998, among The Kroger Co. and the Underwriters named therein; its
        Pricing Agreement dated December 8, 1998, among The Kroger Co., Goldman,
        Sachs & Co., Chase Securities Inc., and Salomon Smith Barney Inc.,
        relating to The Kroger Co.'s 6.80% Senior Notes due 2018; and its Third
        Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 11, 1998, between The
        Kroger Co. and Star Bank, National Association, as Trustee, relating to
        The Kroger Co.'s 6.80% Senior Notes due 2018

(c)     Exhibits

           3.1             Amended Articles of Incorporation of The Kroger Co.
                           are incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of The
                           Kroger Co.'s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                           quarter ended October 3, 1998. The Kroger Co.'s
                           Regulations are incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                           4.2 of The Kroger Co.'s Registration Statement on
                           Form S-3 (Registration No. 33-57552) filed with the
                           SEC on January 28, 1993

           4.1             Instruments defining the rights of holders of
                           long-term debt of the Company and its subsidiaries
                           are not filed as Exhibits because the amount of debt
                           under each instrument is less than 10% of the
                           consolidated assets of the Company. The Company
                           undertakes to file these instruments with the
                           Commission upon request

         10.1              Material Contracts - Third Amended and Restated
                           Employment Agreement dated as of July 22, 1993,
                           between the Company and Joseph A. Pichler is hereby
                           incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
                           Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended 
                           October 9, 1993





         12.1              Statement of Computation of Ratio of Earnings to 
                           Fixed Charges

         21.1              Subsidiaries of the Registrant

         23.1              Consent of Independent Public Accountants

         24.1              Powers of Attorney

         27.1              Financial Data Schedule

         99.1              Annual Reports on Form 11-K for The Kroger Co.
                           Savings Plan and the Dillon Companies, Inc. Employee
                           Stock Ownership Plan and Trust for the Year 1998 will
                           be filed by amendment on or before May 3, 1999












                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

                                    THE KROGER CO.


Dated:    March 26, 1999            By (*Joseph A. Pichler)
                                         Joseph A. Pichler, Chairman
                                         of the Board of Directors and
                                         Chief Executive Officer


Dated:    March 26, 1999            By (*W. Rodney McMullen)
                                         W. Rodney McMullen
                                         Senior Vice President and
                                         Chief Financial Officer


Dated:    March 26, 1999            By (*J. Michael Schlotman)
                                         J. Michael Schlotman
                                         Vice President & Corporate Controller
                                         and Principal Accounting Officer


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Company and in
the capacities indicated on the 26th day of March, 1999.



(*Reuben V. Anderson)                     Director
Reuben V. Anderson

(*John L. Clendenin)                      Director
John L. Clendenin

(*David B. Dillon)                        President, Chief Operating
David B. Dillon                           Officer, and Director

(*John T. LaMacchia)                      Director
John T. LaMacchia

(*Edward M. Liddy)                        Director
Edward M. Liddy

(*Clyde R. Moore)                         Director
Clyde R. Moore

(*T. Ballard Morton, Jr).                 Director
T. Ballard Morton, Jr.







                                          Director
- ----------------------
Thomas H. O'Leary


(Katherine D. Ortega)                     Director
Katherine D. Ortega

(*Joseph A. Pichler)                      Chairman of the Board of
Joseph A. Pichler                         Directors, Chief Executive
                                          Officer, and Director

(*Martha Romayne Seger)                   Director
Martha Romayne Seger

(*James D. Woods)                         Director
James D. Woods



*By:    (Bruce M. Gack)
        Bruce M. Gack
        Attorney-in-fact


