
10-K
THE KROGER CO.                      10-K



                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

                                  ANNUAL REPORT

                     Pursuant to Section 13 or 15 (d) of the
                         Securities Exchange Act of 1934


For the Fiscal Year Ended                         Commission File No. 1-303
     January 29, 2000

                                 THE KROGER CO.

An Ohio Corporation                               I.R.S. Employer Identification
                                                  No. 31-0345740

Address                                           Telephone Number
1014 Vine St.                                     (513) 762-4000
Cincinnati, Ohio   45202

Securities registered pursuant to section 12 (b) of the Act:
                                                    Name of Exchange on
Title of Class                                      which Registered
Common $1 par value                                 New York Stock Exchange
830,804,611 shares outstanding on
April 26, 2000

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes    [X]       No [ ].

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K[ ].

The aggregate market value of the Common Stock of The Kroger Co. held by
non-affiliates as of March 6, 2000: $12,256,639,106.

Documents Incorporated by Reference:
     Proxy Statement to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A of the Exchange Act
     on or before May 28, 2000, incorporated by reference into Parts II and III
     of Form 10-K.





                                     PART I

ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

      The Kroger Co. (the "Company") was founded in 1883 and incorporated in
1902. As of January 29, 2000, the Company was the largest grocery retailer in
the United States based on annual sales. The Company also manufactures and
processes food for sale by its supermarkets. The Company's principal executive
offices are located at 1014 Vine Street, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 and its
telephone number is (513) 762-4000.

      On May 27, 1999 Kroger issued 312 million shares of Kroger common stock in
connection with a merger, for all of the outstanding common stock of Fred Meyer
Inc., which operates stores primarily in the Western region of the United
States. On March 9, 1998, Fred Meyer issued 82 million shares of Fred Meyer
common stock in connection with a merger, for all of the outstanding stock of
Quality Food Centers, Inc. ("QFC"), a supermarket chain operating in the
Seattle/Puget Sound region of Washington state, and in Southern California. The
mergers were accounted for as poolings of interests, and the accompanying
financial statements have been restated to give effect to the consolidated
results of Kroger, Fred Meyer and QFC for all years presented.

      On March 10, 1998, Fred Meyer acquired Food 4 Less Holdings, Inc.
("Ralphs/Food 4 Less"), a supermarket chain operating primarily in Southern
California by issuing 44 million shares of common stock to the Ralphs/Food 4
Less stockholders. The acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method
of accounting. The financial statements include the operating results of
Ralphs/Food 4 Less from the date of acquisition.

      On September 9, 1997, Fred Meyer acquired Smith's Food & Drug Centers,
Inc., ("Smith's") a regional supermarket and drug store chain operating in the
Intermountain and Southwestern regions of the United States, by issuing 66
million shares of common stock to the Smith's stockholders. The acquisition was
accounted for under the purchase method of accounting. The financial statements
include the operating results of Smith's from the date of acquisition.

      On March 19, 1997, QFC acquired the principal operations of Hughes
Markets, Inc. ("Hughes"), a supermarket chain operating in Southern California
and its indirect 50% interest in Santee Dairy, one of the largest dairy plants
in California. The merger was effected through the acquisition of 100% of the
outstanding voting securities of Hughes for approximately $361 million cash, 20
million shares of common stock, and the assumption of $33 million of
indebtedness of Hughes. The acquisition was accounted for under the purchase
method of accounting. The financial statements include the operating results of
Hughes from the date of acquisition.

      On February 14, 1997, QFC acquired the principal operations of Keith
Uddenberg, Inc. ("KUI"), a supermarket chain operating in the western and
southern Puget Sound region of Washington. The merger was effected through the
acquisition of the outstanding voting securities of KUI for $35 million cash, 4
million shares of common stock and the assumption of approximately $24 million
of indebtedness of KUI. The acquisition was accounted for under the purchase
method of accounting. The financial statements include the operating results of
KUI from the date of acquisition.

      As of January 29, 2000, the Company operated 2,288 supermarkets, most of
which are leased. Of this number 1,201 supermarkets were operated, directly,
through a wholly-owned subsidiary, or through a partnership composed of the
Company and wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company, principally under the
Kroger name in the Midwest and South. Dillon Companies, Inc. ("Dillon"), a
wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, operated 211 supermarkets directly or
through wholly-owned subsidiaries (the "Dillon Supermarkets"). The Dillon
Supermarkets, principally located in Colorado, Kansas, and Missouri, operate
under the names "King Soopers," "Dillon Food Stores," and "City Market." Fred
Meyer, Inc. ("Fred Meyer"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, operated
876 supermarkets directly or through wholly-owned subsidiaries (the "Fred Meyer
Supermarkets"). The Fred Meyer Supermarkets, principally located in California,
Utah, Arizona, Nevada, Washington, and Oregon operate under the names "Fred
Meyer," "Smiths," "Food 4 Less," "Ralphs," "Fry's," and "QFC." Fred Meyer also
operated 389 jewelry stores. The Company employs approximately 305,000 full and
part-time employees.

      As of January 29, 2000, the Company, through its Dillon subsidiary,
operated 796 convenience stores under the trade names of "Kwik Shop," "Quik Stop
Markets," "Tom Thumb Food Stores," "Turkey Hill Minit Markets," "Loaf 'N Jug,"
and "Mini-Mart." The Company owned and operated 692 of these stores while 104
were operated through franchise agreements. The convenience stores offer a
limited assortment of staple food items and general merchandise and, in most
cases, sell gasoline.

      The Company intends to develop new food and convenience store locations
and will continue to assess existing stores as to possible replacement,
remodeling, enlarging, or closing.

SEGMENTS

      The Company operates retail food and drug stores, multi-department stores,
jewelry stores, and convenience stores in the Midwest, South and West. The
Company's retail operations, which represent approximately 98% of consolidated
sales, is its only reportable segment. All of the Company's operations are
domestic.



ITEM 2.    PROPERTIES

As of January 29, 2000, the Company operated more than 3,300 owned or leased
supermarkets, convenience stores, distribution warehouses, and food processing
facilities through divisions, marketing areas, subsidiaries or affiliates. These
facilities are located principally in the Southern, Midwestern, and Western
portions of the United States. A majority of the properties used to conduct the
Company's business are leased.

The Company generally owns store equipment, fixtures and leasehold improvements,
as well as processing and manufacturing equipment. The total cost of the
Company's owned assets and capitalized leases at January 29, 2000 was $13.04
billion while the accumulated depreciation was $4.77 billion.

Leased premises generally have base terms ranging from ten to twenty-five years
with renewal options for additional periods. Some options provide the right to
purchase the property after conclusion of the lease term. Store rentals are
normally payable monthly at a stated amount or at a guaranteed minimum amount
plus a percentage of sales over a stated dollar volume. Rentals for the
distribution, processing and miscellaneous facilities generally are payable
monthly at stated amounts. For additional information on leased premises, see
footnote 10 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.




ITEM 3.    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

On September 13, 1996, a class action lawsuit titled McCampbell, et al. v.
Ralphs Grocery Company, et al, as filed in the Superior Court of the State of
California, County of San Diego, against Ralphs Grocery Company ("Ralphs/Food 4
Less") and two other grocery store chains operating in the Southern California
area. The complaint alleged, among other things, that Ralphs/Food 4 Less and
others conspired to fix the retail price of eggs in Southern California. The
plaintiffs claimed that the defendants' actions violated provisions of the
California Cartwright Act and constituted unfair competition. The plaintiffs
sought damages they purported to have sustained as a result of the defendants'
alleged actions, which damages were subject to trebling under the applicable
statute, and an injunction from future actions in restraint of trade and unfair
competition. A class was certified consisting of all retail purchasers of white
chicken eggs sold by the dozen in Los Angeles, Riverside, San Diego, San
Bernardino, Imperial and Orange counties from September 13, 1992.

The case proceeded to trial before a jury in July and August 1999. On September
2, 1999, the jury returned a verdict in favor of Ralphs/Food 4 Less and against
the plaintiffs. Judgment was entered in favor of Ralphs/Food 4 Less on November
1, 1999. Plaintiffs have appealed the judgment.

There are pending against the Company various claims and lawsuits arising in the
normal course of business, including suits charging violations of certain
antitrust and civil rights laws. Some of these suits purport or have been
determined to be class actions and/or seek substantial damages. Any damages that
may be awarded in antitrust cases will be automatically trebled. Although it is
not possible at this time to evaluate the merits of these claims and lawsuits,
nor their likelihood of success, the Company is of the opinion that any
resulting liability will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's
financial position.

ITEM 4.    SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

None.



                                     PART II

ITEM 5.   MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
          STOCKHOLDER MATTERS



                            Common Stock Price Range
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      2000                                1999
                      ----                                ----
Quarter        High              Low              High              Low
- -------     ---------         ---------        ---------         ---------
    1st      34-29/32          24-7/8          23-21/32          16-17/32
    2nd      31-3/8            24-1/8          23-3/4             20-3/32
    3rd      26-15/16          19-1/2          27-1/16                 21
    4th      24-1/4            14-7/8          30-13/32                22

Main trading market - New York Stock Exchange (Symbol KR)

Number of shareowners at year-end 1999:         51,000.

Number of shareowners at April 26, 2000:        51,286.

         Determined by number of shareholders of record

The Company has not paid dividends on its Common Stock for the past three fiscal
years. Under the Company's Credit Agreement dated may 28, 1997, the Company is
prohibited from paying cash dividends during the term of the Credit Agreement.
The Company is permitted to pay dividends in the form of stock of the Company.



ITEM 6.    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA


                             SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA




- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(A) See Note 7 to Consolidated Financial Statements.
(B) The Company is prohibited from paying cash dividends under the terms of its
    Credit Agreement.





ITEM 7.    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
           RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

BUSINESS COMBINATIONS
      On May 27, 1999 Kroger issued 312 million shares of Kroger common stock in
connection with a merger, for all of the outstanding common stock of Fred Meyer
Inc., which operates stores primarily in the Western region of the United
States. On March 9, 1998, Fred Meyer issued 82 million shares of Fred Meyer
common stock in connection with a merger, for all of the outstanding stock of
Quality Food Centers, Inc. ("QFC"), a supermarket chain operating in the
Seattle/Puget Sound region of Washington state, and in Southern California. The
mergers were accounted for as poolings of interests, and the accompanying
financial statements have been restated to give effect to the consolidated
results of Kroger, Fred Meyer and QFC for all years presented.
      On March 10, 1998, Fred Meyer acquired Food 4 Less Holdings, Inc.
("Ralphs/Food 4 Less"), a supermarket chain operating primarily in Southern
California by issuing 44 million shares of common stock to the Ralphs/Food 4
Less stockholders. The acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method
of accounting. The financial statements include the operating results of
Ralphs/Food 4 Less from the date of acquisition.
      On September 9, 1997, Fred Meyer acquired Smith's Food & Drug Centers,
Inc., ("Smith's") a regional supermarket and drug store chain operating in the
Intermountain and Southwestern regions of the United States, by issuing 66
million shares of common stock to the Smith's stockholders. The acquisition was
accounted for under the purchase method of accounting. The financial statements
include the operating results of Smith's from the date of acquisition.
      On March 19, 1997, QFC acquired the principal operations of Hughes
Markets, Inc. ("Hughes"), a supermarket chain operating in Southern California
and its indirect 50% interest in Santee Dairy, one of the largest dairy plants
in California. The merger was effected through the acquisition of 100% of the
outstanding voting securities of Hughes for approximately $361 million cash, 20
million shares of common stock, and the assumption of $33 million of
indebtedness of Hughes. The acquisition was accounted for under the purchase
method of accounting. The financial statements include the operating results of
Hughes from the date of acquisition.
      On February 14, 1997, QFC acquired the principal operations of Keith
Uddenberg, Inc. ("KUI"), a supermarket chain operating in the western and
southern Puget Sound region of Washington. The merger was effected through the
acquisition of the outstanding voting securities of KUI for $35 million cash, 4
million shares of common stock and the assumption of approximately $24 million
of indebtedness of KUI. The acquisition was accounted for under the purchase
method of accounting. The financial statements include the operating results of
KUI from the date of acquisition.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
      The following discussion summarizes our operating results for 1999
compared to 1998 and 1998 compared to 1997. However, 1999 results are not
directly comparable to 1998 results and 1998 results are not directly comparable
to 1997 results due to recent acquisitions (see footnote 2 of the financial
statements) and also due to the change in our fiscal calendar in 1999 (the
"Calendar Change"). As a result of our change in fiscal calendar, results of
operations and cash flows for the 28 day period ended January 30, 1999 for
pre-merger Kroger are not included in the Statements of Income and Cash Flow.

      The 1998 results include the results of Ralphs/Food 4 Less from March 10,
1998. The 1997 results include the results of KUI from February 14, 1997, Hughes
from March 19, 1997 and Smith's from September 9, 1997, and exclude the results
of Ralphs/Food 4 Less.

1999 VS. 1998

  Sales

      Total sales for 1999 increased 5.3% or $2.3 billion from $43.1 billion in
1998. For some Kroger divisions, fiscal 1999 contained 52 weeks compared to 53
weeks in 1998. Total sales increased 6.1%, after adjusting for the



change in Kroger's fiscal calendar, a 53rd week of sales in 1998, and excluding
sales from divested stores. The sales increase was driven by recent
acquisitions, our capital expenditure program, and strong comparable store
sales.

      Our sales in identical food stores, which include stores in operation and
not expanded or relocated for four full quarters, increased 2.3% in 1999.
Comparable store sales, which include expansions and relocations, increased 3.0%
in 1999. Excluding the Fry's Division, which converted 35 former Smith's stores
to the Fry's banner, identical food store sales increased 2.8% and comparable
store sales increased 3.4%.

  Merchandise Costs

      Merchandise costs include advertising, warehousing and transportation
expenses. Merchandise costs, net of one-time expenses, an accounting change made
in 1998 (see note 4 of the financial statements) and the effect of LIFO for the
year, as a percent of sales were 73.43% in 1999 and 74.06% in 1998. After
adjusting for the calendar change and excluding costs related to mergers,
merchandise costs as a percent of sales were 73.87% in 1998. Coordinated
purchasing, category management, technology related efficiencies and increases
in private label sales were primarily responsible for the decline.

  Operating and Administrative Expenses

      Operating and administrative expenses as a percent of sales were 18.1% in
1999 and 18.0% in 1998. Adjusting 1998 amounts to reflect the calendar change
and a 52-week year, administrative expenses as a percent of sales were 18.2%.
These costs remained flat during 1999 due to a continued high incentive payout
based on performance. Additionally, we incurred $27 million of one-time
operating and administrative expenses in 1999 compared to only $12 million in
1998.

  Income Taxes

      Our effective tax rate increased to 43.6% in 1999 from 43.3% in 1998, due
to non deductible transaction costs related to mergers of approximately $26
million in 1999.

  Net Earnings

      Net earnings and the effects of merger related costs, one-time expenses,
the accounting change and extraordinary losses for the two years ended January
29, 2000 were:



      Extraordinary losses were incurred from the early retirement of debt. In
addition to the above mentioned items, net earnings in 1999 compared to 1998
were affected by net interest expense of $652 million in 1999



compared to $645 million in 1998 and depreciation and amortization expenses of
$961 million in 1999 compared to $837 million in 1998.

  EBITDA

      Our Credit Agreement, Senior Credit Facility and the indentures underlying
approximately $162 million of publicly issued debt, contain various restrictive
covenants. Many of these covenants are based on earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation, amortization, LIFO charge, extraordinary loss, and one-time items
("EBITDA"). The ability to generate EBITDA at levels sufficient to satisfy the
requirements of these agreements is a key measure of our financial strategy. We
do not intend to present EBITDA as an alternative to any generally accepted
accounting principle measure of performance. Rather, we believe the presentation
of EBITDA is important for understanding our performance compared to our debt
covenants. The calculation of EBITDA is based on the definition contained in our
Credit Agreement. This may be a different definition than other companies use.
We were in compliance with all EBITDA-based Credit Agreement, Senior Credit
Facility and indenture covenants on January 29, 2000.

      EBITDA for 1999 increased 14.3% to $3.2 billion from $2.8 billion in 1998.
EBITDA increased primarily due to recent acquisitions, economies of scale
resulting from increased sales, and from the efficiencies mentioned in
"Merchandise Costs" above.

      The following is a summary of the calculation of EBITDA for the 1999 and
1998 fiscal years:



1998 VS. 1997

  Sales

      Total sales for 1998 increased 27% or $9.2 billion from $33.9 billion in
1997. For some Kroger divisions, fiscal 1998 contained 53 weeks compared to 52
weeks in 1997. Adjusting for the extra week, total sales increased 26% or $8.7
billion. Recent acquisitions, our capital expenditure program and strong
comparable store sales drove the sales increase. The Ralphs/Food 4 Less and
Smith's acquisitions accounted for $6.9 billion of the increase.

      Pre-merger Kroger sales in identical food stores, which includes stores in
operation and not expanded or relocated for four full quarters, increased 1.0%
in 1998. For purposes of this calculation, Fred Meyer, Inc.'s comparable store
sales, which include identical stores plus expanded and relocated stores,
increased 3.2% in 1998. For purposes of this calculation, Fred Meyer, Inc. is
defined as Fred Meyer and its consolidated subsidiaries before the merger with
Kroger. The comparable store sales calculation assumed that the Ralphs/Food 4
Less and Smith's acquisitions occurred at the beginning of the comparable
periods and excluded the Hughes and Smitty's stores which are currently being
converted to other formats.



  Accounting Change

      In the second quarter of 1998, Kroger changed its application of the
Last-In, First-Out, or LIFO method of accounting for store inventories from the
retail method to the item cost method. The change was made to more accurately
reflect inventory value by eliminating the averaging and estimation inherent in
the retail method. The cumulative effect of this change on periods prior to
December 28, 1997 cannot be determined. The effect of the change on the December
28, 1997 inventory valuation, which includes other immaterial modifications in
inventory valuation methods, was included in restated results for the quarter
ended March 21, 1998. This change increased merchandise costs by $90 million and
reduced earnings before extraordinary loss and net earnings by $56 million, or
$0.07 per diluted share. We have not calculated the pro forma effect on prior
periods because cost information for these periods is not determinable. The item
cost method did not have a material impact on earnings subsequent to its initial
adoption.

  Merchandise Costs

      Merchandise costs include advertising, warehousing and transportation
expenses. Merchandise costs, net of one-time expenses, the accounting change and
LIFO charge, as a percent of sales were 74.06% in 1998 and 75.06% in 1997.
Coordinated purchasing, category management, technology related efficiencies and
increases in private label sales caused the decline.

  Operating and Administrative Expenses

      Operating and administrative expenses as a percent of sales were 18.0% in
1998 and 17.9% in 1997. The slight increase was due to higher incentive payouts
based on our 1998 performance and $12 million of one-time expenses. These were
partially offset by the suspension of contributions totaling $45 million for
1998 to some of our multi-employer pension and benefit plans.

  Income Taxes

      The effective tax rate increased to 43.3% in 1998 from 38.3% in 1997 due
to acquisitions accounted for under the purchase method of accounting resulting
in goodwill amortization that is not deductible for tax purposes. Goodwill
amortization was $92 million in 1998 and $16 million in 1997.

  Net Earnings

      Net earnings and the effects of merger related costs, one-time expenses,
the accounting change and extraordinary losses for the two years ended January
2, 1999 were:





      Extraordinary losses were from the early retirement of debt. In addition
to the above mentioned items, net earnings in 1998 compared to 1997 were
affected by net interest expense of $645 million in 1998 compared to $388
million in 1997 and depreciation and amortization expenses of $837 million in
1998 compared to $592 million in 1997.

  EBITDA
      EBITDA for 1998 increased 43.7% to $2.8 billion from $1.9 billion in 1997.
EBITDA increased primarily due to recent acquisitions, economies of scale
resulting from increased sales and from the efficiencies mentioned in
"Merchandise Costs" above.
      The following is a summary of the calculation of EBITDA for the 1998 and
1997 fiscal years:



MERGER RELATED COSTS AND ONE TIME EXPENSES

  MERGER RELATED COSTS
      We are continuing the process of implementing our integration plan
relating to recent mergers. The integration plan includes distribution
consolidation, systems integration, store conversions, transaction costs, store
closures, and administration integration. Total merger related costs incurred
were $383 million in 1999 and $269 million in 1998. We did not incur any merger
related costs during 1997.

      The following table presents the components of the merger related costs:







  Distribution Consolidation

      This represents costs to consolidate manufacturing and distribution
operations and eliminate duplicate facilities. During 1999, approximately $30
million of these costs was recorded as cash was expended. These costs include
approximately $20 million of Tolleson warehouse expenses. Severance costs of $5
million were accrued during 1999 for distribution employees in Phoenix. The 1998
costs include a $29 million writedown to estimated net realizable value of the
Hughes distribution center in Southern California. The facility was sold in
March of 2000. The 1998 costs also include $13 million for incremental labor
incurred during the closing of the distribution center and other incremental
costs incurred as part of the realignment of our distribution system.

  Systems Integration

      This represents the costs of integrating systems and the related
conversions of corporate office and store systems. Charges recorded as cash was
expended totaled $85 million and $50 million in 1999 and 1998, respectively.
These costs represent incremental operating costs, principally labor, during the
conversion process, payments to third parties, and training costs. The 1998
costs include a $26 million writedown of computer equipment and related software
that has been abandoned and the depreciation associated with computer equipment
at QFC which is being written off over 18 months, at which time it will be
abandoned.

  Store Conversions

      This includes the cost to convert store banners. In 1999, $51 million
represented cash expenditures and $10 million represented asset write offs. In
1998 all costs represented incremental cash expenditures for advertising



and promotions to establish the banner, changing store signage, labor required
to remerchandise the store inventory and other services that were expensed as
incurred.

  Transaction Costs

      This represents fees paid to outside parties, employee bonuses that were
contingent upon the completion of the mergers, and an employee stay bonus
program. We incurred costs totaling $93 million and $40 million for 1999 and
1998, respectively, related primarily to professional fees and employee bonuses
recorded as the cash was expended. All accrued amounts relate to the employee
stay bonus program.

  Store Closures

      This includes the costs to close stores identified as duplicate facilities
and to sell stores pursuant to settlement agreements. 1999 costs of $8 million
were accrued to close seven stores identified as duplicate facilities and to
sell three stores pursuant to a settlement with the Federal Trade Commission
("FTC Stores"). Included in 1998 amounts were costs to close four stores
identified as duplicate facilities and to sell three stores pursuant to a
settlement agreement with the State of California ("AG Stores"). The asset
writedown of $25 million in 1998 relates to certain California stores.
Termination costs totaling $7 million were accrued in 1998.

  Administration Integration

      This represents $19 million of severance and travel and consulting
services related to integration work; $27 million of asset write downs including
video tapes and equipment used in our stores; and $47 million of accrued
expenses. The accrued expenses include an obligation to make a charitable
contribution (within seven years from the date of the Fred Meyer merger) as
required by the merger agreement, a restricted stock award related to the
achievement of expected merger synergy benefits, and severance costs for some
Fred Meyer executives who informed us of their intention to leave Kroger, which
have subsequently been paid.

  ONE-TIME EXPENSES

      During 1999, we incurred one-time expenses of $85 million associated with
costs related to recent mergers. These expenses are included in merchandise
costs, $58 million, and operating, general and administrative expenses, $27
million.

      During 1998, we incurred a one-time expense associated with logistics
projects. This expense included the costs associated with ending a joint venture
related to a warehouse operation that formerly served our Michigan stores and
several independent customers. The warehouse is now operated by a third party
that distributes our inventory to our Michigan stores. These expenses also
included the transition costs related to one of our new warehouses, and one new
warehouse facility operated by an unaffiliated entity that provides services to
us. These costs included carrying costs of the facilities idled as a result of
these new warehouses and the associated employee severance costs. Additionally,
in the second quarter of 1998, we incurred one-time expenses associated with
accounting, data, and operations consolidations in Texas. These included the
costs of closing eight stores and relocating the remaining Dallas office
employees to a smaller facility. These expenses, which included non-cash asset
writedowns, were included in operating, general and administrative expenses.
These expenses include an amount for estimated rent or lease termination costs
that will be paid on closed stores through 2013. The "Other" column in the table
below details the activity for amounts accrued related to these one-time
expenses. The remaining balance at January 29, 2000 represents $2 million of
idled warehouse facilities that will be paid through 2001 and $7 million of
estimated rent or lease termination costs that will be paid on closed stores
through 2013.



      A summary of changes in accruals related to various business combinations
and other one-time expenses follows:



LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

  Debt Management

      We have several lines of credit totaling approximately $4 billion with
$874 million of unused balances at January 29, 2000. In addition, we have a $500
million synthetic lease credit facility and a $195 million money market line
with unused balances of $38 million and $100 million, respectively, at January
29, 2000.

      Total debt, including capital leases and current portion thereof,
increased $400 million to $9.0 billion in 1999 and $2.8 billion to $8.6 billion
in 1998. Business acquisitions accounted for under the purchase method of
accounting primarily caused the increases. We purchased a portion of the debt
issued by the lenders of some structured financings in an effort to reduce our
effective interest expense. We also prefunded $200 million of employee benefit
costs at year-end 1999 and 1998 compared to $168 million at year-end 1997. If we
exclude the debt incurred to make these purchases, which we classify as
investments, and the prefunding of employee benefits, our total debt would have
been $8.7 billion at year-end 1999 compared to $8.3 billion at year-end 1998,
and $5.5 billion at year-end 1997. We utilize interest rate swaps to manage net
exposure to interest rate changes related to our portfolio of borrowings. See
footnotes eight and nine of our financial statements for further detail on our
debt portfolio and interest rate swaps.

      In addition to the available credit mentioned above, we currently have
available for issuance $1.225 billion of securities under a shelf registration
statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and declared
effective on February 2, 2000.

  Common Stock Repurchase Program

      On January 29, 1997, we began repurchasing common stock in order to reduce
dilution caused by our stock option plans for employees. These repurchases were
made using the proceeds, including the tax benefit, from options exercised.
Further repurchases of up to $100 million of common stock were authorized by the
board of Directors in October 1997. We made open market purchases totaling $122
million in 1998, and $85 million in 1997. On October 18, 1998, we rescinded the
repurchase program as a result of execution of the merger agreement between
Kroger and Fred Meyer. In December 1999, we began a new program to repurchase
common stock to




reduce dilution caused by our stock option plans for employees. This program is
solely funded by proceeds from stock option exercises, including the tax
benefit. In January 2000 the Board of Directors authorized an additional
repurchase plan for up to $100 million of common stock. During 1999, we made
open market purchases of approximately $4 million under the stock option program
and $2 million under the $100 million program.

      In addition, on March 31, 2000 the Board of Directors authorized the
repurchase of up to $750 million of Kroger common stock. This repurchase program
replaces the $100 million program authorized in January 2000.



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

      Operating cash flow decreased 15% or $280 million in 1999 and increased
65% or $725 million in 1998. The changes in operating cash flow were primarily
due to changes in operating assets and liabilities that used $340 million of
cash in 1999, provided $455 million of cash in 1998 and used $133 million of
cash in 1997. The decrease in 1999 and increase in 1998 also included non-cash
charges from extraordinary losses, depreciation expense and goodwill
amortization totaling $971 million in 1999, $1,094 million in 1998, and $716
million in 1997.

      Cash used by investing activities increased 24% or $355 million in 1999
and 24% or $287 million in 1998. Investing activities consisted primarily of
capital expenditures and business acquisitions. Capital expenditures were $1,701
million in 1999, $1,646 million in 1998, and $942 million in 1997 (see "Capital
Expenditures" below for further detail). Cash used for business acquisitions,
net of cash acquired, was $230 million in 1999, $86 million in 1998 and, $354
million in 1997.

      Cash provided by financing activities was $280 million in 1999 compared to
$257 million used in 1998, and $118 million provided in 1997. In addition to
finance charges of $11 million in 1999, $118 in 1998, and $33 million in 1997
related to debt issues, we paid premiums of $2 million in 1999, $308 million in
1998, and $127 million in 1997 to retire debt early. The table below provides
information about debt repurchases and redemptions for the three years ended
January 29, 2000.



      We used the proceeds from the issuance of new senior debt, additional bank
borrowings and cash generated from operations to make these repurchases,
redemptions and prepayments.



CAPITAL EXPENDITURES

      Capital expenditures excluding acquisitions totaled $1.7 billion in 1999
compared to $1.6 billion in 1998 and $0.9 billion in 1997, most of which was
incurred to construct new stores. The table below shows our storing activity for
food stores and multi-department stores:



EFFECT OF INFLATION

      While management believes that some portion of the increase in sales is
due to inflation, it is difficult to segregate and to measure the effects of
inflation because of changes in the types of merchandise sold year-to-year and
other pricing and competitive influences. Although management believes there was
inflation in retail prices, we experienced deflation in our costs of product due
to synergies and the economies of scale created by recent mergers. By attempting
to control costs and efficiently utilize resources, we strive to minimize the
effects of inflation on operations.

OTHER ISSUES

      On January 6, 1999, we changed our fiscal year-end to the Saturday nearest
January 31 of each year. This change is disclosed in our Current Report on Form
8-K dated January 6, 1999. We filed separate audited financial statements
covering the transition period from January 3, 1999 to January 30, 1999 on a
Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 10, 1999. These financial statements
included Kroger and its consolidated subsidiaries before the merger with Fred
Meyer. During the transition period we had sales of $2,160 million, costs and
expenses of $2,135 million, and net earnings of $25 million.

      On May 20, 1999, we announced a distribution in the nature of a
two-for-one stock split, to shareholders of record of common stock on June 7,
1999. All share amounts prior to this date have been restated to reflect the
split.

      In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities." This standard, as amended, is effective for
fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2000. As a result, implementation of this
standard is not mandatory for the Company until February 4, 2001. Based on our
current portfolio, we expect that the adoption of this standard will not have a
material impact on the financial statements. We will continue to evaluate the
impact this standard will have as our portfolio changes.

      We indirectly own a 50% interest in the entity that owns the Santee Dairy
in Los Angeles, California, and have a 10-year product supply agreement with
Santee that requires us to purchase 9 million gallons of fluid milk and other
products annually. The product supply agreement expires on July 29, 2007. Upon
acquisition of Ralphs/Food 4 Less, Santee became excess capacity and a duplicate
facility. We are currently engaged in efforts to dispose of our interest in
Santee, which may result in a loss.



      We are party to more than 345 collective bargaining agreements with local
unions representing approximately 218,000 employees. During 1999 we negotiated
82 labor contracts without any material work stoppages. Typical agreements are
three to five years in duration and, as agreements expire, we expect to enter
into new collective bargaining agreements. In 2000, 90 collective bargaining
agreements will expire. We cannot be certain that agreements will be reached
without work stoppage. A prolonged work stoppage affecting a substantial number
of stores could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations.

OUTLOOK

      Statements elsewhere in this report and below, as well as pages three
through seven of the accompanying proxy statement, regarding our expectations,
hopes, beliefs, intentions or strategies are forward looking statements within
the meaning of Section 21 E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. While we
believe that the statements are accurate, uncertainties and other factors could
cause actual results to differ materially from those statements. In particular:

      - We obtain sales growth from new square footage, as well as from
        increased productivity from existing locations. We expect 2000 full year
        square footage to grow 4.5% to 5%. We expect to continue to realize
        savings from economies of scale in technology and logistics, some of
        which may be reinvested in retail price reductions to increase sales
        volume and enhance market share.

      - We expect combination stores to generate higher sales per customer by
        the inclusion of numerous specialty departments, such as pharmacies,
        seafood shops, floral shops and bakeries. We believe the combination
        store format will allow us to withstand continued competition from other
        food retailers, supercenters, mass merchandisers and restaurants.

      - We believe we have adequate coverage of our debt covenants to continue
        to respond effectively to competitive conditions.

      - We expect to continue capital spending in technology focusing on
        improved store operations, logistics, procurement, category management,
        merchandising and distribution practices, which should continue to
        reduce merchandising costs as a percent of sales.

      - We expect to reduce working capital by $500 million over the next five
        years.

      - We expect our earnings per share target to be a 16%-18% average annual
        increase over the next three years.

      - We expect capital expenditures for fiscal 2000 to total $1.5-$1.7
        billion, excluding acquisitions. Capital expenditures reflect Kroger's
        strategy of growth through expansion and acquisitions as well as our
        emphasis, whenever possible, on self-development and ownership of store
        real estate, and on logistics and technology improvements.

      - We intend to use the combination of cash flows from operations and
        borrowings under credit facilities to finance capital expenditure
        requirements for 2000, currently budgeted to be approximately $1.5
        billion - $1.7 billion, excluding acquisitions. If determined
        preferable, we may fund capital expenditure requirements by mortgaging
        facilities, entering into sale/leaseback transactions, or by issuing
        additional debt or equity.



      - We expect to achieve $380 million in synergy savings over the next three
        years as a result of our mergers. We project the timing of the annual
        savings by fiscal year to be as follows: $260 million in 2000, $345
        million in 2001, and $380 million in 2002 and beyond.

      The following factors are among the principal factors that could cause
actual results to differ materially from forward looking statements:

      - General business and economic conditions in our operating regions,
        including the rate of inflation, population, employment and job growth
        in our markets,

      - Pricing pressures and competitive factors, which could include pricing
        strategies, store openings and remodels,

      - Results of our programs to reduce costs and improve working capital,

      - The ability to integrate any companies we acquire or have acquired and
        achieve operating improvements at those companies,

      - Increases in labor costs and relations with union bargaining units
        representing our employees,

      - Changes in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting
        standards and taxation requirements,

      - Opportunities or acquisitions that we pursue, and

      - The availability and terms of financing.

      In particular, our ability to achieve the expected increases in sales and
earnings could be adversely affected by the increasingly competitive environment
in which we operate. In addition any labor dispute, delays in opening new
stores, or changes in the economic climate could cause us to fall short of our
sales and earnings targets. While we expect to reduce working capital, our
ability to do so may be impaired by any changes in vendor payment terms or
systems problems that result in increases in inventory levels. Our capital
expenditures could fall outside of the expected range if we are unsuccessful in
acquiring suitable sites for new stores, if development costs exceed those
budgeted, or if our logistics and technology projects are not completed in the
time frame expected or on budget. While we expect to achieve benefits through
logistics and technology, development of new systems and integration of systems
due to our merger with Fred Meyer carry inherent uncertainties, and we may not
achieve the expected benefits. Unforeseen difficulties in integrating Fred Meyer
with Kroger, or any other acquired entity, could cause us to fail to achieve the
anticipated synergy savings, and could otherwise adversely affect our ability to
meet our 16% - 18% earnings per share expectations. Accordingly, actual events
and results may vary significantly from those included in or contemplated or
implied by forward looking statements contained within this document.

YEAR 2000 DISCLOSURE

      We did not experience any significant malfunctions or errors in our
operating or business systems either when the date changed from 1999 to 2000 or
on February 29, 2000. Based on operations since January 1, 2000, we do not
expect any significant impact on our ongoing business as a result of the "Year
2000" issue. However, it is possible that the full impact of the date change,
which was of concern due to computer programs that use two digits instead of
four digits to define years, has not been fully recognized. For example, it is
possible that Year 2000 or similar issues may occur with billing, payroll, or
financial closings at period, quarter, or year-end. We believe that any such
problems are likely to be minor and correctable. In addition, we could still be
negatively affected if the Year 2000 or similar issues adversely affect our
customers or suppliers. We currently are not aware of any significant Year 2000
or similar problems that have arisen for our customers and suppliers.



      We spent $23 million on Year 2000 readiness efforts in 1999 and a total of
$49 million from 1997 through 1999. These efforts included replacing some
outdated, noncompliant hardware and noncompliant software as well as identifying
and remediating Year 2000 problems.


ITEM 7A.   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

      Kroger has historically used derivatives to limit its exposure to rising
interest rates. During 1999, as a result of the merger with Fred Meyer, the
nature and magnitude of our debt portfolio changed significantly, including a
permanent reduction in the combined company's variable rate borrowings. This
fundamental change in our debt portfolio resulted in the existing derivative
portfolio no longer being aligned with the debt portfolio, and prompted us to
eliminate all existing interest rate swap and cap agreements, at a cost of $17
million.

      Going forward, we will use derivatives primarily to fix the rates on
variable rate debt. To do this, we use the following guidelines:

      - use average daily bank balance to determine annual debt amounts subject
        to interest rate exposure,

      - limit the annual amount of debt subject to interest rate reset and the
        amount of floating rate debt to a combined total of $2.3 billion or less
        by April of 2000,

      - include no leveraged derivative products, and

      - hedge without regard to profit motive or sensitivity to current
        mark-to-market status.

      We review compliance with these guidelines annually with the Financial
Policy Committee of our Board of Directors. In addition, our internal auditors
review compliance with these guidelines on an annual basis. The guidelines may
change as our business needs dictate.

      The table below provides information about our interest rate derivative
and underlying debt portfolio. The amount each year represents the contractual
maturities of long-term debt, excluding capital leases, and the outstanding
notional amount of interest rate derivatives. Interest rates reflect the
weighted average for the maturing instruments. The variable component of each
interest rate derivative and the variable rate debt is based on six month LIBOR
using the forward yield curve as of January 29, 2000. The Fair-Value column
includes the fair-value of those debt instruments for which it is reasonably
possible to calculate a fair value and the fair value of our interest rate
derivatives as of January 29, 2000. (See footnotes eight and nine).







It was not practicable to determine a fair value for $678 million of fixed rate
debt. The interest rate collar is reset based on the three month LIBOR with the
following impact:

      - if the three month LIBOR is less than or equal to 4.10%, we pay 5.50%
        for that three month period;

      - if the three month LIBOR is greater than 4.10% and less than or equal to
        6.50%, we are exposed to floating interest rates for that three month
        period;

      - if the three month LIBOR is greater than 6.50% and less than 7.50%, we
        pay 6.50%; and

      - if the three month LIBOR is greater than or equal to 7.50%, we are
        exposed to floating interest rates for that three month period.



ITEM 8.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Shareowners and Board of Directors
The Kroger Co.

      In our opinion, based on our audits and the report of other auditors, the
accompanying consolidated balance sheet and the related consolidated statements
of income, changes in shareowners' equity (deficit) and cash flows present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of The Kroger Co. and
its subsidiaries at January 29, 2000 and January 2, 1999, and the results of
their operations and their cash flows for the years ended January 29, 2000,
January 2, 1999 and December 27, 1997 in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company's management; our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. The consolidated
financial statements give retroactive effect to the merger of Fred Meyer, Inc.
on May 27, 1999 in a transaction accounted for as a pooling of interests, as
described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. We did not audit
the financial statements of Fred Meyer, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary, as of
January 2, 1999 and for the fiscal years ended January 2, 1999 and December 27,
1997, respectively. Those statements reflect total assets of $10.2 billion as of
January 2, 1999, and sales of $14.9 billion and $7.4 billion for the fiscal
years ended January 2, 1999 and December 27, 1997. Those statements were audited
by other auditors whose report thereon has been furnished to us, and our opinion
expressed herein, insofar as it relates to the amounts included for Fred
Meyer, Inc., is based solely on the report of the other auditors. We conducted
our audits of these statements in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States, which require that we plan and perform the audit
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free
of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing
the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits and the report of other auditors provide a reasonable basis for the
opinion expressed above.

      As described in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, the
Company changed its application of the LIFO method of accounting for store
inventories as of December 28, 1997.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
- ------------------------------
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Cincinnati, Ohio
March 9, 2000



INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT


To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of
Fred Meyer, Inc.:

We have audited the consolidated balance sheet of Fred Meyer, Inc. and
subsidiaries as of January 30, 1999, and the related consolidated statements of
income, changes in stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the two
fiscal years in the period ended January 30, 1999 (not presented separately
herein).  These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such financial statements referred to above (not presented
separately herein) present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated
financial position of Fred Meyer, Inc. and subsidiaries at January 30, 1999, and
the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the two fiscal
years in the period ended January 30, 1999, in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles.





/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP


Portland, Oregon
March 10, 1999





                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.



                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME

Years Ended January 29, 2000, January 2, 1999, and December 27, 1997



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.



                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

Years Ended January 29, 2000, January 2, 1999, and December 27, 1997



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.



       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREOWNERS' EQUITY (DEFICIT)

Years Ended January 29, 2000, January 2, 1999, and December 27, 1997



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

All amounts are in millions except per share amounts.

1.  ACCOUNTING POLICIES
      The following is a summary of the significant accounting policies followed
in preparing these financial statements:

  Basis of Presentation and Principles of Consolidation
      The accompanying financial statements include the consolidated accounts of
The Kroger Co. and its subsidiaries ("Kroger"), and Fred Meyer, Inc. and its
subsidiaries ("Fred Meyer") which were merged with Kroger on May 27, 1999 (See
Business Combinations). Fred Meyer amounts included in the consolidated
financial statements as of January 2, 1999 and December 27, 1997 and for the two
years ended January 2, 1999 relate to Fred Meyer's fiscal years ended January
30, 1999 and January 31, 1998, respectively. Significant intercompany
transactions and balances have been eliminated.

  Transition Period
      On January 6, 1999, we changed our fiscal year-end to the Saturday nearest
January 31 of each year. This change is disclosed in our Current Report on Form
8-K dated January 6, 1999. We filed separate audited financial statements
covering the transition period from January 3, 1999 to January 30, 1999 on a
Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 10, 1999. These financial statements
include Kroger and its consolidated subsidiaries before the merger with Fred
Meyer. During the transition period we had sales of $2,160, costs and expenses
of $2,135, and net earnings of $25.

  Pervasiveness of Estimates
      The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities.
Disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the
consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of consolidated
revenues and expenses during the reporting period also is required. Actual
results could differ from those estimates.

  Inventories
      Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (principally LIFO) or market.
Approximately 97% of inventories for 1999 and 1998 were valued using the LIFO
method. Cost for the balance of the inventories is determined using the FIFO
method. Replacement cost is higher than the carrying amount by $501 at January
29, 2000 and $530 at January 2, 1999.

  Property, Plant and Equipment
      Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation expense,
which includes the amortization of assets recorded under capital leases, is
computed principally using the straight-line method over the estimated useful
lives of individual assets, or remaining terms of leases. Buildings and land
improvements are depreciated based on lives varying from 10 to 40 years.
Equipment depreciation is based on lives varying from three to 15 years.
Leasehold improvements are amortized over their useful lives, which vary from
four to 25 years. Depreciation expense was $861 in 1999, $745 in 1998, and $576
in 1997.
      Interest costs on significant projects constructed for the Company's own
use are capitalized as part of the costs of the newly constructed facilities.
Upon retirement or disposal of assets, the cost and related accumulated
depreciation are removed from the balance sheet and any gain or loss is
reflected in earnings.


  Goodwill
      Goodwill is generally being amortized on a straight-line basis over 40
years. Accumulated amortization was approximately $215 at January 29, 2000 and
$115 at January 2, 1999.

  Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
      The Company reviews and evaluates long-lived assets for impairment when
events or circumstances indicate costs may not be recoverable. The net book
value of long-lived assets is compared to expected undiscounted future cash
flows. An impairment loss would be recorded for the excess of net book value
over the fair value of the asset impaired. The fair value is estimated based on
expected discounted future cash flows.

  Interest Rate Protection Agreements
      The Company uses interest rate swaps, caps, and collars to hedge a portion
of its borrowings against changes in interest rates. The interest differential
to be paid or received is accrued as interest expense.

  Deferred Income Taxes
      Deferred income taxes are recorded to reflect the tax consequences of
differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their financial
reporting bases. See footnote six for the types of differences that give rise to
significant portions of deferred income tax assets and liabilities. Deferred
income taxes are classified as a net current or noncurrent asset or liability
based on the classification of the related asset or liability for financial
reporting purposes. A deferred tax asset or liability that is not related to an
asset or liability for financial reporting is classified according to the
expected reversal date.

  Advertising Costs
      The Company's advertising costs are expensed as incurred and included in
merchandise costs in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Advertising expenses
amounted to $511 in 1999, $489 in 1998 and $375 in 1997.

  Comprehensive Income
      The Company has no items of other comprehensive income in any period
presented. Therefore, net earnings as presented in the Consolidated Statement of
Income equals comprehensive income.

  Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
      For purposes of the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the Company
considers all highly liquid debt instruments purchased with an original maturity
of three months or less to be temporary cash investments. Book overdrafts, which
are included in accounts payable, represent disbursements that are funded as the
item is presented for payment.

  Stock Split
      On May 20, 1999 the Company announced a distribution in the nature of a
two-for-one stock split, to shareholders of record of common stock on June 7,
1999. All share and per-share amounts in the accompanying consolidated financial
statements have been retroactively restated to give effect to the stock split.

  Segments
      The Company operates retail food and drug stores, multi-department stores,
jewelry stores, and convenience stores in the Midwest, South and West. The
Company's retail operations, which represent approximately 98% of consolidated
sales, is its only reportable segment. All of the Company's operations are
domestic.





NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED

2.  BUSINESS COMBINATIONS

      On May 27, 1999 Kroger issued 312 shares of Kroger common stock in
connection with a merger, for all of the outstanding common stock of Fred Meyer
Inc., which operates stores primarily in the Western region of the United
States. On March 9, 1998, Fred Meyer issued 82 shares of Fred Meyer common stock
in connection with a merger, for all of the outstanding stock of Quality Food
Centers, Inc. ("QFC"), a supermarket chain operating in the Seattle/Puget Sound
region of Washington state, and in Southern California. The mergers were
accounted for as poolings of interests, and the accompanying financial
statements have been restated to give effect to the consolidated results of
Kroger, Fred Meyer and QFC for all years presented.

      On March 10, 1998, Fred Meyer acquired Food 4 Less Holdings, Inc.
("Ralphs/Food 4 Less"), a supermarket chain operating primarily in Southern
California by issuing 44 shares of common stock to the Ralphs/Food 4 Less
stockholders. The acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method of
accounting. The financial statements include the operating results of
Ralphs/Food 4 Less from the date of acquisition.

      On September 9, 1997, Fred Meyer acquired Smith's, a regional supermarket
and drug store chain operating in the Intermountain and Southwestern regions of
the United States, by issuing 66 shares of common stock to the Smith's
stockholders. The acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method of
accounting. The financial statements include the operating results of Smith's
from the date of acquisition.

      On March 19, 1997, QFC acquired the principal operations of Hughes
Markets, Inc. ("Hughes"), a supermarket chain operating in Southern California
and its indirect 50% interest in Santee Dairy, one of the largest dairy plants
in California. The merger was effected through the acquisition of 100% of the
outstanding voting securities of Hughes for approximately $361 cash, 20 shares
of common stock, and the assumption of $33 of indebtedness of Hughes. The
acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method of accounting. The
financial statements include the operating results of Hughes from the date of
acquisition.

      On February 14, 1997, QFC acquired the principal operations of Keith
Uddenberg, Inc. ("KUI"), a supermarket chain operating in the western and
southern Puget Sound region of Washington. The merger was effected through the
acquisition of the outstanding voting securities of KUI for $35 cash, 4 shares
of common stock and the assumption of approximately $24 of indebtedness of KUI.
The acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method of accounting. The
financial statements include the operating results of KUI form the date of
acquisition.

      The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements reflect the
consolidated results as follows:





NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* The period prior to consummation date represents amounts for the first quarter
ended May 22, 1999, as this was the period ended closest to the consummation
date.

3.  MERGER RELATED COSTS AND ONE TIME EXPENSES

  MERGER RELATED COSTS
      We are continuing the process of implementing our integration plan
relating to recent mergers. The integration plan includes distribution
consolidation, systems integration, store conversions, transaction costs, store
closures, and administrative integration. Total merger related costs incurred
were $383 in 1999 and $269 in 1998. We did not incur any merger related costs
during 1997.

      The following table presents the components of the merger related costs:





NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED



  Distribution Consolidation
      Represents costs to consolidate manufacturing and distribution operations
and eliminate duplicate facilities. During 1999, approximately $30 of these
costs was recorded as cash was expended. These costs include approximately $20
of Tolleson warehouse expenses. Severance costs of $5 were accrued during 1999
for distribution employees in Phoenix. The 1998 costs include a $29 writedown to
estimated net realizable value of the Hughes distribution center in Southern
California. The facility was sold in March 2000. The 1998 costs also include $13
for incremental labor incurred during the closing of the distribution center and
other incremental costs incurred as part of the realignment of the Company's
distribution system.

  Systems Integration
      Represents the costs of integrating systems and the related conversions of
corporate office and store systems. Charges recorded as cash was expended
totaled $85 and $50 in 1999 and 1998, respectively. These costs represent
incremental operating costs, principally labor, during the conversion process,
payments to third parties, and training costs. The 1998 costs include a $26
writedown of computer equipment and related software that has been abandoned and
the depreciation associated with computer equipment at QFC which is being
written off over 18 months at which time it will be abandoned.

  Store Conversions
      Includes the cost to convert store banners. In 1999, $51 represented cash
expenditures, and $10 represented asset write-offs. In 1998, all costs
represented incremental cash expenditures for advertising and promotions to
establish the banner, changing store signage, labor required to remerchandise
the store inventory and other services that were expensed as incurred.

  Transaction Costs
      Represents fees paid to outside parties, employee bonuses that were
contingent upon the completion of the mergers, and an employee stay bonus
program. The Company incurred costs totaling $93 and $40 for 1999 and 1998,
respectively, related primarily to professional fees and employee bonuses
recorded as the cash was expended.

  Store Closures
      Includes the costs to close stores identified as duplicate facilities and
to sell stores pursuant to settlement agreements. 1999 costs of $8 were accrued
to close seven stores identified as duplicate facilities and to sell three
stores pursuant to a settlement with the Federal Trade Commission ("FTC
Stores"). Included in 1998 amounts were costs to close four stores identified as
duplicate facilities and to sell three stores pursuant to a settlement agreement
with the State of California ("AG Stores"). The asset writedown of $25 in 1998
relates to certain California stores. Termination costs totaling $7 were accrued
in 1998.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED

  Administration Integration
      This represents $19 of severance and travel and consulting services
related to integration work; $27 of asset write downs including video tapes and
equipment used in the Company's stores; and $47 of accrued expenses. The accrued
expenses include an obligation to make a charitable contribution (within seven
years from the date of the Fred Meyer merger) as required by the merger
agreement, a restricted stock award related to the achievement of expected
merger synergy benefits, and severance costs for certain Fred Meyer executives
who informed the Company of their intention to leave, which have subsequently
been paid.

  One-Time Expenses
      During 1999, we incurred one-time expenses of $85 associated with costs
related to recent mergers. These expenses are included in merchandise costs,
$58, and operating, general and administrative expenses, $27.

      During 1998, we incurred a one-time expense associated with logistics
projects. This expense included the costs associated with ending a joint venture
related to a warehouse operation that formerly served our Michigan stores and
several independent customers. The warehouse is now operated by a third party
that distributes our inventory to our Michigan stores. These expenses also
included the transition costs related to one of our new warehouses, and one new
warehouse facility operated by an unaffiliated entity that provides services to
us. These costs included carrying costs of the facilities idled as a result of
these new warehouses and the associated employee severance costs. Additionally,
in the second quarter of 1998, the Company incurred one-time expenses associated
with accounting, data, and operations consolidations in Texas. These included
the costs of closing eight stores and relocating the remaining Dallas office
employees to a smaller facility. These expenses, which included non-cash asset
writedowns, were included in operating, general and administrative expenses.
These expenses include an amount for estimated rent or lease termination costs
that will be paid on closed stores through 2013. The "Other" column in the table
below details the activity for amounts accrued related to these one-time
expenses. The remaining balance at January 29, 2000 represents $2 of idled
warehouse facilities that will be paid through 2001 and $7 of estimated rent or
lease termination costs that will be paid on closed stores through 2013.

      A summary of changes in accruals related to various business combinations
and other one-time expenses follows:



4.  ACCOUNTING CHANGE

      In the second quarter of 1998, Kroger changed its application of the
Last-In, First-Out, or LIFO method of accounting for store inventories from the
retail method to the item cost method. The change was made to more



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED

accurately reflect inventory value by eliminating the averaging and estimation
inherent in the retail method. The cumulative effect of this change on periods
prior to December 28, 1997 cannot be determined. The effect of the change on the
December 28, 1997 inventory valuation, which includes other immaterial
modifications in inventory valuation methods, was included in restated results
for the quarter ended March 21, 1998. This change increased merchandise costs by
$90 and reduced earnings before extraordinary loss and net earnings by $56, or
$0.07 per diluted share. We have not calculated the pro forma effect on prior
periods because cost information for these periods is not determinable. The item
cost method did not have a material impact on earnings subsequent to its initial
adoption.

5.  PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT, NET

      Property, plant and equipment, net consists of:



      Accumulated depreciation for leased property under Capital Leases was $195
at January 29, 2000 and $161 at January 2, 1999.

      Approximately $258 and $271, original cost, of Property, Plant and
Equipment collateralizes certain mortgage obligations at January 29, 2000 and
January 2, 1999, respectively.

6.  TAXES BASED ON INCOME

      The provision for taxes based on income consists of:





NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED

      A reconciliation of the statutory federal rate and the effective rate
follows:



      The tax effects of significant temporary differences that comprise
deferred tax balances were as follows:



      Long-term deferred taxes, net are included in other liabilities at January
29, 2000 and other assets at January 2, 1999.

      At January 29, 2000, the Company had net operating loss carryforwards for
federal income tax purposes of $970 which expire from 2004 through 2017. In
addition, the Company had net operating loss carryforwards for state income tax
purposes of $351 which expire from 2000 through 2017. The utilization of certain
of the Company's net operating loss carryforwards may be limited in a given
year.

      At January 29, 2000, the Company had federal and state Alternative Minimum
Tax Credit carryforwards of $10 and $2, respectively. In addition, the Company
has Other Federal and State credits of $3 and $14, respectively,



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED

which expire from 2000 through 2017. The utilization of certain of the Company's
credits may be limited in a given year.

7.  DEBT OBLIGATIONS

      Long-term debt consists of:



      In conjunction with the acquisitions of QFC and Ralphs/Food 4 Less in
March 1998, Fred Meyer entered into new financing arrangements that refinanced a
substantial portion of Fred Meyer's debt. The Senior Credit Facility provides
for a $1,875 five-year revolving credit agreement and a five-year term note.
During 1999, capacity under the term note was permanently reduced by $1,450.
Borrowings under the term note at year-end were $175. All indebtedness under the
Senior Credit Facility is guaranteed by some of the Company's subsidiaries and
collateralized by the stock of those subsidiaries that were guarantors prior to
the Kroger/Fred Meyer merger. The revolving portion of the Senior Credit
Facility is available for general corporate purposes, including the support of
Fred Meyer's commercial paper program. Commitment fees are charged at .20% on
the unused portion of the five-year revolving credit facility. Interest on the
Senior Credit Facility is at adjusted LIBOR plus a margin of .425%. At January
29, 2000, the weighted average interest rate on both the five year term note and
the amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility was 6.52%. The
Senior Credit Facility requires the Company to comply with certain ratios
related to indebtedness to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization ("EBITDA") and fixed charge coverage. In addition, the Senior
Credit Facility limits dividends on and redemption of capital stock. The Company
may prepay the Senior Credit Facility, in whole or in part, at any time, without
a prepayment penalty.

      The Company also has a $1,500 Five Year Credit Agreement and a 364-Day
Credit Agreement (collectively the "Credit Agreement"). The Five Year facility
terminates on May 28, 2002 unless extended or earlier terminated by the Company.
The 364-Day Credit Agreement would have terminated in May 1999, but was extended
as a $430 facility. The 364-Day facility terminates on May 24, 2000 unless
extended, converted into a two year term loan, or earlier terminated by the
Company. Borrowings under the Credit Agreement bear interest at the option of
the Company at a rate equal to either (i) the highest, from time to time, of (A)
the base rate of Citibank, N.A., (B) 1/2% over a moving average of secondary
market morning offering rates for three month certificates of deposit adjusted
for reserve requirements, and (C) 1/2% over the federal funds rate or (ii) an
adjusted Eurodollar rate based upon the London Interbank Offered Rate
("Eurodollar Rate") plus an Applicable Margin. In addition, the Company pays a
Facility Fee in connection with the Credit Facility. Both the Applicable Margin
and the Facility Fee vary based on the Company's achievement of a financial
ratio. At January 29, 2000, the Applicable Margin for the 364-Day facility was
 .525% and for the Five-Year facility was .475%. The Facility Fee for the 364-Day
facility was .10% and for the Five-Year facility was .15%. The Credit Agreement
contains covenants which among other things, restrict dividends and



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED

require the maintenance of certain financial ratios, including fixed charge
coverage ratios and leverage ratios. The Company may prepay the Credit
Agreement, in whole or in part, at any time, without a prepayment penalty.

      In December 1998, the Senior Credit Facility and the Credit Agreement were
amended to permit the merger of Kroger and Fred Meyer (See note 2). The
amendments, which became effective when the merger was completed, increased
interest rates on the Credit Agreement to market rates and changed the covenants
in the Senior Credit Facility to parallel those in the Credit Agreement.

      Unrated commercial paper borrowings of $384 and borrowings under money
market lines of $155 at January 29, 2000 have been classified as long-term
because the Company expects that during 1999 these borrowings will be refinanced
using the same type of securities. Additionally, the Company has the ability to
refinance these borrowings on a long-term basis and has presented the amounts as
outstanding under the Credit Agreement or the Senior Credit Facility. The money
market lines, which generally have terms of approximately one year, allow the
Company to borrow from the banks at mutually agreed upon rates, usually below
the rates offered under the Senior Credit Facility.

      All of the Senior Notes and Debentures are subject to early redemption at
varying times and premiums beginning in 2000. In addition, subject to certain
conditions, some of the Company's publicly issued debt will be subject to
redemption, in whole or in part, at the option of the holder upon the occurrence
of a redemption event, upon not less than five days' notice prior to the date of
redemption, at a redemption price equal to the default amount, plus a specified
premium. "Redemption Event" is defined in the indentures as the occurrence of
(i) any person or group, together with any affiliate thereof, beneficially
owning 50% or more of the voting power of the Company or (ii) any one person or
group, or affiliate thereof, succeeding in having a majority of its nominees
elected to the Company's Board of Directors, in each case, without the consent
of a majority of the continuing directors of the Company.

      The aggregate annual maturities and scheduled payments of long-term debt
for the five years subsequent to 1999 are:



      The extraordinary losses in 1999, 1998, and 1997 relate to premiums paid
to retire certain indebtedness early and the write-off of deferred financing
costs.

8.  INTEREST RATE PROTECTION PROGRAM

      The Company has historically used derivatives to limit its exposure to
rising interest rates. During 1999, as a result of the merger with Fred Meyer,
the nature and magnitude of the Company's debt portfolio changed significantly,
including a permanent reduction in the combined Company's variable rate
borrowings. This fundamental change in the Company's debt portfolio resulted in
the existing derivative portfolio no longer being aligned with the debt
portfolio and prompted the Company to eliminate all existing interest rate swap
and cap agreements, at a cost of $17.

      Going forward, the Company's program relative to interest rate protection
primarily contemplates fixing the rates on variable rate debt. To do this, the
Company uses the following guidelines: (i) use average daily bank balance




NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED

to determine annual debt amounts subject to interest rate exposure, (ii) limit
the annual amount of debt subject to interest rate reset and the amount of
floating rate debt to a combined total of $2,300 or less by April of 2000, (iii)
include no leveraged products, and (iv) hedge without regard to profit motive or
sensitivity to current mark-to-market status.

      The Company reviews compliance with these guidelines annually with the
Financial Policy Committee of the Board of Directors. In addition, the Company's
internal auditors review compliance with these guidelines on an annual basis.
The guidelines may change as the Company's business needs dictate.

      The table below indicates the types of swaps used, their duration, and
their respective interest rates. The variable component of each interest rate
derivative is based on the six month LIBOR using the forward yield curve as of
January 29, 2000.



      In addition, as of January 29, 2000, the Company has an interest rate
collar on a notional amount of $300 million with a maturity date of July 24,
2003. Every three months, actual three month LIBOR is reviewed and the collar
has the following impact on the Company for the notional amount.

        - If the three month LIBOR is less than or equal to 4.10%, the Company
          pays 5.50% for that three month period;

        - If the three month LIBOR is greater than 4.10% and less than or equal
          to 6.50%, the Company is exposed to floating interest rates for that
          three month period;

        - If the three month LIBOR is greater than 6.50% and less than 7.50%,
          the Company pays 6.50%; and

        - If the three month LIBOR is greater than or equal to 7.50%, the
          Company is exposed to floating interest rates for that three month
          period.

9.  FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

      The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value
of each class of financial instrument for which it is practicable to estimate
that value:

  Cash, Receivables, Prepaid and Other Current Assets, Other Long-term Assets,
  Accounts Payable, Accrued Salaries and Wages, Other Current Liabilities, and
  Other Long-term Liabilities
      The carrying amounts of these items approximate fair value.

  Long-term Investments
      The fair values of these investments are estimated based on quoted market
prices for those or similar investments.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED

  Long-term Debt
      The fair value of the Company's long-term debt, including the current
portion thereof, is estimated based on the quoted market price for the same or
similar issues. The carrying value of $2,821 of long-term debt outstanding under
the Company's Credit Agreement and Senior Credit Facility approximates fair
value.

  Interest Rate Protection Agreements
      The fair value of these agreements is based on the net present value of
the future cash flows using the forward interest rate yield curve in effect at
the respective year-end.
      The estimated fair values of the Company's financial instruments are as
follows:



      The use of different assumptions or estimation methodologies may have a
material effect on the estimated fair value amounts. Accordingly, the estimates
presented herein are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that the Company
could actually realize. In addition, the Company is not subjected to a
concentration of credit risk related to these instruments.
      The investments for which it was not practicable to estimate fair value
relate to equity investments accounted for under the equity method and
investments in real estate development partnerships for which there is no
market. The long-term debt for which it was not practicable to estimate fair
value relates to industrial revenue bonds, certain mortgages and other notes for
which there is no market.

10.  LEASES

      The Company operates primarily in leased facilities. Lease terms generally
range from 10 to 25 years with options to renew for varying terms. Terms of
certain leases include escalation clauses, percentage rents based on sales, or
payment of executory costs such as property taxes, utilities, or insurance and
maintenance. Portions of certain properties are subleased to others for periods
from one to 20 years.
      Rent expense (under operating leases) consists of:





NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED

      Minimum annual rentals for the five years subsequent to 1999 and in the
aggregate are:



      Total future minimum rentals under noncancellable subleases at January 29,
2000 were $452.

      The current and long-term portions of obligations under capital leases are
included in other current liabilities and other long-term liabilities on the
balance sheet.

      On March 11, 1998, the Company entered into a $500 five-year synthetic
lease credit facility that refinanced $303 in existing lease financing
facilities. Lease payments are based on LIBOR applied to the utilized portion of
the facility. As of January 29, 2000, the Company had utilized $462 of the
facility, which matures March 2003.

11.  EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE

      Basic earnings per common share equals net earnings divided by the
weighted average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per
common share equals net earnings divided by the weighted average number of
common shares outstanding after giving effect to dilutive stock options and
warrants.
      The following table provides a reconciliation of earnings before
extraordinary loss and shares used in calculating basic earnings per share to
those used in calculating diluted earnings per share.



      At January 29, 2000, there were options outstanding for approximately 18.2
shares of common stock that were excluded from the computation of diluted EPS.
These shares were excluded because their inclusion would have had an
antidilutive effect on EPS. There were no items that would have had an
antidilutive effect at January 2, 1999 or December 27, 1997.

      On May 20, 1999, the Company announced a two-for-one stock split, to
shareholders of record of common stock on June 7, 1999. All share amounts prior
to this date have been restated to reflect the split.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED

12.  STOCK OPTION PLANS
      The Company grants options for common stock to employees under various
plans, as well as to its non-employee directors owning a minimum of one-thousand
shares of common stock of the Company, at an option price equal to the fair
market value of the stock at the date of grant. In addition to cash payments,
the plans provide for the exercise of options by exchanging issued shares of
stock of the Company. At January 29, 2000, 21.6 shares of common stock were
available for future options. Options generally will expire 10 years from the
date of grant. Options vest in one year to five years or, for certain options,
upon the Company's stock reaching certain pre-determined market prices within
ten years from the date of grant. All grants outstanding become immediately
exercisable upon certain changes of control of the Company.

      Changes in options outstanding under the stock option plans, excluding
restricted stock grants, were:



      A summary of options outstanding and exercisable at January 29, 2000
follows:



      The Company applies Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,
"Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees", and related interpretations in
accounting for its plans. Had compensation cost for the Company's stock option
plans been determined based upon the fair value at the grant date for awards
under these plans consistent



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED

with the methodology prescribed under Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," the Company's net
earnings and diluted earnings per common share would have been reduced to the
pro forma amounts below:



      The fair value of each option grant was estimated on the date of grant
using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, based on historical assumptions
from each respective company shown in the table below. These amounts reflected
in this proforma disclosure are not indicative of future amounts. The following
table reflects the assumptions used for grants awarded in each year to option
holders of the respective companies:



      The weighted average fair value of options granted during 1999, 1998, and
1997 was $12.93, $9.87, and $5.86, respectively.

13.  CONTINGENCIES

      The Company continuously evaluates contingencies based upon the best
available evidence.

      Management believes that allowances for loss have been provided to the
extent necessary and that its assessment of contingencies is reasonable. To the
extent that resolution of contingencies results in amounts that vary from
management's estimates, future earnings will be charged or credited.

      The principal contingencies are described below:

      Insurance -- The Company's workers' compensation risks are self-insured in
certain states. In addition, other workers' compensation risks and certain
levels of insured general liability risks are based on retrospective premium
plans, deductible plans, and self-insured retention plans. The liability for
workers' compensation risks is accounted for on a present value basis. Actual
claim settlements and expenses incident thereto may differ from the provisions
for loss. Property risks have been underwritten by a subsidiary and are
reinsured with unrelated insurance companies. Operating divisions and
subsidiaries have paid premiums, and the insurance subsidiary has provided loss
allowances, based upon actuarially determined estimates.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED

      Litigation -- The Company is involved in various legal actions arising in
the normal course of business. Although occasional adverse decisions (or
settlements) may occur, the Company believes that the final disposition of such
matters will not have a material adverse effect on the financial position or
results of operations of the Company.

      Purchase Commitment -- The Company indirectly owns a 50% interest in the
Santee Dairy ("Santee") and has a 10-year product supply agreement with Santee
that requires the Company to purchase 9 million gallons of fluid milk and other
products annually. The product supply agreement expires on July 29, 2007. Upon
acquisition of Ralphs/Food 4 Less, Santee became excess capacity and a duplicate
facility. The Company is currently engaged in efforts to dispose of its interest
in Santee, which may result in a loss.

14.  WARRANT DIVIDEND PLAN

      On February 28, 1986, the Company adopted a warrant dividend plan
providing for stock purchase rights to owners of the Company's common stock. The
plan was amended and restated as of April 4, 1997 and further amended on October
18, 1998. Each share of common stock currently has attached one-half of a right.
Each right, when exercisable, entitles the holder to purchase from the Company
one ten-thousandth of a share of Series A Preferred Shares, par value $100 per
share, at $87.50 per one ten-thousandth of a share. The rights will become
exercisable, and separately tradable, ten business days following a tender offer
or exchange offer resulting in a person or group having beneficial ownership of
10% or more of the Company's common stock. In the event the rights become
exercisable and thereafter the Company is acquired in a merger or other business
combination, each right will entitle the holder to purchase common stock of the
surviving corporation, for the exercise price, having a market value of twice
the exercise price of the right. Under certain other circumstances, including
certain acquisitions of the Company in a merger or other business combination
transaction, or if 50% or more of the Company's assets or earnings power are
sold under certain circumstances, each right will entitle the holder to receive
upon payment of the exercise price, shares of common stock of the acquiring
company with a market value of two times the exercise price. At the Company's
option, the rights, prior to becoming exercisable, are redeemable in their
entirety at a price of $0.01 per right. The rights are subject to adjustment and
expire March 19, 2006.

15.  BENEFIT PLANS

      The Company administers non-contributory defined benefit retirement plans
for substantially all non-union employees. Funding for the pension plans is
based on a review of the specific requirements and on evaluation of the assets
and liabilities of each plan.

      In addition to providing pension benefits, the Company provides certain
health care and life insurance benefits for retired employees. The majority of
the Company's employees may become eligible for these benefits if they reach
normal retirement age while employed by the Company. Funding of retiree health
care and life insurance benefits occurs as claims or premiums are paid.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED

      Information with respect to change in benefit obligation, change in plan
assets, net amounts recognized at end of year, weighted average assumptions and
components of net periodic benefit cost follow:



Pension plan assets include $121 and $167 of common stock of The Kroger Co. at
January 29, 2000 and January 2, 1999, respectively.





NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED



For measurement purposes, a 5 percent annual rate of increase in the per capita
cost of other benefits was assumed for 1999 and thereafter.



The accumulated benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for pension
plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets were $185
and $140 at January 29, 2000 and $123 and $69 at January 2, 1999.

Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts
reported for the health care plans. A one-percentage-point change in the assumed
health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:



The Company also administers certain defined contribution plans for eligible
union and non-union employees. The cost of these plans for 1999, 1998, and 1997
was $46, $40, and $32, respectively.

The Company participates in various multi-employer plans for substantially all
union employees. Benefits are generally based on a fixed amount for each year of
service. Contributions for 1999, 1998, and 1997 were $121, $133, and $119,
respectively.

16.  RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS

      The Company had a management agreement for management and financial
services with The Yucaipa Companies ("Yucaipa"), whose managing general partner
became Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Board, effective May 27, 1999.
The arrangement provided for annual management fees of $0.5 plus reimbursement
of Yucaipa's reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses. In 1998, the Company
paid to Yucaipa approximately $20 for services rendered in conjunction with the
Ralphs/Food 4 Less and QFC mergers and termination fees of Ralphs/Food 4 Less
management agreement. This agreement was terminated by Yucaipa upon consummation
of the Kroger/Fred Meyer merger (see note 2).



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED

      Yucaipa holds a warrant for the purchase of up to 7.8 million shares of
Common Stock at an exercise price of $11.91 per share. Half of the warrant
expires in 2005 and half expires in 2006. Additionally, at the option of
Yucaipa, the warrant is exercisable without the payment of cash consideration.
Under this condition, the Company will withhold upon exercise the number of
shares having a market value equal to the aggregate exercise price from the
shares issuable.

17.  RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

      In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments
and Hedging Activities." This standard, as amended, is effective for fiscal
years beginning after June 15, 2000. As a result, implementation of this
standard is not mandatory for the Company until February 4, 2001. Based on the
Company's current portfolio, management expects that the adoption of this
standard will not have a material impact on the financial statements. Management
will continue to evaluate the impact this standard will have as the Company's
portfolio changes.

      In 1999, the Company adopted Statement of Position (SOP) 98-1, "Accounting
for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use." The
SOP requires that certain external costs and internal payroll and payroll
related costs be capitalized. The adoption of this accounting standard did not
have a material impact on the financial statements.

      In 1999, the Company adopted SOP 98-5 "Reporting on the Costs of Start-up
Activities." The SOP requires that entities expense start-up as incurred. The
adoption of this accounting standard did not have a material impact on the
financial statements.

      In March 2000, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued
Interpretation No. 44, "Accounting for Certain Transactions involving Stock
Compensation." This standard becomes effective July 1, 2000. We expect that the
adoption of the standard will not have a material impact on the financial
statements.

18.  SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

      On February 2, 2000, the Company filed a Registration Statement on form
S-3 with the Securities and Exchange Commission. This Registration Statement
permits the Company to issue up to $1.725 billion of securities, of which amount
$1.225 billion remains unissued.

      The Board of Directors approved a $750 common stock repurchase program, on
March 31, 2000. This repurchase program replaces the $100 program authorized in
January of 2000.

19.  GUARANTOR SUBSIDIARIES

      The Company's outstanding public debt (the "Guaranteed Notes") is jointly
and severally, fully and unconditionally guaranteed by certain Kroger
subsidiaries (the "Guarantor Subsidiaries"). At January 29, 2000 a total of
approximately $5.1 billion of Guaranteed Notes were outstanding. The Guarantor
Subsidiaries and non-guarantor subsidiaries are wholly-owned subsidiaries of
Kroger. Separate financial statements of Kroger and each of the Guarantor
Subsidiaries are not presented because the guarantees are full and unconditional
and the Guarantor Subsidiaries are jointly and severally liable. The Company
believes that separate financial statements and other disclosures concerning the
Guarantor Subsidiaries would not be material to investors.

      The non-guaranteeing subsidiaries represent less than 3% on an individual
and aggregate basis of consolidated assets, pretax earnings, cash flow, and
equity. Therefore, the non-guarantor subsidiaries' information is not separately
presented in the tables below.




NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED

      There are no current restrictions on the ability of the Guarantor
Subsidiaries to make payments under the guarantees referred to above, except,
however, the obligations of each guarantor under its guarantee are limited to
the maximum amount as will result in obligations of such guarantor under its
guarantee not constituting a fraudulent conveyance or fraudulent transfer for
purposes of Bankruptcy Law, the Uniform Fraudulent Conveyance Act, the Uniform
Fraudulent Transfer Act, or any similar Federal or state law (e.g. adequate
capital to pay dividends under corporate laws).

      The following tables present summarized financial information as of
January 29, 2000 and January 2, 1999, and for the three years ended January 29,
2000.

      Summarized financial information as of January 29, 2000 and the year then
ended:



      Summarized financial information as of January 2, 1999 and for the year
then ended:



      Summarized financial information for the year ended December 27, 1997:





NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONCLUDED

20.  QUARTERLY DATA (UNAUDITED)





      Quarterly amounts for the 1st quarter of 1999 and all four quarters of
1998 do not match amounts previously filed on the respective Forms 10-Q as the
amounts above reflect a business combination accounted for as a pooling of
interests (See note 2 of the financial statements).


ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
               FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.


                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The information required by this item concerning directors is set forth in Item
No. 1, Election of Directors, of the definitive proxy statement to be filed by
the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission and is hereby
incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K.

             SECTION 16(a) BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING COMPLIANCE

Based solely on its review of the copies of all Section 16(a) forms received by
the Company, or written representations from certain persons that no Forms 5
were required for those persons, the Company believes that during fiscal year
1999 all filing requirements applicable to its officers, directors and ten
percent beneficial owners were timely satisfied except that Mr. Geoffrey Covert
filed a Form 4 reporting the sale of 1,700 shares of stock that inadvertently
was not reported on a prior Form 4 during 1999, Mr. Warren Bryant filed a Form 5
reporting the purchase of 3,000 shares of stock that inadvertently was not
reported on a Form 4 during 1999, and Mr. John L. Clendenin filed a Form 5
reporting the exercise of three stock options aggregating 24,000 shares of stock
and the acquisition of the underlying securities that inadvertently were not
reported on a Form 4 during 1999.

                        EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

The following is a list of the names and ages of the executive officers and the
positions held by each such person or those chosen to become executive officers
as of March 6, 2000. Except as otherwise noted below, each person has held
office for at least five years and was elected to that office at the 1999
Organizational Meeting of the Board of Directors held May 20, 2000. Each officer
will hold office at the discretion of the Board for the ensuing year until
removed or replaced.











ITEM 11.       EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by this item is set forth in the section entitled
Compensation of Executive Officers in the definitive proxy statement to be filed
by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission and is hereby
incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K.

ITEM 12.       SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The information required by this item is set forth in the tabulation of the
amount and nature of Beneficial Ownership of the Company's securities in the
definitive proxy statement to be filed by the Company with the Securities and
Exchange Commission and is hereby incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K.

ITEM 13.       CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The information required by this item is set forth in the section entitled
Information Concerning The Board Of Directors - Certain Transactions in the
definitive proxy statement to be filed by the Company with the Securities and
Exchange Commission and is hereby incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K.

                                     PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)     Financial Statements:

        Report of Independent Public Accountants
        Consolidated Balance Sheet as of January 29, 2000 and January 2, 1999
        Consolidated Statement of Income for the years ended January 29, 2000,
        January 2, 1999, and December 27, 1997
        Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the years ended January 29,
        2000 and January 2, 1999
        Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareowners' Equity (Deficit)
        Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

        Financial Statement Schedules:

        There are no Financial Statement Schedules included with this filing for
        the reason that they are not applicable or are not required or the
        information is included in the financial statements or notes thereto

(b)     Reports on Form 8-K:

        On December 6, 1999, The Kroger Co. filed a Current Report on Form 8-K
        with the SEC disclosing its earnings release for the third quarter 1999,
        disclosing the text of prepared remarks for an investor conference call
        on December 6, 1999, disclosing identical store sales increases thus far
        for the fourth quarter, and disclosing a revision in its estimate of
        what combined sales and earnings per share for the third and fourth
        quarters 1998 would have been taking into account the merger with Fred
        Meyer and the change in its fiscal year.

        On January 12, 2000, The Kroger Co. filed a Current Report on Form 8-K
        with the SEC disclosing its reaffirmation of its earnings per share
        estimate for fourth quarter 1999, of its estimated earnings per share
        growth rate for 2000-2002, and of its expected combined synergy savings
        from the Kroger/Fred Meyer merger and prior Fred Meyer mergers. In that
        same Current Report, Kroger disclosed adjustments to sales and earnings
        per share estimates for fourth quarter 1998, adjusting for the 53rd week
        calendar in 1998 for pre-merger Kroger, and normalization of Ralphs'
        depreciation and amortization during the fourth quarter of 1998. It also
        disclosed its best estimates of reasonable assumptions to be used for
        2000 by analysts in completing models. Finally, it filed as an exhibit
        to the Current Report detailed income statements year-to-date.

(c)     Exhibits

           3.1             Amended Articles of Incorporation of The Kroger Co.
                           are incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of The
                           Kroger Co.'s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                           quarter ended


                           October 3, 1998. The Kroger Co.'s Regulations are
                           incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of The
                           Kroger Co.'s Registration Statement on Form S-3
                           (Registration No. 33-57552) filed with the SEC on
                           January 28, 1993.

           4.1             Instruments defining the rights of holders of
                           long-term debt of the Company and its subsidiaries
                           are not filed as Exhibits because the amount of debt
                           under each instrument is less than 10% of the
                           consolidated assets of the Company. The Company
                           undertakes to file these instruments with the
                           Commission upon request.

         10.1              Material Contracts - Third Amended and Restated
                           Employment Agreement dated as of July 22, 1993,
                           between the Company and Joseph A. Pichler is hereby
                           incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
                           Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October 9,
                           1993.

         10.2              Non-Employee Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan.
                           Incorporated by reference to Appendix J to Exhibit
                           99.1 of Fred Meyer, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K
                           dated September 9, 1997, SEC File No. 1-13339.

         10.3              Yucaipa Warrant Agreement. Incorporated by reference
                           to Exhibit 10.3 of Smith's Food & Drug Centers,
                           Inc.'s Registration Statement on Form S-3, No.
                           333-14953, filed on October 28, 1996. Supplemental
                           Warrant, dated as of September 9, 1997, among Fred
                           Meyer, Inc. (formerly Meyer-Smith Holdco, Inc.) and
                           the Yucaipa Companies. Incorporated by reference to
                           Exhibit 10.3 of Fred Meyer, Inc.'s Form 10-Q for the
                           quarter ended November 8, 1997, SEC File No. 1-13339.
                           Second Supplemental Warrant, dated as of May 27,
                           1999, between The Kroger Co. and the Yucaipa
                           Companies.

         12.1              Statement of Computation of Ratio of Earnings to
                           Fixed Charges.

         21.1              Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

         23.1              Consent of Independent Public Accountants.

         23.2              Consent of Independent Public Accountants.

         23.3              Consent of Independent Public Accountants.

         24.1              Powers of Attorney.

         27.1              Financial Data Schedule.

         99.1              Annual Reports on Form 11-K for The Kroger Co.
                           Savings Plan and the Dillon Companies, Inc. Employee
                           Stock Ownership Plan and Trust for the Year 1999.

         99.2              Annual Report on Form 11-K for the Fred Meyer, Inc.
                           401(k) Savings Plan for the Plan Year ended March 31,
                           2000 will be filed by amendment on or before
                           September 27, 2000.


                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

                                     THE KROGER CO.


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Company and in
the capacities indicated on the 27th day of April, 2000.







*By:    (Bruce M. Gack)
        Bruce M. Gack
        Attorney-in-fact




