
10-K
FORM 10-K



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K



                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 1999

                                       OR



                                   001-13836
                            (COMMISSION FILE NUMBER)

                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)



                                 441-292-8674*
                        (Registrant's telephone number)
                            ------------------------

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:



        SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT: NONE

    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes /X/  No / /.

    Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III or this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  /X/.

    The aggregate market value of voting common shares held by nonaffiliates of
registrant was $63,297,592,505 as of December 3, 1999.

    The number of common shares outstanding as of December 3, 1999 was
1,700,010,963.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

    See pages 20 to 24 for the exhibit index.

                            ------------------------

* The executive offices of registrant's principal United States subsidiary, Tyco
  International (US) Inc., are located at One Tyco Park, Exeter, New Hampshire
  03833. The telephone number there is (603) 778-9700.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

INTRODUCTION

    Tyco International Ltd. ("Tyco" or the "Company") is a diversified
manufacturing and service company that, through its subsidiaries:

    - designs, manufactures and distributes electrical and electronic components
      and designs, manufactures, installs and services undersea cable
      communication systems;

    - designs, manufactures and distributes disposable medical supplies and
      other specialty products, and conducts auto redistribution services;

    - designs, manufactures, installs and services fire detection and
      suppression systems and installs, monitors and maintains electronic
      security systems; and

    - designs, manufactures and distributes flow control products.

    See Notes 19 and 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for certain
segment and geographic financial data relating to the Company's business.

    Tyco's strategy is to be the low-cost, high quality producer and provider in
each of its markets. It promotes its leadership position by investing in
existing businesses, developing new markets and acquiring complementary
businesses and products. Combining the strengths of its existing operations and
its business acquisitions, Tyco seeks to enhance shareholder value through
increased earnings per share and strong cash flows.

I. TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND ELECTRONICS

    The Telecommunications and Electronics segment consists of the following:

    - Tyco Electronics, including AMP Incorporated ("AMP"), which designs and
      manufactures electrical connectors, interconnection systems, touch screens
      and wireless systems, and Raychem Corporation ("Raychem"), which develops
      and manufactures high-performance electronic components;

    - Tyco Submarine Systems Ltd. ("TSSL"), which designs, manufactures,
      installs and services undersea communications cable systems; and

    - Tyco Printed Circuit Group ("TPCG"), which designs and manufactures
      multi-layer printed circuit boards, backplane assemblies and similar
      components.

    TYCO ELECTRONICS

    The principal operating company of this division is AMP, which merged with
the Company on April 2, 1999. AMP designs, manufactures and markets a broad
range of electronic, electrical and electro-optic connection devices and an
expanding number of interconnection systems and connector-intensive assemblies,
as well as wireless products including semi-conductors, radar sensors and Global
Positioning Satellite systems. AMP's products have potential uses wherever an
electronic, electrical, computer or telecommunications system is involved, and
are becoming increasingly critical to the performance of these systems as voice,
data and video communications converge. AMP manufactures and sells more than
200,000 parts in over 450 global product lines, including terminals, fiber
optic, printed circuit board and cable connectors and assemblies, cable and
cabling systems, and related application tools and application tooling machines.

    AMP's customers include original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and their
subcontractors, utilities, government agencies, distributors, value-added
resellers, and customers who install, maintain and repair equipment. These
customers are found in the automotive, power technology, personal computer,


communications, and consumer industrial industries. AMP serves over 90,000
customers located in over 143 countries, covering many diverse markets.

    AMP is a global marketing, sales, engineering and manufacturing
interconnection systems company with a strong local presence in the geographical
areas in which it operates, such as the Americas, the Asia-Pacific region,
Europe and the Middle East.

    The acquisition of Raychem on August 12, 1999 significantly expanded the
product line and complemented existing products and services offered by AMP.
Raychem develops, manufactures and markets a variety of high-performance
products for electronic OEMs and telecommunications, energy and industrial
applications. Raychem designs, manufactures and distributes products such as
circuit protection devices, heat-shrinkable tubing and molded parts, wire and
cable, and computer touchscreens. In addition, Raychem designs and manufactures
fiber optic and copper cable accessories, energy cable accessories and
heat-tracing products and provides design, engineering and installation
services.

    On November 23, 1999, the Company consummated its acquisition of Siemens
Electromechanical Components GmbH & Co. KG ("Siemens EC") from Siemens AG.
Siemens EC is the world market leader for the manufacture and sale of relays and
is one of the world's leading providers of electro-mechanical components to the
communications, automotive, consumer and general industry sectors.

    TYCO SUBMARINE SYSTEMS LTD.

    TSSL, which includes the Company's Simplex Technologies business and the
submarine systems business acquired from AT&T Corp. in July 1997, is the world's
only fully-integrated source for the design, engineering, manufacturing,
installation and servicing of undersea cable communications systems. TSSL
designs and builds both repeatered and non-repeatered fiber optic cable systems.
Repeatered cable systems, which use Dense Wave Division Multiplexing, can
provide 160 gigabits per second per fiber pair of capacity over 10,000
kilometers. Non-repeatered systems, which allow for even greater circuit
capacity and reduced transmission costs, support short haul systems of several
hundred kilometers. TSSL has designed, manufactured and installed approximately
350,000 kilometers of undersea optical cable.

    TSSL includes a world class research and development facility populated by
acclaimed engineers and state of the art equipment to facilitate forward looking
design work. TSSL operates one of the world's largest fleet of ships deployed
worldwide to design, maintain, install and service undersea fiber optic
transmission systems. TSSL also uses a variety of other undersea tools,
including robotic vehicles for undersea cable burial and retrieval operations.

    Simplex Technologies is the primary supplier of cable and cable assemblies
to TSSL. It also manufactures underwater electrical power cables and
electro-mechanical cables for unique field operations. The Company's Rochester
business manufactures wirelines, electro-optical products, subsea products, and
sizes and draws high precision, high tensile steel wire for Simplex consumption.

    TSSL competes on a worldwide basis primarily against two other entities:
Alcatel-Alsthom, headquartered in France, and KDD-SCS, located in Japan.
Alcatel, like TSSL, is vertically integrated and produces its own cable, whereas
KDD utilizes a Japanese cable manufacturer.

    TYCO PRINTED CIRCUIT GROUP

    TPCG is one of the largest independent manufacturers of complex multi-layer
printed circuit boards and backplane assemblies in the United States. Printed
circuit boards are used in the electronics industry to mount and interconnect
components to create electronic systems. They are categorized by the number of
layers and can be single-sided, double-sided or multi-layer. In general, single
and double-sided boards are less advanced. Multi-layer boards provide greater
interconnection density, while decreasing the number of separate printed circuit
boards that are required to accommodate powerful and sophisticated


components. Backplane assemblies are comprised of printed circuit boards,
connectors and other electronic components, and they serve as an electrical and
mechanical interconnect device.

    TPCG manufactures double-sided and multi-layer boards, including highly
sophisticated, precision tooled, custom laminated boards with layer counts up to
68. TPCG also produces sophisticated flexible-rigid circuit boards for use in
commercial, aerospace and military applications. TPCG's backplane facilities
produce soldered, press-fit and surface mount backplane assemblies. In addition,
these facilities also provide turnkey manufacturing services including full "box
build" products. Printed circuit boards and backplane products are manufactured
on a job order basis to the customers' design specifications. The majority of
sales are derived from high-density multi-layer boards.

    TPCG markets its products primarily through a direct sales force and, to a
lesser extent, through a network of independent manufacturers' representatives.
Customers are OEMs and contract manufacturers in the communications, computer,
aircraft, military and other industrial and consumer electronics industries. The
Company competes with several other large independent and captive companies that
manufacture printed circuit board products primarily in the United States.
Competition is on the basis of quality, reliability, price and timeliness of
delivery. The Company believes that fewer competitors manufacture the more
complex, high-density multi-layer printed circuit board products.

II. HEALTHCARE AND SPECIALTY PRODUCTS

    The principal divisions in the Healthcare and Specialty Products segment are
as follows:

    - Tyco Healthcare Group, which manufactures and distributes a wide variety
      of disposable medical products, including wound care products, syringes
      and needles, sutures and surgical staplers, incontinence products,
      electrosurgical instruments and laparoscopic instruments;

    - Tyco Plastics and Adhesives, which manufactures flexible plastic
      packaging, plastic bags and sheeting, coated and laminated packaging
      materials, tapes and adhesives, and plastic garment hangers; and

    - ADT Automotive, which is the second largest provider of auto
      redistribution services in the United States.

    TYCO HEALTHCARE GROUP

    The Tyco Healthcare Group consists of four primary business units including
Kendall Healthcare, Tyco Healthcare International, U.S. Surgical and ValleyLab.

    Kendall Healthcare, which is comprised of Kendall, Sherwood-Davis & Geck,
Ludlow, Graphic Controls and Confab, manufactures and markets worldwide a broad
range of needles, syringes, electrodes and wound care, specialized paper and
film, vascular therapy, urological care, incontinence care, anaesthetic care and
other nursing care products to hospitals and to alternate site healthcare
customers. Its Confab unit sells store brand baby diapers and incontinence and
feminine hygiene products through retail outlets in the United States and
Canada.

    Kendall Healthcare distributes its products in the United States through its
own sales force and through a network of more than 250 independent distributors.
The sales force is divided into five groups: vascular therapy products, medical
and surgical products, alternate site markets, Ludlow and Confab.

    Kendall Healthcare, which operates throughout the United States, is the
industry leader in gauze products with its Kerlix-Registered Trademark- and
Curity-Registered Trademark- brand dressings. Kendall Healthcare's other core
product category consists of its vascular therapy products, principally
anti-embolism stockings, marketed under the T.E.D.-Registered Trademark- brand
name, sequential pneumatic compression devices sold under the
SCD-Registered Trademark- brand name and a venous plexus foot pump. Kendall
Healthcare pioneered the pneumatic compression form of treatment and


continues to be the leading participant in the pneumatic compression and elastic
stocking segments of the vascular therapy market.

    Kendall Healthcare is also an industry leader in the adult incontinence
market serving the acute care, long-term care and retail markets. It offers a
complete line of disposable adult briefs, underpads, baby diapers and other
related products.

    Ludlow, which includes Graphic Controls, manufactures and sells a variety of
disposable medical products, specialized paper and film products. These include
medical electrodes and gels for monitoring and diagnostic tests and hydrogel
wound care products, which are used primarily in critical care, physical therapy
and rehabilitative departments in hospitals. Graphic Controls also sells
operating room kits, sharps containers and other operating room related
products.

    Tyco Healthcare International is responsible for the manufacturing,
marketing, distribution and export of the Tyco Healthcare Group products outside
of the United States. Tyco Healthcare International markets directly to
hospitals and medical professionals, as well as through independent
distributors. Its operations are organized primarily into three geographic
regions, Europe, Latin America and Asia-Pacific, although the mix of product
lines offered varies from country to country.

    On October 1, 1998, Tyco completed its acquisition of United States Surgical
Corporation. U.S. Surgical develops, manufactures and markets a line of surgical
wound closure products and other advanced surgical products to hospitals
throughout the world. Its products include surgical staplers, sutures,
disposable laparoscopic instrumentation and numerous other products in surgical
and medical specialties such as spine surgery, cardiovascular surgery, and
breastcare.

    ValleyLab, acquired by U.S. Surgical in 1998, is a leading manufacturer and
marketer of electrosurgical and ultrasonic surgical products used in open and
minimally invasive surgical procedures. Additional product lines relate to radio
frequency energy and vessel sealing technology.

    TYCO PLASTICS AND ADHESIVES

    Tyco Plastics and Adhesives consists of Armin Plastics, Carlisle Plastics,
A&E Products, Tyco Adhesives and Ludlow Coated Products.

    ARMIN PLASTICS

    Armin manufactures polyethylene film and packaging products in a wide range
of size, gauge, construction strength, stretch capacity, clarity and color.
Armin extrudes low density, high density and linear low density polyethylene
film from resin purchased in pellet form, incorporating such additives as
coloring, slip and anti-block chemicals. Armin's products include plastic
supermarket packaging, greenhouse sheeting, shipping covers and liners and a
variety of other packaging configurations for the aerospace, agricultural,
automotive, construction, cosmetics, electronics, food processing, healthcare,
pharmaceutical and shipping industries. Armin also manufactures a number of
other polyethylene products such as reusable plastic pallets, transformer pads
for electric utilities and a large variety of disposable gloves for the
cosmetic, medical, food handling and pharmaceutical industries. Armin generates
the majority of its sales through its own internal sales force and services more
than 6,000 customers in the United States.

    Armin competes with a wide range of manufacturers, including some vertically
integrated companies and companies that manufacture polyethylene resins for
their own use. Armin competes in many market segments by emphasizing product
innovation, specialization and customer service.


    CARLISLE PLASTICS

    Carlisle is a leading producer of industrial and consumer plastic products,
including trash bags, flexible packaging and sheeting. Carlisle supplies plastic
trash bags to mass merchants, grocery chains, and institutional customers
primarily in North America. Carlisle manufactures Ruffies-Registered Trademark-,
a national brand consumer trash bag, for mass merchants and other retail stores.
Carlisle also provides heavy duty trash can liners for institutional customers,
such as food service distributors, janitorial supply houses, restaurants, hotels
and hospitals.

    In the consumer trash bag market, Carlisle competes primarily with two
nationally advertised brands. Carlisle has historically concentrated on mass
merchants as the primary market for its branded Ruffies trash bags, while the
other major national brands are marketed primarily through food retailers.

    Film-Gard-Registered Trademark-, Carlisle's leading plastic sheeting
product, is sold to consumers and professional contractors through
do-it-yourself outlets, home improvement centers and hardware stores. A wide
range of Film-Gard products are sold for various uses, including painting,
renovation, construction, landscaping and agriculture.

    A&E PRODUCTS

    A&E Products sells molded plastic garment hangers to garment manufacturers,
national, regional and local retailers and mass merchants. Garment manufacturers
put their products on A&E Products hangers before shipping to retail outlets.
National retailers purchase customized hanger designs created and manufactured
by A&E Products. Regional and local retailers buy standard A&E Products hanger
lines for retail clothing displays, and A&E Products also supplies mass
merchants with consumer plastic hangers for sale to the general public.

    A&E Products operates in a competitive marketplace where success is
dependent upon price, service and quality.

    TYCO ADHESIVES

    The Tyco Adhesives division manufactures and markets specialty adhesive
products and tapes for industrial applications, including external corrosion
protection tape products for oil, gas and water pipelines. Other industrial
applications include tapes used in the automotive industry for wire harness
wraps, sealing and other purposes, in the aerospace industry, and in the
heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) industry. Tyco Adhesives also
produces duct, foil, strapping, packaging and electrical tapes and spray
adhesives for industrial and consumer markets worldwide and manufactures cloth
and medical tapes for Kendall Healthcare and others. Tyco Adhesives' Betham
division develops and markets pressure sensitive adhesives and coatings,
principally for the automotive, medical and specialty markets.

    Tyco Adhesives generally markets its pipeline products directly to its
customer base, working with local manufacturers' representatives, international
engineering and construction companies and the owners and operators of pipeline
transportation facilities. Tyco Adhesives sells its other industrial products
either directly to major end users or through diverse distribution channels,
depending upon the industry being supplied.

    LUDLOW COATED PRODUCTS

    Ludlow Coated Products produces protective packaging and other materials
made of coated or laminated combinations of paper, polyethylene and foil. Coated
packaging materials provide barriers against grease, oil, light, heat, moisture,
oxygen and other contaminants. The division produces structural coated and
laminated products such as plastic coated kraft, linerboard and bleached boards
for rigid urethane insulation panels, automotive components and wallboard
panels. Other product applications


include packaging for photographic film, frozen foods, health care products,
electrical and metallic components, agricultural chemicals, cement and specialty
resins.

    Ludlow markets its laminated and coated products through its own sales force
and through independent manufacturers' representatives. Ludlow competes with
many large manufacturers of laminated and coated products on the basis of price,
service, marketing coverage and custom application engineering. There are
various specialized competitors in different markets.

    ADT AUTOMOTIVE

    ADT Automotive operates a network of 28 large modern auction centers in the
United States, providing an organized wholesale marketplace for the sale and
purchase of used vehicles. A substantial majority of the vehicles sold at ADT
Automotive auctions are passenger cars and light trucks. Other vehicles sold
consist of heavy trucks and industrial vehicles. Sales of vehicles from specific
market sources are held on a regularly scheduled basis and additional
specialized sales are scheduled as necessary. ADT Automotive operates almost
exclusively in the wholesale marketplace and, in general, the public is not
permitted to attend its auctions. It acts solely as an agent in auction
transactions and does not purchase vehicles for its own account.

    The principal sources of vehicles for sale at auction are consignments by
new and used vehicle dealers, vehicle manufacturers, corporate owners of
vehicles such as fleet operators, rental companies, leasing companies, banks and
other financial institutions, manufacturers' credit subsidiaries and government
agencies. The vehicles consigned by dealers consist of vehicles of all types and
ages and include vehicles that have been traded in against new car sales.
Vehicles consigned by corporate and financial owners include both repossessed
and off-lease vehicles and, as a result, are normally in the range of one to
four years old. The principal purchasers of vehicles at auction are new and used
vehicle dealers and distributors.

    In addition to the auction process, ADT Automotive provides a comprehensive
range of vehicle redistribution services, including transportation,
reconditioning, title transfer assistance, vehicle repossession and fleet
management services. Vehicle reconditioning is carried out on-site and
principally consists of appearance reconditioning and paint and body work to
bring vehicles up to retail ready condition. More extensive body work services
including body panel painting and repair of minor collision damage are also
carried out. Reconditioning services are also provided for vehicles other than
those going through the auction process, principally for fleet owners and
insurance companies.

    ADT Automotive competes with two other significant auction chains and a
large number of independently owned local auctions, which are members of the
National Auto Auction Association. Competition is based primarily on price in
relation to the quality and range of services offered to sellers and buyers of
vehicles and ease of accessibility of auction locations.

III. FIRE AND SECURITY SERVICES

    The Company, through its subsidiaries, is the largest company in the world
for the following:

    - design, installation and servicing of a broad line of fire detection,
      prevention and suppression systems;

    - providing electronic security installation and monitoring services; and

    - manufacture and servicing of fire extinguishers and related products.


    FIRE PROTECTION CONTRACTING AND SERVICES

    Operating under several trade names including Grinnell, Wormald, Mather &
Platt, Total Walther, O'Donnell Griffin and Tyco, the Company designs,
fabricates, installs and services automatic fire sprinkler systems, fire alarm
and detection systems, and special hazard suppression systems in buildings and
other installations.

    The Company's fire protection contracting and service business in North
America operates through a network of offices in the United States, Canada,
Mexico, Central America and Puerto Rico. The Company also operates worldwide
through a network of offices in the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Saudi
Arabia, United Arab Emirates, Australia, New Zealand, Asia and South America.

    The Company installs fire protection systems in both new and existing
structures. Typically, the contracting businesses bid on contracts for fire
protection installation which are let by owners, architects, construction
engineers and mechanical or general contractors. In recent years, the business
of retrofitting existing buildings has grown as a result of legislation
mandating the installation of fire protection systems and also as a result of
lower insurance premiums available to structures with automatic sprinkler
systems. The Company continues to focus on system maintenance and inspection,
which has become a more significant part of the business.

    The majority of the fire suppression systems installed by the Company are
water-based. However, the Company is also the world's leading provider of custom
designed special hazard fire protection systems which incorporate various
specialized non-water agents such as foams, dry chemicals and gases. Systems
using agents other than water are especially suited to fire protection in
certain manufacturing, power generation, petrochemical, offshore oil
exploration, transportation, telecommunications, mining and marine applications.
The Company holds exclusive manufacturing and distribution rights in several
regions of the world for INERGEN-Registered Trademark- fire suppression
products. INERGEN is an alternative to the ozone depleting agent known as halon
and consists of a mixture of three inert gases designed to effectively
extinguish fires without polluting the environment, damaging costly equipment or
harming people.

    In Australia, New Zealand and Asia, the Company also engages in the
installation of electrical wire and related electrical equipment in new and
existing structures and provides specialized electrical contracting services,
including applications for railroad and bridge construction, primarily through
its O'Donnell Griffin division.

    Substantially all of the mechanical components (and, in North America, a
high proportion of the pipe) used in the fire protection systems installed by
the Company are manufactured by the Company. The Company also has fabrication
plants worldwide that cut, thread and weld pipe, which is then shipped with
other prefabricated components to job sites for installation. The Company has
developed its own computer-aided-design technology that reduces the time
required to design systems for specific applications and coordinates the
fabrication and delivery of system components.

    The Company's fire protection contracting business employs both non-union
and union employees in North America, Europe and Asia-Pacific. Many of the union
employees are employed on an hourly basis for particular jobs. In North America,
the largest number of union employees is represented by a number of local unions
affiliated with the United Association of Plumbers and Pipefitters ("UA"). In
April 1994, following lengthy negotiations, contracts between the Company's
Grinnell Corporation ("Grinnell") subsidiary and a number of locals of the UA
were not renewed. Employees in those locations, representing 64 percent of those
employees represented by the UA unions, went on strike. Grinnell has continued
to operate with former union members who have crossed over and with replacement
workers. The labor action has not had, and is not expected to have, any material
adverse effect on the Company's business or results of operations.

    Generally, competition in the fire protection business varies by geographic
location. In North America, the Company competes with hundreds of smaller
contractors on a regional or local basis for the


installation of fire suppression and fire alarm and detection systems. Many of
the regional and local competitors employ non-union labor. In Europe, the
Company competes with many regional or local contractors on a country by country
basis. In Australia, New Zealand and Asia, the Company competes with a few large
fire protection contractors as well as with many smaller regional or local
companies. The Company competes for fire protection contracts primarily on the
basis of price, service and quality.

    ELECTRONIC SECURITY SERVICES

    The Company provides electronic security services principally under the ADT
trade name and also under other trade names including Alarmguard, Thorn
Security, Holmes Protection, CIPE, Zettler, Sonitrol, and Armourguard. Services
are provided in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Spain, France,
Belgium, Greece, South Korea, The Netherlands, Germany, The Republic of Ireland,
Singapore, Hong Kong, New Zealand and Australia.

    Electronically monitored security systems involve the installation and use
on a customer's premises of devices designed to detect or react to various
occurrences or conditions, such as intrusion, movement, fire, smoke, flooding,
environmental conditions (including temperature or humidity variations),
industrial operations (such as water, gas or steam pressure and process flow
controls) or other hazards. These detection devices are connected to a
microprocessor-based control panel which communicates through telephone lines to
a monitoring center, often located at remote distances from the customer's
premises, where alarm and supervisory signals are received and recorded. In most
systems, control panels can identify the nature of the alarm and the areas
within a building where the sensor was activated. Depending upon the type of
service for which the subscriber has contracted, monitoring center personnel
respond to alarms by relaying appropriate information to the local fire or
police departments, notifying the customer or taking other appropriate action,
such as dispatching employees to the customer's premises. In some instances, the
customer may monitor the system at its own premises or the system may be
connected to local fire or police departments.

    The Company provides electronic security services to both commercial and
residential customers. Commercial customers include financial institutions,
industrial and commercial businesses, facilities of federal, state and local
government departments, defense installations, and health care and educational
facilities. Residential electronic security services are provided primarily in
North America. Customers are often prompted to purchase security systems by
their insurance carriers, which may offer lower insurance premium rates if a
security system is installed or require that a system be installed as a
condition to coverage.

    The Company's electronic security systems and products are tailored to
customers' specific needs and include electronic monitoring services that
provide intrusion and fire detection, as well as card or keypad activated access
control systems and closed circuit television systems. Systems may be monitored
by the customer at its premises or connected to one of the Company's monitoring
centers. In either case, the Company usually provides support and maintenance
through service contracts. It has been the Company's experience that commercial
and residential contracts are generally renewed after their initial terms.
Contract discontinuances occur principally as a result of customer relocation or
closure. Systems installed at commercial customers' premises may be owned by the
Company or by the customer. The Company usually retains ownership of standard
residential systems, but more sophisticated residential systems are usually
purchased by the customer.

    The Company markets its electronic security services to commercial and
residential customers through a direct sales force and an authorized dealer
network. Commercial customers which have multiple locations in North America are
serviced by a separate national accounts sales force. The Company also utilizes
advertising, telemarketing and direct mail to market its services.

    The electronic security services business in North America is highly
competitive, with a number of major firms and approximately 12,000 smaller
regional and local companies. The Company also competes


with several national companies and several thousand regional and local
companies in the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Asia, New Zealand and
Australia. Competition is based primarily on price in relation to quality of
service. The Company believes that the quality of its electronic security
services is higher than that of many of its competitors and, therefore, the
Company's prices may be higher than those charged by its competitors.

    MANUFACTURING

    The Company's Ansul subsidiary manufactures and sells various lines of dry
chemical, liquid and gaseous portable fire extinguishers and related agents for
industrial, government, commercial and consumer applications. Ansul also
manufactures and sells special hazard fire suppression systems designed for use
in restaurants, marine applications, mining applications, the petrochemical
industry, confined industrial spaces and commercial spaces housing electronic
and other delicate equipment. Ansul also manufactures spill control products
designed to absorb, neutralize and solidify spills of various hazardous
materials.

    The Company's Fire and Security Services segment manufactures certain alarm,
detection and activation devices and central monitoring station equipment which
is both installed by the Company's own units and sold to other installers of
alarm and detection devices. Otherwise, the Company does not manufacture the
electronic security system components which it installs, although it does
provide its own specifications to manufacturers for certain security system
components and undertakes some final assembly work in respect of more
sophisticated systems. These products are manufactured primarily outside of the
United States.

IV. FLOW CONTROL PRODUCTS

    The Company, through its subsidiaries, manufactures and distributes flow
control products in North America, Latin America, Continental Europe, the United
Kingdom, and the Asia-Pacific region. Flow control products and services
include:

    - pipe, fittings, valves, valve actuators, couplings and related products
      which are used to transport, control and measure the flow of liquids and
      gases;

    - fire sprinkler devices, specialty valves, plastic pipe and fittings used
      in commercial, residential and industrial fire protection systems; and

    - a broad range of environmental, consulting and engineering services.

    During August 1999, the Company completed the sale of certain Flow Control
businesses, including The Mueller Company, a manufacturer of valves, fire
hydrants and related products, and portions of Grinnell Supply Sales &
Manufacturing, a manufacturer and distributor of commodity pipe fittings and
related products. The reason for the sale of these businesses was due to high
cyclicality and increased competition related to their products.

MANUFACTURING

    VALVES AND RELATED PRODUCTS

    Tyco Flow Control manufactures a wide variety of standard and highly
specialized valves and valve products on a worldwide basis. The group
manufactures butterfly, ball, gate, globe, check, safety relief, knife gate,
instrumentation, sanitary and other types of valves in a variety of
configurations, body types, materials, pressure ratings and sizes. It also
manufactures related equipment, such as valve actuators, gauges, heat tracing
and leak detection systems, vapor control products and other related products,
and provides repair and inspection services. These products are manufactured in
the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Australia, Germany, Italy, The
Netherlands, Spain, New Zealand, Belgium, Brazil, Mexico, Switzerland, South
Korea, Argentina, China, Japan, Canada and India. The group's valves and


related products are used primarily in plumbing, HVAC systems, power generation,
food and beverage, water distribution, wastewater, chemical, petrochemical, oil
and gas, pulp and paper, commercial irrigation, mining, industrial process and
other applications. These products are sold under several trade names, including
Keystone, Anderson Greenwood, Biffi, Century Valve, Crosby, Gimpel, Hancock,
Dewrance, Yarway, Valvtron, Bayard, Edward Barber, Belgicast, Charles Winn,
Chemat, Descote, Fasani, Flo-Check, Intervalve, Hindle Cockburns, Hovap, Klein,
Neotecha, Raimondi, Sapag, Sempell, Vanessa, Valvtec, Martins, Promet, Richards,
Morin Actuators, Technaflow, Clarkson, Belucci, Intecva, Combined Instruments,
Iprosa, Whessoe Varec, Chemelex and others.

    FIRE PROTECTION PRODUCTS

    The Flow Control group manufactures, sells and distributes a wide variety of
products utilized by fire protection contractors and fabricators of fire
protection systems. These products include a complete line of fire sprinkler
devices, valves, plastic pipe and pipe fittings and ductile iron pipe couplings
which are also sold to third parties as well as to the Company's fire protection
contracting businesses on an arms-length basis. Products are manufactured in the
United States, the United Kingdom, Germany and China. During 1999, the Company
acquired Central Sprinkler Corporation which was integrated into the Flow
Control group. In addition to the Central trade name, products are also sold
under the Grinnell, GEM Sprinkler, Star Sprinkler, Wormald and other trade
names.

    STEEL TUBING AND OTHER PRODUCTS

    Allied Tube & Conduit ("Allied") is the leading North American manufacturer
of steel tubular products. Allied manufactures a full line of steel pipe for the
fire protection and construction industries and for commercial, residential and
institutional markets. Its Mechanical Tube Division offers steel tubing in a
wide assortment of shapes and sizes for a variety of industrial and commercial
applications. Allied's Fence Division is a leader in the manufacture of products
for the residential, industrial and commercial fence market. The Electrical
Division is a leading manufacturer of steel electrical conduit and related
products. Allied also manufactures metal framing systems, steel sign post
products, electrical cable tray and cable ladder and related products used in
the construction, industrial and original equipment markets which are sold under
the Powerstrut, Unistrut and T.J. Cope trade names. Allied's products are
manufactured in the United States and in Canada.

    On November 22, 1999, the Company acquired AFC Cable Systems, Inc. ("AFC").
AFC is a manufacturer of pre-wired armored cable, flexible electric conduit and
other related products. AFC will be integrated into Allied within the Flow
Control group.

    The Flow Control group also manufactures welded and drawn steel tube
products at several locations in the United Kingdom under the trade names of
Monmore Tubes, Newman Tipper Tubes, Senior Precision Tube and others. Specialty
steel strip products are manufactured under the trade names of JB&S Lees, Firth
Cleveland Steel Strip and Ductile Stourbridge. Metal framing systems and
specialty fasteners are manufactured under the Lindapter trade name and metal
framing and support systems, cable ladder and safety systems under the Unistrut
trade name.

    In the Asia-Pacific region, metal framing and support systems are
manufactured under the Unistrut, A.C.S. and other trade names. Ductile iron pipe
and steel pipe, steel fittings, valves and related products, primarily for the
water industry, are manufactured at several locations in Australia.

SALES AND DISTRIBUTION

    Valves and related products are sold in some locations directly by an
internal sales force and in other geographical areas by a network of independent
distributors and manufacturer's representatives. The valve industry is
fragmented and the Company competes against a number of international, national,
local and


specialized manufacturers on the basis of price, delivery, breadth of product
line and specialized product capability.

    Flow Control's fire protection products are sold by independent distributors
and, in some cases, directly by the Company to fire protection contractors and
fabricators of fire protection systems. In the United States, Central maintains
a network of distribution facilities which stock and sell a full line of fire
protection products directly to contractors and installers. GEM Sprinkler and
Star Sprinkler sell fire protection products for sale through a network of
independent distributors. In Canada, Central America, South America and the
Asia-Pacific region, fire protection products are sold through independent
distribution and directly to fire protection contractors. In Europe and the
Middle East, Flow Control operates a number of company owned distribution
facilities which stock and sell a full line of fire protection, mechanical and
other flow control products. Competition for fire protection products is based
on price, delivery and breadth of product line.

    Allied competes for the sale of steel pipe with other United States and
non-United States producers. The group's pipe and tube products manufactured in
the United Kingdom and Australia compete primarily with other local and national
manufacturers in those countries. Competition is based on price, service and
breadth of product line. Competition for fence products is principally from
national and regional United States producers and to a lesser extent from
non-United States companies on the basis of price, service and distribution.
Allied competes with many small regional manufacturers for the sale of
specialized industrial tubing on the basis of price and breadth of product line.
The group's electrical conduit and other electrical products are sold to
independent distributors on the basis of price and service.

ENVIRONMENTAL, CONSULTING AND ENGINEERING SERVICES

    Through its Earth Technology Corporation ("Earth Tech") subsidiary, the Flow
Control Products segment provides a broad range of environmental, consulting and
engineering services. Earth Tech's principal services consist of full-spectrum
water, wastewater, environmental and hazardous waste management services. These
services include infrastructure design and construction services for
institutional, civic, commercial and industrial clients; design, construction
management and operating services for water and wastewater treatment facilities
for municipal and industrial clients; and transportation engineering and
consulting.

    In 1998, Tyco acquired Rust Environmental and Infrastructure, Inc. ("Rust
Environmental"). The operations of Rust Environmental and Earth Tech were
combined and these businesses now operate through a network of local offices
located principally throughout North America. Earth Tech competes with a number
of international, national, regional and local companies on the basis of price
and the breadth and quality of services.

    During Fiscal 1999, the Company acquired Babcock Water Engineering Ltd. in
the United Kingdom, Multiservice Engenharia, Ltda. in Brazil and P&R Holdings in
Canada. These businesses are also engaged in environmental, water supply,
wastewater, infrastructure and transportation engineering and consulting
services and have been integrated into Earth Tech to form a worldwide service
network.

BACKLOG

    At September 30, 1999, the Company had a backlog of unfilled orders of
approximately $7,581.1 million, compared to a backlog of approximately
$5,118.2 million as of September 30, 1998. The Company expects that
approximately 79 percent of its backlog at September 30, 1999 will be filled
during the year ending September 30, 2000.


    Backlog by industry segment is as follows (in millions):



    Backlog increased in each of the Company's business segments. Within the
Telecommunications and Electronics segment, backlog increased principally due to
contracts awarded to TSSL due to continually increasing demands for undersea
fiber optic cable capacity. Within the Flow Control Products segment, backlog
increased principally due to an increase in backlog at Earth Tech related to its
water and wastewater facilities contracts. Within the Fire and Security Services
segment, backlog increased principally due to an increase in backlog at the
Company's worldwide security and European fire protection businesses. Within the
Healthcare and Specialty Products segment, the increase resulted principally
from an increase in demand for the products sold by Tyco Plastics and Adhesives.

PROPERTIES

    The Company's operations are conducted in facilities throughout the world
aggregating some 59.1 million square feet of floor space, of which approximately
34.4 million square feet are owned and approximately 24.7 million square feet
are leased. These facilities house manufacturing and warehousing operations as
well as sales, engineering and administrative offices.

    The Telecommunications and Electronics segment has manufacturing facilities
in North America, Central and South America, the United Kingdom, Ireland,
Belgium, Germany, China, Japan, Singapore, Italy and France. The group occupies
some 21.9 million square feet, of which 14.3 million square feet are owned and
7.6 million square feet are leased.

    The Healthcare and Specialty Products segment has manufacturing facilities
in North America, South America, the United Kingdom, Germany, Ireland, France,
Spain, China, Thailand, Japan and Malaysia. There are 28 vehicle auction
facilities located in the United States. The group occupies some 19.7 million
square feet, of which 11.8 million square feet are owned and 7.9 million square
feet are leased.

    The Flow Control Products segment has manufacturing facilities in North
America, the United Kingdom, France, Australia, Germany, Italy, The Netherlands,
Spain, New Zealand, Brazil, Mexico, Switzerland, South Korea, Argentina, China,
Japan, India, Malaysia, and Scotland. The group stocks and sells products
through warehouse and distribution centers in the United States, The
Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Spain, Italy, Scandinavia,
Australia, New Zealand, Singapore and the Middle East. The group occupies some
8.9 million square feet, of which 5.7 million square feet are owned and
3.2 million square feet are leased.

    Within the Fire and Security Services segment, the fire protection
contracting and service business operates through a network of offices located
in North America, Central America, South America, the United Kingdom, The
Republic of Ireland, France, Spain, Belgium, The Netherlands, Germany, Italy,
Austria, Hungary, Switzerland, Denmark, Norway, Sweden, United Arab Emirates,
Saudi Arabia, Australia, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand,
Vietnam and Indonesia. Fire protection components are manufactured at locations
in North America, the United Kingdom, Germany, Australia, New Zealand and South
Korea. The electronic security services business operates through a network of
monitoring centers and sales and service offices and other properties in the
United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Spain, France, Belgium, Greece, The
Netherlands and The Republic of Ireland. The


environmental services business operates through a network of offices throughout
North America. The segment occupies some 8.6 million square feet, of which
2.6 million square feet are owned and 6.0 million square feet are leased.

    In the opinion of management, the Company's properties and equipment
generally are in good operating condition and are adequate for its present
needs. The Company does not anticipate difficulty in renewing existing leases as
they expire or in finding alternative facilities. See Note 17 to Consolidated
Financial Statements for a description of the Company's rental obligations.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

    The amounts expended for Company-sponsored research and development during
Fiscal 1999, Fiscal 1998, and Fiscal 1997 were $450.5 million, $511.4 million
and $326.0 million, respectively. Customer-funded research and development
expenditures were $4.6 million, $6.8 million and $1.9 million, respectively.

    Approximately 5,600 full-time scientists, engineers and other technical
personnel are engaged in product research and development activities.

    Research activity at TSSL involves the continuing design and development of
processes for the next generation of undersea fiber optic cable, while Allied
and the printed circuit companies are principally involved with process
development. Activity at Tyco Electronics focuses on new product development and
a continual expansion of technical capabilities. Tyco Healthcare focuses on
acquiring rights to new products and technologies to complement existing product
lines and applying expertise to refine and successfully commercialize such
products and technologies. Research activity in the Fire and Security Services
and Flow Control Products segments is related to improvements in hydraulic
design which controls the motion of fluids, resulting in new sprinkler devices
and flow control products. Research and development activity at the specialty
packaging companies involves new product applications.

RAW MATERIALS

    The Company is one of the largest buyers of steel and plastic resin in the
United States. Other principal materials include copper, brass, plastic,
polyethylene resin and film, polypropylene, electronic components, chemicals and
additives, thin and flexible copper clad materials, paper, ink, foil, adhesives,
cloth, wax, pulp and cotton. Certain of the materials used in the Fire and
Security Services segment and the Flow Control Products segment, principally
certain valves and fittings and security systems, are purchased for installation
in fire protection systems or for distribution. Materials are purchased both in
and outside of the United States from a large number of independent sources.
There have been no shortages in materials which have had a material adverse
effect on the Company's businesses.

PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS

    The Company owns a number of patents which principally relate to electrical
and electronic products, healthcare and specialty products, fire protection
devices, electronic security systems, flow control products, pipe and tubing
manufacture, and cable manufacture. The Company also owns a number of trademarks
and is a licensee under a number of patents. Although these have been of value
and are expected to continue to be of value in the future, in the opinion of
management, the loss of any single patent or group of patents would not
materially affect the conduct of the business in any of the Company's segments.
The patents and licenses have remaining lives of from one to twenty years.
Kendall sells certain products under trade names owned by its suppliers and
packages certain products under customer trademarks and labels.


EMPLOYEES

    The Company employed approximately 182,000 persons at September 30, 1999, of
which approximately 93,000 are employed in the U.S. and 89,000 outside the
United States. The Company has collective bargaining agreements with labor
unions covering approximately 29,800 employees at certain of its North American,
European and Asia-Pacific businesses. While the Company believes that its
relations with the labor unions and with its employees are generally
satisfactory, a number of local unions affiliated with the United Association of
Plumbers and Pipefitters, representing 64 percent of Grinnell Fire Protection's
North American union employees at the time of their strike in 1994, continue to
be on strike. The action is still pending. See discussion under "Fire and
Security Services" above.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

    The Company makes a substantial effort to operate its facilities in
compliance with laws relating to the protection of the environment. Compliance
has not had and is not expected to have a material adverse effect upon the
capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position of the Company.

    The Company believes that, consistent with applicable laws and regulations,
it exercises due care and takes appropriate precautions in the management of
wastes. The Company has received notification from the United States
Environmental Protection Agency, and from certain state environmental agencies,
that conditions at a number of sites where hazardous wastes were disposed of by
the Company and other persons require cleanup and other possible remedial
action.

    The Company also has a number of projects underway at several of its
manufacturing facilities in order to comply with environmental laws. In
addition, the Company remains responsible for certain environmental issues at
manufacturing locations sold by the Company. These projects relate to a variety
of activities, including solvent and metal contamination clean up and oil spill
equipment upgrades and replacement. These projects, some of which are voluntary
and some of which are required under applicable law, involve both remediation
expenses and capital improvements.

    The ultimate cost of site cleanup is difficult to predict given the
uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation
of applicable laws and regulations and alternative cleanup methods. Based upon
the Company's experience with the foregoing environmental matters, the Company
has concluded that there is at least a reasonable possibility that remedial
costs will be incurred with respect to these issues in an aggregate amount in
the range of $35.6 million to $124.8 million. As of September 30, 1999, the
Company has concluded that the most probable amount which will be incurred
within this range is $53.7 million, $29.4 million of such amount is included in
accrued expenses and other current liabilities and $24.3 million is included in
other long-term liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Based upon
information available to the Company, at those sites where there has been an
allocation of the liability for cleanup costs among a number of parties,
including the Company, and such liability could be joint and several, management
believes it is probable that other responsible parties will fully pay the cost
allocated to them, except with respect to one site for which the Company has
assumed that one of the identified responsible parties will be unable to pay the
cost apportioned to it and that such party's cost will be reapportioned among
the remaining responsible parties. In view of the Company's financial position
and reserves for environmental matters of $53.7 million, the Company has
concluded that its payment of such estimated amounts will not have a material
adverse effect on its consolidated financial position, results of operations or
liquidity.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

    See Item 1. "Business--Properties" for information relating to the Company's
owned and leased property.


ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

    For information regarding wire reports of purported stockholder class
actions seeking damages against the Company and certain of its officers, see
Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 10, 1999.

    See the discussions under Item 1. "Business--Environmental Matters".

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

    Not applicable.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    In July 1997, a wholly-owned subsidiary of what was formerly called ADT
Limited ("ADT") merged with Tyco International Ltd. ("Former Tyco"). Upon
consummation of the merger, ADT (the continuing public company) changed its name
to Tyco International Ltd. Former Tyco became a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
Company and changed its name to Tyco International (US) Inc. ("Tyco US").

    The executive officers of the Company and executive officers of certain
subsidiaries are as follows:

    L. Dennis Kozlowski, age 53, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief
Executive Officer since July 1997. Chairman of the Board of Former Tyco from
January 1993 to July 1997; Chief Executive Officer of Former Tyco since
July 1992, President of Former Tyco since 1989; associated with Former Tyco
since 1975.

    Mark A. Belnick, age 53, Executive Vice President and Chief Corporate
Counsel since September 1998. Prior to joining Tyco, Mr. Belnick was a Senior
Partner at the international law firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton &
Garrison since 1987.

    Jerry R. Boggess, age 55, President of Tyco Fire and Security Services since
August 1993. Vice President of Former Tyco since February 1996; associated with
Former Tyco since 1968.

    Neil R. Garvey, age 44, President of Tyco Submarine Systems Ltd. since
July 1997. President of Simplex Technologies from July 1995 to June 1997; Vice
President of Sales and Marketing of Simplex Technologies from June 1992 to
July 1995; associated with Former Tyco since 1979.

    Juergen W. Gromer, age 54, President of Tyco Electronics since April 1999;
Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Service of AMP from 1998 to
April 1999; President, Global Automotive Division, and Corporate Vice President
of AMP from 1997 to 1998; Vice President and General Manager of various
divisions of AMP from 1990 to 1997.

    Robert P. Mead, age 48, President of the Flow Control Products segment since
May 1993. Vice President of Former Tyco since August 1993; associated with
Former Tyco since 1973.

    Richard J. Meelia, age 50, President of Tyco Healthcare Group since 1995;
Group President of Kendall Healthcare Products Company from January 1991 to
1995.

    Mark H. Swartz, age 39, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
since July 1997. Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Former Tyco since
February 1995; Director of Mergers and Acquisitions of Former Tyco from 1993 to
1995; associated with Former Tyco since 1991.

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON SHARES AND RELATED SECURITY HOLDER
  MATTERS

    The number of registered holders of the Company's common shares at
November 8, 1999 was 32,947.

    Tyco common shares are listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange
("NYSE"), the London Stock Exchange and the Bermuda Stock Exchange. The
following table sets forth the high and low sales


prices per share of Tyco common shares as reported in the NYSE Composite
Transaction Tape and the dividends paid on Tyco common shares, for the quarterly
periods presented below. The price and dividends for Tyco common shares have
been restated to reflect two-for-one stock splits distributed on October 22,
1997 and October 21, 1999, both of which were effected in the form of a stock
dividend.



- ------------------------

(1) Prior to their mergers with Tyco, USSC paid quarterly dividends of $0.04 per
    share in Fiscal 1998 and AMP paid dividends of $0.27 per share in the first
    two quarters of Fiscal 1999, $0.26 per share in the first quarter of Fiscal
    1998 and $0.27 per share in the last three quarters of Fiscal 1998. The
    payment of dividends by Tyco in the future will depend on business
    conditions, Tyco's financial condition and earnings and other factors.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

    The following table sets forth selected consolidated financial information
of the Company for the fiscal years ended September 30, 1999 and 1998, the
nine-month fiscal period ended September 30, 1997 and the two years in the
period ended December 31, 1996. This selected financial information should be
read in conjunction with the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements and
related notes. The selected financial data reflect the combined results of
operations and financial position of Tyco, Former Tyco, Keystone, Inbrand (from
January 1, 1997), USSC and AMP restated for all periods presented pursuant to
the pooling of interests method of accounting. The selected financial data prior
to January 1, 1997 do not reflect the results of operations and financial
position of Inbrand, which was acquired in 1997


and accounted for under the pooling of interests method of accounting, due to
immateriality. See Notes 1 and 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.



- ------------------------

(1) Operating income in the fiscal year ended September 30, 1999 includes
    charges of $1,261.7 million for merger, restructuring and other
    non-recurring charges, of which $78.9 million is included in cost of sales,
    and charges of $335.0 million for the impairment of long-lived assets
    related to the mergers with USSC and AMP and AMP's profit improvement plan.
    See Notes 12 and 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

(2) Operating income in the fiscal year ended September 30, 1998 includes
    charges of $80.5 million primarily related to costs to exit certain
    businesses in USSC's operations and restructuring charges of $12.0 million
    related to the operations of USSC. In addition, AMP recorded restructuring
    charges of $185.8 million in connection with its profit improvement plan and
    a credit of $21.4 million to restructuring charges representing a revision
    of estimates related to its 1996 restructuring activities. See Note 16 to
    the Consolidated Financial Statements.

(3) In September 1997, the Company changed its fiscal year end from December 31
    to September 30. Accordingly, the nine-month transition period ended
    September 30, 1997 is presented.

(4) Operating income in the nine months ended September 30, 1997 includes
    charges related to merger, restructuring and other non-recurring costs of
    $917.8 million and impairment of long-lived assets of $148.4 million
    primarily related to the mergers and integration of ADT, Former Tyco,
    Keystone, and Inbrand, and charges of $24.3 million for litigation and other
    related costs and $5.8 million for restructuring charges in USSC's
    operations. See Notes 12 and 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
    The results for the nine months ended September 30, 1997 also include a
    charge of $361.0 million for the write-off of purchased in-process research
    and development related to the acquisition of the submarine systems business
    of AT&T Corp.

(5) Prior to their respective mergers, ADT, Keystone, USSC and AMP had December
    31 fiscal year ends and Former Tyco had a June 30 fiscal year end. The
    selected consolidated financial data have been combined using a December 31
    fiscal year end for ADT, Keystone, Former Tyco, USSC and AMP for the year
    ended December 31, 1996. For 1995, the results of operations and financial
    position reflect the combination of ADT, Keystone, USSC and AMP with a
    December 31 fiscal year end and Former Tyco with a June 30 fiscal year end.
    Net sales and net income for Former Tyco for the period July 1,


    1995 through December 31, 1995, which results are not included in the
    historical combined results, were $2,460.1 million and $136.4 million,
    respectively.

(6) Operating income in 1996 includes non-recurring charges of $744.7 million
    related to the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
    121 "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of,"
    $237.3 million related principally to the restructuring of ADT's electronic
    security services business in the United States and United Kingdom,
    $98.0 million to exit various product lines and manufacturing operations
    associated with AMP's operations and $8.8 million of fees and expenses
    related to ADT's acquisition of Automated Security (Holdings) plc, a United
    Kingdom company.

(7) Operating income in 1995 includes a loss of $65.8 million on the disposal of
    the European auto auction business and a gain of $31.4 million from the
    disposal of the European electronic article surveillance business. Operating
    income also includes non-recurring charges of $97.1 million for
    restructuring charges at ADT and Keystone, and for the fees and expenses
    related to the 1994 merger of Kendall International, Inc. and Former Tyco,
    as well as a charge of $8.2 million relating to the divestiture of certain
    assets by Keystone.

(8) Per share amounts have been retroactively restated to give effect to the
    mergers with Former Tyco, Keystone, Inbrand, USSC and AMP; a 0.48133 reverse
    stock split (1.92532 after giving effect to the subsequent stock splits)
    effected on July 2, 1997; and two-for-one stock splits distributed on
    October 22, 1997 and October 21, 1999, both of which were effected in the
    form of a stock dividend.

(9) Tyco has paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.0125 per common share since
    July 2, 1997, the date of the Former Tyco/ADT merger. Prior to the merger
    with ADT, Former Tyco had paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.0125 per
    share of common stock since January 1992. ADT had not paid any dividends on
    its common shares since 1992. USSC paid quarterly dividends of $0.04 per
    share in the year ended September 30, 1998 and the nine months ended
    September 30, 1997 and aggregate dividends of $0.08 per share in 1996 and
    1995. AMP paid dividends of $0.27 per share in the first two quarters of the
    year ended September 30, 1999, $0.26 per share in the first quarter and
    $0.27 per share in the last three quarters of the year ended September 30,
    1998, $0.26 per share in each of the three quarters of the nine months ended
    September 30, 1997, aggregate dividends of $1.00 per share in 1996 and $0.92
    per share in 1995. The payment of dividends by Tyco in the future will
    depend on business conditions, Tyco's financial condition and earnings and
    other factors.

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
  OF OPERATIONS

    See Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations which appears on pages 78 to 93 of this Form 10-K.

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

    See Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations which appears on pages 78 to 93 of this Form 10-K.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

    The following consolidated financial statements and schedule are filed as
part of this Annual Report:

    Financial Statements:

        Reports of Independent Accountants

        Consolidated Balance Sheets--September 30, 1999 and September 30, 1998


       Consolidated Statements of Operations for the fiscal years ended
       September 30, 1999 and 1998 and the nine-month fiscal period ended
       September 30, 1997

       Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the fiscal years
       ended September 30, 1999 and 1998 and the nine-month fiscal period ended
       September 30, 1997

       Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the fiscal years ended
       September 30, 1999 and 1998 and the nine-month fiscal period ended
       September 30, 1997

        Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

    Financial Statement Schedule:

        Schedule II--Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

    All other financial statements and schedules have been omitted since the
information required to be submitted has been included in the consolidated
financial statements and related notes or because they are either not applicable
or not required under the rules of Regulation S-X.

    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for Summarized Quarterly
Financial Data (unaudited).

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
  FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

    None.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    Information concerning the Directors of the Registrant is hereby
incorporated by reference to the Registrant's definitive proxy statement which
will be filed with the Commission within 120 days after the close of the fiscal
year.

ITEM 11.  MANAGEMENT REMUNERATION

    Information concerning management remuneration is hereby incorporated by
reference to the Registrant's definitive proxy statement which will be filed
with the Commission within 120 days after the close of the fiscal year.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

    Information concerning security ownership of certain beneficial owners and
management is hereby incorporated by reference to the Registrant's definitive
proxy statement which will be filed with the Commission within 120 days after
the close of the fiscal year.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

    Information concerning certain relationships and related transactions is
hereby incorporated by reference to the Registrant's definitive proxy statement
which will be filed with the Commission within 120 days after the close of the
fiscal year.


                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

    (a) (1) and (2) Financial Statements and Schedules--see Item 8.

    (b) Exhibits















- ------------------------

*   Management contract or compensatory plan.

 (1) Incorporated by reference to an Exhibit to the Registrant's Annual Report
     on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992.

 (2) Incorporated by reference to an Exhibit to the Registrant's Quarterly
     Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1993.

 (3) Incorporated by reference to an Exhibit to the Registrant's Quarterly
     Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1995.

 (4) Incorporated by reference to an Exhibit to the Former Tyco's Current Report
     dated March 17, 1997 on Form 8-K filed March 25, 1997.

 (5) Incorporated by reference to an Exhibit to the Registrant's Form 8-A dated
     November 12, 1996.

 (6) Incorporated by reference to an Exhibit to the Registrant's Current Report
     dated July 2, 1997 on Form 8-K filed July 10, 1997.

 (7) Incorporated by reference to an Exhibit to the Registrant's Quarterly
     Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1997.

 (8) Incorporated by reference to an Exhibit to the Registrant's Quarterly
     Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 1997.

 (9) Incorporated by reference to an Exhibit to the Registrant's Current Report
     dated February 27, 1998 on Form 8-K filed March 11, 1998.

(10) Incorporated by reference to an Exhibit to the Registrant's Current Report
     dated May 25, 1998 on Form 8-K filed June 24, 1998.

(11) Incorporated by reference to an Exhibit to the Registrant's Registration
     Statement on Form S-3 filed April 23, 1998 and Current Report dated
     September 10, 1999 on Form 8-K filed September 14, 1999.

(12) Incorporated by reference to an Exhibit to the Registrant's and TIG's
     Co-Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Nos. 333-50855 and
     333-50855-01) filed June 9, 1998.

(13) Incorporated by reference to an Exhibit to the Registrant's and TIG's
     Co-Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed January 29, 1999.

(14) Incorporated by reference to an Exhibit to the Registrant's Quarterly
     Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 1998.

(15) Incorporated by reference to an Exhibit to the Registrant's Registration
     Statement on Form S-3 filed on March 2, 1999.


    (c) Reports on Form 8-K.

    Current Report on Form 8-K filed on July 21, 1999 containing the press
release of Tyco dated July 20, 1999 announcing third quarter earnings, the sale
of certain of its Flow Control Products businesses and a two-for-one stock
split.

    Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 27, 1999 containing press
releases of Tyco dated August 12, 1999 and August 18, 1999 announcing the
consummation of the acquisition of Raychem Corporation and the results of the
proration of the merger consideration for Raychem shareholders, respectively.

    Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 14, 1999 containing an
approved increase in the number of authorized Tyco common shares and an
amendment to the Rights Agreement between Tyco International Ltd. and Citibank,
N.A., dated as of November 6, 1996.

    Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 22, 1999 announcing fourth
quarter earnings and the distribution of a two-for-one stock split.

    Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 9, 1999 containing Amendment
No. 1 to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of August 23, 1999 by and
among General Acquisition, Tyco Acquisition Corp. XXIII (successor by assignment
to General Sub Acquisition Corp.), a Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned
subsidiary of General Acquisition, and General Surgical Innovations, Inc.

    Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 22, 1999 containing Amendment
No. 1 to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of August 31, 1999 by and
among Tyco (NV), Tyco Acquisition Corp. XXII, a Delaware corporation and a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Tyco (NV), and AFC Cable Systems, Inc., a Delaware
corporation.

    Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 9, 1999 containing Company
press release announcing the SEC's nonpublic informal inquiry relating to
charges and reserves taken in connection with the Company's acquisitions.

    Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 10, 1999 disclosing wire
reports of purported stockholder class actions seeking damages against the
Company and certain of its officers.


                                   SIGNATURES

    Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.



    Date: December 13, 1999

    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.








                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors
and Shareholders of Tyco International Ltd.

    In our opinion, based upon our audits and the reports of other auditors, the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements
of operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of Tyco International Ltd. and its
subsidiaries at September 30, 1999 and 1998, and the results of their operations
and their cash flows for the years ended September 30, 1999 and 1998, and the
nine months ended September 30, 1997, in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States. In addition, in our opinion, the
accompanying financial statement schedule presents fairly, in all material
respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the
related consolidated financial statements. These consolidated financial
statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the
Company's management; our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our
audits. We did not audit the financial statements of AMP Incorporated, a wholly
owned subsidiary, at September 30, 1998, and for the year ended September 30,
1998 and the nine months ended September 30, 1997, which statements reflect
total assets constituting 20.1% of consolidated total assets as of September 30,
1998, and net sales constituting 29.0% and 33.6% of consolidated net sales for
the year ended September 30, 1998 and the nine months ended September 30 1997,
respectively. We did not audit the financial statements of United States
Surgical Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary, for the nine months ended
September 30, 1997, which statements reflect net sales constituting 6.8% of
consolidated net sales for the nine months ended September 30, 1997. Those
statements were audited by other auditors whose reports thereon have been
furnished to us, and our opinion expressed herein, insofar as it relates to the
amounts included for AMP Incorporated and United States Surgical Corporation, as
of and for the periods described above, is based solely on the reports of the
other auditors. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with
auditing standards generally accepted in the United States, which require that
we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits and the reports of other
auditors provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above.

                                      PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS

Hamilton, Bermuda
October 21, 1999


                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

To the Shareholders and Board of Directors,
United States Surgical Corporation:

    We have audited the consolidated statements of operations, changes in
stockholders' equity and cash flows of United States Surgical Corporation and
subsidiaries for the nine month period ended September 30, 1997 and the related
financial statement schedule for the nine month period ended September 30, 1997
which are not included herein. These financial statements are the responsibility
of United States Surgical Corporation's management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our
audits.

    We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

    In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in
all material respects, the consolidated results of operations and cash flows of
United States Surgical Corporation and subsidiaries for the nine month period
ended September 30, 1997, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when
considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a
whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth
herein.

                                      DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Stamford, Connecticut
September 30, 1998


                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of AMP Incorporated:

    We have audited the consolidated balance sheet of AMP Incorporated (a
Pennsylvania corporation) and subsidiaries as of September 30, 1998, the related
consolidated statements of income, shareholders' equity and cash flows for the
year ended September 30, 1998, and the nine months ended September 30, 1997,
which are not included herein. These financial statements are the responsibility
of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these financial statements based on our audits.

    We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

    In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of
AMP Incorporated and subsidiaries as of September 30, 1998, and the consolidated
results of their operations and their cash flows for the year ended
September 30, 1998, and the nine months ended September 30, 1997, in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles.

    As explained in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, effective
January 1, 1997, the Company changed its method of accounting for costing its
inventories.

    Our audit was made for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic
financial statements taken as a whole. Schedule II, which is not included
herein, is presented for purposes of complying with the Securities and Exchange
Commission rules and is not part of the basic financial statements. This
schedule has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audit of
the basic financial statements and, in our opinion, fairly states in all
material respects the financial data required to be set forth therein in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole.

                                      ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
February 12, 1999
(except with respect to the matter disclosed in
Note 18--Merger with Tyco International Ltd.,
as to which the date is April 2, 1999)


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS



                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY


                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

    BUSINESS--The Company manages its business based on the following four
operating segments:

    TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND ELECTRONICS

    The Company's Telecommunications and Electronics segment is comprised of:

    - Tyco Electronics, including AMP Incorporated ("AMP"), which designs and
      manufactures electrical connectors, interconnection systems, touch screens
      and wireless systems, and Raychem Corporation ("Raychem"), which develops
      and manufactures high-performance electronic components;

    - Tyco Submarine Systems Ltd. ("TSSL"), which designs, manufactures,
      installs and services undersea communications cable systems; and

    - Tyco Printed Circuit Group, which designs and manufactures multi-layer
      printed circuit boards, backplane assemblies and similar components.

    HEALTHCARE AND SPECIALTY PRODUCTS

    The Company's Healthcare and Specialty Products segment is comprised of:

    - Tyco Healthcare Group, which manufactures and distributes a wide variety
      of disposable medical products, including woundcare products, syringes and
      needles, sutures and surgical staplers, incontinence products,
      electrosurgical instruments and laparoscopic instruments;

    - Tyco Plastics and Adhesives, which manufactures flexible plastic
      packaging, plastic bags and sheeting, coated and laminated packaging
      materials, tapes and adhesives and plastic garment hangers; and

    - ADT Automotive, which provides auto redistribution services.

    FIRE AND SECURITY SERVICES

    The Company's Fire and Security Services segment:

    - designs, installs and services a broad line of fire detection, prevention
      and suppression systems worldwide;

    - provides electronic security installation and monitoring services; and

    - manufactures and services fire extinguishers and related products.

    FLOW CONTROL PRODUCTS

    The Company's Flow Control Products segment:

    - manufactures and distributes pipe, fittings, valves, valve actuators,
      couplings and related products which are used to transport, control and
      measure the flow of liquids and gases;

    - manufactures and distributes fire sprinkler devices, specialty valves,
      plastic pipe and fittings used in commercial, residential and industrial
      fire protection systems; and

    - provides engineering and consulting services focusing on the design,
      construction and operation of water and wastewater facilities.

    BASIS OF PRESENTATION--The consolidated financial statements have been
prepared in United States dollars in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles in the United States. As described more fully in Note 2,
on July 2, 1997, a wholly-owned subsidiary of what was formerly called ADT
Limited, a Bermuda company ("ADT"), merged with Tyco International Ltd., a
Massachusetts corporation ("Former Tyco"). Upon consummation of the merger, ADT
(the continuing public company) changed its name to Tyco International Ltd. (the
"Company" or "Tyco"). Former Tyco became a wholly-owned subsidiary of


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

the Company and changed its name to Tyco International (US) Inc. ("Tyco US"). In
addition, as more fully described in Note 2, Tyco merged with Inbrand
Corporation ("Inbrand"), Keystone International, Inc. ("Keystone"), United
States Surgical Corporation ("USSC") and AMP on August 27, 1997, August 29,
1997, October 1, 1998 and April 2, 1999, respectively. These transactions are
referred to herein as the "mergers." The consolidated financial statements
include the consolidated accounts of Tyco, a company incorporated in Bermuda,
and its subsidiaries. They have been prepared following the pooling of interests
method of accounting for the mergers and, therefore, reflect the combined
financial position, operating results and cash flows of ADT, Former Tyco,
Keystone, Inbrand, USSC and AMP as if they had been combined for all periods
presented.

    PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION--Tyco is a holding company whose assets consist
of its investments in its subsidiaries, intercompany balances and holdings of
cash and cash equivalents. The businesses of the consolidated group are
conducted through the Company's subsidiaries. The Company consolidates companies
in which it owns or controls more than fifty percent of the voting shares unless
control is likely to be temporary. The results of companies acquired or disposed
of during the fiscal year are included in the consolidated financial statements
from the effective date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal except in
the case of mergers accounted for as pooling of interests (Note 2). All
significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in
consolidation.

    CHANGE IN YEAR END--In September 1997, the Company changed its fiscal year
end from December 31 to September 30. The change in year end resulted in a short
fiscal year covering the nine-month transition period from January 1 to
September 30, 1997. References to Fiscal 1999, Fiscal 1998 and Fiscal 1997
throughout these consolidated financial statements are to the twelve months
ended September 30, 1999 and 1998, and the nine months ended September 30, 1997,
respectively.

    CASH EQUIVALENTS--All highly liquid investments purchased with a maturity of
three months or less are considered to be cash equivalents.

    INVENTORIES--Inventories are recorded at the lower of cost (primarily
first-in, first-out) or market value.

    PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT--Property, plant and equipment is principally
recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation. Maintenance and repair
expenditures are charged to expense when incurred. The straight-line method of
depreciation is used over the estimated useful lives of the related assets as
follows:



    Gains and losses arising on the disposal of property, plant and equipment
are included in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and were not material.

    GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS--Goodwill, which is being amortized on
a straight-line basis over periods ranging from 10 to 40 years, was
$10,639.3 million and $6,104.1 million, net, at September 30, 1999 and 1998,
respectively. Accumulated amortization amounted to $615.6 million at September
30, 1999 and $499.7 million at September 30, 1998.

    Other intangible assets were $1,519.6 million and $1,001.4 million, net, at
September 30, 1999 and 1998, respectively. These amounts include patents,
trademarks, customer contracts and other items, which


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

are being amortized on a straight-line basis over lives ranging from 2 to 40
years. At September 30, 1999 and 1998, accumulated amortization amounted to
$319.5 million and $207.1 million, respectively.

    INVESTMENTS--The Company accounts for its long-term investments that
represent less than twenty percent ownership using Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and
Equity Securities." This standard requires that certain debt and equity
securities be adjusted to market value at the end of each accounting period.
Unrealized market gains and losses are charged to earnings if the securities are
traded for short-term profit. Otherwise, such unrealized gains and losses are
charged or credited to shareholders' equity. Management determines the proper
classification of investments in obligations with fixed maturities and
marketable equity securities at the time of purchase and reevaluates such
designations as of each balance sheet date. Realized gains and losses on sales
of investments, as determined on a specific identification basis, are included
in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and were not material.

    EQUITY INVESTMENTS--For investments in which the Company owns or controls
twenty percent or more of the voting shares, or over which it exerts significant
influence over operating and financial policies, the equity method of accounting
is used. The Company's share of net income or losses of equity investments is
included in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and was not material in
any period presented.

    LONG-LIVED ASSETS--The Company periodically evaluates the net realizable
value of long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets and
property, plant and equipment, relying on a number of factors including
operating results, business plans, economic projections and anticipated future
cash flows. An impairment in the carrying value of an asset is assessed when the
undiscounted, expected future operating cash flows derived from the asset are
less than its carrying value.

    REVENUE RECOGNITION--Revenue from the sale of services or products is
recognized as services are rendered or shipments are made. Subscriber billings
for services not yet rendered are deferred and taken into income as earned, and
the deferred element is included in current liabilities. Revenue from the
installation of electronic security systems is recognized when installations are
completed.

    Contract sales for the installation of fire protection systems, underwater
cable systems and other construction related projects are recorded on the
percentage-of-completion method. Profits recognized on contracts in process are
based upon estimated contract revenue and related cost to completion. Revisions
in cost estimates as contracts progress have the effect of increasing or
decreasing profits in the current period. Provisions for anticipated losses are
made in the period in which they first become determinable.

    Accounts receivable include amounts billed under retainage provisions
primarily for fire protection contracts. Retention balances of $33.3 million at
September 30, 1999, which become due upon contract completion and acceptance,
are expected to be substantially collected during the fiscal year ending
September 30, 2000 ("Fiscal 2000").

    SHARE PREMIUM AND CONTRIBUTED SURPLUS--In accordance with the Bermuda
Companies Act of 1981, when the Company issues shares for cash at a premium to
their par value, the resulting premium is credited to a share premium account, a
non-distributable reserve. When the Company issues shares in exchange for shares
of another company, the excess of the fair value of the shares acquired over the
par value of the shares issued by the Company is credited, where applicable, to
contributed surplus, which is, subject to certain conditions, a distributable
reserve.

    INCOME TAXES--Deferred tax liabilities and assets are recognized for the
expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in the
consolidated financial statements or tax returns. Deferred tax liabilities and
assets are determined based on the differences between the consolidated
financial statements and the tax basis of assets and liabilities, using tax
rates in effect for the years in which the


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

differences are expected to reverse. A valuation allowance is provided to offset
any net deferred tax assets if, based upon the available evidence, it is more
likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be
realized.

    RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT--Research and development expenditures are expensed
when incurred and are included in cost of sales in the Consolidated Statements
of Operations.

    ADVERTISING--Advertising costs are expensed when incurred.

    TRANSLATION OF FOREIGN CURRENCY--Assets and liabilities of the Company's
subsidiaries operating outside the United States which account in a functional
currency other than U.S. dollars, other than those operating in highly
inflationary environments, are translated into U.S. dollars using year-end
exchange rates. Revenues and expenses are translated at the average exchange
rates effective during the year. Foreign currency translation gains and losses
are included as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
within shareholders' equity. For subsidiaries operating in highly inflationary
environments, inventories and property, plant and equipment, including related
expenses, are translated at the rate of exchange in effect on the date the
assets were acquired, while other assets and liabilities are translated at
year-end exchange rates. Translation adjustments for these operations are
included in net income (loss).

    Gains and losses resulting from foreign currency transactions, the amounts
of which are not material, are included in net income (loss).

    FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS--From time to time the Company enters into a variety
of forward foreign currency exchange contracts, cross-currency swaps, currency
options, forward commodity contracts and interest rate swaps in its management
of foreign currency and commodity exposures and interest costs.

    Forward foreign currency exchange contracts and cross-currency swaps, which
mitigate the impact of changes in currency exchange rates on intercompany
cross-border obligations, are accounted for consistent with the related
intercompany transactions. Under cross-currency swaps, which principally hedge
certain net foreign currency denominated investments, changes in valuation are
included in the currency translation adjustment component of accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss) within shareholders' equity. The interest
differentials on cross-currency swaps are included in interest expense. Forward
foreign currency exchange contracts and currency options, acquired for the
purpose of reducing exposure to currency fluctuations associated with expected
cash flows denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies, are
marked to market with realized and unrealized gains or losses reflected in
selling, general and administrative expenses.

    Under forward commodity contracts, which hedge anticipated purchases of
certain metals and other materials used in manufacturing operations, payments
are received or paid based on the differential between the contract price and
the actual price of the underlying commodity. Gains or losses on forward
commodity contracts are recorded as adjustments to the value of the purchased
commodity.

    Interest rate swaps hedge interest rates on certain indebtedness and involve
the exchange of fixed and floating rate interest payment obligations over the
life of the related agreement without the exchange of the notional amount. The
interest differentials to be paid or received under interest rate swaps are
recognized over the life of the underlying agreement or indebtedness,
respectively, as an adjustment to interest expense.

    Receivables and payables related to unrealized increases and decreases in
the values of derivative financial instruments are included in other current
assets and other current liabilities, respectively, and are not material.


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

    USE OF ESTIMATES--The preparation of consolidated financial statements in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to
make extensive use of certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amount of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported periods.
Significant estimates in these consolidated financial statements include merger,
restructuring and other non-recurring charges, purchase accounting reserves,
allowances for doubtful accounts receivable, estimates of future cash flows
associated with assets, asset impairments, useful lives for depreciation and
amortization, loss contingencies, net realizable value of inventories, estimated
contract revenues and related costs, environmental liabilities, income taxes and
tax valuation reserves, and the determination of discount and other rate
assumptions for pension and post-retirement employee benefit expenses. Actual
results could differ from those estimates.

    ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS--In June 1998, the FASB issued SFAS No. 133,
"Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." This statement
establishes accounting and reporting standards requiring that every derivative
instrument be recorded on the balance sheet as either an asset or liability
measured at its fair value. SFAS No. 133 also requires that changes in the
derivative's fair value be recognized currently in earnings unless specific
hedge accounting criteria are met. In June 1999, the FASB issued SFAS No. 137
which defers the effective date of SFAS No. 133 to fiscal years beginning after
June 15, 2000. The Company is currently analyzing this new standard.

    RECLASSIFICATIONS--Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to
conform with current year presentation.

    STOCK SPLITS--Per share amounts and share data have been retroactively
restated to give effect to the reverse stock split effected in connection with
the merger of ADT and Former Tyco referred to in Note 2, and the two-for-one
stock splits distributed on October 22, 1997 and October 21, 1999, both effected
in the form of a stock dividend (See Note 10 for further discussion).

2. POOLING OF INTERESTS TRANSACTIONS

    On April 2, 1999, October 1, 1998, August 29, 1997 and August 27, 1997, Tyco
merged with AMP, USSC, Keystone and Inbrand, respectively. A total of
approximately 329.2 million, 118.4 million, 69.6 million and 20.4 million Tyco
common shares, respectively, were issued to the former shareholders of these
companies.

    On July 2, 1997, a wholly-owned subsidiary of ADT merged with the Former
Tyco. Shareholders of ADT, through a reverse stock split, received 0.48133
shares (1.92532 after giving effect to the subsequent stock splits) of the
Company's common stock for each share of ADT common stock outstanding, and the
Former Tyco shareholders received one share (four shares after giving effect to
the subsequent stock splits) of the Company's common stock for each share of the
Former Tyco common stock outstanding. On a post-split basis, a total of
approximately 673.6 million Tyco common shares were issued to the shareholders
of Former Tyco in the merger.

    Each of the five merger transactions discussed above was accounted for under
the pooling of interests accounting method, which presents as a single interest
common shareholder interests which were previously independent. The historical
consolidated financial statements for periods prior to the consummation of the
combination are restated as though the companies had been combined during such
periods.

    Aggregate fees and expenses related to the mergers and to the integration of
the combined companies have been expensed in the Consolidated Statements of
Operations in the period in which each transaction


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

2. POOLING OF INTERESTS TRANSACTIONS (CONTINUED)

was consummated, as required under the pooling of interests method of
accounting. See Notes 12 and 16 for further discussion.

    Combined and separate results of Tyco, USSC and AMP for the periods
preceding the mergers were as follows:



- ------------------------

(i) Includes merger, restructuring and other non-recurring charges of $434.9
    million and impairment charges of $76.0 million primarily related to the
    merger with USSC, and restructuring and other non-recurring charges of
    $444.4 million and impairment charges of $67.6 million related to AMP's
    profit improvement plan.

(ii) Includes restructuring and other non-recurring charges of $164.4 million
    primarily related to AMP's profit improvement plan and $92.5 million
    principally related to costs incurred by USSC to exit certain businesses.

(iii) Includes merger, restructuring and other non-recurring charges of
    $917.8 million and impairment charges of $148.4 million primarily related to
    the mergers and integration of ADT, Former Tyco, Keystone and Inbrand, and a
    charge of $361.0 million for the write-off of purchased in-process research
    and development related to the acquisition of AT&T Corp.'s submarine systems
    business. Also includes charges of $24.3 million for litigation and other
    related costs and $5.8 million for restructuring charges in USSC's
    operations.

(iv) As a result of the combination of Tyco and AMP, an income tax adjustment
    was recorded to conform tax accounting.


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

2. POOLING OF INTERESTS TRANSACTIONS (CONTINUED)

    Combined and separate results of ADT, Former Tyco, Keystone and Inbrand for
the periods preceding the mergers were as follows:



- ------------------------

(i) Includes merger, restructuring and other non-recurring charges of
    $31.4 million incurred by ADT and $25.2 million incurred by Inbrand.

    In connection with the USSC merger, the Company assumed an operating lease
for USSC's North Haven facilities. In December 1998, the Company assumed the
debt related to the North Haven property of approximately $211 million. The
assumption of the debt combined with the settlement of certain other obligations
in the amount of $23 million resulted in the Company acquiring ownership of the
North Haven property for a total cost of $234 million.

    The Company also assumed USSC's agreement to potentially pay up to
approximately $70.0 million in common stock as of September 30, 1998 as
additional purchase price consideration relative to an acquisition consummated
by USSC in 1997, if and when certain additional milestones and sales objectives
are achieved. During March and April 1999, a total of 140,002 Tyco common
shares, valued at approximately $5.2 million, were issued pursuant to this
agreement. This matter is the subject of pending litigation. The Company does
not expect to issue a material amount of additional shares pursuant to this
agreement.

3. ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES

    FISCAL 1999

    In addition to the pooling of interests transactions discussed in Note 2,
during Fiscal 1999, the Company purchased businesses in each of its four
business segments for an aggregate cost of $6,923.3 million, consisting of
$4,546.8 million in cash, net of cash acquired, the issuance of 32.4 million
common shares valued at $1,449.6 million and the assumption of $926.9 million in
debt. In addition, $354.4 million of cash was paid during the year for purchase
accounting liabilities related to current and prior years' acquisitions. The
cash portions of the acquisition costs were funded utilizing cash on hand, the
issuance of long-term debt and borrowings under the Company's commercial paper
program. Each of these acquisitions was accounted for as a purchase, and the
results of operations of the acquired companies have been included in the
consolidated results of the Company from their respective acquisition dates.

    In connection with these acquisitions, the Company recorded purchase
accounting liabilities of $525.4 million for transaction costs and the costs of
integrating the acquired companies within the various Tyco business segments.
Details regarding these purchase accounting liabilities are set forth below.

    At the time each purchase acquisition is made, the Company records each
asset acquired and each liability assumed at its estimated fair value, which
amount is subject to future adjustment when appraisals or other further
information is obtained. The excess of (a) the total consideration paid for the
acquired company over (b) the fair value of assets acquired less liabilities
assumed and purchase accounting liabilities recorded is recorded as goodwill. As
a result of acquisitions completed in Fiscal 1999, and


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

3. ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES (CONTINUED)

adjustments to the fair values of assets and liabilities and purchase accounting
liabilities recorded for acquisitions completed prior to Fiscal 1999, the
Company recorded approximately $5,807.9 million in goodwill and other
intangibles.

    The following table shows the fair values of assets and liabilities and
purchase accounting liabilities recorded for purchase acquisitions completed in
Fiscal 1999, adjusted to reflect changes in fair values of assets and
liabilities and purchase accounting liabilities recorded for acquisitions
completed prior to Fiscal 1999 (in millions):



    Thus, in Fiscal 1999, the Company spent a total of $4,901.2 million in cash
related to the acquisition of businesses, consisting of $4,546.8 million of cash
in purchase price for these businesses (net of cash acquired) plus
$354.4 million of cash paid out during the year for purchase accounting
liabilities related to current and prior years' acquisitions.

    Fiscal 1999 purchase acquisitions include, among others, the acquisition of
Graphic Controls Corporation ("Graphic Controls") in October 1998, Entergy
Security Corporation ("Entergy") in January 1999, Alarmguard Holdings, Inc.
("Alarmguard") in February 1999, certain subsidiaries in the metals processing
division of Glynwed International, plc ("Glynwed") in March 1999,
Telecomunicaciones Marinas, S.A. ("Temasa"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Telefonica S.A., in May 1999 and Raychem Corporation ("Raychem") in August 1999.
Graphic Controls, a leading designer, manufacturer, marketer and distributor of
disposable medical products, was purchased for approximately $460 million,
including the assumption of certain outstanding debt, and is being integrated
within the Healthcare and Specialty Products segment. Entergy and Alarmguard
were purchased for an aggregate of approximately $430 million and are being
integrated within the electronic security services business of the Fire and
Security Services segment. Glynwed, which is engaged in the production of steel
tubing, steel electrical conduit and other similar products, was purchased for
approximately $236 million and is being integrated within the Flow Control
Products segment. Temasa installs and maintains undersea cable systems and was
purchased for approximately $280 million. Temasa is being integrated into TSSL
within the Telecommunications and Electronics


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

3. ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES (CONTINUED)

segment. Raychem, a leading international designer, manufacturer and distributor
of high-performance electronic products for OEM businesses and for a broad range
of specialized telecommunications, energy and industrial applications, was
purchased for a total of approximately $1,445.9 million in cash and the issuance
of approximately 32.4 million Tyco common shares valued at approximately
$1,449.6 million, plus the assumption of approximately $580.8 million of debt.
Raychem is being integrated into Tyco Electronics within the Telecommunications
and Electronics segment.

    The following table summarizes the purchase accounting liabilities recorded
in connection with the Fiscal 1999 purchase acquisitions ($ in millions):



    Purchase accounting liabilities recorded during Fiscal 1999 consist of
$116.3 million for transaction and other direct costs, $234.3 million for
severance and related costs and $174.8 million for costs associated with the
shut down and consolidation of certain acquired facilities. These purchase
accounting liabilities relate primarily to the acquisitions of Graphic Controls,
Entergy, Alarmguard, Glynwed, Temasa and Raychem. The Company is still in the
process of finalizing its business plan for the exiting of activities and the
involuntary termination or relocation of employees in connection with the
acquisition and integration of Raychem. Accrued costs associated with this plan
are estimates.

    In connection with the Fiscal 1999 purchase acquisitions, the Company began
to formulate plans at the date of each acquisition for workforce reductions and
the closure and consolidation of an aggregate of 183 facilities. The Company has
communicated with the employees of the acquired companies to announce the
terminations and benefit arrangements, even though all individuals have not been
specifically told of their termination. The costs of employee termination
benefits relate to the elimination of approximately 3,440 positions in the
United States, 1,220 positions in Europe, 730 positions in the Asia-Pacific
region and 230 positions in Canada and Latin America, primarily consisting of
manufacturing and distribution, administrative, technical, and sales and
marketing personnel. Facilities designated for closure include 78 facilities in
the Asia-Pacific region, 67 facilities in the United States, 27 facilities in
Europe and 11 facilities in Canada and Latin America, primarily consisting of
manufacturing plants, sales offices, corporate administrative facilities and
research and development facilities. Approximately 3,230 employees had been
terminated and approximately 95 facilities had been closed or consolidated at
September 30, 1999.

    In connection with the purchase acquisitions consummated during Fiscal 1999,
liabilities for approximately $70.3 million in transaction and other direct
costs, $178.4 million for severance and related costs and $126.6 million for the
shutdown and consolidation of acquired facilities remained on the balance sheet
at September 30, 1999. The Company expects that the termination of employees and
consolidation of facilities related to all such acquisitions will be
substantially complete within two years of the related dates of acquisition,
except for certain long-term contractual obligations.

    During Fiscal 1999, the Company reduced its estimate of purchase accounting
liabilities by $90.0 million and, accordingly, goodwill and related deferred tax
assets were reduced by an equivalent amount, primarily resulting from costs
being less than originally anticipated for acquisitions consummated prior to
Fiscal 1999. See table in Fiscal 1998 section below.


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

3. ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES (CONTINUED)

    During Fiscal 1999, the Company sold certain of its businesses for net
proceeds of approximately $926.8 million in cash. These primarily consist of
certain businesses within the Flow Control Products segment, including The
Mueller Company and portions of Grinnell Supply Sales and Manufacturing, and
certain businesses within the Healthcare and Specialty Products segment. The
aggregate net gain recognized on the sale of these businesses was not material.
In connection with the Flow Control divestiture, the Company granted a
non-exclusive license to the buyer for use of certain intellectual property and
is entitled to receive future royalties equal to a percentage of net sales of
the businesses sold. The Company also granted an option to the buyer to purchase
certain intellectual property in the future at the then fair market value.

    The following unaudited pro forma data summarize the results of operations
for the periods indicated as if the Fiscal 1999 acquisitions and divestitures
had been completed as of the beginning of the periods presented. The pro forma
data give effect to actual operating results prior to the acquisitions and
divestitures. Adjustments to interest expense, goodwill amortization and income
taxes related to the Fiscal 1999 acquisitions are reflected in the pro forma
data. No effect has been given to cost reductions or operating synergies in this
presentation. These pro forma amounts do not purport to be indicative of the
results that would have actually been obtained if the acquisitions and
divestitures had occurred as of the beginning of the periods presented or that
may be obtained in the future.



    FISCAL 1998

    During Fiscal 1998, the Company acquired companies in each of its business
segments for an aggregate cost of $4,559.4 million, consisting of
$4,154.8 million in cash, the assumption of approximately $260 million in debt
and the issuance of 765,544 common shares valued at $19.2 million and 1,254
subsidiary preference shares valued at $125.4 million. The cash portions of the
acquisition costs were funded utilizing cash on hand, borrowings under bank
credit agreements, proceeds of approximately $1,245.0 million from the sale of
common shares, and borrowings under the Company's uncommitted lines of credit.
Each of these acquisitions was accounted for as a purchase, and the results of
operations of the acquired companies were included in the consolidated results
of the Company from their respective acquisition dates. As a result of the
acquisitions, the Company recorded approximately $3,947.0 million in goodwill
and other intangibles.


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

3. ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES (CONTINUED)

    In connection with these acquisitions, the Company recorded purchase
accounting liabilities of $498.7 million for transaction costs and the costs of
integrating the acquired companies within the various Tyco business segments.
Details regarding these purchase accounting liabilities are set forth below.
During Fiscal 1998, the Company spent a total of $4,251.8 million in cash
related to the acquisition of businesses, consisting of $4,154.8 of purchase
price (net of cash acquired) plus $97.0 million of cash for purchase accounting
liabilities related to current and prior years' acquisitions.

    The following table summarizes the purchase accounting liabilities recorded
in connection with the Fiscal 1998 purchase acquisitions ($ in millions):



    Purchase accounting liabilities recorded during Fiscal 1998 consist of
$60.1 million for transaction and other direct costs, $159.7 million for
severance and related costs and $278.9 million for costs associated with the
shut down and consolidation of certain acquired facilities. The $159.7 million
of severance and related costs covers employee termination benefits for
approximately 4,800 employees located throughout the world, consisting primarily
of manufacturing employees to be terminated as a result of the shut down and
consolidation of production facilities and, to a lesser extent, technical, sales
and administrative employees. At September 30, 1999, approximately 2,650
employees had been terminated and $38.9 million in severance and related costs
remained on the balance sheet. The Company expects that the remaining employee
terminations will be completed in Fiscal 2000.

    The $278.9 million of exit costs are associated with the closure and
consolidation of facilities involving approximately 90 facilities located
primarily in the United States and Europe. These facilities include
manufacturing plants, warehouses, office buildings and sales offices. Included
within these costs are accruals for non-cancelable leases associated with
certain of these facilities. Approximately 73 facilities, mainly office
buildings and sales offices, had been shut down as of September 30, 1999. The
remaining facilities primarily include large manufacturing plants, which are
expected to be shut down in Fiscal 2000. Expenses in connection with the closure
of these remaining facilities, as well as the expiration of non-cancelable
leases (less any expected sublease income for facilities already closed),
comprise the approximately $146.4 million for facility related costs remaining
on the balance sheet as of September 30, 1999.

    In July 1998, the Company acquired the U.S. operations of Crosby
Valve, Inc. in exchange for 1,254 cumulative dividend preference shares of a
newly created subsidiary, valued at $125.4 million. The subsidiary has
authorized 2,000 cumulative dividend preference shares. The holders of these
preference shares have the option to require the Company to repurchase the
preference shares at par value plus unpaid dividends at any time after July
2001. The outstanding preference shares were issued at $100,000 par value each
and have been classified in other long-term liabilities on the Consolidated
Balance Sheets.


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

3. ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES (CONTINUED)

Cash dividends accumulate on a preferred basis, whether or not earned or
declared, at the rate of $3,750 per share per annum. Upon liquidation, the
holders of shares are entitled to receive an amount equal to $100,000 per share,
plus any unpaid dividends. These preference shares may be redeemed by the
subsidiary at any time on or after December 31, 2008 at a price per share of
$100,000, plus unpaid dividends, adjusted for certain increases in the value of
Tyco's stock, as defined.

    FISCAL 1997

    In addition to the mergers discussed in Note 2, in Fiscal 1997 the Company
acquired companies in each of its business segments for an aggregate of
$1,523.7 million, consisting of $1,415.2 million in cash, the issuance of
approximately 3.8 million common shares valued at $92.8 million and the
assumption of approximately $15.7 million in debt. The cash portions of the
acquisition costs were funded utilizing cash on hand, net proceeds from the sale
of common shares of $645.2 million, and borrowings under the Company's
uncommitted lines of credit. Each of these acquisitions was accounted for as a
purchase, and the results of operations of the acquired companies were included
in the consolidated results of the Company from their respective acquisition
dates. As a result of the acquisitions, approximately $708.7 million in goodwill
and other intangibles, net of the write-off of purchased in-process research and
development, was recorded by the Company. In connection with the acquisition of
AT&T Corp.'s submarine systems business, the Company allocated $361.0 million of
the purchase price to in-process research and development projects that had not
reached technological feasibility and had no probable alternative future uses.
As of September 30, 1999, the payout for employee severance and consolidation of
facilities related to these acquisitions was substantially complete.

    In 1995, as a result of the sale of a business in the United Kingdom, the
Company holds a subordinated, non-collateralized zero coupon loan note maturing
in 2004 ("Vendor Note"), together with a 10% interest in the ordinary share
capital of the issuer. The Vendor Note has a L120.8 million ($199.2 million)
aggregate principal amount at maturity with an issue price of $83.9 million,
reflecting a yield to maturity of 10.0% per annum, and was originally valued by
the Company at $74.6 million. As of September 30, 1999, the Vendor Note is
included in long-term investments on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and has been
accounted for at its amortized cost of $120.5 million (which approximates fair
value). The fair value of the Vendor Note was estimated based on the Company's
calculation of an appropriate fair value interest rate discount. This discount
rate was determined based on an evaluation of current UK market conditions
(private placement rates, discussions with financial sources, etc.) and the
continued risk margin associated with deep discount debentures.

4. INDEBTEDNESS

    Long-term debt is as follows:




                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

4. INDEBTEDNESS (CONTINUED)



- ------------------------

 (i) In January 1999, Tyco International Group S.A. ("TIG"), a wholly-owned
     subsidiary of the Company, initiated a commercial paper program under which
     it could initially issue notes with an aggregate face value of up to
     $1.75 billion. In June 1999, TIG increased its borrowing capacity under the
     commercial paper program to $3.90 billion. The notes are fully and
     unconditionally guaranteed by the Company. Proceeds from the sale of the
     notes are used for working capital and other corporate purposes. TIG is
     required to maintain an available unused balance under its bank credit
     agreement sufficient to support amounts outstanding under the commercial
     paper program.

 (ii) In February 1999, TIG renegotiated its $2.25 billion credit agreement with
      a group of commercial banks, giving it the right to borrow up to
      $3.40 billion until February 11, 2000, with the option to extend to
      February 11, 2001, and to borrow up to an additional $0.5 billion until
      February 12, 2003.


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

4. INDEBTEDNESS (CONTINUED)

    TIG also has the option to increase the $3.40 billion part of the credit
      facility up to $4.0 billion. Interest payable on borrowings is variable
      based upon TIG's option to select a Euro rate plus margins ranging from
      0.41% to 0.43%, a certificate of deposit rate plus margins ranging from
      0.535% to 0.555%, or a base rate, as defined. If the outstanding principal
      amount of loans equals or exceeds 25% of the commitments, the Euro and
      certificate of deposit margins are increased by 0.125%. The obligations of
      TIG under the credit agreement are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by
      the Company. TIG is using the credit agreement to fully support its
      commercial paper program discussed above and therefore expects this
      facility to remain largely undrawn. The Company is required to meet
      certain covenants under the bank credit agreement, none of which is
      considered restrictive to the operations of the Company.

(iii) In December 1995, USSC entered into a five year, $325 million syndicated
      credit agreement with a maturity of January 2001. The syndicated credit
      facility provided a choice of interest rates based upon the banks' CD
      rate, prime rate or the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) for US
      dollar borrowings and Tokyo Interbank Offered Rate (TIBOR) for yen
      borrowings. The actual interest charges paid were to be determined by a
      pricing schedule which considered the ratio of consolidated debt at each
      calendar quarter end to consolidated earnings before interest, taxes,
      depreciation and amortization for the trailing twelve months. During the
      third quarter of 1996, USSC entered into an additional conditional
      committed bank term loan facility of $175 million, with similar terms and
      conditions. Subsequent to the merger with USSC, the credit facilities were
      terminated. The effective interest rate on amounts outstanding as of
      September 30, 1998 was 5.91%.

 (iv) International overdrafts and demand loans represent borrowings by AMP from
      various banks and other holders. All overdrafts and loans mature within
      one year from the balance sheet date. The weighted-average interest rate
      on all international overdrafts and demand loans during Fiscal 1999 and
      Fiscal 1998 was 5.3% and 4.2%, respectively.

 (v) In July 1997, Tyco US tendered for its $145.0 million 8.125% public notes
     due 1999 and $200.0 million 9.5% public debentures due 2022, and ADT
     Operations, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, tendered for
     its $250.0 million 8.25% senior notes due 2000 and $294.1 million 9.25%
     senior subordinated notes due 2003. The percentage of debt tendered was
     92.8% of the 8.125% notes, 75.5% of the 9.5% debentures, 96.2% of the 8.25%
     notes and 95.2% of the 9.25% notes. The two companies paid an aggregate
     amount, including accrued interest, of approximately $900.8 million to the
     debt holders, of which $800.0 million was financed from the previously
     existing credit agreement. In connection with the tenders, the Company
     recorded an after-tax charge of approximately $58.3 million, net of related
     income tax benefit of $33.0 million, primarily representing unamortized
     debt issuance fees and the premium paid, which was reported as an
     extraordinary loss (Note 13).

    The $250.0 million 8.25% senior notes due August 2000 were issued in August
    1993, through a public offering, by ADT Operations, Inc. and are guaranteed
    on a senior basis by the Company and certain subsidiaries of ADT
    Operations, Inc. The senior notes are not redeemable prior to maturity.

    The $294.1 million 9.25% senior subordinated notes due August 2003 were
    issued in August 1993 by ADT Operations, Inc., through a public offering and
    are guaranteed on a senior subordinated basis by the Company. The notes
    became redeemable in August 1998 at 103.75% and ADT Operations, Inc.
    redeemed the notes.


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

4. INDEBTEDNESS (CONTINUED)

    In conjunction with the tenders described above, ADT Operations, Inc., by
    consent of the holders of the 8.25% senior and 9.25% senior subordinated
    notes, eliminated in the indentures pursuant to which such notes were issued
    (a) certain restrictive covenants and provisions and references to such
    restrictive covenants, (b) certain events of default to the extent relating
    to such restrictive covenants and (c) certain definitions to the extent
    relating to such restrictive covenants and events of default.

 (vi) In August 1999, TIG issued $500 million floating rate notes due 2000,
      $500 million floating rate notes due 2001, $1 billion 6 7/8% notes due
      2002 and Y 10 billion (approximately $89.7 million) 0.57% notes due 2000.
      The $500 million floating rate notes bear interest at LIBOR plus 0.6% for
      the 2000 notes and LIBOR plus 0.7% for the 2001 notes. The net proceeds of
      approximately $2,080.3 million were used to repay borrowings under TIG's
      $3.90 billion commercial paper program discussed above. In connection with
      the $1 billion 6 7/8% notes, TIG entered into an interest rate swap
      agreement expiring in September 2002, under which TIG will receive a fixed
      rate of 6 7/8% and will pay a floating rate based on the average of two
      different LIBO rates, as defined, plus 3.755%. In connection with the yen
      denominated 0.57% notes, TIG entered into a cross-currency swap expiring
      in September 2000, under which TIG will receive a payment of
      Y 10 billion plus accrued interest at a rate of 0.57% and will make
      quarterly U.S. dollar payments based on LIBOR plus 0.60%, as well as a
      final payment at maturity of approximately $89.7 million.

(vii) In June 1998, TIG issued $750 million 6 1/8% notes due 2001, $750 million
      6 3/8% notes due 2005, $750 million 6 1/4% Dealer Remarketable Securities
      ("Drs.") due 2013 and $500 million 7.0% notes due 2028 in a public
      offering. Interest is payable semi-annually in June and December. Under
      the terms of the Drs., the Remarketing Dealer has an option to remarket
      the Drs. in June 2003, which if exercised would subject the Drs. to
      mandatory tender to the Remarketing Dealer and reset the interest rate to
      an adjusted fixed rate until June 2013. If the Remarketing Dealer does not
      exercise its option, then all Drs. are required to be tendered to the
      Company in June 2003. Repayment of amounts outstanding under these debt
      securities are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Tyco (Note 25). The
      net proceeds of approximately $2,744.5 million were ultimately used to
      repay borrowings under TIG's bank credit agreement and uncommitted lines
      of credit. In December 1998, TIG terminated two interest rate swap
      agreements with notional amounts of $650 million each, which were entered
      into in June 1998 with a financial institution to hedge a portion of the
      fixed rate terms of the public notes.

(viii) In October 1998, TIG issued $800 million of debt in a private placement
       offering consisting of two series of restricted notes: $400 million of
       5.875% notes due November 2004 and $400 million of 6.125% notes due
       November 2008. The notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by
       Tyco. The net proceeds of approximately $791.7 million were used to repay
       borrowings under TIG's bank credit agreement. At the same time, TIG also
       entered into an interest rate swap agreement with a notional amount of
       $400 million to hedge the fixed rate terms of the 6.125% notes due 2008.
       Under this agreement, which expires in November 2008, TIG will receive
       payments at a fixed rate of 6.125% and will make floating rate payments
       based on LIBOR. Subsequently, during the third and fourth quarters of
       Fiscal 1999, TIG exchanged all of the $400 million 5.875% private
       placement notes due 2004 and $400 million 6.125% private placement notes
       due 2008 for public notes (Note 25). The form and terms of the public
       notes of each series are identical in all material respects to the form
       and terms of the outstanding private placement notes of the corresponding
       series, except that the public notes are not subject to restrictions on
       transfer under the United States securities laws.


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

4. INDEBTEDNESS (CONTINUED)

 (ix) In October 1998, Raychem issued notes in the amount of $400 million. The
      notes mature on October 15, 2008, and bear interest at a rate of 7.2% per
      annum.

 (x) In March 1998, USSC issued $300 million 7.25% senior notes due March 2008,
     which are not redeemable prior to maturity and require semi-annual interest
     payments. In February 1999, the Company completed a tender offer in which
     $292 million of the $300 million principal amount of the notes outstanding
     were purchased.

 (xi) In January 1999, TIG issued $400 million of its 6.125% notes due 2009 and
      $800 million of its 6.875% notes due 2029 in a public offering. The notes
      are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Tyco (Note 25). The net
      proceeds of approximately $1,173.7 million were used to repay borrowings
      under TIG's bank credit agreement. At the same time, TIG also entered into
      an interest rate swap agreement to hedge the fixed rate terms of the
      $400 million notes due 2009. Under the agreement, which expires in
      January 2009, TIG will receive payments at a fixed rate of 6.125% and will
      make floating rate payments based on an average of three different LIBO
      rates, as defined, plus a spread.

(xii) In July 1995, ADT Operations, Inc. issued $776.3 million aggregate
      principal amount at maturity of its zero coupon subordinated Liquid Yield
      Option Notes ("LYONs") maturing July 2010. The net proceeds of the issue
      amounted to $287.4 million which were used to repay in full all amounts
      outstanding under ADT Operations Inc.'s previous bank credit agreement,
      which was subsequently canceled. The issue price per LYON was $383.09,
      being 38.309% of the principal amount of $1,000 per LYON at maturity,
      reflecting a yield to maturity of 6.5% per annum (computed on a
      semi-annual bond equivalent basis). The discount amortization on the LYONs
      is being charged as interest expense through the consolidated statements
      of operations on a basis linked to the yield to maturity. The LYONs
      discount amortization amounted to $6.0 million in Fiscal 1999,
      $11.0 million in Fiscal 1998 and $15.9 million in Fiscal 1997. Each LYON
      is exchangeable for common shares of the Company at the option of the
      holder at any time prior to maturity, unless previously redeemed or
      otherwise purchased by ADT Operations, Inc., at an exchange rate of 54.352
      common shares per LYON. During Fiscal 1999 and Fiscal 1998, respectively,
      147,418 and 342,752 Notes with carrying values of $72.3 million and
      $155.3 million were exchanged for 8,012,468 and 18,629,198 common shares
      of the Company. Any LYON will be purchased by ADT Operations, Inc., at the
      option of the holder, as of July 2002 for a purchase price per LYON of
      $599.46. At that time, if the holder exercises the option, the Company has
      the right to deliver all or a portion of the purchase price in the form of
      common shares of the Company. Beginning July 2002, the LYONs are
      redeemable for cash at any time at the option of ADT Operations, Inc., in
      whole or in part, at redemption prices equal to the issue price plus
      accrued original issue discount to the date of redemption. The LYONs are
      guaranteed on a subordinated basis by the Company.

(xiii) International bank loans represent term borrowings by AMP from various
       commercial banks. Borrowings are repayable in varying amounts through
       2013. The weighted-average interest rate on all international bank loans
       as of September 30, 1999 and 1998 was 3.9% and 5.0% respectively.

(xiv) The financing lease obligation relates to USSC's European headquarters
      office building and distribution center complex in Elancourt, France. The
      French franc denominated financing lease requires principal amortization
      in varying amounts over the eleven year term of the lease with a balloon
      payment of approximately 42 million French francs ($7 million) at the end
      of the lease. Interest is payable at a rate approximately 1.4% above Paris
      Interbank Offered Rate (PIBOR). The effective interest rate on the
      financing lease debt was approximately 4.0% and 4.55% per annum at
      September 30, 1999 and 1998, respectively.


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

4. INDEBTEDNESS (CONTINUED)

    During Fiscal 1999, the Company also completed a tender offer for its 12.0%
senior subordinated notes due 2005, issued by Graphic Controls, in which all
$75 million principal amount of the notes outstanding were purchased.

    The weighted-average rate of interest on all long-term debt was 6.2%, 6.4%
and 7.2% during Fiscal 1999, Fiscal 1998 and Fiscal 1997, respectively. The
impact of the Company's interest rate swap activities on its weighted-average
borrowing rate was not material in any year. The impact on reported interest
expense was a reduction of $0.9 million, $1.9 million and $0.8 million for
Fiscal 1999, Fiscal 1998 and Fiscal 1997, respectively.

    The aggregate amounts of total debt maturing during the next five years are
as follows (in millions): $1,012.8 in fiscal 2000, $2,777.0 in fiscal 2001,
$1,395.2 in fiscal 2002, $56.2 in fiscal 2003 and $190.8 in fiscal 2004.

5. SALE OF ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE

    The Company has an agreement under which several of its operating
subsidiaries sell a defined pool of trade accounts receivable to a limited
purpose subsidiary of the Company. The subsidiary, a separate corporate entity,
owns all of its assets and sells participating interests in such accounts
receivable to financiers who, in turn, purchase and receive ownership and
security interests in those assets. As collections reduce accounts receivable
included in the pool, the operating subsidiaries sell new receivables to the
limited purpose subsidiary. The limited purpose subsidiary has the risk of
credit loss on the receivables and, accordingly, the full amount of the
allowance for doubtful accounts has been retained on the Consolidated Balance
Sheets. During Fiscal 1999, the availability under the program was increased to
$500 million from $300 million. At September 30, 1999 and 1998, $350 million and
$300 million, respectively, under the program was utilized. The proceeds from
the sales were used to reduce borrowings under uncommitted lines of credit and
are reported as operating cash flows in the Consolidated Statements of Cash
Flows. The proceeds of sale are less than the face amount of accounts receivable
sold, by an amount that approximates the cost that the limited purpose
subsidiary would incur if it were to issue commercial paper backed by these
accounts receivable. The discount from the face amount is accounted for as a
loss on the sale of receivables and has been included in selling, general and
administrative expenses in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Such discount aggregated $15.7 million, $17.3 million, and $10.4 million, or
5.6%, 5.8% and 5.7% of the weighted average balance of the receivables
outstanding, during Fiscal 1999, Fiscal 1998 and Fiscal 1997, respectively. The
operating subsidiaries retain collection and administrative responsibilities for
the participating interests in the defined pool.

6. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

    The Company's financial instruments consist primarily of cash and cash
equivalents, accounts receivable, long-term investments, accounts payable, debt
and derivative financial instruments. The notional amounts of the derivative
financial instruments were as follows:




                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

6. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)

    While it is not the Company's intention to terminate the above derivative
financial instruments, fair values were estimated, based on quotes from brokers
and market rates, which represented the amounts that the Company would receive
or pay if the instruments were terminated at the balance sheet dates. These fair
values indicated that the termination of forward foreign currency exchange
contracts, cross-currency swap agreements, currency options, forward commodity
contracts and interest rate swaps at September 30, 1999 would have resulted in a
$52.7 million loss, a $27.0 million loss, a $0.7 million loss, a $13.0 million
gain and a $66.9 million loss, respectively, and at September 30, 1998 would
have resulted in a $7.6 million loss, a $22.3 million gain, a $1.4 million loss,
a $4.2 million loss and a $13.1 million gain, respectively. At September 30,
1999 and 1998, the book values of derivative financial instruments recorded on
the Consolidated Balance Sheets approximated fair values.

    The fair value of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, long-term
investments and accounts payable approximated book value at September 30, 1999
and 1998. The fair value of debt was approximately $10,120.4 million (book value
of $10,122.2 million) and $6,631.8 million (book value of $6,239.7 million) at
September 30, 1999 and 1998, respectively, based on discounted cash flow
analyses using current interest rates. The Company's financial instruments
present certain market and credit risks; however, concentrations of credit risk
are mitigated as the Company deals with a variety of major banks worldwide and
its accounts receivable are spread among a number of major industries, customers
and geographic areas. None of the Company's financial instruments with
off-balance sheet risk would result in a significant loss to the Company if a
counterparty failed to perform according to the terms of its agreement. The
Company does not require collateral or other security to be furnished by the
counterparties to its financial instruments. The Company does, however, maintain
reserves for potential credit losses on financial instruments, and such losses
have been within management's expectations.

7. INCOME TAXES

    The provision (benefit) for income taxes and the reconciliation between the
notional United States federal income taxes at the statutory rate on
consolidated income (loss) before taxes and the Company's income tax provision
are as follows:




                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

7. INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED)

    The provisions for Fiscal 1999, Fiscal 1998, and Fiscal 1997 included
$258.8 million, $210.5 million and $130.0 million, respectively, for non-U.S.
income taxes. The non-U.S. component of income (loss) before income taxes was
$1,359.4 million, $640.6 million and $(67.5) million for Fiscal 1999, Fiscal
1998, and Fiscal 1997, respectively.

    The deferred income tax balance sheet accounts result from temporary
differences between the amount of assets and liabilities recognized for
financial reporting and tax purposes. The components of the net deferred income
tax asset are as follows:



    As of September 30, 1999, the Company had approximately $370 million of net
operating loss carryforwards in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions. Of these,
$255 million have no expiration, and the remaining $115 million will expire in
future years through 2014. U.S. operating loss carryforwards at September 30,
1999 were approximately $842 million and will expire in future years through
2019. A valuation allowance has been provided for operating loss carryforwards
that are not expected to be utilized.

    In the normal course, the Company and its subsidiaries' income tax returns
are examined by various regulatory tax authorities. In connection with such
examinations, substantial tax deficiencies have been proposed. However, the
Company is contesting such proposed deficiencies, and ultimate resolution of
such matters is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company's
financial position, results of operations or liquidity.


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

8. KEY EMPLOYEE LOAN PROGRAM

    Loans are made to employees of the Company under the Former Tyco 1983 Key
Employee Loan Program for the payment of taxes upon the vesting of shares
granted under Former Tyco's Restricted Stock Ownership Plans. The loans are
unsecured and bear interest, payable annually, at a rate which approximates the
Company's incremental short-term borrowing rate. Loans are generally repayable
in ten years, except that earlier payments are required under certain
circumstances. During Fiscal 1999, the maximum amount outstanding under this
program was $91.6 million. Loans receivable under this program were
$18.6 million and $22.2 million at September 30, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

9. PREFERENCE SHARES

    The Company has authorized 125,000,000 preference shares of $1 each, none of
which were outstanding at September 30, 1999 or 1998. Rights as to dividends,
return of capital, redemption, conversion, voting and otherwise may be
determined by the Company on or before the time of issuance. In the event of the
liquidation of the Company, the holders of any preference shares then
outstanding would be entitled to payment to them of the amount for which the
preference shares were subscribed and any unpaid dividends, prior to any payment
to the common shareholders.

    In November 1996, the Board of Directors of ADT adopted a shareholder rights
plan (the "Plan"). Under the Plan, each common shareholder received a
distribution of rights for each common share held. Each right entitled the
holder to purchase from the Company certain preference shares, or to purchase
from the Company common shares at one half their market value, upon the
occurrence of certain events, including a person becoming the beneficial owner
of 15% or more of the Company's common shares. On August 9, 1999, the Board of
Directors amended the Plan to accelerate the Plan's expiration date to September
30, 1999. The rights granted under the Plan expired on that date.

10. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

    During the last quarter of Fiscal 1999, the Company announced that its Board
of Directors had declared a two-for-one stock split in the form of a 100% stock
dividend on its common shares. The split was payable on October 21, 1999 to
shareholders of record on October 1, 1999. In addition, during the last quarter
of Fiscal 1997, the Board of Directors declared a two-for-one stock split
effected in the form of a 100% stock dividend on the Company's common shares,
which was distributed on October 22, 1997. Per share amounts and share data have
been retroactively adjusted to reflect both stock splits. There was no change in
the par value or the number of authorized shares as a result of these stock
splits.

    During the third quarter of Fiscal 1999, in conjunction with the approval of
the merger with AMP, shareholders approved an increase in the number of
authorized common shares from 1,503,750,000 to 2,500,000,000. During the second
quarter of Fiscal 1998, shareholders approved an increase in the number of
authorized common shares from 750,000,000 to 1,503,750,000.

    In December 1997 the Company filed a shelf registration to enable it to
offer from time to time unsecured debt securities or shares of common stock, or
any combination of the foregoing, at an aggregate initial offering price not to
exceed $2.0 billion. In March 1998, the Company sold 50.6 million common shares
at $25.38 per share. The net proceeds from the sale of approximately
$1,245.0 million were used to repay indebtedness incurred for previous
acquisitions.

    In April 1997, USSC redeemed all of the issued and outstanding shares of its
Series A Convertible Preferred Stock by issuing approximately 12.8 million
shares of common stock. In March and April 1997,


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

10. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (CONTINUED)

Former Tyco sold an aggregate of 46 million shares of common stock at $14.44 per
share. The net proceeds from the sale of $645.2 million were used to repay
indebtedness incurred for previous acquisitions.

    Prior to the merger of ADT with Former Tyco, the shareholders of ADT
approved the consolidating of $0.10 par value common shares into new $0.20 par
value common shares and an increase in the number of authorized common shares to
750,000,000. Per share amounts and per share data have been retroactively
adjusted to reflect the consolidation into new par value shares. Information
with respect to ADT common shares and options has been retroactively restated in
connection with the merger on July 2, 1997 to reflect the reverse stock split in
the ratio of 0.48133 share (1.92532 after giving effect to the subsequent stock
splits) of ADT for each share or option outstanding and the issuance of one
share (four shares after giving effect to the subsequent stock splits) for each
share of the Former Tyco outstanding (see Note 2). Information with respect to
Keystone, Inbrand, USSC and AMP common shares and options has been retroactively
restated in connection with their mergers with Tyco to reflect their applicable
merger per share exchange ratios of 0.48726, 0.43, 0.7606 and 0.7507,
respectively (1.94904, 1.72, 1.5212 and 1.5014, respectively, after giving
effect to the subsequent stock splits).

    The total compensation cost expensed for all stock-based compensation awards
discussed below was $96.9 million, $37.1 million and $59.9 million for Fiscal
1999, Fiscal 1998 and Fiscal 1997, respectively.

    RESTRICTED STOCK--The Company maintains a restricted stock ownership plan,
which provides for the award of an initial amount of common shares plus an
amount equal to one-half of one percent of the total shares outstanding at the
beginning of each fiscal year. At September 30, 1999, there were 22,946,562
shares authorized under the plan, of which 8,191,800 shares had been granted.
Common shares are awarded subject to certain restrictions with vesting varying
over periods of up to ten years.

    For grants which vest based on certain specified performance criteria, the
fair market value of the shares at the date of vesting is expensed over the
period the performance criteria are measured. For grants that vest through
passage of time, the fair market value of the shares at the time of the grant is
amortized (net of tax benefit) to expense over the period of vesting. The
unamortized portion of deferred compensation expense is recorded as a reduction
of shareholders' equity. Recipients of all restricted shares have the right to
vote such shares and receive dividends. Income tax benefits resulting from the
vesting of restricted shares, including a deduction for the excess, if any, of
the fair market value of restricted shares at the time of vesting over their
fair market value at the time of the grants and from the payment of dividends on
unvested shares, are credited to contributed surplus.

    EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN--Substantially all full-time employees of the
Company's U.S. subsidiaries and employees of certain qualified non-U.S.
subsidiaries are eligible to participate in an employee stock purchase plan.
Eligible employees authorize payroll deductions to be made for the purchase of
shares. The Company matches a portion of the employee contribution by
contributing an additional 15% of the employee's payroll deduction. All shares
purchased under the plan are purchased on the open market by a designated
broker.

    STOCK OPTIONS--The Company has granted employee share options which were
issued under five fixed share option plans and schemes which reserve common
shares for issuance to the Company's directors, executives and managers. The
majority of options have been granted under the Tyco International Ltd. Long
Term Incentive Plan (formerly known as the ADT 1993 Long-Term Incentive
Plan--the "Incentive Plan"). The Incentive Plan is administered by the
Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company, which consists
exclusively of independent directors of the Company. Options are generally


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

10. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (CONTINUED)

granted to purchase common shares at prices which are equal to or greater than
the market price of the common shares on the date the option is granted.
Conditions of vesting are determined at the time of grant. Certain options have
been granted in prior years in which participants were required to pay a
subscription price as a condition of vesting. Options which have been granted
under the Incentive Plan to date have generally vested and become exercisable
over periods of up to five years from the date of grant and have a maximum term
of ten years. The Company has reserved 140.0 million common shares for issuance
under the Incentive Plan. Awards which the Company becomes obligated to make
through the assumption of, or in substitution for, outstanding awards previously
granted by an acquired company are assumed and administered under the Incentive
Plan but do not count against this limit. At September 30, 1999, there were
approximately 46.2 million shares available for future grant under the Incentive
Plan. During October 1998, a broad-based option plan for non-officer employees,
the Tyco Long-Term Incentive Plan II ("LTIP II"), was approved by the Board of
Directors. The Company has reserved 50.0 million common shares for issuance
under the LTIP II. The terms and conditions of this plan are similar to the
Incentive Plan. At September 30, 1999, there were approximately 35.9 million
shares available for future grant under the LTIP II.

    In connection with the acquisitions of Raychem in Fiscal 1999 and CIPE S.A.
and Holmes Protection in Fiscal 1998, options outstanding under the respective
stock option plans of these companies were assumed under the Incentive Plan. In
connection with the mergers occurring in Fiscal 1999 and Fiscal 1997 (see Note
2), all of the options outstanding under the Former Tyco, Keystone, Inbrand,
USSC and AMP stock option plans were assumed under the Incentive Plan. These
options are administered under the Incentive Plan but retain all of the rights,
terms and conditions of the respective plans under which they were originally
granted.

    Share option activity for all plans since January 1, 1997 has been as
follows:




                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

10. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (CONTINUED)

    The following table summarizes information about outstanding and exercisable
options at September 30, 1999:



    As a result of the merger with USSC, approximately 14.2 million options
which were not previously exercisable became immediately exercisable on October
1, 1998. Upon consummation of the merger with AMP on April 2, 1999,
approximately 7.8 million options became immediately exercisable due to the
change in ownership of AMP resulting from the merger.

    STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION--SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation" ("SFAS 123") allows companies to measure compensation cost in
connection with executive share option plans and schemes using a fair value
based method, or to continue to use an intrinsic value based method which
generally does not result in a compensation cost. The Company has decided to
continue to use the intrinsic value based method and does not recognize
compensation expense for the issuance of options with an exercise price equal to
or greater than the market price at the time of grant. Had the fair value based
method been adopted consistent with the provisions of SFAS 123, the Company's
pro forma net income (loss) and pro forma net income (loss) per common share for
Fiscal 1999, Fiscal 1998 and Fiscal 1997 would have been as follows:




                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

10. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (CONTINUED)

    The estimated weighted average fair value of Tyco and AMP options granted
during Fiscal 1999 was $12.13 and $7.11, respectively, on the date of grant
using the option-pricing model and assumptions referred to below. The estimated
weighted average fair value of Tyco, USSC and AMP options granted during Fiscal
1998 was $8.24, $6.79 and $5.98, respectively, on the date of grant using the
option-pricing model and assumptions referred to below. The estimated weighted
average fair value of Tyco, Former Tyco, Inbrand, USSC and AMP options granted
during Fiscal 1997 was $6.08, $4.78, $18.59, $7.15 and $9.27, respectively, on
the date of grant using the option-pricing model and assumptions referred to
below. There were no stock option grants for Keystone in Fiscal 1997.

    The fair value of each option grant was estimated on the date of grant using
the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The following weighted average
assumptions were used for Fiscal 1999:



    The following weighted average assumptions were used for Fiscal 1998:



    The following weighted average assumptions were used for Fiscal 1997:



    The effects of applying SFAS 123 in this pro forma disclosure are not
indicative of what the effects may be in future years. SFAS 123 does not apply
to awards prior to 1995 and additional awards in future years are anticipated.

    STOCK WARRANTS--During 1999 the Company had outstanding warrants to purchase
common stock at per share exercise prices of $1.49 (the "A Warrants") and $1.99
(the "B Warrants"), respectively (together, the "Warrants"). The Warrants
expired on July 7, 1999, at which time 6,960 A Warrants and 4,638 B Warrants
remaining outstanding were forfeited. During Fiscal 1999, 175,464 A Warrants and
128,494 B Warrants were exercised. During Fiscal 1998, 62,794 A Warrants and
29,078 B Warrants were exercised. During Fiscal 1997, 73,064 A Warrants and
50,000 B Warrants were exercised.


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

10. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (CONTINUED)

    In July 1996, as part of an agreement to combine with Republic
Industries, Inc. ("Republic"), ADT granted to Republic a warrant (the "Republic
Warrant") to acquire 28,879,800 common shares of the Company at an exercise
price of $10.39 per common share. Following termination of the agreement to
combine with Republic, the Republic Warrant vested and was exercisable by
Republic in the six month period commencing September 27, 1996. In March 1997,
the Republic Warrant was exercised by Republic, and the Company received
$300 million in cash.

    TREASURY SHARES--From time to time the Company, through its subsidiaries,
purchases shares in the open market to satisfy certain stock-based compensation
arrangements. Such treasury shares are recorded at cost in the Consolidated
Balance Sheets. During Fiscal 1998, certain executives sold approximately
5.2 million common shares to the Company at the shares' then fair market value.
The executives used the after-tax proceeds from this sale primarily to repay
loans that the Company had made to the executives for the payment of taxes that
were due on the vesting of grants to the executives of shares of restricted
stock.

    DIVIDENDS--Tyco has paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.0125 per common
share since July 1997. Prior to the merger with ADT, Former Tyco paid a
quarterly cash dividend of $0.0125 in Fiscal 1997. ADT paid no dividends on its
common shares in Fiscal 1997. USSC paid quarterly dividends of $0.04 per share
in Fiscal 1998 and Fiscal 1997. AMP paid dividends of $0.27 per share in the
first two quarters of Fiscal 1999, $0.26 per share in the first quarter of
Fiscal 1998, $0.27 per share in the last three quarters of Fiscal 1998 and $0.26
per share in each of the three quarters in Fiscal 1997.

11. COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

    During the first quarter of Fiscal 1999, the Company adopted Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive
Income." SFAS No. 130 establishes standards for the reporting and display of
comprehensive income (loss) and its components in financial statements. The
purpose of reporting comprehensive income (loss) is to report a measure of all
changes in equity, other than transactions with shareholders. Total
comprehensive income (loss) is included in the Consolidated Statements of
Shareholders' Equity, and the components of accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss) are as follows:




                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

11. COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (CONTINUED)

    Certain prior year amounts within shareholders' equity have been
reclassified as accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to comply with the
reporting requirements of SFAS No. 130.

12. CHARGE FOR THE IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS

    Charges for the impairment of long-lived assets are as follows:



    Effective January 1, 1996, the Company adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived
Assets and Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of" ("SFAS 121"). SFAS 121 requires
the recoverability of the carrying value of long-lived assets, primarily
property, plant and equipment and related goodwill and other intangible assets,
to be reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be fully recoverable.
Under SFAS 121 impairment losses are recognized when expected future cash flows
are less than the assets' carrying value. When indicators of impairment are
present, the carrying values of the assets are evaluated in relation to the
operating performance and future undiscounted cash flows of the underlying
business. The net book value of the underlying assets is adjusted to fair value
if the sum of expected future undiscounted cash flows is less than book value.
Fair values are based on quoted market prices and assumptions concerning the
amount and timing of estimated future cash flows and assumed discount rates,
reflecting varying degrees of perceived risk.

    1999 CHARGES

    The Telecommunications and Electronics segment recorded a charge of
$259.0 million in Fiscal 1999, which includes $198.2 million related to the
write-down of property, plant and equipment, primarily manufacturing and
administrative facilities, associated with AMP's worldwide operations and the
combination of facilities as a result of its merger with the Company. It also
includes an impairment in the value of goodwill and other intangibles of
$60.8 million resulting from the combination of AMP's electronics business with
that of the Company and AMP's existing profit improvement plan.

    The Healthcare and Specialty Products segment recorded a charge of
$76.0 million in Fiscal 1999 primarily relating to the write-down of property,
plant and equipment, principally administrative facilities, associated with the
consolidation of facilities in USSC's operations in the United States and Europe
as a result of its merger with the Company.

    1997 CHARGES

    The Fire and Security Services segment recorded a charge of $118.8 million
in Fiscal 1997, which includes $98.8 million related to subscriber security
systems installed at customers' premises in the United States and Canada,
determined following a review of the carrying value of the assets. It also
includes an impairment in the carrying value of goodwill of $20.0 million
resulting from the combination of ADT's electronic security business with that
of Former Tyco.


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

12. CHARGE FOR THE IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS (CONTINUED)

    The Flow Control Products segment recorded a charge of $29.6 million in
Fiscal 1997 reflecting an impairment in the carrying value of goodwill resulting
from the combination of Keystone's valve manufacturing and distribution business
with that of Former Tyco.

13. EXTRAORDINARY ITEMS

    The extraordinary item in Fiscal 1999 of $45.7 million, net of tax benefit
of $18.0 million, primarily relates to the write-off of net unamortized deferred
financing costs related to the Company's debt tender offers (Note 4). The
extraordinary item in Fiscal 1998 of $2.4 million, net of tax benefit of
$1.2 million, was the write-off of unamortized deferred financing costs related
to the LYONs (Note 4). During Fiscal 1997 the Company reacquired in the market
certain of its long-term debt which was financed from cash on hand and
borrowings under the Company's credit agreements. The extraordinary items in
Fiscal 1997 of $58.3 million, net of tax benefit of $33.0 million, included the
loss resulting from the reacquisition of these notes, and the write-off of
unamortized deferred refinancing costs and other related fees.

14. CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF ACCOUNTING CHANGES

    The cumulative effect of accounting changes during Fiscal 1997 of
$15.5 million, net of tax of $7.4 million, related to AMP changing the
accounting practices used to develop inventory costs, including standardizing
globally the definition of capacity used in determining overhead rates and
changing its inventory costing methodology to include manufacturing engineering
costs in inventory costs.

15. EARNINGS (LOSS) PER COMMON SHARE

    During the first quarter of Fiscal 1998, the Company adopted SFAS No. 128,
"Earnings Per Share." SFAS No. 128 specifies the computation, presentation and
disclosure requirements for earnings per share and is substantially similar to
the standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Committee
entitled "International Accounting Standards Earnings Per Share." Prior period
earnings per common share data have been restated in accordance with the
provisions of this statement.

    The reconciliations between basic and diluted earnings (loss) per common
share are as follows:



    The computation of diluted income per common share in Fiscal 1999 and Fiscal
1998 excludes the effect of the assumed exercise of approximately 3.1 million
and 23.8 million stock options, respectively, that were outstanding as of
September 30, 1999 and 1998, because the effect would be anti-dilutive. The


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

15. EARNINGS (LOSS) PER COMMON SHARE (CONTINUED)

effect on diluted loss per common share in Fiscal 1997 resulting from the
assumed exercise of all outstanding stock options and warrants and the exchange
of outstanding LYONs is anti-dilutive.

16. MERGER, RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER NON-RECURRING CHARGES

    Merger, restructuring and other non-recurring charges are as follows:



- ------------------------

(i) Includes $78.9 million related to the write-down of inventory which is
    included in cost of sales.

    1999 CHARGES

    The Telecommunications and Electronics segment recorded merger,
restructuring and other non-recurring charges of $841.8 million primarily
related to the merger with AMP and costs associated with AMP's profit
improvement plan. The following table provides information about these charges
($ in millions):



    The cost of announced workforce reductions of $433.7 million includes the
elimination of 8,585 positions in the United States, 4,216 positions in Europe,
2,019 positions in the Asia-Pacific region and 1,319 positions in Canada and
Latin America, consisting primarily of manufacturing and distribution,
administrative, research and development and sales and marketing personnel.
Included in the severance charges of $433.7 million are enhanced pension and
other post-retirement benefit costs of $136.2 million provided to terminated
employees. The cost of facility closures of $171.2 million includes the
shut-down and consolidation of 60 facilities in the United States, 16 facilities
in Europe, 6 facilities in the Asia-Pacific region and 5 facilities in Canada
and Latin America, consisting primarily of manufacturing plants, distribution
centers, administrative buildings, research and development facilities and sales
offices. At September 30, 1999, 8,410 employees had been terminated and 45
facilities had been shut down.

    The other charges of $236.9 million consist of transaction costs of $67.9
million for legal, printing, accounting, financial advisory services and other
direct expenses related to the AMP merger; $78.9 million related to the
write-down of inventory used in AMP's operations which is included in cost of
sales; lease termination costs following the merger of $9.6 million; a credit of
$50.0 million related to a litigation


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

16. MERGER, RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER NON-RECURRING CHARGES (CONTINUED)

settlement with AlliedSignal Inc. (Note 26); and other costs of $130.5 million
relating to the consolidation of certain product lines and other non-recurring
changes related to the AMP merger.

    The remaining balance at September 30, 1999 of $277.9 million consists of
$232.0 million in other current liabilities and $45.9 million in other
non-current liabilities. The Company currently anticipates that the
restructuring and other non-recurring activities to which all of these charges
relate will be substantially completed within Fiscal 2000, except for certain
long-term contractual obligations.

    The Healthcare and Specialty Products segment recorded merger, restructuring
and other non-recurring charges of $431.4 million, consisting of a
$434.9 million charge primarily related to the merger with USSC and a
$3.5 million credit representing a revision of estimates related to Tyco's 1997
restructuring/non-recurring accruals discussed below. The following table
provides information about these charges ($ in millions):



    The cost of announced workforce reductions of $124.8 million includes the
elimination of 932 positions in the United States, 470 positions in Europe, 34
positions in Canada and Latin America and 31 positions in the Asia-Pacific
region, consisting primarily of manufacturing and distribution, sales and
marketing, administrative and research and development personnel. The cost of
facility closures of $51.8 million includes the shut-down and consolidation of
25 facilities in Europe, 9 facilities in the United States, 8 facilities in the
Asia-Pacific region and 3 facilities in Canada and Latin America, consisting
primarily of manufacturing plants, distribution centers, sales offices,
administrative buildings and research and development facilities. At
September 30, 1999, 1,282 employees had been terminated and 20 facilities had
been shut down.

    The other charges of $258.3 million consist of transaction costs of
$53.3 million for legal, printing, accounting, financial advisory services and
other direct expenses related to the USSC merger, lease termination costs
following the merger of $156.8 million and other costs of $48.2 million relating
to the consolidation of certain product lines and other non-recurring charges
primarily related to the USSC merger.

    The remaining balance at September 30, 1999 of $99.7 million is included in
other current liabilities. The Company currently anticipates that the
restructuring and other non-recurring activities to which all of these charges
relate will be substantially completed within Fiscal 2000, except for certain
long-term contractual obligations.

    The Company recorded a credit of $15.0 million, including $11.5 million in
the Fire and Security Services segment and $3.5 million in the Healthcare and
Specialty Products segment referred to above, representing a revision of
estimates related to Tyco's 1997 restructuring and other non-recurring accruals.
Most of the actions under Tyco's 1997 restructuring and other non-recurring
plans are completed or near completion and have resulted in total estimated
costs being less than originally anticipated.


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

16. MERGER, RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER NON-RECURRING CHARGES (CONTINUED)

    1998 CHARGES

    During the fourth quarter of Fiscal 1998, AMP recorded charges of
$185.8 million associated with its profit improvement plan, which includes the
reduction of support staff throughout all its business units and the
consolidation of manufacturing plants and other facilities, in addition to
certain sales growth initiatives. These charges include the cost of staff
reductions of $172.1 million involving the voluntary retirement and involuntary
termination of approximately 2,700 staff support personnel and 700 direct
manufacturing employees, and the cost of consolidation of certain facilities of
$13.7 million relating to six plant and facility closures and consolidations. At
September 30, 1999, these restructuring activities were substantially completed.
See Note 18 for discussion of the voluntary early retirement program.

    During the first quarter of Fiscal 1998, AMP recorded a credit of
$21.4 million to merger, restructuring and other non-recurring charges
representing a revision of estimates related to its 1996 restructuring
activities, which were completed in Fiscal 1998.

    During the fourth quarter of Fiscal 1998, USSC recorded certain charges of
$80.5 million. These charges include $70.9 million of costs to exit certain
businesses representing the write down of assets from earlier purchases of
technology that had minimal commercial application and the adjustment to net
realizable value of certain assets. In addition, merger costs of $9.6 million
were recorded that represent legal and insurance costs related to the merger
consummated in the first quarter of Fiscal 1999. During the first quarter of
Fiscal 1998, USSC recorded restructuring charges of $12.0 million related to
employee severance costs, facility disposals and asset write-downs as part of
USSC's cost cutting program. USSC substantially completed its 1998 restructuring
activities during Fiscal 1999.

    1997 CHARGES

    In connection with the mergers consummated in Fiscal 1997 (Note 2), the
Company recorded merger, restructuring and other non-recurring charges of
$917.8 million. These charges include transaction costs of $239.8 million for
legal, accounting, financial advisory services, severance and other direct costs
related to the mergers. Also included are costs required to combine ADT's
electronic security business, Keystone's valve manufacturing and distribution
business and Inbrand's disposable medical products business with the related
businesses of Former Tyco. These costs consist of the cost of workforce
reductions of $130.3 million including the elimination of approximately 4,000
positions; the costs of combining certain facilities of $194.2 million involving
the closure of 18 manufacturing facilities and the consolidation of sales and
service offices, electronic security system monitoring centers, warehouses and
other locations; the costs of disposing of excess equipment and other assets of
$133.5 million; and other costs of $220.0 million relating to the consolidation
of certain product lines, the satisfaction of certain liabilities and other
non-recurring charges. Approximately $34.6 million of accrued merger and
restructuring costs are included in other current liabilities and $41.1 million
in other noncurrent liabilities at September 30, 1999. These restructurings are
substantially complete. The remaining accruals primarily relate to future
payments on non-cancellable lease obligations.

    During Fiscal 1997, USSC recorded restructuring charges of $5.8 million
related primarily to employee severance costs associated with the consolidation
of manufacturing and certain marketing operations, which was substantially
completed during Fiscal 1998. USSC also recorded charges of $24.3 million during
Fiscal 1997 for litigation and other related costs relative to patent
infringement litigation, which was settled as of September 30, 1999.


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

17. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

    The Company occupies certain facilities under leases that expire at various
dates through the year 2030. Rental expense under these leases and leases for
equipment was $381.0 million, $331.7 million and $242.9 million for Fiscal 1999,
Fiscal 1998 and Fiscal 1997, respectively. At September 30, 1999, the minimum
lease payment obligations under noncancelable operating leases were as follows:
$405.3 million in Fiscal 2000, $211.6 million in fiscal 2001, $151.3 million in
fiscal 2002, $117.3 million in fiscal 2003, $82.6 million in fiscal 2004 and an
aggregate of $347.9 million in fiscal years 2005 through 2030.

    In the normal course of business, the Company is liable for contract
completion and product performance. In the opinion of management, such
obligations will not significantly affect the Company's financial position or
results of operations.

    The Company is involved in various stages of investigation and cleanup
related to environmental remediation matters at a number of sites. The ultimate
cost of site cleanup is difficult to predict given the uncertainties regarding
the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and
regulations and alternative cleanup methods. Based upon the Company's experience
with environmental remediation matters, the Company has concluded that there is
at least a reasonable possibility that remedial costs will be incurred with
respect to these sites in an aggregate amount in the range of $35.6 million to
$124.8 million. At September 30, 1999, the Company has concluded that the most
probable amount that will be incurred within this range is $53.7 million,
$29.4 million of such amount is included in accrued expenses and other current
liabilities and $24.3 million is included in other long-term liabilities in the
Consolidated Balance Sheet. Based upon information available to the Company, at
those sites where there has been an allocation of the liability for cleanup
costs among a number of parties, including the Company, and such liability could
be joint and several, management believes it is probable that other responsible
parties will fully pay the cost allocated to them, except with respect to one
site for which the Company has assumed that one of the identified responsible
parties will be unable to pay the cost apportioned to it and that such party's
cost will be reapportioned among the remaining responsible parties. In view of
the Company's financial position and reserves for environmental matters of
$53.7 million, the Company has concluded that its payment of such estimated
amounts will not have a material effect on its financial position, results of
operations or liquidity.

    The Company is a defendant in a number of other pending legal proceedings
incidental to present and former operations, acquisitions and dispositions. The
Company does not expect the outcome of these proceedings, either individually or
in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on its financial position,
results of operations or liquidity.

18. RETIREMENT PLANS

    The Company adopted SFAS No. 132, "Employers' Disclosures about Pensions and
other Postretirement Benefits," which revises financial statement disclosure
requirements for pension and other postretirement benefit plans but does not
change the measurement or recognition of those plans.

    DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION PLANS--The Company has a number of noncontributory
and contributory defined benefit retirement plans covering certain of its U.S.
and non-U.S. employees, designed in accordance with conditions and practices in
the countries concerned. Contributions are based on periodic actuarial
valuations which use the projected unit credit method of calculation and are
charged to the consolidated statements of operations on a systematic basis over
the expected average remaining service lives of current employees. The net
pension expense is assessed in accordance with the advice of


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

18. RETIREMENT PLANS (CONTINUED)

professionally qualified actuaries in the countries concerned or is based on
subsequent formal reviews for the purpose. The Company's funding policy is to
make annual contributions to the extent such contributions are tax deductible as
actuarially determined. The benefits under the defined benefit plans are based
on years of service and compensation.

    VOLUNTARY EARLY RETIREMENT PROGRAMS--In the fourth quarter of Fiscal 1998,
AMP offered enhanced retirement benefits to targeted groups of employees. The
cost of these benefits totaled $138.3 million and was recorded as part of AMP's
fourth quarter restructuring charge. This amount has not been included in the
determination of net periodic pension cost presented below. The net periodic
pension (income) cost for all U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans
includes the following components:





    The curtailment/settlement gains in Fiscal 1999 relate primarily to the
termination of employees at AMP and the freezing of AMP's pension plan. The
curtailment/settlement gains in Fiscal 1998 relate primarily to the freezing of
the ADT pension plan. These curtailment/settlement gains have been recorded in
selling, general and administrative expenses.


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

18. RETIREMENT PLANS (CONTINUED)

    The net pension cost recognized at September 30, 1999 and 1998 for all U.S.
and non-U.S. defined benefit plans is as follows:




                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

18. RETIREMENT PLANS (CONTINUED)





    The projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation, and fair
value of plan assets for U.S. pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations
in excess of plan assets were $186.7 million, $173.4 million and
$130.7 million, respectively, as of September 30, 1999 and $767.4 million,
$643.7 million and $558.0 million, respectively, as of September 30, 1998.

    The projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation, and fair
value of plan assets for non-U.S. pension plans with accumulated benefit
obligations in excess of plan assets were $563.5 million, $517.1 million and
$314.6 million, respectively, as of September 30, 1999 and $430.9 million,
$396.0 million and $265.4 million, respectively, as of September 30, 1998.

    The Company also participates in a number of multi-employer defined benefit
plans on behalf of certain employees. Pension expense related to multi-employer
plans was $7.5 million, $1.7 million and $1.5 million for Fiscal 1999, Fiscal
1998 and Fiscal 1997, respectively.

    DEFINED CONTRIBUTION RETIREMENT PLANS--The Company maintains several defined
contribution retirement plans, which include 401(k) matching programs, as well
as qualified and nonqualified profit sharing and stock bonus retirement plans.
Pension expense for the defined contribution plans is computed as a percentage
of participants' compensation and was $73.2 million, $57.1 million and
$43.1 million for Fiscal 1999, Fiscal 1998 and Fiscal 1997, respectively. The
Company also maintains an unfunded Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan
("SERP"). This plan is nonqualified and restores the employer match that certain
employees lose due to IRS limits on eligible compensation under the defined
contribution plans. Expense related to the SERP was $6.9 million, $3.7 million
and $2.2 million in Fiscal 1999, Fiscal 1998 and Fiscal 1997, respectively.

    POST-RETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS--The Company generally does not provide
post-retirement benefits other than pensions for its employees. Certain of
Former Tyco's acquired operations provide these benefits to employees who were
eligible at the date of acquisition. In addition, ADT's electronic security
services operation in the United States sponsors an unfunded defined benefit
post-retirement plan which covers both salaried and non-salaried employees and
which provides medical and other benefits. This post-retirement health care plan
is contributory, with retiree contributions adjusted annually. The


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

18. RETIREMENT PLANS (CONTINUED)

Company recorded a gain of $8.8 million related to the curtailment of this plan
in Fiscal 1998 which was included in selling, general and administrative
expenses.

    AMP provides post-retirement health care coverage to qualifying U.S.
retirees. As a result of the merger with Tyco, a $13.7 million adjustment was
recorded to conform AMP's accounting method for post-retirement benefits to
Tyco's method, regarding the initial recognition of such benefits upon adoption
of SFAS No. 106 "Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than
Pensions."

    In the second quarter of Fiscal 1999, AMP offered enhanced post-retirement
benefits to terminated employees totaling $16.0 million, which was recorded as
part of AMP's second quarter restructuring charge. This amount has not been
included in the determination of net periodic benefit cost presented below.

    Net periodic post-retirement benefit cost reflects the following components:



    The components of the accrued post-retirement benefit obligation, all of
which are unfunded, are as follows:




                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

18. RETIREMENT PLANS (CONTINUED)

    For measurement purposes, in Fiscal 1999, a 8.5% composite annual rate of
increase in the per capita cost of covered health care benefits was assumed. The
rate was assumed to decrease gradually to 4.75% by the year 2008 and remain at
that level thereafter. The health care cost trend rate assumption may have a
significant effect on the amounts reported. A one-percentage-point change in
assumed healthcare cost trend rates would have the following effects:



    The combined weighted average discount rate used in determining the
accumulated post-retirement benefit obligation was 7.75% at September 30, 1999
(6.75% at September 30, 1998).

19. CONSOLIDATED SEGMENT DATA

    The Company has adopted SFAS No. 131, "Disclosures about Segments of an
Enterprise and Related Information," which establishes standards for the way
companies report information about operating segments. The Company's reportable
segments are strategic business units that offer different products and services
and are managed separately. Segment data has been presented on a basis
consistent with how business activities are reported internally to management.
Prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with SFAS No. 131. The
primary change relates to certain Flow Control Products business lines which
were previously included in the Telecommunications and Electronics and Fire and
Security Services segments. Certain corporate expenses were allocated to each
operating segment's operating income (loss), based generally on net sales and
other factors. For additional information, including a description of the
products and services included in each segment, see Note 1.

    Selected information by industry segment is presented below.




                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

19. CONSOLIDATED SEGMENT DATA (CONTINUED)



- ------------------------

(1) Includes merger, restructuring and other non-recurring charges of
    $841.8 million, of which $78.9 million is included in cost of sales, and
    charges for the impairment of long-lived assets of $259.0 million primarily
    related to the merger with AMP and AMP's profit improvement plan.


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

19. CONSOLIDATED SEGMENT DATA (CONTINUED)

(2) Includes merger, restructuring and other non-recurring charges of
    $434.9 million and charges for the impairment of long-lived assets of
    $76.0 million, primarily related to the merger with USSC, and a credit of
    $3.5 million representing a revision of estimates related to Tyco's 1997
    restructuring and other non-recurring accruals.

(3) Includes a credit of $11.5 million representing a revision of estimates
    related to Tyco's 1997 restructuring and other non-recurring accruals.

(4) Includes restructuring and other non-recurring charges recorded by AMP of
    $185.8 million related to its profit improvement plan and a credit of
    $21.4 million to restructuring charges representing a revision of estimates
    related to AMP's 1996 restructuring activities.

(5) Includes non-recurring charges of $80.5 million primarily related to
    business exit costs and restructuring charges of $12.0 million related to
    USSC's operations.

(6) Includes a charge of $361.0 million related to the write-off of purchased
    research and development costs in connection with an acquisition.

(7) Includes charges of $131.3 million related to merger, restructuring and
    other non-recurring charges in connection with the Inbrand merger and
    $24.3 million for litigation and other related costs and $5.8 million for
    restructuring charges in USSC's operations.

(8) Includes charges of $530.3 million related to merger, restructuring and
    other non-recurring charges and $118.8 million related to the impairment of
    long-lived assets in connection with the merger of ADT and Former Tyco.

(9) Includes charges of $256.2 million related to merger, restructuring and
    other non-recurring charges and $29.6 million related to the impairment of
    long-lived assets in connection with the Keystone merger.

(10) Excludes $234.0 million related to the purchase of leased property in
    connection with the merger with USSC.


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

20. CONSOLIDATED GEOGRAPHIC DATA

    Selected information by geographic area is presented below.



21. SUPPLEMENTARY BALANCE SHEET INFORMATION

    Selected supplementary balance sheet information is presented below.




                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

22. SUPPLEMENTARY INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION

    Selected supplementary income statement information is presented below.



(i) The decrease in research and development expenses during Fiscal 1999 as
    compared to Fiscal 1998 was due to the exiting of certain research projects
    of non-core businesses at USSC, as well as the consolidation or closing of
    selected research and development facilities of AMP and USSC in connection
    with their integration into the Company during Fiscal 1999.

23. COMPARATIVE RESULTS (UNAUDITED)

    The change in year end resulted in Fiscal 1997 covering the nine month
period ended September 30, 1997. The following unaudited financial information
for the twelve months ended September 30, 1997 is presented to provide
comparative results to those for Fiscal 1998 included in the Consolidated
Statement of Operations.




                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

24. SUMMARIZED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

    Summarized quarterly financial data is presented below.





- ------------------------
(1) Includes merger, restructuring and other non-recurring charges of
    $434.9 million and charges for the impairment of long-lived assets of
    $76.0 million, primarily related to the merger with USSC, and restructuring
    and other non-recurring charges of $182.1 million, of which $13.3 million is
    included in cost of sales, related to AMP's profit improvement plan.

(2) Includes restructuring and other non-recurring charges of $262.3 million, of
    which $25.0 million is included in cost of sales, and charges for the
    impairment of long-lived assets of $67.6 million related to AMP's profit
    improvement plan.

(3) Includes merger, restructuring and other non-recurring charges of
    $397.4 million, of which $40.6 million is included in cost of sales, and
    charges for the impairment of long-lived assets of $191.4 million, related
    to the merger with AMP and AMP's profit improvement plan. Also includes a
    credit of


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

24. SUMMARIZED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED) (CONTINUED)

    $15.0 million representing a revision of estimates related to Tyco's 1997
    restructuring and other non-recurring accruals.

(4) Includes charges of $12.0 million for restructuring charges in USSC's
    operations and a $21.4 million credit to restructuring charges representing
    a revision of estimates related to AMP's 1996 restructuring activities.

(5) Includes non-recurring charges of $80.5 million primarily related to
    business exit costs in USSC's operations and charges of $185.8 million
    related to AMP's profit improvement plan.

(6) Extraordinary items relate principally to the Company's debt tender offers
    and the write off of net unamortized deferred refinancing costs relating to
    the early extinguishment of debt.

25. TYCO INTERNATIONAL GROUP S.A.

    Tyco International Group S.A. ("TIG"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
Company, indirectly owns a substantial portion of the operating subsidiaries of
the Company. During Fiscal 1999 and Fiscal 1998, TIG issued public debt
securities (Note 4) which are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the
Company. The Company has not included separate financial statements and
footnotes for TIG because of the full and unconditional guarantee by the Company
and the Company's belief that such information is not material to holders of the
debt securities. The following presents unaudited consolidated summary financial
information for TIG and its subsidiaries, as if TIG and its current
organizational structure were in place for all periods presented.





- ------------------------
(1) Income before extraordinary items in Fiscal 1999 includes a credit of
    $15.0 million representing a revision of estimates related to Tyco's 1997
    restructuring and other non-recurring accruals, and merger, restructuring
    and other non-recurring charges of $434.9 million and charges for the
    impairment of long-lived assets of $76.0 million, primarily related to the
    USSC merger.

(2) Income before extraordinary items in Fiscal 1998 includes non-recurring
    charges of $80.5 million and restructuring charges of $12.0 million related
    to USSC's operations.

(3) Loss before extraordinary items in Fiscal 1997 includes charges related to
    merger, restructuring and other non-recurring costs of $816.8 million and
    impairment of long-lived assets of $148.4 million,


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

25. TYCO INTERNATIONAL GROUP S.A. (CONTINUED)

    primarily related to the mergers and integration of ADT, Former Tyco,
    Keystone and Inbrand. Fiscal 1997 also includes a charge of $361.0 million
    for the write-off of purchased in-process research and development costs and
    charges of $24.3 million for litigation and other related costs, and
    $5.8 million for restructuring charges related to USSC's operations.

(4) Extraordinary items relate principally to the Company's debt tender offers
    and the write-off of net unamortized deferred refinancing costs relating to
    the early extinguishment of debt.

26. UNSOLICITED TENDER OFFER AND DEFENSE

    In August 1998, AlliedSignal Inc. announced its intention to commence an
offer to purchase all outstanding shares of AMP's common stock. This offer was
rejected by the Board of Directors of AMP. AlliedSignal's offer was then amended
twice in September 1998 to reduce the number of shares sought to be purchased.
AMP incurred $15.9 million in fees in defending against AlliedSignal's bid,
relating primarily to legal, public relations and financial consulting costs. In
April 1999, AlliedSignal converted its AMP stock into Tyco common shares and
reached a settlement with Tyco and AMP, under which AlliedSignal paid
$50 million to AMP, and all parties released all claims against each other
related to AMP. This amount was recorded as a credit in the merger,
restructuring and other non-recurring charges line in the Consolidated Statement
of Operations for Fiscal 1999. See Note 16.

    In addition, in September 1998, AMP's Board of Directors authorized the
establishment of a Flexitrust, a grantor trust, to hold shares of AMP's common
stock. AMP expected to sell to the Flexitrust an aggregate of 25 million
authorized but unissued shares of common stock. AMP also announced its intention
to commence a self-tender offer for 30 million shares of its common stock. AMP
estimated that the total funds required to complete the self-tender would have
been approximately $1.7 billion, which AMP intended to source from a proposed
$2.6 billion credit facility.

    In November 1998, AMP announced its intention to merge with Tyco, and at
that time AMP's Board of Directors rescinded its authorization for a self-tender
offer and the establishment of the Flexitrust. In addition, the debt intended to
fund the self-tender was never used.

27. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS (UNAUDITED)

    On November 3, 1999, the Company announced that the Board of Directors had
authorized the Company to reacquire up to 20 million of its common shares.

    On November 22, 1999, the Company consummated its acquisition of AFC Cable
Systems, Inc. ("AFC Cable"), a manufacturer of prewired armor cable. AFC Cable
shareholders received one Tyco share for each share of AFC Cable. The Company
issued approximately 12.8 million common shares in this transaction valued at
approximately $562.6 million. AFC Cable is being integrated within the Company's
Flow Control Products segment. The Company is accounting for the acquisition as
a purchase.

    On November 23, 1999, the Company consummated its acquisition of Siemens
Electromechanical Components GmbH & Co. KG ("Siemens EC") from Siemens AG for
approximately $1.1 billion in cash. Siemens EC, with annual sales of
approximately $900.0 million, is the world market leader for relays and one of
the world's leading providers of components to the communications, automotive,
consumer and general industry sectors. Siemens EC is being integrated within the
Company's Telecommunications and Electronics segment. The Company is accounting
for the acquisition as a purchase.


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

                    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                 FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

    Information for all periods presented below reflects the grouping of the
Company's businesses into four business segments consisting of
Telecommunications and Electronics, Healthcare and Specialty Products, Fire and
Security Services and Flow Control Products.

    In September 1997, the Company changed its fiscal year end from December 31
to September 30. References to Fiscal 1999, Fiscal 1998 and Fiscal 1997 are to
the twelve month fiscal years ended September 30, 1999 and 1998, and the
transitional nine-month fiscal period ended September 30, 1997, respectively.
The discussion below of the results of operations compare Fiscal 1999 to Fiscal
1998 and Fiscal 1998 to the twelve months ended September 30, 1997 (unaudited).

    In Fiscal 1999, the Company consummated two mergers that were accounted for
under the pooling of interests method of accounting. The merger with United
States Surgical Corporation closed on October 1, 1998, and the merger with AMP
Incorporated closed on April 2, 1999. As required by generally accepted
accounting principles, the Company restated its financial statements as if USSC
and AMP had always been a part of the Company. The Company recorded as expenses
during Fiscal 1999 costs directly associated with the USSC and AMP mergers and
the costs of terminating employees and closing or consolidating facilities as a
result of the mergers. The Company also expensed in Fiscal 1999 the costs of
staff reductions and facility closings that AMP undertook as part of a plan to
improve its profitability unrelated to the Company's merger with AMP. In Fiscal
1998, the Company expensed charges for staff reductions and facility closings
under the AMP profit improvement plan and charges that USSC incurred to exit
certain of its businesses. These are discussed in more detail under "Liquidity
and Capital Resources" below.

    OVERVIEW

    Sales increased 18.0% during Fiscal 1999 to $22,496.5 million from
$19,061.7 million in Fiscal 1998. Sales in Fiscal 1998 increased 14.4% compared
to the twelve months ended September 30, 1997. Income (loss) before
extraordinary items and cumulative effect of accounting changes was
$1,031.0 million in Fiscal 1999, as compared to $1,168.6 million in Fiscal 1998
and $(300.5) million in the twelve months ended September 30, 1997. Income
before extraordinary items for Fiscal 1999 included an after-tax charge of
$1,341.5 million ($1,596.7 million pre-tax) related to the mergers with USSC and
AMP and costs associated with AMP's profit improvement plan. Income before
extraordinary items for Fiscal 1998 included an after-tax charge of
$192.0 million ($256.9 million pre-tax) primarily related to AMP's profit
improvement plan and costs incurred by USSC to exit certain businesses. Loss
before extraordinary items and cumulative effect of accounting changes for the
twelve months ended September 30, 1997 included an after-tax charge of
$1,485.5 million ($1,670.4 million pre-tax) for merger and transaction costs,
write-offs and integration costs primarily associated with the mergers of ADT,
Former Tyco, Keystone and Inbrand.


    The following table details the Company's sales and earnings in Fiscal 1999,
Fiscal 1998 and the twelve months ended September 30, 1997.



- ------------------------------
(i)  This amount is the sum of the operating profits of the Company's four
    business segments set forth in the segment discussion below, less certain
    corporate expenses, and is before merger, restructuring and other
    non-recurring charges, impairment of long-lived assets, write-off of
    purchased in-process research and development and amortization of goodwill.

(ii) Restructuring charges in the amount of $78.9 million related to the
    write-down of inventory have been deducted as part of cost of sales in the
    Consolidated Statement of Operations for Fiscal 1999. However, they have not
    been deducted as part of cost of sales for the purpose of calculating
    operating profit before certain charges in this table. These charges are
    instead included in the total merger, restructuring and other non-recurring
    charges.

(iii) Amount consists of $65.0 million related to a litigation settlement and
    $53.4 million related to the disposal of an equity investment by ADT.

    The operating profits and margins for the Company's four business segments
that are presented in the following discussion are stated before deductions for
merger, restructuring and other non-recurring charges related to business
combinations accounted for under the pooling of interests method of accounting,
charges for impairment of long-lived assets, in-process research and development
charges and goodwill amortization. This is consistent with how management views
the operating results of the individual segments.

    Operating profits improved in all segments in each of Fiscal 1999 and Fiscal
1998, with the exception of the Healthcare and Specialty Products segment in
Fiscal 1998 for reasons that are discussed below. The operating improvements are
the result of both increased revenues and enhanced margins. Increased revenues
result from organic growth and from acquisitions that are accounted for under
the purchase method of accounting. The Company enhances its margins through
improved productivity and cost reductions in the ordinary course of business,
unrelated to acquisition or divestiture activities. The Company regards charges
that it incurs to reduce costs in the ordinary course of business as recurring
charges, which are reflected in cost of sales and in selling, general and
administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.

    When the Company makes an acquisition, the acquired company is immediately
integrated with the Company's existing operations. Consequently, the Company
does not separately track the financial results of acquired companies. The
year-to-year sales comparisons that are presented below include estimates of
year-to-year sales growth that exclude the effects of acquisitions. These
estimates assume that the acquisitions were made at the beginning of the
relevant fiscal periods.


    SALES AND OPERATING PROFITS
       TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND ELECTRONICS

    The Company's Telecommunications and Electronics segment is comprised of:

    - Tyco Submarine Systems Ltd. ("TSSL"), which designs, manufactures,
      installs and maintains undersea fiber optic communications cable systems;

    - Tyco Electronics, including AMP, which designs and manufactures
      connectors, interconnection systems, touch screens and wireless systems,
      and Raychem, which develops and manufactures high-performance electronic
      components; and

    - Tyco Printed Circuit Group, which designs and manufactures printed
      circuits, backplanes and similar components.

    The AMP merger occurred in April 1999, but as required under the pooling of
interests method of accounting, AMP's results have been included for all periods
presented. The following table sets forth sales and operating profits and
margins on the basis described above for the Telecommunications and Electronics
segment:



    The 9.1% increase in sales in Fiscal 1999 over Fiscal 1998 for the
Telecommunications and Electronics segment resulted in part from acquisitions.
These included: the acquisition in May 1999 of Telecomunicaciones Marinas, S.A.
("Temasa"), included in TSSL; the acquisition in August 1999 of Raychem,
included in Tyco Electronics; and the acquisition in July 1998 of Sigma
Circuits, Inc., whose results were included in the Tyco Printed Circuit Group
for all of Fiscal 1999, but only the final quarter of Fiscal 1998. Excluding the
impact of Temasa, Raychem and Sigma Circuits, sales increased an estimated 5.1%.

    The 12.1% increase in sales in Fiscal 1998 over the twelve months ended
September 30, 1997 was predominantly due to the acquisition of AT&T Corp.'s
submarine systems business. The results of this business were included in the
Company's operations for all of Fiscal 1998, but only from July 1997, the date
of acquisition, in the 1997 period. Excluding the impact of this acquisition,
sales increased an estimated 1.9%.

    The Telecommunications and Electronics segment also experienced organic
growth in sales in Fiscal 1999 and Fiscal 1998 at TSSL and the Tyco Printed
Circuit Group. This growth was offset in part by decreased sales at AMP. Prior
to the Company's merger with AMP, AMP's sales had decreased every quarter,
compared to the corresponding quarter in the prior year, since the quarter ended
June 1997. AMP's pre-acquisition sales during the six months ended March 31,
1999 were $2,675.5 million, compared to sales of $2,843.6 million during the six
months ended September 30, 1999.

    The 40.5% increase in operating profits in Fiscal 1999 compared with Fiscal
1998 was due to improved margins at AMP, the acquisition of Raychem, and higher
sales volume at TSSL and the Tyco Printed Circuit Group. The improved operating
margins in Fiscal 1999 compared with Fiscal 1998 were primarily due to the
implementation of AMP's profit improvement plan, which was initiated in the
fourth quarter of Fiscal 1998, cost reduction programs associated with the AMP
merger, a pension curtailment/settlement gain and the acquisition of Raychem.
For information on the implementation of the AMP profit improvement plan and the
cost reduction programs related to the AMP merger, see Note 16 (1999


Charges and 1998 Charges) to the Consolidated Financial Statements. These
improvements were partially offset by $253.4 million of certain costs in Fiscal
1999 at AMP prior to the merger with Tyco, including costs to defend the
AlliedSignal Inc. tender offer, the write-off of inventory and other balance
sheet write-offs and adjustments.

    The 23.3% increase in operating profits in Fiscal 1998 as compared with the
twelve months ended September 30, 1997 was predominantly attributable to the
inclusion of the operating results of the AT&T Corp.'s submarine systems
business in all of Fiscal 1998 but only for the final three months of the 1997
period. The increase in operating margins in Fiscal 1998, compared with the 1997
period reflects higher incremental margins on increased sales at Tyco Printed
Circuit Group. This was offset in part by slightly decreased margins at TSSL and
AMP.

    HEALTHCARE AND SPECIALTY PRODUCTS

    The Company's Healthcare and Specialty Products segment is comprised of:

    - Tyco Healthcare, which manufactures a wide variety of disposable medical
      products, including woundcare products, syringes and needles, sutures and
      surgical staples, incontinence products, electrosurgical instruments and
      laparoscopic instruments;

    - Tyco Plastics and Adhesives, which manufactures flexible plastic
      packaging, plastic bags and sheeting, coated and laminated packaging
      materials, tapes and adhesives and plastic garment hangers; and

    - ADT Automotive, which provides auto redistribution services.

    The Company's merger with USSC, which is included in Tyco Healthcare,
occurred in October 1998. As required under the pooling of interests method of
accounting, USSC's results have been included for all periods presented. The
following table sets forth sales and operating profits and margins on the basis
described above for the Healthcare and Specialty Products segment:



    The 22.9% increase in sales in Fiscal 1999 over Fiscal 1998, and the 25.1%
increase in Fiscal 1998 over the twelve months ended September 30, 1997, were
primarily the result of increased sales of Tyco Healthcare and, to a lesser
extent, of Tyco Plastics and Adhesives and ADT Automotive. The increases for
Tyco Healthcare were due to acquisitions and, to a lesser extent, organic
growth. The acquisitions primarily responsible for the sales increase in Fiscal
1999 included: Valleylab, which was acquired in January 1998 and included in
results for all of Fiscal 1999, but only part of Fiscal 1998; Sherwood-Davis &
Geck ("Sherwood"), which was acquired in February 1998 and included in results
for all of Fiscal 1999, but only part of Fiscal 1998; Confab, which was acquired
in April 1998 and included in results for all of Fiscal 1999, but only part of
Fiscal 1998; and Graphic Controls Corporation, which was acquired in October
1998. Excluding the contributions of Valleylab, Sherwood, Confab and Graphic
Controls, sales for the segment increased an estimated 5.1% in Fiscal 1999 over
Fiscal 1998.


    For Fiscal 1998, the acquisitions primarily responsible for the sales
increase included Sherwood and Confab. Excluding the impact of these
acquisitions, the sales increase for Fiscal 1998 over the twelve months ended
September 30, 1997 was 5.8%.

    The substantial increase in operating profits and operating margins in
Fiscal 1999 over Fiscal 1998 was due to improved margins and increased sales
volume at Tyco Healthcare, whose margins were depressed in Fiscal 1998. The
increase in Fiscal 1999 also reflected higher sales volume and better margins at
Tyco Plastics and Adhesives and ADT Automotive. The Fiscal 1998 margins at Tyco
Healthcare were brought down by fourth quarter results at USSC, which lowered
sales of higher margin products to reduce excess inventory levels at
distributors, and recorded increased costs, principally a $105.8 million accrual
for special hospital education programs. Excluding these effects, management
estimates that the increase in operating profits in Fiscal 1999 over Fiscal 1998
would have been 48.6% and the operating margin for the segment in Fiscal 1998
would have been 19.6%. The increase in margins for Fiscal 1999 above the 19.6%
level was primarily attributable to the effects of the cost reduction programs
associated with the USSC merger, including the termination of 1,282 employees
and the consolidation or closure of 20 facilities. The effect of exiting
businesses of Tyco Healthcare did not significantly impact operating margins or
profits. For more information on the cost reduction programs related to the USSC
merger, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

    The decrease in operating profits and margins in Fiscal 1998 from the twelve
months ended September 30, 1997 reflects decreased margins at USSC, particularly
as a result of the factors impacting the Fiscal 1998 fourth quarter at USSC
referred to above. The decreased USSC margins were partially offset in Fiscal
1998 by the acquisition of Sherwood, fixed cost reductions due to the
integration of Sherwood, and increased volume and margins at Tyco Plastics and
Adhesives and ADT Automotive. Excluding the effects of the above on sales and
costs in the Fiscal 1998 fourth quarter at USSC, management estimates that
operating profits would have increased by 53.7% in Fiscal 1998 as compared to
the 1997 period.

    FIRE AND SECURITY SERVICES

    The Company's Fire and Security Services segment:

    - designs, installs and services a broad line of fire detection, prevention
      and suppression systems worldwide;

    - provides electronic security installation and monitoring services; and

    - manufactures and services fire extinguishers and related products.

    The following table sets forth sales and operating profits and margins on
the basis described above for the Fire and Security Services segment:



    The 26.0% increase in sales in Fiscal 1999 over Fiscal 1998 reflected
increased sales worldwide in both the Company's electronic security services and
its fire protection businesses. The increases were due both to a higher volume
of recurring service revenues and the effects of acquisitions in the security
services business. The acquisitions included: Holmes Protection, acquired in
February 1998 and included in results for all of Fiscal 1999, but only part of
Fiscal 1998; CIPE S.A. and Wells Fargo Alarm, both acquired in May 1998 and
included in results for all of Fiscal 1999, but only part of Fiscal 1998; and
Entergy Security


Corporation and Alarmguard Holdings, acquired in January and February, 1999,
respectively. Excluding the impact of these acquisitions, the sales increase for
the segment in Fiscal 1999 was an estimated 15.4%.

    The 14.7% sales increase in Fiscal 1998 over the twelve months ended
September 30, 1997 was due to increased worldwide sales in the electronic
security services business and higher sales volume in the North American fire
protection businesses. The increases reflect a higher volume of recurring
service revenues and, to a lesser extent, the impact of the Fiscal 1998
acquisitions. Excluding the effects of Holmes, CIPE and Wells Fargo, the sales
increase for the segment in Fiscal 1998 was an estimated 7.3%.

    The 43.8% increase in operating profits in Fiscal 1999 over Fiscal 1998
reflects the worldwide increase in service volume, both in security services and
fire protection, including the higher margins associated with recurring
monitoring revenue. The increase in operating margins in Fiscal 1999 was
principally due to increased volume of higher margin service and inspection work
in the North American fire protection operations; increased volume due to
economic improvements in the Asia-Pacific region; higher incremental margins in
the European security operations from additions to the customer base; and cost
reductions related to acquisitions.

    The 52.9% increase in operating profits in Fiscal 1998 over the twelve
months ended September 30, 1997 was due to increases in service volume,
including recurring monitoring revenue, in security operations worldwide and
fire protection operations in North America. The increase in operating margins
in Fiscal 1998 was due principally to higher margins in the security business
worldwide and, to a lesser extent, to improved margins in the European fire
protection business and cost reductions related to acquisitions.

    FLOW CONTROL PRODUCTS

    The Company's Flow Control Products segment:

    - manufactures and distributes pipe, fittings, valves, valve actuators,
      couplings and related products which are used to transport, control and
      measure the flow of liquids and gases;

    - manufactures and distributes fire sprinkler devices, specialty valves,
      plastic pipe and fittings used in commercial, residential and industrial
      fire protection systems; and

    - provides engineering and consulting services focusing on the design,
      construction and operation of water and wastewater facilities.

    The following table sets forth sales and operating profits and margins on
the basis described above for the Flow Control Products segment:



    The 19.8% sales increase in Fiscal 1999 over Fiscal 1998 reflects increased
demand for valve products in Europe, increased sales at Earth Tech and the
impact of acquisitions. These acquisitions included: Crosby Valve, acquired in
July 1998 and included in results for all of Fiscal 1999, but only part of
Fiscal 1998; Rust Environmental and Infrastructure, Inc., acquired by Earth Tech
in September 1998 and included in results for all of Fiscal 1999, but less than
a month in Fiscal 1998; and certain subsidiaries in the metals processing
division of Glynwed International plc, acquired in March 1999.


    During August 1999, the Company completed the sale of certain businesses
within this segment, including The Mueller Company, a manufacturer of fire
hydrants, waterworks, valves and other components, and portions of Grinnell
Supply Sales and Manufacturing, a manufacturer and distributor of commodity
fittings and related products. Excluding the impacts of these acquisitions and
divestitures, sales increased an estimated 11.3%.

    The 5.1% sales increase in Fiscal 1998 over the twelve months ended
September 30, 1997 reflects increased demand for valve products in both North
America and Europe, higher volume of pipe products, including those sold by
Grinnell, and, to a lesser extent, the acquisition of Crosby Valve. Excluding
the effect of this acquisition, the sales increase for the segment in Fiscal
1998 was an estimated 4.7%.

    The 32.5% increase in operating profits in Fiscal 1999 over Fiscal 1998 was
primarily due to increased sales in the European flow control operations, North
American valve products and Earth Tech. The increase in operating margins was
principally due to cost containment programs that improved margins in the
Company's North American pipe products business and the worldwide valve
operations. The gain on the sale of the businesses in this segment did not
significantly impact operating profits and margins in Fiscal 1999.

    The 22.5% increase in operating profits in Fiscal 1998 over the twelve
months ended September 30, 1997 was due primarily to increased volume in the
North American and European valve product operations and, to a lesser extent, in
the North American pipe products business. The increase in operating margins was
principally due to cost containment programs that improved margins at the North
American and European valve operations.

    The effect of changes in foreign exchange rates during Fiscal 1999, Fiscal
1998 and the twelve months ended September 30, 1997 was not material to the
Company's sales and operating profits.

    CORPORATE EXPENSES

    Corporate expenses were $122.9 million in Fiscal 1999 compared to
$68.3 million in Fiscal 1998 and $56.8 million in the twelve months ended
September 30, 1997. These increases were due principally to higher compensation
expense under the Company's equity-based, incentive compensation plans due in
part to an increase in the market value of the Company's stock price in Fiscal
1999, and an increase in corporate staffing to support and monitor the Company's
expanding businesses and operations.

    AMORTIZATION OF GOODWILL

    Amortization of goodwill, a non-cash charge, increased $84.3 million to
$216.1 million in Fiscal 1999 compared with Fiscal 1998. Fiscal 1998
amortization of goodwill increased to $131.8 million from $90.0 million in the
twelve months ended September 30, 1997. The increase in amortization of goodwill
is due to the $6,923.3 million in consideration paid for acquisitions and
acquisition related costs in Fiscal 1999, which resulted in goodwill and other
intangibles of $5,807.9 million, and the $4,559.4 million in consideration paid
for acquisitions and acquisition related costs in Fiscal 1998, which resulted in
goodwill and other intangibles of $3,947.0 million.

    INTEREST EXPENSE, NET

    Interest expense, net, increased $240.3 million to $485.6 million in Fiscal
1999, as compared to Fiscal 1998, and increased $74.9 million to $245.3 million
in Fiscal 1998, as compared to the twelve months ended September 30, 1997. These
increases were due to higher average debt balances, as a result of monies
borrowed to pay for acquisitions, partially offset by lower average interest
rates. The weighted average rate of interest on all long-term debt during Fiscal
1999, Fiscal 1998 and Fiscal 1997 was 6.2%, 6.4% and 7.2%, respectively.


    EXTRAORDINARY ITEMS

    Extraordinary items in Fiscal 1999, Fiscal 1998 and the twelve months ended
September 30, 1997 included net losses amounting to $45.7 million, $2.4 million
and $60.9 million, respectively, relating primarily to the Company's tender
offers for debt and the write-off of net unamortized deferred financing costs
related to the LYONs. Further details are provided in Notes 4 and 13 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

    CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF ACCOUNTING CHANGES

    The cumulative effect of accounting changes during Fiscal 1997 of
$15.5 million related to the change in accounting practices used by AMP to
develop its inventory costs, including standardizing globally the definition of
capacity used in determining overhead rates and changing its inventory costing
methodology to include manufacturing engineering costs in inventory costs.

    INCOME TAX EXPENSE

    The effective income tax rate, excluding the impact related to merger,
restructuring and other non-recurring charges, was 27.0% during Fiscal 1999 as
compared to 30.6% in Fiscal 1998 and 32.3% in the twelve months ended
September 30, 1997. The decreases in the effective income tax rates were
primarily due to higher earnings in tax jurisdictions with lower income tax
rates. Management believes that the Company will generate sufficient future
income to realize the tax benefits related to its deferred tax assets. A
valuation allowance has been maintained due to continued uncertainties of
realization of certain tax benefits, primarily tax loss carryforwards. See
Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

    The following table shows the sources of the Company's cash flow from
operating activities and the use of a portion of that cash in the Company's
operations in Fiscal 1999. Management refers to the net amount of cash generated
from operating activities less capital expenditures and dividends as "free cash
flow."



- ------------------------------

(1) This amount is the sum of the operating profits of the four business
    segments as set forth above, less certain corporate expenses, and is before
    merger, restructuring and other non-recurring charges, charges for the
    impairment of long-lived assets, and goodwill amortization.


(2) This amount is the sum of depreciation of tangible property
    ($979.6 million) and amortization of intangible property other than goodwill
    ($115.5 million).

(3) This amount is net of $50.0 million received on the sale of accounts
    receivable.

(4) This amount is the sum of all cash paid out for (a) merger, restructuring
    and other non-recurring charges in connection with business combinations
    accounted for on a pooling of interests basis and (b) other restructuring
    and non-recurring charges taken by the pooled companies prior to their
    combination with the Company.

    In addition, during Fiscal 1999 the Company paid out $354.4 million in cash
that was charged against reserves established in connection with acquisitions
accounted for under the purchase accounting method. This amount is included in
"Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired" in the Consolidated Statement
of Cash Flows.

    Business combinations are accounted for either on a pooling of interests
basis or under the purchase accounting method. In Fiscal 1999, the Company made
two business combinations, USSC and AMP, that were required to be accounted for
on a pooling of interests basis. Under pooling of interests accounting, the
merged companies are treated as if they had always been part of the Company, and
their financial statements are included in the Company's Consolidated Financial
Statements for all periods presented.

    At the time of each pooling of interests transaction, the Company
establishes a reserve for transaction costs and the costs that the Company
expects to incur in integrating the merged company within the relevant Tyco
business segment. By integrating merged companies with the Company's existing
businesses, the Company expects to realize operating synergies and long-term
cost savings. Integration costs, which relate primarily to termination of
employees and the closure of facilities made redundant, are detailed in Note 16
to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Reserves for merger, restructuring and
other non-recurring items are taken as a charge against current earnings at the
time the reserves are established. Amounts expended for merger, restructuring
and other non-recurring costs are charged against the reserves as they are paid
out. If the amount of the reserves proves to be greater than the costs actually
incurred, any excess is credited against merger, restructuring and other
non-recurring charges in the Consolidated Statement of Operations in the period
in which that determination is made.

    In Fiscal 1999, the Company established merger, restructuring and other
non-recurring reserves of $434.9 million in connection with its merger with USSC
and $841.8 million in connection with its merger with AMP. At the beginning of
the fiscal year, there existed merger, restructuring and other non-recurring
reserves of $303.7 million related to pooling of interests transactions
consummated in prior years and other restructuring charges taken by the merged
companies prior to their combination with the Company. During Fiscal 1999, the
Company paid out $633.6 million in cash and incurred $478.5 million in non-cash
charges that were charged against these reserves. Also in Fiscal 1999, the
Company determined that $15.0 million of merger, restructuring and other
non-recurring reserves established in prior years was not needed and deducted
that amount from the merger, restructuring and other non-recurring charges for
Fiscal 1999. At September 30, 1999, there remained $453.3 million of merger,
restructuring and other non-recurring reserves on the Company's Consolidated
Balance Sheet, of which $366.3 million is included in current liabilities and
$87.0 million is included in long-term liabilities. The Company expects to pay
out approximately $350.0 million in cash in Fiscal 2000 for merger,
restructuring and other non-recurring expenses that will be charged against
these reserves.

    All other business combination transactions completed in Fiscal 1999 were
required to be accounted for under the purchase accounting method. At the time
each purchase acquisition is made, the Company establishes a reserve for
transaction costs and the costs of integrating each purchased company within the
relevant Tyco business segment. The amounts of such reserves established in
Fiscal 1999 are detailed in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
These amounts are not charged against current earnings but are treated as
additional purchase price consideration and have the effect of increasing the
amount of goodwill recorded in connection with the respective acquisition.
Indeed, management views these costs as the equivalent of additional purchase
price consideration when it considers making an acquisition. If the


amount of the reserves proves to be in excess of costs actually incurred, any
excess goes to reduce the goodwill account that was established at the time the
acquisition was made.

    In Fiscal 1999, the Company made acquisitions that were accounted for under
the purchase accounting method at an aggregate cost of $6,923.3 million. Of this
amount, $4,546.8 million was paid in cash (net of cash acquired), $1,449.6
million was paid in the form of Tyco common shares, and the Company assumed
$926.9 million in debt. In connection with these acquisitions, the Company
established purchase accounting reserves of $525.4 million for transaction and
integration costs. At the beginning of Fiscal 1999, purchase accounting reserves
were $505.6 million as a result of purchase accounting transactions made in
prior years. During Fiscal 1999, the Company paid out $354.4 million in cash and
incurred $16.3 million in non-cash charges against the reserves established
during and prior to Fiscal 1999. Also in Fiscal 1999, the Company determined
that $90.0 million of purchase accounting reserves related to acquisitions prior
to Fiscal 1999 were not needed and reversed that amount against goodwill. At
September 30, 1999, there remained $570.3 million in purchase accounting
reserves on the Company's Consolidated Balance sheet, of which $408.0 is
included in current liabilities and $162.3 million is included in long-term
liabilities. The Company expects to pay out approximately $350.0 million in cash
in Fiscal 2000 that will be charged against these purchase accounting reserves.

    The following details the Fiscal 1999 capital expenditures and depreciation
by segment:



(i) Excludes $234.0 million related to the purchase of leased property in
    connection with the merger with USSC.

    The Company continues to fund capital expenditures to improve the cost
structure of its businesses, to invest in new processes and technology, and to
maintain high quality production standards. The level of capital expenditures
for the Fire and Security Services segment significantly exceeded, and is
expected to continue to significantly exceed, depreciation due to the large
volume growth of new residential subscriber systems capitalized. The level of
capital expenditures in the other segments is expected to increase moderately in
Fiscal 2000. The source of funds for capital expenditures is expected to be cash
from operating activities.

    The provision for income taxes in the Consolidated Statement of Operations
for Fiscal 1999 was $620.2 million, but the amount of income taxes paid (net of
refunds) during the year was only $209.7 million. After adjustment for deferred
income taxes of acquired companies and other items, the net increase in deferred
income taxes was $334.3 million. The increase in deferred income taxes is
attributable primarily to current utilization of deductions on restructuring,
other non-recurring charges and purchase accounting spending, other timing
differences between book and tax recognition of income and expense, utilization
of net operating loss and credit carryforwards, and the tax benefits of stock
option exercises.

    The net change in working capital, net of the effects of acquisitions and
divestitures, was an increase of $85.5 million. These changes are set forth in
detail in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. The increase in working
capital accounts is attributable to the higher level of business activity in
Fiscal 1999 as reflected in the increased sales over the prior year. Management
focuses on maximizing the cash flow from


its operating businesses and attempts to keep the working capital employed in
the businesses to the minimum level required for efficient operations.

    In addition, the Company used $234.0 million of cash to purchase the USSC
North Haven facilities and $637.8 million to purchase its own common shares. The
Company repurchases its own shares from time to time in the open market to
satisfy certain stock-based compensation arrangements, such as the exercise of
stock options. In November 1999, the Company announced the authorization by its
Board of Directors to reacquire up to 20 million of its common shares in the
open market.

    The Company received proceeds of $926.8 million from the sale of certain
businesses in the Flow Control Products and Healthcare and Specialty Products
segments and $872.4 million from the exercise of common share options.

    The source of the cash used for acquisitions was primarily an increase in
total debt and cash flows from operations. Goodwill and other intangible assets
were $12,158.9 million at September 30, 1999, compared to $7,105.5 million at
September 30, 1998. At September 30, 1999, the Company's total debt was
$10,122.2 million, as compared to $6,239.7 million at September 30, 1998. This
increase resulted principally from borrowings under the Company's commercial
paper program, net proceeds of approximately $791.7 million from the issuance of
private placement notes in October 1998, net proceeds received of approximately
$1,173.7 million from the issuance of public debt in January 1999 and net
proceeds received of approximately $2,080.3 million from the issuance of notes
in August 1999. This increase was partially offset by the Company's tender
offers for outstanding debt instruments with higher interest rates and the
repayment of indebtedness under its bank credit agreement. For a full discussion
of debt activity, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

    Shareholders' equity was $12,332.6 million, or $7.30 per share, at
September 30, 1999, compared to $9,901.8 million, or $6.11 per share, at
September 30, 1998. The increase in shareholders' equity was due primarily to
the issuance of approximately 32.4 million common shares valued at approximately
$1,449.6 million for the acquisition of Raychem, net income of $985.3 million
and proceeds of $872.4 million from the exercise of options and warrants. Total
debt as a percent of total capitalization (total debt and shareholders' equity)
was 45% at September 30, 1999 and 39% at September 30, 1998. Net debt (total
debt less cash and cash equivalents) as a percent of total capitalization was
37% at September 30, 1999 and 32% at September 30, 1998.

    The Company believes that its cash flow from operations, together with its
existing credit facilities and other credit arrangements, is adequate to fund
its operations.

    BACKLOG

    At September 30, 1999, the Company had a backlog of unfilled orders of
approximately $7,581.1 million, compared to a backlog of approximately
$5,118.2 million at September 30, 1998. Backlog by industry segment is as
follows (in millions):



    Backlog increased in each of the Company's business segments. Within the
Telecommunications and Electronics segment, backlog increased principally due to
contracts awarded to TSSL due to continually increasing demands for undersea
fiber optic cable capacity. Within the Flow Control Products segment,


backlog increased principally due to an increase in backlog at Earth Tech
related to its water and wastewater facilities contracts. Within the Fire and
Security Services segment, backlog increased principally due to an increase in
backlog at the Company's worldwide security and European fire protection
businesses. Within the Healthcare and Specialty Products segment, the increase
resulted principally from an increase in demand for the products sold by Tyco
Plastics and Adhesives.

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

    The Company is subject to market risk associated with changes in interest
rates, foreign currency exchanges rates and certain commodity prices. In order
to manage the volatility relating to its more significant market risks, the
Company enters into forward foreign currency exchange contracts, cross-currency
swaps, foreign currency options, commodity swaps and interest rate swaps. The
Company does not anticipate any material changes in its primary market risk
exposures in Fiscal 2000.

    The Company utilizes risk management procedures and controls in executing
derivative financial instrument transactions. The Company does not execute
transactions or hold derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Derivative financial instruments related to interest rate sensitivity of debt
obligations, intercompany cross-border transactions and anticipated
non-functional currency cash flows, as well as commodity price exposures, are
used with the goal of mitigating a significant portion of these exposures when
it is cost effective to do so. Counter-parties to derivative financial
instruments are limited to financial institutions with at least an AA long-term
credit rating.


    INTEREST RATE SENSITIVITY

    The table below provides information about the Company's financial
instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates, including long-term
investments, debt obligations, interest rate swaps and currency swaps. For
long-term investments, the table presents cash flows of principal payments (in
millions) related to a subordinated, non-collateralized zero coupon loan note,
based on the amortized cost of the investment as of September 30, 1999, and the
associated fair value interest rate discount. For debt obligations, the table
presents cash flows of principal repayment (in millions) and weighted average
interest rates. For interest rate swaps and cross-currency swaps, the table
presents notional amounts (in millions) and weighted average interest rates.
Notional amounts are used to calculate the contractual payments to be exchanged
under the contract. The amounts included in the table below are in U.S. dollars.


- ------------------------------

(i) Weighted average variable interest rates are based on applicable rates as of
    September 30, 1999 per the terms of the contracts of the related financial
    instruments.

(ii) In March 1994, AMP entered into a cross-currency swap with a financial
    institution to hedge a portion of its net investment in its Japanese
    subsidiary.

(iii) The fair values of the cross-currency swaps included in the table reflect
    the portion of the fair values of the contracts that are attributable to the
    interest component of the contracts.


    EXCHANGE RATE SENSITIVITY

    The table below provides information about the Company's financial
instruments that are sensitive to foreign currency exchange rates. These
instruments include long-term investments, debt obligations, cross-currency
swaps, forward foreign currency exchange contracts and currency options. For
long-term investments, the table presents cash flows of principal payments (in
millions) related to a subordinated, non-collateralized zero coupon loan note,
based on the amortized cost of the investment as of September 30, 1999, and the
associated fair value interest rate discount. For debt obligations, the table
presents cash flows of principal repayment (in millions) and weighted average
interest rates. For cross-currency swaps and forward foreign currency exchange
contracts, the table presents notional amounts (in millions) and weighted
average contractual exchange rates. For currency options, the table presents
notional amounts (in millions) and weighted average contractual strike prices.
Notional amounts are used to calculate the contractual payments to be exchanged
under the contract. The amounts included in the table below are in U.S. dollars.


- ------------------------------

(i) Weighted average variable interest rates are based on applicable rates as of
    September 30, 1999 per the terms of the contracts of the related financial
    instruments.

(ii) In March 1994, AMP entered into a cross-currency swap with a financial
    institution to hedge a portion of its net investment in its Japanese
    subsidiary.

(iii) The fair values of cross-currency swaps included in the table reflect the
    portion of the fair values of the contracts that are attributable to the
    foreign currency component of the contracts.


    COMMODITY PRICE SENSITIVITY

    The table below provides information about the Company's financial
instruments that are sensitive to changes in commodities prices. Total contract
dollar amounts (in millions) and notional quantity amounts are presented for
forward commodity contracts. Contract amounts are used to calculate the
contractual payments quantity of the commodity to be exchanged under the
contracts.



YEAR 2000 COMPLIANCE

    Year 2000 compliance programs and systems modifications were initiated by
the Company in Fiscal 1997 in an attempt to ensure that these systems and key
processes will remain functional. The Company has assessed the potential impact
of the Year 2000 on date-sensitive information in computer software programs and
operating systems in its product development, financial business systems and
administrative functions, and is implementing strategies to avoid adverse
implications. This objective is expected to be achieved either by modifying
present systems using existing internal and external programming resources or by
installing new systems, and by monitoring supplier, customer and other
third-party readiness. Review of the systems affecting the Company is
progressing and the Company is continuing its implementation strategy. The costs
of the Company's Year 2000 program to date have not been material, and the
Company does not anticipate that the costs of any required modifications to its
information technology or embedded technology systems will have a material
adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or liquidity.

    In the event that the Company or material third parties fail to complete
their Year 2000 compliance programs successfully and on time, the Company's
ability to operate its businesses, service customers, bill or collect its
revenues or purchase products in a timely manner could be adversely affected.
Although there can be no assurance that the conversion of the Company's systems
will be successful or that the Company's key third-party relationships will have
successful conversion programs, management does not expect that any such failure
would have a material adverse effect on the financial position, results of
operations or liquidity of the Company. The Company has day-to-day operational
contingency plans, and management has updated these plans for possible Year 2000
specific operational requirements.

ACCOUNTING AND TECHNICAL PRONOUNCEMENTS

    In June 1998, the FASB issued SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities." This statement establishes accounting and
reporting standards requiring that every derivative instrument be recorded in
the balance sheet as either an asset or liability measured at its fair value.
SFAS No. 133 also requires that changes in the derivative's fair value be
recognized currently in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are
met. In June 1999, the FASB issued SFAS No. 137 which defers the effective date
of SFAS No. 133 to fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2000. The Company is
currently analyzing this new standard.


    In September 1999, the FASB issued an Exposure Draft on the accounting for
"Business Combinations and Intangible Assets." If the provisions of the Exposure
Draft as currently written were to be issued as a new accounting standard, the
Company would no longer be able to use the pooling of interests method of
accounting. All future acquisition activity would be accounted for using the
purchase method which could result in an increase in goodwill and the associated
amortization of goodwill above current levels.

CONVERSION TO THE EURO

    On January 1, 1999, 11 European countries began using the "euro" as their
single currency, while still continuing to use their own notes and coins for
cash transactions. Banknotes and coins denominated in euros are expected to be
put in circulation and local notes and coins will cease to be legal tender
during 2002. Tyco conducts a significant amount of business in these countries.
Introduction of the euro has not resulted in any material adverse impact upon
the Company.

FORWARD LOOKING INFORMATION

    Certain statements in this report are "forward looking statements" within
the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All forward
looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. In particular, any statement
contained herein, in press releases, written statements or other documents filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or in the Company's communications
and discussions with investors and analysts in the normal course of business
through meetings, phone calls and conference calls, regarding the consummation
and benefits of future acquisitions, as well as expectations with respect to
future sales, earnings, cash flows, operating efficiencies and product
expansion, are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and
contingencies, many of which are beyond the control of the Company, which may
cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from
anticipated results, performances or achievements. Factors that might affect
such forward looking statements include, among other things, overall economic
and business conditions; the demand for the Company's goods and services;
competitive factors in the industries in which the Company competes; changes in
government regulation; changes in tax requirements (including tax rate changes,
new tax laws and revised tax law interpretations); interest rate fluctuations
and other capital market conditions, including foreign currency rate
fluctuations; economic and political conditions in international markets,
including governmental changes and restrictions on the ability to transfer
capital across borders; the ability to achieve anticipated synergies and other
cost savings in connection with acquisitions; the timing, impact and other
uncertainties of future acquisitions; and the Company's ability and its
customers' and suppliers' ability to replace, modify or upgrade computer
programs in order to adequately address the Year 2000 issue.


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

                 SCHEDULE II--VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

                                 (IN MILLIONS)




