
10-K405
a2030822z10-k405.txt
10-K405



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K



                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2000
                                       OR



                                   001-13836
                            (COMMISSION FILE NUMBER)

                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)



  THE ZURICH CENTRE, SECOND FLOOR, 90 PITTS BAY ROAD, PEMBROKE, HM 08, BERMUDA
              (Address of registrant's principal executive office)

                                 441-292-8674*
                        (Registrant's telephone number)

                            ------------------------

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:



        SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT: NONE

    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes /X/ No / /.

    Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III or this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. /X/.

    The aggregate market value of voting common shares held by nonaffiliates of
registrant was $98,909,627,685 as of December 6, 2000.

    The number of common shares outstanding as of December 6, 2000 was
1,748,649,762.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

    See pages 22 to 24 for the exhibit index.

                            ------------------------

*   The executive offices of Registrant's principal United States subsidiaries
    are located at One Tyco Park, Exeter, New Hampshire 03833. The telephone
    number there is (603) 778-9700.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

INTRODUCTION

    Tyco International Ltd. ("We" or "Tyco") is a diversified manufacturing and
service company that, through its subsidiaries:

    - designs, manufactures and distributes electrical and electronic components
      and multi-layer printed circuit boards;

    - designs, engineers, manufactures, installs, operates and maintains
      undersea cable communications systems;

    - designs, manufactures and distributes disposable medical supplies and
      other specialty products;

    - designs, manufactures, installs and services fire detection and
      suppression systems and installs, monitors and maintains electronic
      security systems; and

    - designs, manufactures and distributes flow control products and provides
      environmental consulting services.

    See Notes 19 and 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for certain
segment and geographic financial data relating to our business.

    Tyco's strategy is to be the low-cost, high quality producer and provider in
each of our markets. We promote our leadership position by investing in existing
businesses, developing new markets and acquiring complementary businesses and
products. Combining the strengths of our existing operations and our business
acquisitions, we seek to enhance shareholder value through increased earnings
per share and strong cash flows.

I.  ELECTRONICS

    Tyco is the world's leading supplier of passive electronic components. Our
products and services include:

    - designing engineering and manufacturing of electronic connector systems,
      fiber optic components, wireless devices, heat shrink products, power
      components, wire and cable, relays, sensors, touch screens, identification
      and labeling products, switches and battery assemblies; and

    - designing and manufacturing of multi-layer printed circuit boards,
      backplane assemblies, electronic modules and similar components.

    Tyco Electronics has combined the historical leadership of AMP Incorporated
("AMP") in the interconnect industry with other companies such as Raychem
Corporation ("Raychem"), Siemens Electromechanical Components GmbH & Co. KG
("Siemens EC") and the Electronic OEM Business of Thomas & Betts ("T&B"). Tyco
Electronics designs, manufactures and markets a broad range of electronic,
electrical and electro-optic passive and active devices and an expanding number
of interconnection systems and connector-intensive assemblies, as well as
wireless products including semi-conductors, radar sensors, global positioning
satellite systems, silicon and gallium arsenide semiconductors, broadband Local
Multipoint Distribution Systems ("LMDS") and microwave sub-systems. Tyco
Electronics' products have potential uses wherever an electronic, electrical,
computer or telecommunications system is involved, and are becoming increasingly
critical to the performance of these systems as voice, data and video
communications converge. Tyco Electronics manufactures and sells more than
200,000 parts in over 450 global product lines, including terminals, fiber
optic, printed circuit board and cable connectors and assemblies, cable and
cabling systems, and related application tools and application tooling
equipment.


    Tyco Electronics' customers include original equipment manufacturers
("OEMs") and their subcontractors, utilities, government agencies, distributors,
value-added resellers, and customers who install, maintain and repair equipment.
These customers are found in the automotive, power technology, personal
computer, communications, networking, industrial and consumer industries. Tyco
Electronics serves over 200,000 customers located in over 55 countries, covering
many diverse markets.

    Tyco Electronics is a global marketing, sales, engineering and manufacturing
company which produces interconnection systems, passive and active electronic
components, and has a strong local presence in the geographical areas in which
it operates, such as the Americas, the Asia-Pacific region, Europe and the
Middle East.

    The markets that Tyco Electronics operates in are highly competitive. Tyco
Electronics faces competition across its product lines from other companies
ranging in size from large, diversified manufacturers to small, highly
specialized manufacturers.

    The acquisition of Raychem in the last quarter of fiscal 1999 significantly
expanded our product line and complemented existing products and services.
Raychem develops, manufactures and markets a variety of high-performance
products for electronic OEMs, subcontractors and distributors with
telecommunications, computer, consumer, automotive, energy and industrial
markets. Raychem designs, manufactures and distributes products such as circuit
protection devices, heat-shrinkable tubing and molded parts, wire and cable, and
computer touchscreens. In addition, Raychem designs and manufactures fiber optic
and copper cable accessories, energy cable accessories and heat-tracing products
and provides design, engineering and installation services. Siemens EC, acquired
in November 1999, is the world market leader for the manufacture and sale of
relays and is one of the world's leading providers of electro-mechanical
components to the communications, automotive, consumer and general industry
sectors. The Electronic OEM business of T&B, acquired in July 2000, designs and
manufactures electronic connectors for the telecommunications, computer and
automotive industries. T&B's product categories are comprised of: high-density
material interconnect systems used in thermal management, backplane systems and
laptop computers; PCB mounted electromechanical components, including switches,
sockets and I/O connectors; and a variety of connectors for safety systems, I/O
devices, wire harnesses and power distribution centers used in the automotive
industry. T&B's products also include the most advanced high density/high
frequency related metalized particle interconnect technology. These products are
used in telecom equipment and other components such as high density chip carrier
sockets and other high frequency related systems.

    In November 2000, we agreed to acquire the Lucent Power Systems ("LPS")
business unit of Lucent Technologies, Inc. LPS provides a full line of energy
solutions and power products for telecommunications service providers and for
the computer industry. LPS products include AC/DC and DC/DC switching power
supplies, batteries, power supplies and back-up power systems.

    Also included in Tyco Electronics is Tyco Printed Circuit Group ("TPCG"),
one of the largest independent manufacturers of complex multi-layer printed
circuit boards and backplane assemblies in the United States. TPCG manufactures
multi-layer boards, including highly sophisticated, precision tooled, custom
laminated boards with layer counts up to 68. TPCG also produces sophisticated
flexible-rigid circuit boards for use in commercial, aerospace and military
applications. TPCG's backplane facilities produce soldered, press-fit and
surface mount backplane assemblies. In addition, these facilities provide
turnkey manufacturing services including full "box build" products. Printed
circuit boards and backplane products are manufactured on a job order basis to
the customers' design specifications. The majority of sales are derived from
high-density multi-layer boards.

    TPCG markets its products primarily through a direct sales force and, to a
lesser extent, through a network of independent manufacturers' representatives.
Customers are OEMs and contract manufacturers in the communications, computer,
aircraft, military and other industrial and consumer electronics industries. We
compete with several other large independent and captive companies that


manufacture printed circuit board products primarily in the United States.
Competition is on the basis of quality, reliability, price and timeliness of
delivery.

II. TELECOMMUNICATIONS

    Tyco's 86% owned subsidiary, TyCom Ltd. ("TyCom"), is a leading independent
provider of transoceanic fiber optic networks and services. TyCom's products and
services include:

    - design, engineering, manufacture and installation of undersea cable
      communications systems;

    - service and maintenance of major undersea cable networks; and

    - design, manufacture and installation of a global undersea fiber optic
      network, known as the TyCom Global Network-TM- ("TGN"). TyCom plans to
      operate, maintain and sell bandwidth capacity on the TGN.

    TyCom, a Bermuda Company, was incorporated on March 8, 2000 as a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Tyco to serve as the holding company for its undersea
fiber optic cable communications business. TyCom is the world's only
fully-integrated source for the design, engineering, manufacturing, installation
and servicing of undersea cable communications systems. TyCom designs and builds
both repeatered and non-repeatered fiber optic cable systems. Repeaters are
specialized undersea equipment designed to house and protect optical amplifiers
that amplify voice, video and data signals as they travel across fiber optic
cable. Used typically in systems spanning between 300 and 12,000 kilometers,
repeaters provide the ability to amplify optical signals without first
converting these signals to their electrical equivalents. Non-repeatered
systems, which allow for even greater circuit capacity and reduced transmission
costs, support short haul systems of several hundred kilometers. TyCom has
designed, manufactured and installed over 300,000 kilometers of undersea optical
cable. TyCom Integrated Cable Systems, Inc. is the primary supplier of cable and
cable assemblies to TyCom. It also manufactures underwater electrical power
cables and electro-mechanical cables for unique field operations. Temasa,
acquired during the prior fiscal year, provides a portion of the cable
installation and maintenance operations of TyCom, and is based in Spain.

    TyCom is designing, building and installing its own global undersea fiber
optic network, known as the TyCom Global Network ("TGN") and plans to operate,
maintain and sell bandwidth capacity on the TGN. In July 2000, TyCom sold
approximately 14 percent of its common shares in an initial public offering. Net
proceeds from the offfering were approximately $2.1 billion, which will be used
primarily toward the deployment of the TGN. TyCom's principal operating
subsidiaries include TyCom (US) Inc. (formerly Tyco Submarine Systems Ltd.),
TyCom Integrated Cable Systems Inc. (formerly Simplex Technologies) and
Telecomunicaciones Marinas, S.A. ("Temasa").

    TyCom Laboratories, the research and development group of TyCom, includes a
world class research and development facility populated by acclaimed engineers
and state of the art equipment to facilitate forward looking design work. TyCom
Laboratories' intellectual property portfolio includes many key enabling
technologies involving terminal transmission and power equipment, optical signal
amplifiers, cable and fiber, network management systems and software,
installation and repair technologies and network integration. TyCom operates one
of the world's largest fleet of ships deployed worldwide to design, maintain,
install and service undersea fiber optic transmission systems. TyCom also uses a
variety of other undersea tools, including robotic vehicles for undersea cable
burial and retrieval operations.

    TyCom's sales and marketing personnel consist of professionals with
extensive telecommunication, technical or service backgrounds, and are located
in offices in Bermuda, France, Singapore, the United Kingdom and the United
States.


    As a supplier of undersea fiber optic cable systems, TyCom competes on a
worldwide basis primarily against two other providers: Alcatel-Alsthom and KDD
Submarine Cable Systems Inc. ("KDD"). Other smaller players compete on a more
limited basis, either as subcontractors to other providers or as suppliers of
regional or non-repeatered systems. Alcatel, like TyCom, is vertically
integrated and produces its own cable, whereas KDD utilizes a Japanese cable
manufacturer. Participants in this market compete on the basis of, among other
things, price, technology, time-to-market, the provision of financing and
regional and long-term relationships. In the future, we will be offering less of
our cable system design, manufacturing and installation capacity to our
customers, and our existing competitors and potential new cable system suppliers
will play a more significant role in the undersea cable system market.

    As a provider of undersea cable maintenance, TyCom competes primarily with
Global Marine Systems Ltd., a subsidiary of Global Crossing Ltd. as well as
Alcatel and KDD.

    There are a number of companies that are pursuing the deployment of global
fiber optic networks, including Global Crossing, FLAG Telecom, Teleglobe,
360networks and 1Cybernetworks. There are other companies that are or will be
selling bandwidth capacity on various shorter distance undersea cable networks.
As TyCom deploys the TGN, it will face competition in the sale of bandwidth
capacity from existing and planned fiber optic cable networks, as well as
satellite providers and, on certain routes, terrestrial networks. In addition,
the first phase of the TGN will compete with certain of TyCom's customers,
including Global Crossing, 360networks, and various participants in cable system
consortia. The planned expansion of the TGN beyond the first phase will likely
also result in competition with these customers as well as some of TyCom's other
customers. Bandwidth customers, such as large telecommunications service
providers, often have ownership interest in networks that may cause them to
favor purchasing capacity on their own networks rather than on the TGN.

III. HEALTHCARE AND SPECIALTY PRODUCTS

    Tyco has a strong leadership position in the medical products and plastics
industries. Our products include:

    - a wide variety of disposable medical products, including wound care
      products, syringes and needles, sutures and surgical staplers,
      incontinence products, electrosurgical instruments and laparoscopic
      instruments;

    - flexible plastic packaging, plastic bags and sheeting, coated and
      laminated packaging materials, tapes and adhesives, and plastic garment
      hangers; and

    - ADT Automotive's auto redistribution services (which was sold on
      October 6, 2000).

    The principal divisions in the Healthcare and Specialty Products segment are
Tyco Healthcare Group, Tyco Plastics and Adhesives and ADT Automotive.

    TYCO HEALTHCARE GROUP

    The Tyco Healthcare Group consists of four primary business units including
Kendall Healthcare, Tyco Healthcare International, U.S. Surgical Corporation and
ValleyLab.

    Kendall Healthcare, which is comprised of Kendall, Sherwood-Davis & Geck,
Kendall-LTP, Graphic Controls and Confab, manufactures and markets worldwide a
broad range of needles, syringes, electrodes and wound care, specialized paper
and film, vascular therapy, urological care, incontinence care and other nursing
care products to hospitals and to alternate site healthcare customers. Its
Confab unit sells store brand baby diapers and incontinence and feminine hygiene
products through retail outlets in the United States and Canada.

    Kendall Healthcare distributes its products in the United States through its
own sales force and through a network of more than 250 independent distributors.
The sales force is divided into five


groups: vascular therapy products, medical and surgical products, alternate site
markets, Kendall-LTP and Confab.

    Tyco Healthcare's competitors include Johnson & Johnson, Becton Dickinson,
Bard and Smith and Nephew, among others.

    Kendall Healthcare, which operates throughout the United States, is the
industry leader in gauze products with its Kerlix-Registered Trademark- and
Curity-Registered Trademark- brand dressings. Kendall Healthcare's other core
product category consists of its vascular therapy products, principally
anti-embolism stockings, marketed under the T.E.D.-Registered Trademark- brand
name, sequential pneumatic compression devices sold under the
SCD-Registered Trademark- brand name and a venous plexus foot pump. Kendall
Healthcare pioneered the pneumatic compression form of treatment and continues
to be the leading participant in the pneumatic compression and elastic stocking
segments of the vascular therapy market.

    Kendall Healthcare is also an industry leader in the adult incontinence
market serving the acute care, long-term care and retail markets. It offers a
complete line of disposable adult briefs, underpads, baby diapers and other
related products.

    Kendall-LTP, which includes Graphic Controls, manufactures and sells a
variety of disposable medical products, specialized paper and film products.
These include medical electrodes and gels for monitoring and diagnostic tests
and hydrogel wound care products, which are used primarily in critical care,
physical therapy and rehabilitative departments in hospitals. Graphic Controls
also sells operating room kits, sharps containers and other operating room
related products.

    Tyco Healthcare International is responsible for the manufacturing,
marketing, distribution and export of the Tyco Healthcare Group products outside
of the United States. Tyco Healthcare International markets directly to
hospitals and medical professionals, as well as through independent
distributors. With a presence in more than 75 countries, its operations are
organized primarily into three geographic regions, Europe, Latin America and the
Asia-Pacific region, although the mix of product lines offered varies from
country to country.

    U.S. Surgical, a leader in innovative wound closure products and
laparoscopic instrumentation, develops, manufactures and markets its products to
hospitals throughout the world. Its products include surgical staplers, sutures,
disposable laparoscopic instrumentation, in addition to numerous other products
used in surgical and medical specialties including spine surgery, cardiovascular
surgery, cancer biopsies and orthopedic surgery.

    ValleyLab is a leading manufacturer and marketer of electrosurgical and
ultrasonic surgical products used in open and minimally invasive surgical
procedures. Additional product lines relate to radio frequency energy and vessel
sealing technology.

    In October 2000, we acquired Mallinckrodt Inc. ("Mallinckrodt"), a global
company whose products are used primarily for respiratory care, diagnostic
imaging and pain relief. Mallinckrodt is the leader in the global respiratory
care markets, alternate care markets, diagnostic imaging, and bulk
pharmaceuticals. Mallinckrodt's products are sold to hospitals and alternate
care sites, clinical laboratories, pharmaceutical manufacturers and other
customers on a worldwide basis.

    TYCO PLASTICS AND ADHESIVES

    Tyco Plastics & Adhesives consists of Tyco Plastics, A&E Products, Tyco
Adhesives and Ludlow Coated Products.

    TYCO PLASTICS

    Tyco Plastics manufactures polyethylene based films, packaging products,
bags and sheeting in a wide range of size, gauge, strength, stretch capacity,
clarity and color. Tyco Plastics extrudes low density, high density and linear
low density resin purchased in pellet form, incorporating such additives


as color, slip and anti-block. Manufacturing facilities are located in all
regions of the US to insure proper customer service and competitive
transportation costs.

    Tyco Plastics Products include: Ruffies-Registered Trademark-, a national
brand consumer trash bag sold to mass merchants, grocery chains and other retail
outlets and Film-Gard-Registered Trademark-, a leading plastic sheeting product
sold to consumers and professional contractors through do-it-yourself outlets,
home improvement centers and hardware stores. A wide range of Film-Gard products
are sold for various uses, including painting, renovation, construction,
landscaping and agriculture.

    Tyco Plastics sells it product directly to the retailer for resale, to
distributors for resale or directly to end-users. Tyco Plastics competes with
other nationally recognized brands and also many smaller regional producers on
the basis of price, delivery, breadth of product line and specialized product
capabilities.

    LUDLOW COATED PRODUCTS

    Ludlow Coated Products produces protective packaging and other materials
made of coated or laminated combinations of paper, polyethylene and foil. Coated
packaging materials provide barriers against grease, oil, light, heat, moisture,
oxygen and other contaminants. The division produces structural coated and
laminated products such as plastic coated kraft, linerboard and bleached boards
for rigid urethane insulation panels, automotive components and wallboard
panels. Other product applications include packaging for photographic film,
frozen foods, health care products, electrical and metallic components,
agricultural chemicals, cement and specialty resins. Ludlow is also the dominant
supplier of thin wall insulative sheathing and a major producer and supplier of
breathable housewrap for the building industry.

    Ludlow markets its laminated and coated products through its own sales force
and through independent manufacturers' representatives. Ludlow competes with
many large manufacturers of laminated and coated products on the basis of price,
service, marketing coverage and custom application engineering. It has various
specialized competitors in different markets.

    TYCO ADHESIVES

    The Tyco Adhesives division manufactures and markets specialty adhesive
products and tapes for industrial applications, including external corrosion
protection products for oil, gas and water pipelines. Other industrial
applications include tapes and adhesive films and laminations used in the
automotive industry for wire harness wraps, sealing and other purposes, in the
aerospace industry, in the heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC)
industry and in the medical industry. Tyco Adhesives also produces duct, foil,
strapping, packaging and electrical tapes and spray adhesives for industrial and
consumer markets worldwide and manufacturers cloth and medical tapes for Tyco
Healthcare and others. Tyco Adhesives' Betham division develops and markets
custom pressure sensitive adhesives and coatings, principally for the
automotive, medical and specialty markets.

    Tyco Adhesives generally markets its corrosion protection products directly
to its customer base, working with international engineering and construction
companies and the owners and operators of pipeline transportation facilities.
Tyco Adhesives sells its other industrial products either directly to major end
users or through diverse distribution channels, depending upon the industry
being supplied. Products are sold under the Polyken-Registered Trademark-,
Nashua Tape-Registered Trademark-, Raychem-Registered Trademark-,
Betham-Registered Trademark- and National-TM- brand names.

    A&E PRODUCTS

    A&E Products Group L.P. manufactures and sells garment hangers throughout
the world and associated apparel products and packing materials to garment
manufacturers and merchants in the Americas. The majority of A&E Products'
clientele are garment manufacturers, national, regional and local retailers, as
well as merchants.


    Garment manufacturers place their apparel on A&E hangers before shipping to
retail outlets. Retailers purchase customized hanger designs created and
manufactured for them exclusively by A&E Products as well as a standard line of
hangers to save time and money. A&E Products also produces a line of plastic
hangers available for sale to the private customer.

    In addition to the manufacturing and selling of new hangers, A&E Products
also operates hanger-recycling facilities in the United States and Europe. Used
hangers are bought from various retailers; they are then sorted, processed and
repackaged for sale back to the general marketplace.

    ADT AUTOMOTIVE

    In October 2000, we sold our ADT Automotive business, which performed auto
redistribution services.

IV. FIRE AND SECURITY SERVICES

    Tyco is the world's leading provider of fire protection and electronic
security services. Our products and services include:

    - designing, installing and servicing of a broad line of fire detection,
      prevention and suppression systems;

    - providing electronic security installation and monitoring services; and

    - manufacturing and servicing of fire extinguishers and related products.

    FIRE PROTECTION CONTRACTING AND SERVICES

    Operating under several trade names including Grinnell, Wormald, Mather &
Platt, Total Walther, O'Donnell Griffin, Dong Bang, Ansul and Tyco, we design,
fabricate, install and service automatic fire sprinkler systems, fire alarm and
detection systems, and special hazard suppression systems in buildings and other
installations. Tyco's fire protection contracting and service business utilizes
a worldwide network of sales offices.

    We install fire protection systems in both new and existing structures.
Typically, the contracting businesses bid on contracts for fire protection
installation which are let by owners, architects, construction engineers and
mechanical or general contractors. In recent years, the business of retrofitting
existing buildings has grown as a result of legislation mandating the
installation of fire protection systems and also as a result of lower insurance
premiums available to structures with automatic sprinkler systems. We continue
to focus on system maintenance and inspection, which has become a more
significant part of the business.

    The majority of the fire suppression systems installed by Tyco are
water-based. However, we are also the world's leading provider of custom
designed hazard fire protection systems which incorporate various specialized
non-water agents such as foams, dry chemicals and gases. Systems using agents
other than water are especially suited to fire protection in certain
manufacturing, power generation, petrochemical, offshore oil exploration,
transportation, telecommunications, mining and marine applications. We hold
exclusive manufacturing and distribution rights in several regions of the world
for INERGEN-Registered Trademark- fire suppression products. INERGEN is an
alternative to the ozone depleting agent known as halon and consists of a
mixture of three inert gases designed to effectively extinguish fires without
polluting the environment, damaging costly equipment or harming people.

    In Australia, New Zealand and Asia, Tyco also engages in the installation of
electrical wire and related electrical equipment in new and existing structures
and provides specialized electrical contracting services, including applications
for railroad and bridge construction, primarily through its O'Donnell Griffin
division.


    Substantially all of the mechanical components (and, in North America, a
high proportion of the pipe) used in the fire protection systems installed by us
are manufactured by us. We also have fabrication plants worldwide that cut,
thread and weld pipe, which is then shipped with other prefabricated components
to job sites for installation. We have developed our own computer-aided-design
technology that reduces the time required to design systems for specific
applications and coordinates the fabrication and delivery of system components.

    Generally, competition in the fire protection business varies by geographic
location. In North America, Tyco competes with hundreds of smaller contractors
on a regional or local basis for the installation of fire suppression and fire
alarm and detection systems. Many of the regional and local competitors employ
non-union labor. In Europe, Tyco competes with many regional or local
contractors on a country by country basis. In Australia, New Zealand and Asia,
we compete with a few large fire protection contractors as well as with many
smaller regional or local companies. Tyco competes for fire protection contracts
primarily on the basis of price, service and quality.

    ELECTRONIC SECURITY SERVICES

    We provide electronic security services principally under the ADT trade name
and also under other trade names including Alarmguard, Thorn Security, Total
Walther, Holmes Protection, CIPE, CAPS, Zettler, Sonitrol, TEPG and Armourguard.
We provide electronic security services primarily in North America, Europe, the
Middle East, the Asia-Pacific region and Latin America.

    Electronically monitored security systems involve the installation and use
on a customer's premises of devices designed to detect or react to various
occurrences or conditions, such as intrusion, movement, fire, smoke, flooding,
environmental conditions (including temperature or humidity variations),
industrial operations (such as water, gas or steam pressure and process flow
controls) or other hazards. These detection devices are connected to a
microprocessor-based control panel which communicates through telephone lines to
a monitoring center, often located at remote distances from the customer's
premises, where alarm and supervisory signals are received and recorded. In most
systems, control panels can identify the nature of the alarm and the areas
within a building where the sensor was activated. Depending upon the type of
service for which the subscriber has contracted, monitoring center personnel
respond to alarms by relaying appropriate information to the local fire or
police departments, notifying the customer or taking other appropriate action,
such as dispatching employees to the customer's premises. In some instances, the
customer may monitor the system at its own premises or the system may be
connected to local fire or police departments.

    We provide electronic security services to both commercial and residential
customers. Our commercial customers include financial institutions, industrial
and commercial businesses, facilities of federal, state and local government
departments, defense installations, and health care and educational facilities.
We provide residential electronic security services primarily in North America
and Europe, with a growing presence in the Asia-Pacific region. Our customers
are often prompted to purchase security systems by their insurance carriers,
which may offer lower insurance premium rates if a security system is installed
or require that a system be installed as a condition to coverage.

    We also offer event monitoring and inspection services. We are the global
leader for the supply of event monitoring in the security industry. In addition
to the traditional monitoring of a burglar alarm system, Tyco monitors fire
alarms, heating services, medical alert systems, and activity where around the
clock monitoring and response is required. We also offer regular inspection and
maintenance services so that systems will function appropriately and are
upgraded as technology or risk profiles change.

    Our electronic security systems and products are tailored to our customers'
specific needs and include electronic monitoring services that provide intrusion
and fire detection, as well as card or keypad activated access control systems
and closed circuit television ("CCTV") systems. Systems may be monitored by the
customer at its premises or connected to one of our monitoring centers. In
either case, we usually provide support and maintenance through service
contracts. It has been our experience


that commercial and residential contracts are generally renewed after their
initial terms. Contract discontinuances occur principally as a result of
customer relocation or closure. Systems installed at commercial customers'
premises may be owned by us or by our customer. We usually retain ownership of
standard residential systems, but more sophisticated residential systems are
usually purchased by our customers.

    We market our electronic security services to commercial and residential
customers through a direct sales force and an authorized dealer network.
Commercial customers are serviced by a separate national accounts sales force.
We also utilize advertising, telemarketing and direct mail to market our
services.

    The electronic security services business in North America is highly
competitive, with a number of major firms and approximately 12,000 smaller
regional and local companies. Tyco also competes with several national companies
and several thousand regional and local companies in Europe, the Middle East,
the Asia-Pacific region and Latin America. Competition is based primarily on
price in relation to quality of service. We believe that the quality of our
electronic security services is higher than that of many of our competitors and,
therefore, our prices may be higher than those charged by our competitors.

    In December 2000, we agreed to acquire Simplex Time Recorder Co.
("Simplex"). Simplex manufactures fire and security products and communications
systems including control panels, detection devices and system software. Simplex
also installs, monitors and services fire alarms, security systems and access
control systems.

    MANUFACTURING

    Our Ansul subsidiary manufactures and sells various lines of dry chemical,
liquid and gaseous portable fire extinguishers and related agents for
industrial, government, commercial and consumer applications. Ansul also
manufactures and sells special hazard fire suppression systems designed for use
in restaurants, marine applications, mining applications, the petrochemical
industry, confined industrial spaces and commercial spaces housing electronic
and other delicate equipment. Ansul also manufactures spill control products
designed to absorb, neutralize and solidify spills of various hazardous
materials.

    Our Fire and Security Services segment manufactures certain alarm, detection
and activation devices and central monitoring station equipment which is both
installed by our own units and sold to other installers of alarm and detection
devices. Otherwise, we do not manufacture the electronic security system
components which we install, although we do provide our own specifications to
manufacturers for certain security system components and undertake some final
assembly work in respect of more sophisticated systems. These products are
manufactured primarily outside of the United States.

V.  FLOW CONTROL PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

    Tyco is the world's leading manufacturer of industrial valves and controls.
Our products and services include:

    - a full line of valves and related products for industrial and process
      control including butterfly, gate, globe, check, ball, plug, safety
      relief, knife-gate, instrumentation, sampling, and other valves as well as
      actuators, positioners, couplings and related products, which are used to
      transport, control and sample liquids, gases, powders and other
      substances;

    - pipe and tubular products, made primarily from steel, ductile iron and
      plastic and utilized in the mechanical tubing, construction, automotive,
      water distribution, fencing products and other markets;


    - electrical raceway products, including steel conduit, pre-wired armored
      cable, flexible conduit, steel support systems and fasteners, cable tray
      and cable ladder;

    - a broad range of consulting, engineering, construction management and
      operating services for the water, wastewater, environmental,
      transportation and infrastructure markets; and

    - fire sprinkler devices, specialty valves, steel pipe, plastic pipe and
      fittings and pipe couplings used in commercial, residential and industrial
      fire protection systems.

MANUFACTURING AND SERVICES

    VALVES AND CONTROLS

    Tyco Flow Control manufactures a wide variety of standard and highly
specialized valves and related products on a worldwide basis in a variety of
configurations, body types, materials, pressure ratings and sizes. The group
also manufactures related equipment and products such as valve actuators,
gauges, positioners, valve control systems, vapor control products, heat tracing
and leak detection systems and other related products. These products are
manufactured in Tyco's facilities located throughout North America, Europe,
South America and the Asia-Pacific region. The group's valves and related
products are used in power generation, chemical, petrochemical, oil and gas,
water distribution, wastewater, pulp and paper, commercial irrigation, mining,
industrial process, food and beverage, plumbing, HVAC and other applications.
Tyco Flow Control also provides engineering, design, inspection, repair and
commissioning services.

    Tyco's valves and related products are sold under several trade names,
including Keystone, Grinnell, Hindle, KTM, Flow Control Technologies, Gachot,
Richards, Sapag, Winn, Vanessa, Raimondi, Fasani, Sempell, Descote, Klein,
Biffi, Morin Actuators, Westlock Controls, Crosby, Anderson Greenwood, Yarway,
Valvtron, Neotecha, Belucci, Intecva, Bayard, Belgicast, Whessoe Varec and many
others. Tyco Flow Control sells heat tracing products and services under the
Raychem HTS, Tracer Industries, Accutron and Isopad names.

    PIPE AND TUBULAR PRODUCTS

    Tyco Flow Control manufactures steel pipe and tubular products at a number
of locations in North America, the United Kingdom, Brazil and Australia.

    Allied Tube & Conduit ("Allied") is the leading North American manufacturer
of steel tubular products including (i) mechanical tubing in a wide assortment
of shapes and sizes for a variety of industrial and commercial applications,
(ii) tubing products for the residential, industrial and commercial fence
market, and (iii) light wall steel trusses and studs for the residential and
commercial construction industry. Other specialty products include steel
signposts, welded steel fittings, welded and roll formed carbon steel tubing and
shapes, and stainless steel razor tape.

    Tyco Flow Control manufactures and distributes welded and drawn steel tube
products in the United Kindgom under the trade names of Newman Monmore, Newman
Phoenix, Tyco Tube Components and HUB LeBas. We manufacture specialty steel
strip products under the JB&S Lees, Firth Cleveland Steel Strip and Ductile
Stourbridge trade names and also in Brazil under the trade name of Frefer. In
Australia, Tyco Flow Control manufactures ductile and steel pipe, steel
fittings, valves and related products primarily for the water industry at
several locations under the trade name Tyco Water. We also manufacture a line of
plastic pipe and fittings in Australia and Malaysia.

    ELECTRICAL PRODUCTS

    Tyco Flow Control manufactures electrical raceway and related products in
North America, Europe and the Asia-Pacific region. Our products include steel
electrical conduit, pre-wired armored cable, flexible electrical conduit, metal
framing systems, cable tray and cable ladder and related products


utilized in the construction, industrial and original equipment markets. In
North America, Allied is the leading manufacturer of steel electrical conduit
and AFC Cable Systems is the leading manufacturer of steel and aluminum
pre-wired armored cable. Georgia Pipe manufactures plastic conduit. Allied
manufactures metal framing and support systems and electrical cable tray and
cable ladders in North America and sells them under the Powerstrut, Unistrut and
T.J. Cope trade names. We also manufacture metal framing and support products in
Europe, which we sell under the Unistrut trade name. In Australia and Asia, we
manufacture and sell these products under the Unistrut, A.C.S. and other trade
names. We manufacture specialty fastening products in the United Kingdom under
the Lindapter trade name.

    ENGINEERING SERVICES

    Through its Earth Tech subsidiary, the Flow Control group provides a broad
range of environmental, consulting and engineering services. Earth Tech's
principal services consist of full-spectrum water, wastewater, environmental and
hazardous waste management services. These services include infrastructure
design and construction services for institutional, civic, commercial and
industrial clients; design, construction management, project financing and
facility operating services for water and wastewater treatment facilities for
municipal and industrial clients; and transportation engineering and consulting.

    Earth Tech operates through a network of offices in the United States,
Canada, the United Kingdom and Brazil.

    FIRE PROTECTION PRODUCTS

    The Flow Control group manufactures, sells and distributes a wide variety of
products utilized by fire protection contractors and fabricators of fire
protection systems. These products include a complete line of fire sprinkler
devices, valves, plastic pipe and pipe fittings and ductile iron pipe couplings.
We sell these products to third parties as well as to our fire protection
contracting businesses on an arms-length basis. We manufacture our products in
the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany, China and Malaysia and sell them
under the Central Sprinkler, GEM Sprinkler, Star Sprinkler and Spraysafe trade
names. In North America, Allied also manufactures and sells a complete line of
steel pipe for use in fire protection systems.

SALES AND DISTRIBUTION

    We sell valves and related products in some locations directly by an
internal sales force and in other geographical areas by a network of independent
distributors and manufacturer's representatives. The valve industry is highly
fragmented and we compete against a number of international, national and local
manufacturers as well as against specialized manufacturers on the basis of
price, delivery, breadth of product line and specialized product capability.

    Allied competes for the sale of steel pipe and tube with other United States
and non-United States producers. The group's pipe and tubular products
manufactured in the United Kingdom, Australia and Brazil compete primarily with
other local and national producers in those countries. Competition is based on
price, service and breadth of product line. Competition for fence products is
principally from national and regional United States producers and to a lesser
extent from non-United States companies on the basis of price, service and
distribution. Allied competes with many small regional manufacturers for the
sale of specialized industrial tubing on the basis of price and breadth of
product line. The group's electrical raceway and related products are sold
through independent distributors and agents. Competition for electrical products
is from local and national companies in each country on the basis of price,
delivery and service. Earth Tech competes with a number of international,
national, regional and local companies on the basis of price and the breadth and
quality of their services.


    For fire protection products in the United States, Central Sprinkler
maintains a network of distribution facilities which stock and sell a full line
of fire protection products directly to contractors and installers. GEM
Sprinkler and Star Sprinkler sell fire protection products through a network of
independent distributors. In Canada, Central America, South America and the
Asia-Pacific region, we sell fire protection products through independent
distribution and in some cases directly to fire protection contractors. In
Europe and the Middle East, we operate a number of company owned distribution
facilities which stock and sell a full line of fire protection, mechanical and
other flow control products. Competition for the sale of fire products is based
on price, delivery, breadth of product line and specialized product capability.
The principal competitors are specialty products manufacturing companies based
in the United States, with other smaller competitors in Europe and Asia.

BACKLOG

    At September 30, 2000, we had a backlog of unfilled orders of approximately
$8,214.8 million, compared to a backlog of approximately $7,581.1 million as of
September 30, 1999. We expect that approximately 86% of our backlog at
September 30, 2000 will be filled during the year ending September 30, 2001.
Backlog by industry segment is as follows ($ in millions):



    The decrease in backlog within the Telecommunications segment is due to
TyCom devoting a substantial portion of its resources to designing and
manufacturing the TGN and therefore taking on less work as a supplier of
undersea fiber optic cable systems for others. Within the Electronics segment,
backlog increased principally due to an increase in demand for the products
manufactured by AMP and Raychem, and to a lesser extent, the effect of
acquisitions. Within the Flow Control Products and Services segment, the
increase was principally due to increased backlog at Earth Tech, related to new
contract bookings and water and waste water facility contracts, and an increase
in demand for its valves and control products. Within the Fire and Security
Services segment, backlog increased principally due to long-term service
contracts in the Australian fire protection business and, to a lesser extent,
the effect of acquisitions. Backlog in the Healthcare and Specialty Products
segment is not indicative of the level of sales activity. Backlog in this
segment generally represents unfilled orders which are shipped shortly after
puchase orders are received.

PROPERTIES

    Our operations are conducted in facilities throughout the world aggregating
some 74.8 million square feet of floor space, of which approximately
39.9 million square feet are owned and approximately 34.9 million square feet
are leased. These facilities house manufacturing, distribution and warehousing
operations as well as sales and marketing, engineering and administrative
offices.

    The Electronics segment has manufacturing facilities in North America,
Central and South America, Europe and Asia. The group occupies some
31.6 million square feet, of which 18.9 million square feet are owned and
12.7 million square feet are leased.


    The Healthcare and Specialty Products segment has manufacturing facilities
in North America, Europe and Asia. The group occupies some 20.5 million square
feet, of which 11.9 million square feet are owned and 8.6 million square feet
are leased.

    The Flow Control Products and Services segment has manufacturing facilities,
warehouses and distribution centers throughout North America, Europe, Australia,
Asia and Central and South America. The group occupies some 7.8 million square
feet, of which 5.8 million square feet are owned and 2.0 million square feet are
leased.

    Within the Fire and Security Services segment, the fire protection
contracting and service business operates through a network of offices located
in North America, Central America, South America, Europe, the Middle East and
Asia-Pacific regions. Fire protection components are manufactured at locations
in North America, the United Kingdom, Germany, Australia, New Zealand and South
Korea. The electronic security services business operates through a network of
monitoring centers and sales and service offices and other properties in North
America, Europe, the Asia-Pacific region and Latin America. The environmental
services business operates through a network of offices throughout North
America. The group occupies some 13.4 million square feet, of which 2.5 million
square feet are owned and 10.9 million square feet are leased.

    The Telecommunications segment has manufacturing and storage facilities in
North America, Hawaii, St. Croix, Guam and Spain, and sales and administrative
offices in Bermuda, North America, Singapore, Spain and France. The group
occupies some 1.5 million square feet, of which 0.8 million square feet are
owned and 0.7 million are leased.

    In the opinion of management, Tyco's properties and equipment generally are
in good operating condition and are adequate for our present needs. We do not
anticipate difficulty in renewing existing leases as they expire or in finding
alternative facilities. See Note 17 to Consolidated Financial Statements for a
description of our rental obligations.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

    The amounts expended for Tyco-sponsored research and development during
Fiscal 2000, Fiscal 1999, and Fiscal 1998 were $527.5 million, $450.5 million
and $511.4 million, respectively. Customer-funded research and development
expenditures were $18.6 million, $4.6 million and $6.8 million, respectively.

    Approximately 7,900 full-time scientists, engineers and other technical
personnel are engaged in our product research and development activities.

    Research activity at TyCom involves the continuing design and development of
processes for the next generation of undersea fiber optic cable. Activity at
Tyco Electronics focuses on new product development and a continual expansion of
technical capabilities. Tyco Healthcare focuses on acquiring rights to new
products and technologies to complement existing product lines and applying
expertise to refine and successfully commercialize such products and
technologies. Research activity in the Fire and Security Services and Flow
Control Products and Services segments is related to improvements in hydraulic
design which controls the motion of fluids, resulting in new sprinkler devices
and flow control products. Research and development activity at the specialty
packaging companies involves new product applications.

RAW MATERIALS

    We are one of the largest buyers of steel and plastic resin in the United
States. Other principal materials include copper, brass, plastic, gold,
polyethylene resin and film, polypropylene, electronic components, chemicals and
additives, thin and flexible copper clad materials, paper, ink, foil, adhesives,
cloth, wax, pulp and cotton. Certain of the materials used in the Fire and
Security Services segment and the Flow Control Products and Services segment,
principally certain valves and fittings and security


systems, are purchased for installation in fire protection systems or for
distribution. Materials are purchased both inside and outside of the United
States from a large number of independent sources. There have been no shortages
in materials which have had a material adverse effect on our businesses.

PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS

    We own a number of patents which principally relate to electrical and
electronic products, healthcare and specialty products, fire protection devices,
electronic security systems, flow control products, pipe and tubing manufacture,
and cable manufacture. We also own a number of trademarks and are a licensee
under a number of patents. Although these have been of value and are expected to
continue to be of value in the future, in the opinion of management, the loss of
any single patent or group of patents would not materially affect the conduct of
the business in any of our segments. The patents and licenses have remaining
lives of from one to twenty years. Kendall, part of Tyco Healthcare, sells
certain products under trade names owned by its suppliers and packages certain
products under customer trademarks and labels.

EMPLOYEES

    Tyco employed approximately 202,000 persons at September 30, 2000, of which
approximately 90,000 are employed in the United States and 112,000 outside the
United States. These amounts exclude approximately 13,000 persons who work for
Mallinckrodt Inc., which we acquired in October 2000. We have collective
bargaining agreements with labor unions covering approximately 36,000 employees
at certain of our North American, European and Asia-Pacific businesses. We
believe that our relations with the labor unions and with our employees are
generally satisfactory. In April 1994, following lengthy negotiations, contracts
between our Grinnell Corporation ("Grinnell") subsidiary and a number of local
unions affiliated with the United Association of Plumbers and Pipefitters were
not renewed. Employees in those locations, representing 64 percent of Grinnell
Fire Protection's North American union employees at the time of their strike in
1994, continue to be on strike. Grinnell has continued to operate with former
union members who have crossed over and with replacement workers. The labor
action is still pending. The action has not had, and is not expected to have,
any material adverse effect on our business or results of operations.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

    We make a substantial effort to operate our facilities in compliance with
laws relating to the protection of the environment. Compliance has not had and
is not expected to have a material adverse effect upon our capital expenditures,
earnings or competitive position.

    We believe that, consistent with applicable laws and regulations, we
exercise due care and take appropriate precautions in the management of wastes.
We have received notification from the United States Environmental Protection
Agency, and from certain state environmental agencies, that conditions at a
number of sites where we and others disposed of hazardous wastes require cleanup
and other possible remedial action.

    We also have a number of projects underway at several of our manufacturing
facilities in order to comply with environmental laws. In addition, we remain
responsible for certain environmental issues at manufacturing locations sold by
us. These projects relate to a variety of activities, including solvent and
metal contamination clean up and oil spill equipment upgrades and replacement.
These projects, some of which are voluntary and some of which are required under
applicable law, involve both remediation expenses and capital improvements.

    The ultimate cost of site cleanup is difficult to predict given the
uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation
of applicable laws and regulations and alternative cleanup methods. Based upon
our experience with the foregoing environmental matters, we have concluded that
there is at least a reasonable possibility that remedial costs will be incurred
with respect to these issues


in an aggregate amount in the range of $32.9 million to $95.2 million. As of
September 30, 2000, we had concluded that the most probable amount which would
be incurred within this range was $68.3 million, $35.4 million of such amount is
included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities and $32.9 million is
included in other long-term liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Based
upon information available to us, at those sites where there has been an
allocation of the liability for cleanup costs among a number of parties,
including Tyco, and such liability could be joint and several, management
believes it is probable that other responsible parties will fully pay the cost
allocated to them, except with respect to one site for which we have assumed
that one of the identified responsible parties will be unable to pay the cost
apportioned to it and that such party's cost will be reapportioned among the
remaining responsible parties. In view of our financial position and reserves
for environmental matters of $68.3 million, we have concluded that our payment
of such estimated amounts will not have a material adverse effect on our
consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

    See Item 1. "Business--Properties" for information relating to the Company's
owned and leased properties.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

SECURITIES LITIGATION

    Beginning on December 9, 1999, Tyco and two Tyco executive officers were
named as defendants in thirty-eight substantially identical class action
lawsuits that were filed in various federal courts seeking damages on account of
alleged violations of the securities laws in connection with Tyco's financial
disclosures concerning certain mergers and acquisitions and Tyco's accounting
therefor. All of the cases have been consolidated for pretrial purposes before
the United States District Court for the District of New Hampshire.

    The Court has selected lead plaintiffs. A Second Amended Class Action
Complaint and Jury Trial Demand was filed on November 2, 2000, purporting to
name two additional Tyco officers and a Tyco Director as defendants. In the
Second Amended Complaint, plaintiffs seek certification of a class of persons
who purchased or acquired Tyco securities during the period from October 1,
1998, through December 8, 1999, as well as certification of certain subclasses.
The plaintiffs seek money damages and/ or rescission. The Court has set a
schedule for briefing a motion to dismiss this action.

TYCO SUBMARINE SYSTEMS LTD./GLOBAL CROSSING LITIGATION

    TyCom (US) Inc. (formerly known as Tyco Submarine Systems Ltd.), a
subsidiary of Tyco, is named as the defendant in an action brought in the United
States District Court for the Southern District of New York on May 22, 2000 by
Global Crossing Ltd. and its subsidiary South American Crossing (Subsea) Ltd.
The complaint alleges that, in connection with the development of a South
American subsea cable system to be owned by South American Crossing
(Subsea) Ltd., TyCom (US) Inc. misappropriated trade secrets, committed fraud,
breached several alleged agreements, and defamed South American Crossing
(Subsea) Ltd. Plaintiffs seek damages, including punitive damages, in excess of
$1 billion, attorneys' fees and costs, and declarative and injunctive relief.

    TyCom (US) Inc. has answered the complaint, denying its material allegations
and raising various defenses to plaintiffs' claims. Additionally, TyCom
(US) Inc. has asserted counterclaims that South American Crossing
(Subsea) Ltd., at the instance of Global Crossing Ltd., breached the parties'
construction contract. TyCom (US) Inc. seeks damages of not less than
$150 million and attorneys' fees and costs, as well as declarative relief.
Plaintiffs have replied to the counterclaims and denied the material allegations
therein.


    The Court has set February 28, 2001, as the date for completion of all party
and third-party fact discovery.

TYCO SUBMARINE SYSTEMS LTD./GLOBAL CROSSING ARBITRATION

    TyCom (US) Inc. (formerly known as Tyco Submarine Systems Ltd.), a
subsidiary of Tyco, is named as the defendant in an arbitration proceeding that
was commenced on May 22, 2000 by Atlantic Crossing Ltd., GT Landing Corp., GT
U.K. Ltd., Global Telesystems GmbH, and GT Netherlands BV (all subsidiaries of
Global Crossing Ltd.) under the international rules of the American Arbitration
Association. In the notice of arbitration, claimants assert that TyCom
(US) Inc. breached an alleged duty of loyalty and three agreements between the
parties relating to the Atlantic Crossing-1 subsea cable system. Claimants seek
unspecified monetary damages and declarative and injunctive relief. The parties
have since agreed to terminate one of the agreements at issue (the operations,
administration and maintenance agreement) in exchange for mutual releases,
payments to TyCom (US) Inc. of approximately $19 million, and a dismissal from
the arbitration of claims arising out of that agreement.

    TyCom (US) Inc. has responded to claimants' notice of arbitration, denying
the claims therein and asserting counterclaims for claimants' breaches of the
parties' agreements by refusing to pay certain costs, expenses, and commissions
due and owing to TyCom (US) Inc. TyCom (US) Inc. seeks the denial of all relief
sought by claimants, full disclosure and an accounting of certain contracts,
damages of more than $188 million, and an award of interest and other costs. On
July 24, 2000, claimants replied to TyCom (US) Inc.'s statement of defenses and
counterclaims, denying the material allegations therein.

    A panel of three arbitrators has been appointed. Hearings in the arbitration
are scheduled to commence on December 18, 2000. Pursuant to the parties'
commission sharing agreement, the parties have, at the arbitrators' direction,
agreed on an independent auditor who is examining the amount of sales
commissions owing to TyCom (US) Inc. under the parties' agreements.

TYCO SUBMARINE SYSTEMS LTD./IDT

    On January 31, 2000, IDT Europe B.V.B.A. filed a complaint in the United
States District Court for the District of New Jersey asserting claims against
TyCom (US) Inc. (formerly known as Tyco Submarine Systems Ltd.) and Tyco Group
S.a.r.l., a Luxembourg subsidiary of Tyco International Ltd. The claims arose
out of negotiations conducted by Tyco Group S.a.r.l. with IDT Europe B.V.B.A., a
Belgian corporation, concerning the possible formation of a joint venture for
the development of an undersea fiber optic telecommunications system to be
supplied by TyCom (US) Inc., which the complaint alleged was to be substantially
similar to the proposed TyCom Global Network. The plaintiff, IDT Europe
B.V.B.A., alleged that Tyco Group S.a.r.l. breached a Memorandum of
Understanding dated November 9, 1999 (which expired in December 1999), and
alleged implied covenants of good faith and fair dealing and made various other
claims. The plaintiff sought, among other relief such as attorneys' fees and
costs, specific performance of Tyco Group S.a.r.l.'s alleged obligation to
negotiate and execute such agreements, as well as compensatory and punitive
damages. With respect to TyCom (US) Inc., the plaintiff alleged breach of an
agreement by which the plaintiff reserved manufacturing capacity for the cable
system and authorized the undertaking of certain long-lead time activities.
Plaintiff also alleged that TyCom (US) Inc. failed to negotiate in good faith a
system supply agreement for the cable system. The plaintiff sought, among other
relief such as attorneys' fees and costs, compensatory damages of $1 billion,
punitive damages of $3 billion and injunctive relief precluding TyCom (US) Inc.
from undertaking any business activity contrary to the terms of the Instruction
to Proceed. On June 5, 2000, the court granted Tyco Group S.a.r.l. and TyCom
(US) Inc.'s motion to dismiss.

    On March 24, 2000, Tyco Group S.a.r.l., TyCom (US) Inc., Tyco International
Ltd., Tyco International (US) Inc., and TyCom Ltd. filed a complaint in the
Supreme Court of the State of New York, County of New York, asserting claims
against IDT Europe B.V.B.A. and IDT Corporation


(collectively "IDT"). The complaint alleged that IDT filed a baseless lawsuit in
federal court in New Jersey, improperly disclosed confidential information to
the press and otherwise engaged in a pattern of conduct with the purpose and
effect of obstructing efforts to build the TyCom Global Network and to finance
it principally through the initial public offering of TyCom shares. The
complaint demanded compensatory damages of at least $1 billion, punitive damages
and declaratory and injunctive relief. On June 19, 2000, the court denied IDT
Corporation's motion to dismiss and referred IDT Europe B.V.B.A.'s motion to
dismiss to a referee to hear and report with recommendations.

    On June 13, 2000, IDT Europe B.V.B.A. filed a complaint in the Superior
Court of New Jersey, Law Division, Morris County, against Tyco Group (S.a.r.l.),
TyCom (US) Inc., Tyco International Ltd., and Tyco International (US) Inc. The
complaint made factual allegations similar to those previously asserted in the
federal complaint in the United States District Court for the District of New
Jersey, along with additional allegations regarding, among other things, a
purported agreement between TyCom (US) Inc. and Global Crossing. The complaint
asserted claims, similar to those previously asserted in the complaint in
federal court. The plaintiff sought, among other relief such as attorneys' fees
and costs, specific performance, compensatory damages of $1 billion, punitive
damages of $3 billion and injunctive relief. On August 18, 2000, the Court
granted the defendants' motion to dismiss without prejudice, and on the
condition that defendants may not defend any subsequent action by plaintiff upon
the grounds of statute of limitations.

    On October 10, 2000, Tyco Group (S.a.r.l.), TyCom (US) Inc., Tyco
International Ltd., Tyco International (US) Inc., and TyCom Ltd. entered into a
Settlement Agreement with IDT Europe B.V.B.A. and IDT Corporation which
encompasses all actual and potential claims asserted in the actions before the
United States District Court for the District of New Jersey, the Supreme Court
of the State of New York, County of New York, and the Supreme Court of New
Jersey, Law Division, Morris County. Under the terms of the Settlement
Agreement, TyCom Ltd. granted IDT Europe B.V.B.A. rights to use a certain
limited amount of capacity on the transatlantic and transpacific segments of the
first phase of the TGN free of charge.

    Tyco has agreed to indemnify TyCom (US) Inc. for certain losses and expenses
with respect to the claims brought in these federal litigation and arbitration
proceedings, excluding losses and expenses arising out of any award of
injunctive relief.

    See also the discussions under Item 1. "Business--Environmental Matters".

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

    Not applicable.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    Tyco's executive officers and executive officers of certain subsidiaries are
as follows (1):

    L. Dennis Kozlowski, age 54, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief
Executive Officer since July 1997. Chairman of the Board of Former Tyco from
January 1993 to July 1997; Chief Executive Officer of Former Tyco since
July 1992, President of Former Tyco since 1989; associated with Former Tyco
since 1975.

    Mark A. Belnick, age 54, Executive Vice President and Chief Corporate
Counsel since September 1998. Prior to joining Tyco, Mr. Belnick was a Senior
Partner at the international law firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton &
Garrison since 1987.

    Jerry R. Boggess, age 56, President of Tyco Fire and Security Services since
August 1993. Vice President of Former Tyco since February 1996; associated with
Former Tyco since 1968.

    Neil R. Garvey, age 45, President and Chief Executive Officer of TyCom Ltd.
since July 2000. President and Chief Executive Officer of Tyco Submarine
Systems Ltd. from July 1997 to July 2000;


President of Simplex Technologies from July 1995 to June 1997; associated with
Former Tyco since 1979.

    Juergen W. Gromer, age 55, President of Tyco Electronics since April 1999.
Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Service of AMP from 1998 to
April 1999; President, Global Automotive Division, and Corporate Vice President
of AMP from 1997 to 1998; Vice President and General Manager of various
divisions of AMP from 1990 to 1997.

    Stephen B. McDonough, age 47, President of Tyco Flow Control Products since
November 2000. President of Tyco Plastics and Adhesives since May 1997;
President of A&E Molded Products from January 1997 to May 1997; Vice President
and General Manager of Ludlow Laminating and Coating from July 1991 to
January 1997; associated with Former Tyco since 1979.

    Richard J. Meelia, age 51, President of Tyco Healthcare Group since 1995.
Group President of Kendall Healthcare Products Company from January 1991 to
1995.

    Mark H. Swartz, age 40, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
since July 1997. Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Former Tyco since
February 1995; associated with Former Tyco since 1991.

- ------------------------

(1) In July 1997, a wholly-owned subsidiary of what was formerly called ADT
    Limited ("ADT") merged with Tyco International Ltd., a Massachusetts
    Corporation ("Former Tyco"). Upon consummation of the merger, ADT (the
    continuing public company) changed its name to Tyco International Ltd.
    Former Tyco became a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company and changed its
    name to Tyco International (US) Inc. ("Tyco US").

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON SHARES AND RELATED SECURITY HOLDER
  MATTERS

    The number of registered holders of Tyco's common shares at November 13,
2000 was 34,675.

    Tyco common shares are listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange
("NYSE"), the London Stock Exchange and the Bermuda Stock Exchange. The
following table sets forth the high and low sales prices per Tyco common share
as reported by the NYSE and the dividends paid on Tyco common shares, for the
quarterly periods presented below. The price and dividends for Tyco common
shares have been restated to reflect a two-for-one stock split distributed on
October 21, 1999, which was effected in the form of a stock dividend.




                                    PART II

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

    The following table sets forth selected consolidated financial information
of Tyco as at and for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2000, 1999 and 1998,
the nine-month fiscal period ended September 30, 1997 and the year ended
December 31, 1996. This selected financial information should be read in
conjunction with Tyco's Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes. The
selected financial data reflect the combined results of operations and financial
position of Tyco, Former Tyco, Keystone, Inbrand (from January 1, 1997), USSC
and AMP restated for all periods presented pursuant to the pooling of interests
method of accounting. The selected financial data prior to January 1, 1997 do
not reflect the results of operations and financial position of Inbrand, which
was acquired in 1997 and accounted for under the pooling of interests method of
accounting, due to immateriality. See Notes 1 and 2 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.



- ------------------------

(1) Operating income in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2000 includes a net
    charge of $176.3 million, of which $1.0 million is included in cost of
    sales, for restructuring and other non-recurring charges, and charges of
    $99.0 million for the impairment of long-lived assets. See Notes 12 and 16
    to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Income from continuing operations
    for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2000 includes a one-time pre-tax
    gain of $1,760.0 million related to the issuance of common shares by a
    subsidiary. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

(2) Operating income in the fiscal year ended September 30, 1999 is net of
    charges of $1,035.2 million for merger, restructuring and other
    non-recurring charges, of which $106.4 million is included in cost of sales,
    and charges of $507.5 million for the impairment of long-lived assets
    related to the mergers with USSC and AMP and AMP's profit improvement plan.
    See Notes 12 and 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

(3) Operating income in the fiscal year ended September 30, 1998 is net of
    charges of $80.5 million primarily related to costs to exit certain
    businesses in USSC's operations and restructuring charges of $12.0 million
    related to the continuing operations of USSC. In addition, AMP recorded
    restructuring charges of $185.8 million in connection with its profit
    improvement plan and a credit of $21.4 million to restructuring charges
    representing a revision of estimates related to its 1996 restructuring
    activities. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

(4) In September 1997, Tyco changed its fiscal year end from December 31 to
    September 30. Accordingly, the nine-month transition period ended
    September 30, 1997 is presented.


(5) Operating income in the nine months ended September 30, 1997 is net of
    charges related to merger, restructuring and other non-recurring costs of
    $917.8 million and impairment of long-lived assets of $148.4 million
    primarily related to the mergers and integration of ADT, Former Tyco,
    Keystone, and Inbrand, and charges of $24.3 million for litigation and other
    related costs and $5.8 million for restructuring charges in USSC's
    operations. The results for the nine months ended September 30, 1997 also
    include a charge of $361.0 million for the write-off of purchased in-process
    research and development related to the acquisition of the submarine systems
    business of AT&T Corp.

(6) Prior to their respective mergers, ADT, Keystone, USSC and AMP had
    December 31 fiscal year ends and Former Tyco had a June 30 fiscal year end.
    The selected consolidated financial data have been combined using a
    December 31 fiscal year end for ADT, Keystone, Former Tyco, USSC and AMP for
    the year ended December 31, 1996.

(7) Operating income in 1996 includes non-recurring charges of $744.7 million
    related to the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    No. 121 "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed
    Of," $237.3 million related principally to the restructuring of ADT's
    electronic security services business in the United States and United
    Kingdom, $98.0 million to exit various product lines and manufacturing
    operations associated with AMP's operations and $8.8 million of fees and
    expenses related to ADT's acquisition of Automated Security (Holdings) plc,
    a United Kingdom company.

(8) Per share amounts have been retroactively restated to give effect to the
    mergers with Former Tyco, Keystone, Inbrand, USSC and AMP; a 0.48133 reverse
    stock split (1.92532 after giving effect to the subsequent stock splits)
    effected on July 2, 1997; and two-for-one stock splits distributed on
    October 22, 1997 and October 21, 1999, both of which were effected in the
    form of a stock dividend.

(9) Tyco has paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.0125 per common share since
    July 2, 1997, the date of the Former Tyco/ADT merger. Prior to the merger
    with ADT, Former Tyco had paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.0125 per
    share of common stock since January 1992. ADT had not paid any dividends on
    its common shares since 1992. USSC paid quarterly dividends of $0.04 per
    share in the year ended September 30, 1998 and the nine months ended
    September 30, 1997 and aggregate dividends of $0.08 per share in 1996. AMP
    paid dividends of $0.27 per share in the first two quarters of the year
    ended September 30, 1999, $0.26 per share in the first quarter and $0.27 per
    share in the last three quarters of the year ended September 30, 1998, $0.26
    per share in each of the three quarters of the nine months ended
    September 30, 1997 and aggregate dividends of $1.00 per share in 1996. The
    payment of dividends by Tyco in the future will depend on business
    conditions, Tyco's financial condition and earnings and other factors.

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
  OF OPERATIONS

    See Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations which appears on pages 81 to 98 of this Form 10-K.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

    See Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations which appears on pages 81 to 98 of this Form 10-K.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

    The following consolidated financial statements and schedule are filed as
part of this Annual Report:

    Financial Statements:

       Reports of Independent Accountants


       Consolidated Balance Sheets--September 30, 2000 and September 30, 1999

       Consolidated Statements of Operations for the fiscal years ended
       September 30, 2000, 1999 and 1998.

       Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the fiscal years
       ended September 30, 2000, 1999 and 1998

       Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the fiscal years ended
       September 30, 2000, 1999 and 1998

       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

    Financial Statement Schedule:

       Schedule II--Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

    All other financial statements and schedules have been omitted since the
information required to be submitted has been included in the consolidated
financial statements and related notes or because they are either not applicable
or not required under the rules of Regulation S-X.

    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for Summarized Quarterly
Financial Data (unaudited).

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
  FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

    None.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    Information concerning the Directors of the Registrant is hereby
incorporated by reference to the Registrant's definitive proxy statement which
will be filed with the Commission within 120 days after the close of the fiscal
year.

ITEM 11. MANAGEMENT REMUNERATION

    Information concerning management remuneration is hereby incorporated by
reference to the Registrant's definitive proxy statement which will be filed
with the Commission within 120 days after the close of the fiscal year.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

    Information concerning security ownership of certain beneficial owners and
management is hereby incorporated by reference to the Registrant's definitive
proxy statement which will be filed with the Commission within 120 days after
the close of the fiscal year.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

    Information concerning certain relationships and related transactions is
hereby incorporated by reference to the Registrant's definitive proxy statement
which will be filed with the Commission within 120 days after the close of the
fiscal year.


                                    PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

      (a) (1) and (2) Financial Statements and Schedules--see Item 8.

      (b) Exhibits






- ------------------------






Current Report on Form 8-K filed on July 14, 2000 containing the press release
of Tyco dated July 13, 2000 announcing that it had been advised that the
informal inquiry, which was being conducted by the staff of the Division of
Enforcement of the Securities and Exchange Commission since December 1999, had
been terminated.

Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 1, 2000 containing the press
release of Tyco dated November 1, 2000 announcing the consummation of the
acquisition of Mallinckrodt Inc.

Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 15, 2000 containing the press
releases of Tyco dated November 13 and 14, 2000 announcing the private offering
of zero-coupon convertible debt securities.


                                   SIGNATURES

    Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.



Date: December 21, 2000

    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.




                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors
and Shareholders of Tyco International Ltd.

    In our opinion, based upon our audits and the report of other auditors, the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements
of operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of Tyco International Ltd. and its
subsidiaries at September 30, 2000 and 1999, and the results of their operations
and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
September 30, 2000, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States of America. In addition, in our opinion, the accompanying
financial statement schedule presents fairly, in all material respects, the
information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related
consolidated financial statements. These financial statements and financial
statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management; our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and
financial statement schedule based on our audits. We did not audit the financial
statements of AMP Incorporated, a wholly owned subsidiary, as of September 30,
1998, and for the year ended September 30, 1998, which statements reflect total
assets of 20.1% of the related consolidated total assets as of September 30,
1998, and net sales of 29.0% of the related consolidated total sales for the
year ended September 30, 1998. Those statements were audited by other auditors
whose report thereon has been furnished to us, and our opinion expressed herein,
insofar as it relates to the amounts included for AMP Incorporated, as of and
for the period described above, is based solely on the report of the other
auditors. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with
auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America, which
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit
includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles
used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits and the report of
other auditors provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

                                          PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS

Hamilton, Bermuda
October 24, 2000, except as to Note 25
which is as of December 4, 2000


                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of AMP Incorporated:

    We have audited the consolidated balance sheet of AMP Incorporated (a
Pennsylvania corporation) and subsidiaries as of September 30, 1998, the related
consolidated statements of income, shareholders' equity and cash flows for the
year ended September 30, 1998, which are not included herein. These financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audit.

    We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

    In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of
AMP Incorporated and subsidiaries as of September 30, 1998, and the consolidated
results of their operations and their cash flows for the year ended
September 30, 1998, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States.

    Our audit was made for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic
financial statements taken as a whole. Schedule II, which is not included
herein, is presented for purposes of complying with the Securities and Exchange
Commission rules and is not part of the basic financial statements. This
schedule has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audit of
the basic financial statements and, in our opinion, fairly states in all
material respects the financial data required to be set forth therein in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole.

                                          ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
February 12, 1999
(except with respect to the matter disclosed in
Note 18--Merger with Tyco International Ltd.,
as to which the date is April 2, 1999)


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

                        (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)



                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

                      (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)



                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

                      (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)



                 See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (IN MILLIONS)



                  See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

    BUSINESS--Tyco International Ltd. (the "Company" or "Tyco") manages its
business in the following five operating segments:

    ELECTRONICS

    The Electronics segment's products and services include:

    - designing, engineering and manufacturing of electronic connector systems,
      fiber optic components, wireless devices, heat shrink products, power
      components, wire and cable, relays, sensors, touch screens, identification
      and labeling products, switches and battery assemblies; and

    - designing and manufacturing of multi-layer printed circuit boards,
      backplane assemblies, electronic modules and similar components.

    TELECOMMUNICATIONS

    The Company's 86% owned subsidiary, TyCom Ltd. ("TyCom"), is a leading
independent provider of transoceanic fiber optic networks and services. TyCom's
products and services include:

    - design, engineering, manufacture and installation of undersea cable
      communications systems;

    - service and maintenance of major undersea cable networks; and

    - design, manufacture and installation of a global undersea fiber optic
      network, known as the TyCom Global Network-TM- ("TGN"). TyCom plans to
      operate, maintain and sell bandwidth capacity on the TGN.

    HEALTHCARE AND SPECIALTY PRODUCTS

    The Healthcare and Specialty Products segment's products and services
include:

    - a wide variety of disposable medical products, including wound care
      products, syringes and needles, sutures and surgical staplers,
      incontinence products, electrosurgical instruments and laparoscopic
      instruments;

    - flexible plastic packaging, plastic bags and sheeting, coated and
      laminated packaging materials, tapes and adhesives, and plastic garment
      hangers; and

    - ADT Automotive's auto redistribution services (See Note 25).

    FIRE AND SECURITY SERVICES

    The Fire and Security Services segment's products and services include:

    - designing, installing and servicing a broad line of fire detection,
      prevention and suppression systems;

    - providing electronic security installation and monitoring services; and

    - manufacturing and servicing fire extinguishers and related products.

    FLOW CONTROL PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

    The Flow Control Products and Services segment's products and services
include:

    - a full line of valves and related products for industrial and process
      control, pipe and tubular products, electrical raceway products and fire
      sprinkler devices; and


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
    - a broad range of consulting, engineering, construction management and
      operating services for the water, wastewater, environmental,
      transportation and infrastructure markets.

    BASIS OF PRESENTATION--The consolidated financial statements have been
prepared in United States dollars in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles in the United States. As described more fully in Note 2,
Tyco merged with United States Surgical Corporation ("USSC") and AMP
Incorporated ("AMP") on October 1, 1998 and April 2, 1999, respectively. These
transactions are referred to herein as the "mergers." The consolidated financial
statements include the consolidated accounts of Tyco, a company incorporated in
Bermuda, and its subsidiaries. They have been prepared following the pooling of
interests method of accounting for the mergers and, therefore, reflect the
combined financial position, operating results and cash flows of USSC and AMP as
if they had been combined for all periods presented.

    PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION--Tyco is a holding company whose assets consist
of its investments in its subsidiaries, intercompany balances and holdings of
cash and cash equivalents. The businesses of the consolidated group are
conducted through the Company's subsidiaries. The Company consolidates companies
in which it owns or controls more than fifty percent of the voting shares unless
control is likely to be temporary. The results of companies acquired or disposed
of during the fiscal year are included in the consolidated financial statements
from the effective date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal except in
the case of mergers accounted for as pooling of interests (See Note 2). All
significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in
consolidation.

    CASH EQUIVALENTS--All highly liquid investments purchased with a maturity of
three months or less are considered to be cash equivalents.

    INVENTORIES--Inventories are recorded at the lower of cost (primarily
first-in, first-out) or market value.

    PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT--Property, plant and equipment is principally
recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation. Maintenance and repair
expenditures are charged to expense when incurred. For the years ended
September 30, 2000, 1999 and 1998, the Company capitalized interest of $10.8
million, $8.7 million and $9.0 million, respectively. The straight-line method
of depreciation is used over the estimated useful lives of the related assets as
follows:



    Gains and losses arising on the disposal of property, plant and equipment
are included in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and were not material.

    GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS--Goodwill, which is being amortized on
a straight-line basis over periods ranging from 10 to 40 years, was
$13,723.0 million and $10,639.3 million, net, at September 30, 2000 and 1999,
respectively. Accumulated amortization amounted to $959.3 million at
September 30, 2000 and $615.6 million at September 30, 1999.

    Other intangible assets were $2,609.6 million and $1,519.6 million, net, at
September 30, 2000 and 1999, respectively. These amounts include patents,
trademarks, customer contracts and other items, which are being amortized on a
straight-line basis over lives ranging from 2 to 40 years. At


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
September 30, 2000 and 1999, accumulated amortization amounted to
$525.2 million and $319.5 million, respectively.

    INVESTMENTS--The Company accounts for its long-term investments that
represent less than twenty percent ownership using Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and
Equity Securities." This standard requires that certain debt and equity
securities be adjusted to market value at the end of each accounting period.
Unrealized market gains and losses are charged to earnings if the securities are
traded for short-term profit. Otherwise, such unrealized gains and losses are
charged or credited to shareholders' equity. Management determines the proper
classification of investments in obligations with fixed maturities and
marketable equity securities at the time of purchase and reevaluates such
designations as of each balance sheet date. Realized gains and losses on sales
of investments, as determined on a specific identification basis, are included
in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and were not material.

    As of September 30, 2000, the Company had Available-for-Sale equity
investments with a fair market value of $1,320.3 million and a cost basis of
$218.7 million. The gross unrealized gains of $1,118.0 million and gross
unrealized losses of $16.4 million have been recorded net of deferred taxes of
$18.1 million, and have been included as a separate component of shareholders'
equity.

    Other investments for which the Company does not have the ability to
exercise significant influence and for which there is not a readily determinable
market value are accounted for under the cost method of accounting. The Company
periodically evaluates the carrying value of its investments accounted for under
the cost method of accounting and, as of September 30, 2000 and 1999, such
investments were recorded at the lower of cost or estimated net realizable
value.

    For investments in which the Company owns or controls twenty percent or more
of the voting shares, or over which it exerts significant influence over
operating and financial policies, the equity method of accounting is used. The
Company's share of net income or losses of equity investments is included in the
Consolidated Statements of Operations and was not material in any period
presented.

    Investments are included in Other Assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

    LONG-LIVED ASSETS--The Company periodically evaluates the net realizable
value of long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets and
property, plant and equipment, relying on a number of factors including
operating results, business plans, economic projections and anticipated future
cash flows. An impairment in the carrying value of an asset is assessed when the
undiscounted, expected future operating cash flows derived from the asset are
less than its carrying value.

    REVENUE RECOGNITION--Revenue from the sale of services or products is
recognized as services are rendered or shipments are made. Subscriber billings
for services not yet rendered are deferred and taken into income as earned, and
the deferred element is included in current liabilities. Revenue from the
installation of electronic security systems is recognized when installations are
completed.

    Contract sales for the installation of fire protection systems, underwater
cable systems and other construction related projects are recorded on the
percentage-of-completion method. Profits recognized on contracts in process are
based upon estimated contract revenue and related cost to completion. Revisions
in cost estimates as contracts progress have the effect of increasing or
decreasing profits in the current period. Provisions for anticipated losses are
made in the period in which they first become determinable.

    Accounts receivable include amounts billed under retainage provisions
primarily for fire protection and electronic contracts. The retention balances
were $56.6 million and $33.3 million at September 30,


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
2000 and 1999, respectively, and become due upon contract completion and
acceptance. The balance as of September 30, 2000 is expected to be substantially
collected during the fiscal year ending September 30, 2001.

    SHARE PREMIUM AND CONTRIBUTED SURPLUS--In accordance with the Bermuda
Companies Act of 1981, when the Company issues shares for cash at a premium to
their par value, the resulting premium is credited to a share premium account, a
non-distributable reserve. When the Company issues shares in exchange for shares
of another company, the excess of the fair value of the shares acquired over the
par value of the shares issued by the Company is credited, where applicable, to
contributed surplus, which is, subject to certain conditions, a distributable
reserve.

    INCOME TAXES--Deferred tax liabilities and assets are recognized for the
expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in the
consolidated financial statements or tax returns. Deferred tax liabilities and
assets are determined based on the differences between the consolidated
financial statements and the tax basis of assets and liabilities, using tax
rates in effect for the years in which the differences are expected to reverse.
A valuation allowance is provided to offset any net deferred tax assets if,
based upon the available evidence, it is more likely than not that some or all
of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.

    RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT--Research and development expenditures are expensed
when incurred and are included in cost of sales in the Consolidated Statements
of Operations.

    ADVERTISING--Advertising costs are expensed when incurred.

    ISSUANCE OF STOCK BY A SUBSIDIARY--Gains on the issuance of common shares by
a subsidiary are included in net income.

    TRANSLATION OF FOREIGN CURRENCY--Assets and liabilities of the Company's
subsidiaries operating outside the United States which account in a functional
currency other than U.S. dollars, other than those operating in highly
inflationary environments, are translated into U.S. dollars using year-end
exchange rates. Revenues and expenses are translated at the average exchange
rates effective during the year. Foreign currency translation gains and losses
are included as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
within shareholders' equity. For subsidiaries operating in highly inflationary
environments, inventories and property, plant and equipment, including related
expenses, are translated at the rate of exchange in effect on the date the
assets were acquired, while other assets and liabilities are translated at
year-end exchange rates. Translation adjustments for these operations are
included in net income.

    Gains and losses resulting from foreign currency transactions, the amounts
of which are not material, are included in net income.

    FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS--From time to time the Company enters into a variety
of forward foreign currency exchange contracts, cross-currency swaps, currency
options, forward commodity contracts and interest rate swaps in its management
of foreign currency and commodity exposures and interest costs.

    Forward foreign currency exchange contracts and cross-currency swaps, used
to mitigate the impact of changes in currency exchange rates on intercompany
cross-border obligations, are accounted for consistent with the related
intercompany transactions. Under cross-currency swaps, which principally hedge
certain net foreign currency denominated investments, changes in valuation are
included in the currency translation adjustment component of accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss) within shareholders' equity. The interest
differentials on cross-currency swaps are included in interest expense. Forward
foreign currency exchange contracts and currency options, acquired for the
purpose of


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
reducing exposure to currency fluctuations associated with expected cash flows
denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies, are marked to
market with realized and unrealized gains or losses reflected in selling,
general and administrative expenses.

    Under forward commodity contracts which hedge anticipated purchases of
certain metals and other materials used in manufacturing operations payments are
received or paid based on the differential between the contract price and the
actual price of the underlying commodity. Gains or losses on forward commodity
contracts are recorded as adjustments to the value of the purchased commodity.

    Interest rate swaps hedge interest rates on certain indebtedness and involve
the exchange of fixed and floating rate interest payment obligations over the
life of the related agreement without the exchange of the notional amount. The
interest differentials to be paid or received under interest rate swaps are
recognized over the life of the underlying agreement or indebtedness,
respectively, as an adjustment to interest expense.

    Receivables and payables related to unrealized increases and decreases in
the values of derivative financial instruments are included in other current
assets and other current liabilities, respectively, and are not material.

    USE OF ESTIMATES--The preparation of consolidated financial statements in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to
make extensive use of certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amount of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported periods.
Significant estimates in these consolidated financial statements include merger,
restructuring and other non-recurring (credits) charges, purchase accounting
reserves, allowances for doubtful accounts receivable, estimates of future cash
flows associated with assets, asset impairments, useful lives for depreciation
and amortization, loss contingencies, net realizable value of inventories,
estimated contract revenues and related costs, environmental liabilities, income
taxes and tax valuation reserves, and the determination of discount and other
rate assumptions for pension and post-retirement employee benefit expenses.
Actual results could differ from these estimates.

    ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS--In June 1998 and June 2000, the FASB issued SFAS
No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" and SFAS
No. 138, "Accounting for Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging
Activities." These statements establish accounting and reporting standards
requiring that every derivative instrument be recorded on the balance sheet as
either an asset or liability measured at its fair value. SFAS Nos. 133 and 138
also require that changes in the derivative's fair value be recognized currently
in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met. SFAS Nos. 133 and
138 are effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2000. The Company
does not expect that the adoption of these new standards will have a material
impact on the Company's earnings or financial position.

    In December 1999, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") issued
Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101, "Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements"
("SAB 101"), which clarifies certain existing accounting principles for the
timing of revenue recognition and its classification in the financial
statements. In June 2000, the SEC delayed the required implementation date of
SAB 101. As a result, SAB 101 will not be effective for the Company until the
quarter ended September 30, 2001. In October 2000, the SEC issued further
guidance on the interpretations included in SAB 101. The Company is currently
analyzing the impact of this Staff Accounting Bulletin.


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
    In September 2000, the FASB issued SFAS No. 140 "Accounting for Transfers
and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities--a
replacement of FASB Statement No. 125" ("SFAS 140"). SFAS 140 revises the
standards for accounting for securitizations and other transfers of financial
assets and collateral and requires certain disclosures, but it carries over most
of SFAS 125's provisions without reconsideration. This Statement is effective
for transfers and servicing of financial assets and extinguishments of
liabilities occurring after March 31, 2001. This Statement is effective for
recognition and reclassification of collateral and for disclosures relating to
securitization transactions and collateral for fiscal years ending after
December 15, 2000. The Company is currently analyzing this new standard.

    RECLASSIFICATIONS--Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to
conform with current year presentation.

    STOCK SPLITS--Per share amounts and share data have been retroactively
restated to give effect to the two-for-one stock splits distributed on
October 22, 1997 and October 21, 1999, both effected in the form of a stock
dividend (See Note 10).

2. POOLING OF INTERESTS TRANSACTIONS

    On April 2, 1999 and October 1, 1998, Tyco merged with AMP and USSC,
respectively. A total of approximately 329.2 million and 118.4 million Tyco
common shares, respectively, were issued to the former shareholders of these
companies.

    Both of the merger transactions discussed above were accounted for under the
pooling of interests accounting method, which presents as a single interest
common shareholder interests which were previously independent. The historical
consolidated financial statements for periods prior to the consummation of the
combination are restated as though the companies had been combined during such
periods.

    Aggregate fees and expenses related to the mergers and to the integration of
the combined companies have been expensed in the Consolidated Statements of
Operations in the period in which each transaction was consummated, as required
under the pooling of interests method of accounting (See Notes 12 and 16).


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

2. POOLING OF INTERESTS TRANSACTIONS (CONTINUED)
    Combined and separate results of Tyco, USSC and AMP for the periods
preceding the mergers were as follows ($ in millions):



- ------------------------

 (i) Includes merger, restructuring and other non-recurring charges of
     $414.6 million and impairment charges of $76.0 million primarily related to
     the merger with USSC, and restructuring and other non-recurring charges of
     $275.3 million, of which $55.2 million is included in cost of sales, and
     impairment charges of $236.7 million related to AMP's profit improvement
     plan. Also includes a credit of $8.3 million representing a revision of
     estimates related to Tyco's 1997 merger, restructuring and other
     non-recurring accruals.

 (ii) Includes restructuring and other non-recurring charges of $164.4 million
      primarily related to AMP's profit improvement plan and $92.5 million
      principally related to costs incurred by USSC to exit certain businesses.

(iii) As a result of the combination of Tyco and AMP, an income tax adjustment
      was recorded to conform tax accounting.

    In connection with the USSC merger, the Company assumed an operating lease
for USSC's North Haven facilities. In December 1998, the Company assumed the
debt related to the North Haven property of approximately $211 million. The
assumption of the debt combined with the settlement of certain other obligations
in the amount of $23 million resulted in the Company acquiring ownership of the
North Haven property for a total cost of $234 million.


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

3. ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES

    FISCAL 2000

    During Fiscal 2000, the Company purchased businesses for an aggregate cost
of $5,162.0 million, consisting of $4,246.5 million in cash, net of cash
acquired, the issuance of approximately 15.6 million common shares valued at
$671.4 million and the assumption of $244.1 million in debt. In addition,
$544.2 million of cash was paid during the year for purchase accounting
liabilities related to current and prior years' acquisitions. The cash portions
of the acquisition costs were funded utilizing cash on hand, the issuance of
long-term debt and borrowings under the Company's commercial paper program. Each
of these acquisitions was accounted for as a purchase, and the results of
operations of the acquired companies have been included in the consolidated
results of the Company from their respective acquisition dates.

    In connection with these acquisitions, the Company recorded purchase
accounting liabilities of $426.2 million for transaction costs and the costs of
integrating the acquired companies within the various Tyco business segments.
Details regarding these purchase accounting liabilities are set forth below.

    At the time each purchase acquisition is made, the Company records each
asset acquired and each liability assumed at its estimated fair value, which
amount is subject to future adjustment when appraisals or other further
information are obtained. The excess of (a) the total consideration paid for the
acquired company over (b) the fair value of assets acquired less liabilities
assumed and purchase accounting liabilities recorded is recorded as goodwill. As
a result of acquisitions completed in Fiscal 2000, and adjustments to the fair
values of assets and liabilities and purchase accounting liabilities recorded
for acquisitions completed prior to Fiscal 2000, the Company recorded
approximately $5,206.8 million in goodwill and other intangibles.

    The following table shows the fair values of assets and liabilities and
purchase accounting liabilities recorded for purchase acquisitions completed in
Fiscal 2000, adjusted to reflect changes in fair values of assets and
liabilities and purchase accounting liabilities recorded for acquisitions
completed prior to Fiscal 2000 ($ in millions):




                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

3. ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES (CONTINUED)
    Thus, in Fiscal 2000, the Company spent a total of $4,790.7 million in cash
related to the acquisition of businesses, consisting of $4,246.5 million of cash
in purchase price for these businesses (net of cash acquired) plus
$544.2 million of cash paid out during the year for purchase accounting
liabilities related to current and prior years' acquisitions.

    Fiscal 2000 purchase acquisitions include, among others, the acquisition of
General Surgical Innovations, Inc. ("GSI"), AFC Cable Systems, Inc. ("AFC
Cable") and Siemens Electromechanical Components GmbH & Co. KG ("Siemens EC") in
November 1999, Praegitzer Industries, Inc. ("Praegitzer") in December 1999,
Critchley Group PLC ("Critchley") in March 2000 and the Electronic OEM Business
of Thomas & Betts in July 2000. GSI, a manufacturer and distributor of balloon
dissectors and related devices for minimally invasive surgery, was purchased
through the issuance of approximately 2.8 million Tyco common shares valued at
$108.6 million and has been integrated within the Healthcare and Specialty
Products segment. AFC Cable, a manufacturer of prewired armor cable, was
purchased through the issuance of approximately 12.8 million Tyco common shares
valued at $562.8 million and has been integrated within the Flow Control
Products and Services segment. Siemens EC, a world market leader for relays and
one of the world's leading providers of components to the communications,
automotive, consumer and general industry sectors, was purchased for
$1,165.8 million in cash and has been integrated within the Electronics segment.
Praegitzer, a provider of printed circuit board and interconnect solutions to
OEMs and contract manufacturers in the communications, computer, industrial and
consumer electronics industries, was purchased for $72.2 million in cash and has
been integrated within the Electronics segment. Critchley, a world leader in
cable identification products, was purchased for $185.0 million in cash and has
been integrated within the Electronics segment. The Electronic OEM Business of
Thomas & Betts, a manufacturer of electronic connectors for the
telecommunications, computer and automotive industries, was purchased for
$750.0 million in cash and is being integrated within the Electronics segment.

    The following table summarizes the purchase accounting liabilities recorded
in connection with the Fiscal 2000 purchase acquisitions ($ in millions):



    Purchase accounting liabilities recorded during Fiscal 2000 consist of
$243.0 million for severance and related costs; $87.6 million for costs
associated with the shut down and consolidation of certain acquired facilities,
including unfavorable leases, lease terminations and other related fees and
other costs and $95.6 million for transaction and other direct costs, including
pension and other employee related costs and other costs. These purchase
accounting liabilities relate primarily to the acquisitions of GSI, AFC Cable,
Siemens EC, Praegitzer, Critchley and the Electronics OEM Business of Thomas &
Betts.

    In connection with the Fiscal 2000 purchase acquisitions, the Company began
to formulate plans at the date of each acquisition for workforce reductions and
the closure and consolidation of an aggregate of 102 facilities. The Company has
communicated with the employees of the acquired companies to


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

3. ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES (CONTINUED)
announce the benefit arrangements. The costs of employee termination benefits
relate to the elimination of 2,895 positions in the United States, 2,434
positions in Europe, 1,135 positions in Canada and Latin America and 751
positions in the Asia-Pacific region, primarily consisting of manufacturing and
distribution, administrative, technical, and sales and marketing personnel.
Facilities designated for closure include 43 facilities in the United States, 32
facilities in Europe, 24 facilities in the Asia-Pacific region and 3 facilities
in Canada, primarily consisting of manufacturing plants, sales offices,
corporate administrative facilities and research and development facilities. At
September 30, 2000, 4,023 employees had been terminated and 53 facilities had
been closed or consolidated.

    In connection with the purchase acquisitions consummated during Fiscal 2000,
liabilities for approximately $96.8 million for severance and related costs,
$53.3 million for the shutdown and consolidation of acquired facilities and
$48.3 million in transaction and other direct costs remained on the balance
sheet at September 30, 2000. The Company expects that the termination of
employees and consolidation of facilities related to all such acquisitions will
be substantially complete within one year of plan finalization, except for
certain long-term contractual obligations.

    During Fiscal 2000, the Company reduced its estimate of purchase accounting
liabilities related to acquisitions in prior years by $117.8 million and,
accordingly, goodwill and related deferred tax assets were reduced by an
equivalent amount. These changes primarily resulted from costs being less than
originally anticipated on certain acquisitions. In addition, the Company
finalized its business plan for the exiting of activities and the involuntary
termination of employees in connection with the 1999 acquisition and integration
of Raychem, and as a result recorded $90.0 million of purchase accounting
liabilities.

    During Fiscal 2000, the Company sold certain of its businesses for net
proceeds of approximately $74.4 million in cash that consist primarily of
certain businesses within the Healthcare and Specialty Products segment.

    The following unaudited pro forma data summarize the results of operations
for the periods indicated as if the Fiscal 2000 acquisitions and divestitures
had been completed as of the beginning of the periods presented. The pro forma
data give effect to actual operating results prior to the acquisitions and
divestitures. Adjustments to interest expense, goodwill amortization and income
taxes related to the Fiscal 2000 acquisitions are reflected in the pro forma
data. No effect has been given to cost reductions or operating synergies in this
presentation. These pro forma amounts do not purport to be indicative of the
results that would have actually been obtained if the acquisitions and
divestitures had occurred as of the beginning of the periods presented or that
may be obtained in the future.




                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

3. ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES (CONTINUED)
    FISCAL 1999

    In addition to the pooling of interests transactions discussed in Note 2,
during Fiscal 1999, the Company purchased businesses for an aggregate cost of
$6,923.3 million, consisting of $4,546.8 million in cash, net of cash acquired,
the issuance of 32.4 million common shares valued at $1,449.6 million and the
assumption of $926.9 million in debt. In addition, $354.4 million of cash was
paid during the year for purchase accounting liabilities related to 1999 and
prior years' acquisitions. The cash portions of the acquisition costs were
funded utilizing cash on hand, the issuance of long-term debt and borrowings
under the Company's commercial paper program. Each of these acquisitions was
accounted for as a purchase, and the results of operations of the acquired
companies have been included in the consolidated results of the Company from
their respective acquisition dates.

    In connection with these acquisitions, the Company recorded purchase
accounting liabilities of $525.4 million for transaction costs and the costs of
integrating the acquired companies within the various Tyco business segments.
Details regarding these purchase accounting liabilities are set forth below.
During Fiscal 1999, the Company spent a total of $4,901.2 million in cash
related to the acquisition of businesses, consisting of $4,546.8 million of
purchase price (net of cash acquired) plus $354.4 million of cash paid out
during the year for purchase accounting liabilities related to 1999 and prior
years' acquisitions.

    The following table summarizes the purchase accounting liabilities recorded
in connection with the Fiscal 1999 purchase acquisitions ($ in millions):



    Purchase accounting liabilities recorded during Fiscal 1999 consist of
$234.3 million for severance and related costs, $174.8 million for costs
associated with the shut down and consolidation of certain acquired facilities
and $116.3 million for transaction and other direct costs. The $234.3 million of
severance and related costs covers employee termination benefits for
approximately 5,620 employees located throughout the world, consisting primarily
of manufacturing and distribution employees to be terminated as a result of the
shut down and consolidation of production facilities and, to a lesser extent,
administrative, technical and sales and marketing personnel. At September 30,
2000, 5,199 employees had been terminated and $42.8 million in severance and
related costs remained in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Company expects
that the remaining employee terminations will be completed in Fiscal 2001.

    The $174.8 million of exit costs are associated with the closure and
consolidation of facilities involving 183 facilities located primarily in the
Asia-Pacific region and the United States. These facilities include
manufacturing plants, sales offices, corporate administrative facilities and
research and development facilities. Included within these costs are accruals
for non-cancelable leases associated with


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

3. ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES (CONTINUED)
certain of these facilities. Approximately 176 facilities had been closed or
consolidated at September 30, 2000. The remaining facilities include primarily
large manufacturing plants, which are expected to be shut down in Fiscal 2001.
Expenses in connection with the closure of these remaining facilities, as well
as the expiration of non-cancelable leases (less any expected sublease income
for facilities already closed), comprise the approximately $70.1 million for
facility related costs remaining in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of
September 30, 2000.
    During Fiscal 1999, the Company reduced its estimate of purchase accounting
liabilities relating primarily to Fiscal 1998 acquisitions by $90.0 million and,
accordingly, goodwill and related deferred tax assets were reduced by an
equivalent amount. These changes primarily resulted from costs being less than
originally anticipated for acquisitions consummated prior to Fiscal 1999.

    During Fiscal 1999, the Company sold certain of its businesses for net
proceeds of approximately $926.8 million in cash. These consist primarily of
certain businesses within the Flow Control Products and Services segment,
including The Mueller Company and portions of Grinnell Supply Sales and
Manufacturing, and certain businesses within the Healthcare and Specialty
Products segment. The aggregate net gain recognized on the sale of these
businesses was not material. In connection with the Flow Control divestiture,
the Company granted a non-exclusive license to the buyer for use of certain
intellectual property and is entitled to receive future royalties equal to a
percentage of net sales of the businesses sold. The Company also granted an
option to the buyer to purchase certain intellectual property in the future at
the then fair market value.

    FISCAL 1998

    During Fiscal 1998, the Company acquired companies for an aggregate cost of
$4,559.4 million, consisting of $4,154.8 million in cash, the assumption of
approximately $260 million in debt and the issuance of 765,544 common shares
valued at $19.2 million and 1,254 subsidiary preference shares valued at
$125.4 million. The cash portions of the acquisition costs were funded utilizing
cash on hand, borrowings under bank credit agreements, proceeds of approximately
$1,245.0 million from the sale of common shares, and borrowings under the
Company's uncommitted lines of credit. Each of these acquisitions was accounted
for as a purchase, and the results of operations of the acquired companies were
included in the consolidated results of the Company from their respective
acquisition dates. As a result of the acquisitions, the Company recorded
approximately $3,947.0 million in goodwill and other intangibles. As of
September 30, 2000, $14.3 million in employee severance, principally payments to
employees previously severed, and $28.7 million of facility related costs,
principally for the expiration of non-cancelable leases on vacant premises,
remained in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.

    In July 1998, the Company acquired the U.S. operations of Crosby
Valve, Inc. in exchange for 1,254 cumulative dividend preference shares of a
newly created subsidiary, valued at $125.4 million. The subsidiary has
authorized 2,000 cumulative dividend preference shares. The holders of these
preference shares have the option to require the Company to repurchase the
preference shares at par value plus unpaid dividends at any time after
July 2001. The outstanding preference shares were issued at $100,000 par value
each and have been classified in other long-term liabilities on the Consolidated
Balance Sheets. Cash dividends accumulate on a preferred basis, whether or not
earned or declared, at the rate of $3,750 per share per annum. Upon liquidation,
the holders of shares are entitled to receive an amount equal to $100,000 per
share, plus any unpaid dividends. These preference shares may be redeemed by the
subsidiary at any time on or after December 31, 2008 at a price per share of
$100,000, plus unpaid dividends. In October 2000, the Company redeemed these
preference shares for $128.7 million.


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

4.  INDEBTEDNESS

    Long-term debt is as follows ($ in millions):



- ------------------------

(i) In January 1999, Tyco International Group S.A. ("TIG"), a wholly-owned
    subsidiary of the Company, initiated a commercial paper program with an
    aggregate face value of up to $1.75 billion. In February 2000, TIG increased
    its borrowing capacity under the commercial paper program to $4.5 billion.
    The notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the Company. Proceeds
    from the sale of the notes are used for working capital and other corporate
    purposes. TIG is required to maintain an available unused balance under its
    bank credit agreement sufficient to support amounts outstanding under the
    commercial paper program. In February 2000, TIG renegotiated its revolving
    credit agreement with a group of commercial banks, giving it the right to


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

4.  INDEBTEDNESS (CONTINUED)
    borrow up to $4.5 billion until February 9, 2001, with the option to extend
    to February 9, 2002. TIG has the option to increase the $4.5 billion credit
    facility up to $5.0 billion. TIG also has a $0.5 billion multiyear revolving
    credit facility which expires on February 12, 2003. Interest payable on
    borrowings under the two facilities is variable based upon TIG's option to
    select a Euro rate plus margins ranging from 0.41% to 0.43%, or a base rate,
    as defined. If the outstanding principal amount of loans equals or exceeds
    25% of the commitments, the Euro margins are increased by 0.125%. The
    obligations of TIG under the credit agreements are fully and unconditionally
    guaranteed by the Company. TIG is using the credit agreements to fully
    support its commercial paper program and therefore expects these facilities
    to remain largely undrawn. The Company is required to meet certain covenants
    under the credit agreements, none of which is considered restrictive to the
    operations of the Company.

(ii) In June 2000, TIG initiated a European commercial paper program under which
    it could initially issue notes with an aggregate face value of up to
    E 300 million. In September 2000, TIG increased its borrowing capacity under
    the European commercial paper program to E 500 million. The notes are fully
    and unconditionally guaranteed by the Company. Proceeds from the sale of
    these notes are used for working capital and other corporate purposes.

(iii) International overdrafts and demand loans represent borrowings by AMP from
    various banks and other holders. All overdrafts and loans mature within one
    year from the balance sheet date. The weighted-average interest rate on all
    international overdrafts and demand loans during Fiscal 2000 and Fiscal 1999
    was 5.1% and 5.3%, respectively.

(iv) In August 1999, TIG issued $500 million floating rate notes due 2000,
    $500 million floating rate notes due 2001, $1 billion 6.875% notes due 2002
    and Y 10 billion (approximately $89.7 million) 0.57% notes due 2000. The
    $500 million floating rate notes bear interest at LIBOR plus 0.6% for the
    2000 notes and LIBOR plus 0.7% for the 2001 notes. These notes are fully and
    unconditionally guaranteed by Tyco (See Note 24). The net proceeds of
    approximately $2,080.3 million were used to repay borrowings under TIG's
    $4.5 billion commercial paper program discussed above. In connection with
    the $1 billion 6.875% notes, TIG entered into an interest rate swap
    agreement expiring in September 2002, under which TIG will receive a fixed
    rate of 6.875% and will pay a floating rate based on the average of two
    different LIBO rates, as defined, plus 3.755%. In June 2000, TIG offered to
    exchange all of its $1 billion 6.875% private placement notes due 2002 for
    public notes. The form and terms of the public notes are identical in all
    material respects to the form and terms of the outstanding private placement
    notes of the corresponding series, except that the public notes are not
    subject to restrictions on transfer under United States securities laws. In
    connection with the Yen denominated 0.57% notes, TIG entered into a
    cross-currency swap expiring in September 2000, under which TIG received a
    payment of Y 10 billion plus accrued interest at a rate of 0.57% and made
    quarterly U.S. dollar payments based on LIBOR plus 0.60%, as well as a final
    payment at maturity of approximately $89.7 million.

(v) In June 1998, TIG issued $750 million 6.125% notes due 2001, $750 million
    6.375% notes due 2005, $750 million 6.25% Dealer Remarketable Securities
    ("Drs.") due 2013 and $500 million 7.0% notes due 2028 in a public offering.
    Interest is payable semi-annually in June and December. Under the terms of
    the Drs., the Remarketing Dealer has an option to remarket the Drs. in
    June 2003, which if exercised would subject the Drs. to mandatory tender to
    the Remarketing Dealer and reset the interest rate to an adjusted fixed rate
    until June 2013. If the Remarketing Dealer does not exercise its option,
    then all Drs. are required to be tendered to the Company in June 2003.
    Repayment of amounts outstanding under these debt securities is fully and


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

4.  INDEBTEDNESS (CONTINUED)
    unconditionally guaranteed by Tyco (See Note 24). The net proceeds of
    approximately $2,744.5 million were ultimately used to repay borrowings
    under TIG's bank credit agreement and uncommitted lines of credit. In
    December 1998, TIG terminated two interest rate swap agreements with
    notional amounts of $650 million each, which were entered into in June 1998
    with a financial institution to hedge a portion of the fixed rate terms of
    the public notes.
(vi) In July 2000, TIG issued a E 75 million floating rate note due 2002, which
    bears interest at EURIBOR plus 0.42%.

(vii) In October 1998, TIG issued $800 million of debt in a private placement
    offering consisting of two series of restricted notes: $400 million of
    5.875% notes due November 2004 and $400 million of 6.125% notes due
    November 2008. The notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Tyco.
    The net proceeds of approximately $791.7 million were used to repay
    borrowings under TIG's bank credit agreement. At the same time, TIG also
    entered into an interest rate swap agreement with a notional amount of
    $400 million to hedge the fixed rate terms of the 6.125% notes due 2008.
    Under this agreement, which expires in November 2008, TIG will receive
    payments at a fixed rate of 6.125% and will make floating rate payments
    based on LIBOR. Subsequently, during the third and fourth quarters of Fiscal
    1999, TIG exchanged all of the $400 million 5.875% private placement notes
    due 2004 and $400 million 6.125% private placement notes due 2008 for public
    notes (See Note 24). The form and terms of the public notes of each series
    are identical in all material respects to the form and terms of the
    outstanding private placement notes of the corresponding series, except that
    the public notes are not subject to restrictions on transfer under the
    United States securities laws.
(viii) In April 2000, TIG issued E600 million (approximately $565.7 million)
    6.125% notes due 2007 in a private placement offering. The notes are fully
    and unconditionally guaranteed by Tyco. The net proceeds were used to repay
    borrowings under TIG's commercial paper program. In September 2000, TIG
    offered to exchange all of its E600 million (approximately $565.7 million)
    6.125% notes due 2007 for public notes. The form and terms of the public
    notes are identical in all material respects to the form and terms of the
    outstanding private placement notes of the corresponding series, except that
    the public notes are not subject to restrictions on transfer under United
    States securities laws.

(ix) In October 1998, Raychem issued notes in the amount of $400 million. The
    notes mature on October 15, 2008, and bear interest at a rate of 7.2% per
    annum.

(x) In March 1998, USSC issued $300 million 7.25% senior notes due March 2008,
    which are not redeemable prior to maturity and require semi-annual interest
    payments. In February 1999, the Company completed a tender offer in which
    $292 million of the $300 million principal amount of the notes outstanding
    were purchased.

(xi) In January 1999, TIG issued $400 million of its 6.125% notes due 2009 and
    $800 million of its 6.875% notes due 2029 in a public offering. The notes
    are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Tyco (See Note 24). The net
    proceeds of approximately $1,173.7 million were used to repay borrowings
    under TIG's bank credit agreement. At the same time, TIG also entered into
    an interest rate swap agreement to hedge the fixed rate terms of the
    $400 million notes due 2009. Under the agreement, which expires in
    January 2009, TIG will receive payments at a fixed rate of 6.125% and will
    make floating rate payments based on an average of three different LIBO
    rates, as defined, plus a spread.


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

4.  INDEBTEDNESS (CONTINUED)
(xii) In July 1995, ADT Operations, Inc. issued $776.3 million aggregate
    principal amount at maturity of its zero coupon subordinated Liquid Yield
    Option Notes ("LYONs") maturing July 2010. The issue price per LYON was
    $383.09, being 38.309% of the principal amount of $1,000 per LYON at
    maturity, reflecting a yield to maturity of 6.5% per annum (computed on a
    semi-annual bond equivalent basis). The discount amortization on the LYONs
    is being charged as interest expense through the Consolidated Statements of
    Operations on a basis linked to the yield to maturity. The LYONs discount
    amortization amounted to $2.4 million in Fiscal 2000, $6.0 million in Fiscal
    1999 and $11.0 million in Fiscal 1998. Each LYON is exchangeable for common
    shares of the Company at the option of the holder at any time prior to
    maturity, unless previously redeemed or otherwise purchased by ADT
    Operations, Inc., at an exchange rate of 54.352 common shares per LYON.
    During Fiscal 2000 and Fiscal 1999, respectively, 32,169 and 147,418 LYONs
    with carrying values of $16.4 million and $72.3 million were exchanged for
    1,748,442 and 8,012,468 common shares of the Company. Any LYON will be
    purchased by ADT Operations, Inc., at the option of the holder, as of
    July 2002 for a purchase price per LYON of $599.46. At that time, if the
    holder exercises the option, the Company has the right to deliver all or a
    portion of the purchase price in the form of common shares of the Company.
    Beginning July 2002, the LYONs are redeemable for cash at any time at the
    option of ADT Operations, Inc., in whole or in part, at redemption prices
    equal to the issue price plus accrued original issue discount to the date of
    redemption. The LYONs are guaranteed on a subordinated basis by the Company.

(xiii) International bank loans represent term borrowings by Tyco Electronics
    from various commercial banks. Borrowings are repayable in varying amounts
    through 2013. The weighted-average interest rate on all international bank
    loans as of September 30, 2000 and 1999 was 3.3% and 3.9%, respectively.

(xiv) The financing lease obligation relates to USSC's European headquarters
    office building and distribution center complex in Elancourt, France. The
    French Franc denominated financing lease requires principal amortization in
    varying amounts over the eleven year term of the lease with a balloon
    payment of approximately 42 million French Francs ($6 million) at the end of
    the lease. Interest is payable at a rate approximately 1.4% above Paris
    Interbank Offered Rate (PIBOR). The effective interest rate on the financing
    lease debt was approximately 5.0% and 4.0% per annum at September 30, 2000
    and 1999, respectively.

    The weighted-average rate of interest on all long-term debt was 6.5% and
6.2% during Fiscal 2000 and Fiscal 1999, respectively. The weighted-average rate
of interest on all variable long-term debt was 6.5% and 5.6% as of
September 30, 2000 and 1999, respectively. The impact of the Company's interest
rate swap activities on its weighted-average borrowing rate was not material in
any year. The impact on reported interest expense was a reduction of
$6.6 million, $0.9 million and $1.9 million for Fiscal 2000, Fiscal 1999 and
Fiscal 1998, respectively.

    The aggregate amounts of total debt maturing during the next five years are
as follows (in millions): $1,537.2 in Fiscal 2001, $4,075.5 in Fiscal 2002,
$53.9 in Fiscal 2003, $129.4 in Fiscal 2004 and $1,161.6 in Fiscal 2005.


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

5. SALE OF ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE

    The Company has an agreement under which several of its operating
subsidiaries sell a defined pool of trade accounts receivable to a limited
purpose subsidiary of the Company. The subsidiary, a separate corporate entity,
holds these receivables and sells participating interests in such accounts
receivable to financiers who, in turn, purchase and receive ownership and
security interests in those receivables. As collections reduce accounts
receivable included in the pool, the operating subsidiaries sell new receivables
to the limited purpose subsidiary. The limited purpose subsidiary has the risk
of credit loss on the receivables and, accordingly, the full amount of the
allowance for doubtful accounts has been retained in the Consolidated Balance
Sheets. The availability under the program is $500 million. At September 30,
2000 and 1999, $450 million and $350 million, respectively, was utilized under
the program. The proceeds from the sales were used to reduce borrowings under
TIG's commercial paper program and are reported as operating cash flows in the
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. The proceeds of sale are less than the
face amount of accounts receivable sold by an amount that approximates the cost
that the limited purpose subsidiary would incur if it were to issue commercial
paper backed by these accounts receivable. The discount from the face amount is
accounted for as a loss on the sale of receivables and has been included in
selling, general and administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statements of
Operations. Such discount aggregated $25.7 million, $15.7 million, and
$17.3 million, or 6.6%, 5.6% and 5.8% of the weighted-average balance of the
receivables outstanding, during Fiscal 2000, Fiscal 1999 and Fiscal 1998,
respectively. The operating subsidiaries retain collection and administrative
responsibilities for the participating interests in the defined pool.

6. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

    The Company's financial instruments consist primarily of cash and cash
equivalents, accounts receivable, long-term investments, accounts payable, debt
and derivative financial instruments. The notional amounts of the derivative
financial instruments were as follows ($ in millions):



    While it is not the Company's intention to terminate the above derivative
financial instruments, fair values were estimated, based on market rates or
quotes from brokers, which represented the amounts that the Company would
receive or pay if the instruments were terminated at the balance sheet dates.
These fair values indicated that the termination of forward foreign currency
exchange contracts, cross-currency swap agreements, currency options, forward
commodity contracts and interest rate swaps at September 30, 2000 would have
resulted in a $279.0 million gain, a $15.3 million loss, a zero gain, an
$11.1 million gain and a $95.7 million loss, respectively, and at September 30,
1999 would have resulted in a $52.7 million loss, a $27.0 million loss, a
$0.7 million loss, a $13.0 million gain and a $66.9 million loss, respectively.
At September 30, 2000 and 1999, the book values of derivative financial
instruments recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets approximated fair
values.


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

6. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
    The fair value of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, long-term
investments and accounts payable approximated book value at September 30, 2000
and 1999. The fair value of debt was approximately $10,851.6 million (book value
of $10,999.0 million) and $10,120.4 million (book value of $10,122.2 million) at
September 30, 2000 and 1999, respectively, based on discounted cash flow
analyses using current interest rates. The Company's financial instruments
present certain market and credit risks; however, concentrations of credit risk
are mitigated as the Company deals with a variety of major banks worldwide and
its accounts receivable are spread among a number of major industries, customers
and geographic areas. None of the Company's financial instruments with
off-balance sheet risk would result in a significant loss to the Company if a
counterparty failed to perform according to the terms of its agreement. The
Company does not require collateral or other security to be furnished by the
counterparties to its financial instruments. The Company does, however, maintain
reserves for potential credit losses on financial instruments.

7. INCOME TAXES

    The provision for income taxes and the reconciliation between the notional
United States federal income taxes at the statutory rate on consolidated income
before taxes and the Company's income tax provision are as follows ($ in
millions):



    The provisions for Fiscal 2000, Fiscal 1999, and Fiscal 1998 included
$648.6 million, $263.9 million and $210.5 million, respectively, for non-U.S.
income taxes. The non-U.S. component of income before income taxes was
$3,343.6 million, $1,376.3 million and $640.6 million for Fiscal 2000, Fiscal
1999 and Fiscal 1998, respectively.


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

7. INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED)
    The deferred income tax balance sheet accounts result from temporary
differences between the amount of assets and liabilities recognized for
financial reporting and tax purposes. The components of the net deferred income
tax asset are as follows ($ in millions):



    As of September 30, 2000, the Company had approximately $370 million of net
operating loss carryforwards in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions. Of these,
$230 million have no expiration, and the remaining $140 million will expire in
future years through 2010. U.S. operating loss carryforwards at September 30,
2000 were approximately $692 million and will expire in future years through
2020. A valuation allowance has been provided for operating loss carryforwards
that are not expected to be utilized.

    In the normal course, the Company and its subsidiaries' income tax returns
are examined by various regulatory tax authorities. In connection with such
examinations, substantial tax deficiencies have been proposed. However, the
Company is contesting such proposed deficiencies, and ultimate resolution of
such matters is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company's
financial position, results of operations or liquidity.

8. KEY EMPLOYEE LOAN PROGRAM

    Loans are made to employees of the Company under the Former Tyco 1983 Key
Employee Loan Program for the payment of taxes upon the vesting of shares
granted under Former Tyco's Restricted Stock Ownership Plans. The loans are
unsecured and bear interest, payable annually, at a rate which approximates the
Company's incremental short-term borrowing rate. Loans are generally repayable
in ten years, except that earlier payments are required under certain
circumstances. During Fiscal 2000, the maximum amount outstanding under this
program was $26.0 million. Loans receivable under this program were
$11.4 million and $18.6 million at September 30, 2000 and 1999, respectively.


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

9. PREFERENCE SHARES

    The Company has authorized 125,000,000 preference shares of $1 each, none of
which were issued or outstanding during fiscal 2000, 1999 or 1998. Rights as to
dividends, return of capital, redemption, conversion, voting and otherwise may
be determined by the Board of Directors of the Company on or before the time of
issuance. In the event of the liquidation of the Company, the holders of any
preference shares then outstanding would be entitled to payment to them of the
amount for which the preference shares were subscribed and any unpaid dividends
prior to any payment to the common shareholders.

10. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

    During the last quarter of Fiscal 1999, the Company announced that its Board
of Directors had declared a two-for-one stock split in the form of a 100% stock
dividend on its common shares. The split was payable on October 21, 1999 to
shareholders of record on October 1, 1999. In addition, during the last quarter
of Fiscal 1997, the Board of Directors declared a two-for-one stock split
effected in the form of a 100% stock dividend on the Company's common shares,
which was distributed on October 22, 1997. Per share amounts and share data have
been retroactively adjusted to reflect both stock splits. There was no change in
the par value or the number of authorized shares as a result of these stock
splits.

    During the third quarter of Fiscal 1999, in conjunction with the approval of
the merger with AMP, shareholders approved an increase in the number of
authorized common shares from 1,503,750,000 to 2,500,000,000. During the second
quarter of Fiscal 1998, shareholders approved an increase in the number of
authorized common shares from 750,000,000 to 1,503,750,000.

    In December 1997 the Company filed a shelf registration to enable it to
offer from time to time unsecured debt securities or common shares, or any
combination of the foregoing, at an aggregate initial offering price not to
exceed $2.0 billion. In March 1998, the Company sold 50.6 million common shares
at $25.38 per share. The net proceeds from the sale of approximately
$1,245.0 million were used to repay indebtedness incurred for previous
acquisitions.

    In August 2000, the Company filed an additional shelf registration to enable
it to offer from time to time unsecured debt securities, preference shares,
depositary shares or common shares, or any combination of the foregoing, at an
aggregate initial offering price not to exceed $2.5 billion. Availability under
this shelf registration statement incorporates any remaining availability under
the shelf registration filed in December 1997.

    Information with respect to USSC and AMP common shares and options has been
retroactively restated in connection with their mergers with Tyco to reflect
their applicable merger per share exchange ratios of 0.7606 and 0.7507,
respectively (1.5212 and 1.5014, respectively, after giving effect to the
subsequent stock splits).

    The total compensation cost expensed for all stock-based compensation awards
discussed below was $137.4 million, $96.9 million and $37.1 million for Fiscal
2000, Fiscal 1999 and Fiscal 1998, respectively.

    RESTRICTED STOCK--The Company maintains a restricted stock ownership plan,
which provides for the award of an initial amount of common shares plus an
amount equal to one-half of one percent of the total shares outstanding at the
beginning of each fiscal year. At September 30, 2000, there were 31,397,856
shares authorized under the plan, of which 10,954,383 shares had been granted.
Common shares are awarded subject to certain restrictions with vesting varying
over periods of up to ten years.


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

10. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (CONTINUED)
    For grants which vest based on certain specified performance criteria, the
fair market value of the shares at the date of vesting is expensed over the
period of performance, once achievement of criteria is deemed probable. For
grants that vest through passage of time, the fair market value of the shares at
the time of the grant is amortized (net of tax benefit) to expense over the
period of vesting. The unamortized portion of deferred compensation expense is
recorded as a reduction of shareholders' equity. Recipients of all restricted
shares have the right to vote such shares and receive dividends. Income tax
benefits resulting from the vesting of restricted shares, including a deduction
for the excess, if any, of the fair market value of restricted shares at the
time of vesting over their fair market value at the time of the grants and from
the payment of dividends on unvested shares, are credited to contributed
surplus.

    EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN--Substantially all full-time employees of the
Company's U.S. subsidiaries and employees of certain qualified non-U.S.
subsidiaries are eligible to participate in an employee stock purchase plan.
Eligible employees authorize payroll deductions to be made for the purchase of
shares. The Company matches a portion of the employee contribution by
contributing an additional 15% of the employee's payroll deduction. All shares
purchased under the plan are purchased on the open market by a designated
broker.

    SHARE OPTIONS--The Company has granted employee share options which were
issued under five fixed share option plans which reserve common shares for
issuance to the Company's directors, executives and managers. The majority of
options have been granted under the Tyco International Ltd. Long-Term Incentive
Plan (the "Incentive Plan"). The Incentive Plan is administered by the
Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company, which consists
exclusively of independent directors of the Company. Options are granted to
purchase common shares at prices which are equal to or greater than the market
price of the common shares on the date the option is granted. Conditions of
vesting are determined at the time of grant. Options which have been granted
under the Incentive Plan to date have generally vested and become exercisable
over periods of up to five years from the date of grant and have a maximum term
of ten years. The Company has reserved 140.0 million common shares for issuance
under the Incentive Plan. Awards which the Company becomes obligated to make
through the assumption of, or in substitution for, outstanding awards previously
granted by an acquired company are assumed and administered under the Incentive
Plan but do not count against this limit. At September 30, 2000, there were
approximately 37.0 million shares available for future grant under the Incentive
Plan. During October 1998, a broad-based option plan for non-officer employees,
the Tyco Long-Term Incentive Plan II ("LTIP II"), was approved by the Board of
Directors. The Company has reserved 50.0 million common shares for issuance
under the LTIP II. The terms and conditions of this plan are similar to the
Incentive Plan. At September 30, 2000, there were approximately 17.2 million
shares available for future grant under the LTIP II.

    In connection with the acquisitions of Raychem in Fiscal 1999 and CIPE S.A.
and Holmes Protection in Fiscal 1998, options outstanding under the respective
stock option plans of these companies were assumed under the Incentive Plan. In
connection with the mergers occurring in Fiscal 1999 (See Note 2), all of the
options outstanding under the USSC and AMP stock option plans were assumed under
the Incentive Plan. These options are administered under the Incentive Plan but
retain all of the rights, terms and conditions of the respective plans under
which they were originally granted.


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

10. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (CONTINUED)
    Share option activity for all Tyco plans since September 30, 1997 has been
as follows:



    The following table summarizes information about outstanding and exercisable
Tyco options at September 30, 2000:




                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

10. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (CONTINUED)

    As a result of the merger with USSC, approximately 14.2 million options
which were not previously exercisable became immediately exercisable on
October 1, 1998. Upon consummation of the merger with AMP on April 2, 1999,
approximately 7.8 million options became immediately exercisable due to the
change in ownership of AMP resulting from the merger.

    TyCom has two option plans and an employee stock purchase plan. The exercise
price of options granted under the plans is equal to the fair market value at
the date of grant of TyCom common shares. TyCom options outstanding and
exercisable at September 30, 2000 were 21,607,050 and 26,250, respectively, at
prices ranging from $32.00 to $44.62 per share.

    STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION--SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation" ("SFAS 123"), allows companies to measure compensation cost in
connection with executive share option plans using a fair value based method or
to continue to use an intrinsic value based method, which generally does not
result in a compensation cost. The Company and TyCom have decided to continue to
use the intrinsic value based method and do not recognize compensation expense
for the issuance of options with an exercise price equal to or greater than the
market price at the time of grant. Had the fair value based method been adopted
by Tyco and TyCom, Tyco's pro forma net income and pro forma net income per
common share for Fiscal 2000, Fiscal 1999 and Fiscal 1998 would have been as
follows:



    The estimated weighted-average fair value of Tyco and TyCom options granted
during Fiscal 2000 was $16.26 and $17.47, respectively. The estimated
weighted-average fair value of Tyco and AMP options granted during Fiscal 1999
was $12.13 and $7.11, respectively, on the date of grant using the
option-pricing model and assumptions referred to below. The estimated
weighted-average fair value of Tyco, USSC and AMP options granted during Fiscal
1998 was $8.24, $6.79 and $5.98, respectively, on the date of grant using the
option-pricing model and assumptions referred to below.

    The fair value of each option grant was estimated on the date of grant using
the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The following weighted-average
assumptions were used for Fiscal 2000:




                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

10. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (CONTINUED)
    The following weighted-average assumptions were used for Fiscal 1999:



    The following weighted-average assumptions were used for Fiscal 1998:



    The effects of applying SFAS 123 in this pro forma disclosure are not
indicative of what the effects may be in future years. SFAS 123 does not apply
to awards prior to 1995. Additional awards in future years are anticipated.

    TREASURY SHARES--In November 1999, the Board of Directors authorized the
Company to reacquire up to 20 million of its common shares in the open market,
which was completed during the quarter ended March 31, 2000. In January 2000,
the Board of Directors authorized the Company to reacquire up to an additional
$2.0 billion of its common shares in the open market, of which the Company has
in excess of $0.9 billion remaining as of September 30, 2000. From time to time
the Company, through its subsidiaries, also purchases shares in the open market
to satisfy certain stock-based compensation arrangements. Treasury shares are
recorded at cost in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

    DIVIDENDS--Tyco has paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.0125 per common
share since July 1997. USSC paid quarterly dividends of $0.04 per share in
Fiscal 1998. AMP paid dividends of $0.27 per share in the first two quarters of
Fiscal 1999, $0.26 per share in the first quarter of Fiscal 1998 and $0.27 per
share in the last three quarters of Fiscal 1998.

11. COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

    The purpose of reporting comprehensive income (loss) is to report a measure
of all changes in equity, other than transactions with shareholders. Total
comprehensive income (loss) is included in the


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

11. COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (CONTINUED)
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity. The components of accumulated
other comprehensive income (loss) are as follows ($ in millions):



12. CHARGE FOR THE IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS

    The Company reviews the recoverability of the carrying value of long-lived
assets, primarily property, plant and equipment and related goodwill and other
intangible assets, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be fully recoverable.
Impairment losses are recognized when expected future undiscounted cash flows
are less than the assets' carrying value. When indicators of impairment are
present, the carrying values of the assets are evaluated in relation to the
operating performance and future undiscounted cash flows of the underlying
business. The net book value of the underlying assets is adjusted to fair value
if the sum of expected future undiscounted cash flows is less than book value.
Fair values are based on quoted market prices and assumptions concerning the
amount and timing of estimated future cash flows and assumed discount rates,
reflecting varying degrees of perceived risk.

    2000 CHARGES

    The Healthcare and Specialty Products segment recorded a charge of
$99.0 million primarily related to an impairment in goodwill and other
intangible assets associated with the Company exiting the interventional
cardiology business of USSC.

    1999 CHARGES

    The Electronics segment recorded a charge of $431.5 million in Fiscal 1999,
which includes $350.1 million related to the write-down of property, plant and
equipment, primarily manufacturing and administrative facilities, associated
with facility closures throughout AMP's worldwide operations in connection with
its profit improvement plan and the combination of facilities as a result of its
merger with the Company, approximately $143.6 million of which was taken as part
of the AMP profit improvement plan prior to its acquisition by Tyco. It also
includes an impairment in the value of goodwill and other intangibles of
$81.4 million. The Company evaluated the profitability and


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

12. CHARGE FOR THE IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS (CONTINUED)
anticipated customer demand for its various products and found that certain
product lines were underperforming compared to expectations. As a result of this
analysis, which was performed in connection with AMP's profit improvement plan,
the book value of goodwill and other intangibles was deemed impaired and written
down to fair value.

    The Healthcare and Specialty Products segment recorded a charge of
$76.0 million in Fiscal 1999 primarily relating to the write-down of property,
plant and equipment, principally administrative facilities, associated with the
consolidation of facilities in USSC's operations in the United States and Europe
as a result of its merger with the Company.

13. EXTRAORDINARY ITEMS

    The extraordinary item in Fiscal 2000 of $0.2 million, net of tax benefit of
$0.1 million, relates to the write-off of unamortized deferred financing costs
related to the LYONs (See Note 4). The extraordinary item in Fiscal 1999 of
$45.7 million, net of tax benefit of $18.0 million, relates primarily to the
write-off of net unamortized deferred financing costs related to the Company's
debt tender offers (See Note 4). The extraordinary item in Fiscal 1998 of
$2.4 million, net of tax benefit of $1.2 million, was the write-off of
unamortized deferred financing costs related to the LYONs (See Note 4).

14. EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE

    The reconciliations between basic and diluted earnings per common share are
as follows (in millions, except per share data):



    The computation of diluted earnings per common share in Fiscal 2000, Fiscal
1999 and Fiscal 1998 excludes the effect of the assumed exercise of
approximately 7.3 million, 3.1 million and 23.8 million stock options,
respectively, that were outstanding as of September 30, 2000, 1999 and 1998,
respectively, because the effect would be anti-dilutive.


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

15. TYCOM LTD.

    In August 2000, TyCom Ltd., a subsidiary of the Company, completed an
initial public offering (the "TyCom IPO") of 70,300,000 of its common shares at
a price of $32.00 per share. Net proceeds to TyCom from the TyCom IPO, after
deducting the underwriting discount, commissions and other direct costs, were
approximately $2.1 billion. Of that amount, TyCom paid $200 million as a
dividend to the Company. Prior to the TyCom IPO, the Company's ownership in
TyCom's outstanding common shares was 100%, and at September 30, 2000 the
Company's ownership in TyCom's outstanding common shares is approximately 86%.
As a result of the TyCom IPO, the Company recognized a pre-tax gain on its
investment in TyCom of approximately $1.76 billion ($1.01 billion, after-tax),
which has been included in gain on issuance of common shares by subsidiary in
the Consolidated Statement of Operations.

16. MERGER, RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER NON-RECURRING CHARGES (CREDITS)

    Merger, restructuring and other non-recurring charges (credits), net, are as
follows ($ in millions):



- ------------------------

 (i) Includes $0.9 million charge related to the write-down of inventory, which
     is included in cost of sales, and a credit of $6.3 million also included in
     cost of sales.

 (ii) Includes $6.4 million charge related to the write-down of inventory, which
      is included in cost of sales.

(iii) Includes $106.4 million charge related to the write-down of inventory,
      which is included in cost of sales.

    2000 CHARGES AND CREDITS

    The Electronics segment recorded a net merger, restructuring and other
non-recurring credit of $90.9 million, which consists of credits of
$107.8 million and charges of $16.9 million. The merger, restructuring and other
non-recurring credit of $107.8 million, of which $6.3 million is included in
cost of sales, is related to the merger with AMP and costs associated with AMP's
profit improvement plan. The $107.8 million credit consists of a revision in
estimates of severance reserves of $55.2 million, facility reserves of
$7.8 million and other reserves of $44.8 million. See the table on page 60 for
Fiscal 2000 revision in estimates related to Fiscal 1999 charges. The
restructuring and other non-recurring charges of $16.9 million, of which
$0.9 million is included in cost of sales, is related to restructuring
activities in AMP's Brazilian operations and wireless communications business.
The following table


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

16. MERGER, RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER NON-RECURRING CHARGES (CREDITS) (CONTINUED)
provides information about the restructuring and other non-recurring charges
related to the Electronics segment recorded in Fiscal 2000 ($ in millions):



    The cost of announced workforce reductions of $4.9 million includes the
elimination of 941 positions primarily in Brazil. The cost of facility closures
of $4.8 million consists of the shut-down and consolidation of 3 facilities. At
September 30, 2000, 97 employees had been terminated and 3 facilities had been
shut down. The remaining facility reserves are primarily for payments on
non-cancellable lease obligations.

    The other charges of $7.2 million consist of the write-off of non-facility
assets and other direct costs.

    The Healthcare and Specialty Products segment recorded a net merger,
restructuring and other non-recurring credit of $10.9 million. The
$10.9 million net credit consists of charges of $11.1 million related to USSC's
suture business and charges of $7.9 million, of which $6.4 million is included
in cost of sales, related to exiting USSC's interventional cardiology business.
Substantially all of these restructuring activities were completed during the
year. Also recorded was a credit of $29.9 million representing a revision in
estimates of prior years' merger, restructuring and other non-recurring
accruals, of which $19.7 million related primarily to the merger with USSC and
$10.2 million related to the Company's 1997 restructuring accruals. The
$19.7 million credit relates to a revision in estimates of severance reserves of
$4.2 million, facility reserves of $4.5 million and other reserves of
$11.0 million. See the table on page 61 for Fiscal 2000 revision in estimates
related to Fiscal 1999 charges.

    The Fire and Security Services segment recorded restructuring and other
non-recurring credits of $11.2 million related to revision in estimates of the
Company's 1997 restructuring activities for amounts lower than originally
recorded. Actions under the Company's 1997 restructuring plans have been
substantially completed.

    The Telecommunications segment recorded a non-recurring charge of
$13.1 million incurred in connection with the TyCom IPO.

    In addition to segment (credits) charges, the Company recorded non-recurring
charges of $275.0 million as a reserve for certain claims relating to a merged
company in the Healthcare business and $1.2 million for other non-recurring
charges, all of which remains in other current liabilities in the Consolidated
Balance Sheet at September 30, 2000.

    1999 CHARGES AND CREDITS

    The Electronics segment recorded net merger, restructuring and other
non-recurring charges of $643.3 million primarily related to the merger with AMP
and costs associated with AMP's profit


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

16. MERGER, RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER NON-RECURRING CHARGES (CREDITS) (CONTINUED)
improvement plan. The following table provides information about these charges,
in addition to revision in estimates of Fiscal 1999 charges ($ in millions):



    The cost of announced workforce reductions of $433.7 million includes the
elimination of 16,139 positions primarily in the United States and Europe,
consisting primarily of manufacturing and distribution, administrative, research
and development and sales and marketing personnel. The cost of facility closures
of $68.6 million consists primarily of the shut-down and consolidation of 87
facilities primarily in the United States and Europe, consisting primarily of
manufacturing plants, distribution centers, administrative buildings, research
and development facilities and sales offices. It also includes $18.3 million
related to the write-down of inventory, which is included in cost of sales. At
September 30, 2000, 10,072 employees had been terminated and 62 facilities had
been shut down.

    The other charges of $141.0 million consist of transaction costs of
$67.9 million for legal, printing, accounting, financial advisory services and
other direct expenses related to the AMP merger; $88.1 million related to the
write-down of inventory, discussed below; lease termination costs following the
merger of $9.6 million; a credit of $50.0 million related to a litigation
settlement with AlliedSignal Inc.; and other costs of $25.4 million relating to
the consolidation of certain product lines and other non-recurring charges
related to the AMP merger.

    As part of the integration of AMP's electronics business and AMP's profit
improvement plan, the Company evaluated the profitability and anticipated
customer demand for its various products. As a result of this evaluation,
management decided to exit certain product lines and/or businesses which were
under-performing relative to expectations. The inventory held by the Company
related to these exited activities was deemed impaired and written down to
estimated fair value. The total write-down of $88.1 million was recorded as a
charge to cost of sales. These discontinued product lines represented
approximately $150 million of historical net sales for AMP on an annualized
basis.

    The Healthcare and Specialty Products segment recorded net merger,
restructuring and other non-recurring charges of $419.1 million, consisting of a
$423.8 million charge primarily related to the merger with USSC and a
$4.7 million credit representing a revision of estimates related to Tyco's 1997
restructuring and other non-recurring accruals discussed below. The following
table provides


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

16. MERGER, RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER NON-RECURRING CHARGES (CREDITS) (CONTINUED)
information about these charges, in addition to revision in estimates of Fiscal
1999 charges ($ in millions):



    The cost of announced workforce reductions of $124.8 million includes the
elimination of 1,467 positions primarily in the United States and Europe,
consisting primarily of manufacturing and distribution, sales and marketing,
administrative and research and development personnel. The cost of facility
closures of $51.8 million includes the shut-down and consolidation of 45
facilities primarily in Europe and the United States, consisting primarily of
manufacturing plants, distribution centers, sales offices, administrative
buildings and research and development facilities. At September 30, 2000, 1,373
employees had been terminated and 37 facilities had been shut down.

    The other charges of $247.2 million consist of transaction costs of
$53.3 million for legal, printing, accounting, financial advisory services and
other direct expenses related to the USSC merger, lease termination costs
following the merger of $156.8 million and other costs of $37.1 million relating
to the consolidation of certain product lines and other non-recurring charges
primarily related to the USSC merger. The lease termination costs of
$156.8 million relate to the USSC North Haven facility that was purchased by
Tyco subsequent to the merger (See Note 2).

    The remaining balance at September 30, 2000 of $24.8 million is included in
other current liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Company
currently anticipates that the restructuring and other non-recurring activities
to which all of these charges relate will be completed within Fiscal 2001.

    In Fiscal 1999, the Company recorded a credit of $31.9 million, including
$27.2 million in the Fire and Security Services segment and $4.7 million in the
Healthcare and Specialty Products segment referred to above, representing a
revision of estimates related to Tyco's 1997 restructuring and other
non-recurring accruals. Most of the actions under Tyco's 1997 restructuring and
other non-recurring plans are completed or near completion and have resulted in
total estimated costs being less than originally anticipated.

    1998 CHARGES AND CREDIT

    During the fourth quarter of Fiscal 1998, AMP recorded charges of
$185.8 million associated with its profit improvement plan, which includes the
reduction of support staff throughout all its business units and the
consolidation of manufacturing plants and other facilities, in addition to
certain sales growth initiatives. These charges include the cost of staff
reductions of $172.1 million involving the voluntary retirement and involuntary
termination of approximately 2,700 staff support personnel and 700 direct
manufacturing employees, and the cost of consolidation of certain facilities of
$13.7 million


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

16. MERGER, RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER NON-RECURRING CHARGES (CREDITS) (CONTINUED)
relating to six plant and facility closures and consolidations. At
September 30, 1999, these restructuring activities were substantially completed.
See Note 18 for discussion of the voluntary early retirement program.

    During the first quarter of Fiscal 1998, AMP recorded a credit of
$21.4 million to merger, restructuring and other non-recurring charges
representing a revision of estimates related to its 1996 restructuring
activities, which were completed in Fiscal 1998.

    During the fourth quarter of Fiscal 1998, USSC recorded certain charges of
$80.5 million. These charges include $70.9 million of costs to exit certain
businesses representing the write down of assets from earlier purchases of
technology that had minimal commercial application and the adjustment to net
realizable value of certain assets. In addition, merger costs of $9.6 million
were recorded that represent legal and insurance costs related to the merger
consummated in the first quarter of Fiscal 1999. During the first quarter of
Fiscal 1998, USSC recorded restructuring charges of $12.0 million related to
employee severance costs, facility disposals and asset write-downs as part of
USSC's cost cutting program. USSC substantially completed its 1998 restructuring
activities during Fiscal 1999.

17. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

    The Company occupies certain facilities under leases that expire at various
dates through the year 2030. Rental expense under these leases and leases for
equipment was $442.7 million, $381.0 million and $331.7 million for Fiscal 2000,
Fiscal 1999 and Fiscal 1998, respectively. At September 30, 2000, the minimum
lease payment obligations under noncancelable operating leases were as follows:
$435.7 million in Fiscal 2001, $335.4 million in Fiscal 2002, $239.5 million in
Fiscal 2003, $170.4 million in Fiscal 2004, $142.7 million in Fiscal 2005 and an
aggregate of $431.4 million in Fiscal years 2006 through 2030.

    In the normal course of business, the Company is liable for contract
completion and product performance. In the opinion of management, such
obligations will not significantly affect the Company's financial position or
results of operations.

    The Company is involved in various stages of investigation and cleanup
related to environmental remediation matters at a number of sites. The ultimate
cost of site cleanup is difficult to predict given the uncertainties regarding
the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and
regulations and alternative cleanup methods. Based upon the Company's experience
with environmental remediation matters, the Company has concluded that there is
at least a reasonable possibility that remedial costs will be incurred with
respect to these sites in an aggregate amount in the range of $32.9 million to
$95.2 million. At September 30, 2000, the Company concluded that the most
probable amount that will be incurred within this range is $68.3 million.
$35.4 million of such amount is included in accrued expenses and other current
liabilities and $32.9 million is included in other long-term liabilities in the
Consolidated Balance Sheet. Based upon information available to the Company, at
those sites where there has been an allocation of the liability for cleanup
costs among a number of parties, including the Company, and such liability could
be joint and several, management believes it is probable that other responsible
parties will fully pay the cost allocated to them, except with respect to one
site for which the Company has assumed that one of the identified responsible
parties will be unable to pay the cost allocated to it and that such party's
cost will be reapportioned among the remaining responsible parties. In view of
the Company's financial position and reserves for


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

17. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (CONTINUED)
environmental matters of $68.3 million, the Company has concluded that its
payment of such estimated amounts will not have a material effect on its
financial position, results of operations or liquidity.

    The Company is a defendant in a number of other pending legal proceedings
incidental to present and former operations, acquisitions and dispositions. The
Company does not expect the outcome of these proceedings, either individually or
in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on its financial position,
results of operations or liquidity.

18. RETIREMENT PLANS

    DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION PLANS--The Company has a number of noncontributory
and contributory defined benefit retirement plans covering certain of its U.S.
and non-U.S. employees, designed in accordance with conditions and practices in
the countries concerned. Contributions are based on periodic actuarial
valuations which use the projected unit credit method of calculation and are
charged to the Consolidated Statements of Operations on a systematic basis over
the expected average remaining service lives of current employees. The net
pension expense is assessed in accordance with the advice of professionally
qualified actuaries in the countries concerned or is based on subsequent formal
reviews for the purpose. The Company's funding policy is to make annual
contributions to the extent such contributions are tax deductible as actuarially
determined. The benefits under the defined benefit plans are based on years of
service and compensation.

    VOLUNTARY EARLY RETIREMENT PROGRAMS--In the fourth quarter of Fiscal 1998,
AMP offered enhanced retirement benefits to targeted groups of employees. The
cost of these benefits totaled $138.3 million and was recorded as part of AMP's
fourth quarter restructuring charge. This amount has not been included in the
determination of net periodic pension cost presented below. The net periodic
pension (income) cost for all U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans
includes the following components ($ in millions):




                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

18. RETIREMENT PLANS (CONTINUED)



    The curtailment/settlement gains in Fiscal 1999 relate primarily to the
termination of employees at AMP and the freezing of AMP's pension plan. The
curtailment/settlement gains in Fiscal 1998 relate primarily to the freezing of
the ADT pension plan. These curtailment/settlement gains have been recorded in
selling, general and administrative expenses.

    The net pension cost recognized at September 30, 2000 and 1999 for all U.S.
and non-U.S. defined benefit plans is as follows ($ in millions):




                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

18. RETIREMENT PLANS (CONTINUED)







    The projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation, and fair
value of plan assets for U.S. pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations
in excess of plan assets were $30.3 million, $29.3 million and $9.3 million,
respectively, as of September 30, 2000 and $186.7 million, $173.4 million and
$130.7 million, respectively, as of September 30, 1999.


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

18. RETIREMENT PLANS (CONTINUED)
    The projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation, and fair
value of plan assets for non-U.S. pension plans with accumulated benefit
obligations in excess of plan assets were $543.8 million, $464.0 million and
$256.1 million, respectively, as of September 30, 2000 and $563.5 million,
$517.1 million and $314.6 million, respectively, as of September 30, 1999.

    The Company also participates in a number of multi-employer defined benefit
plans on behalf of certain employees. Pension expense related to multi- employer
plans was $8.2 million, $7.5 million and $1.7 million for Fiscal 2000, Fiscal
1999 and Fiscal 1998, respectively.

    DEFINED CONTRIBUTION RETIREMENT PLANS--The Company maintains several defined
contribution retirement plans, which include 401(k) matching programs, as well
as qualified and nonqualified profit sharing and share bonus retirement plans.
Pension expense for the defined contribution plans is computed as a percentage
of participants' compensation and was $132.7 million, $73.2 million and
$57.1 million for Fiscal 2000, Fiscal 1999 and Fiscal 1998, respectively. The
Company also maintains an unfunded Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan
("SERP"). This plan is nonqualified and restores the employer match that certain
employees lose due to IRS limits on eligible compensation under the defined
contribution plans. Expense related to the SERP was $10.8 million, $6.9 million
and $3.7 million in Fiscal 2000, Fiscal 1999 and Fiscal 1998, respectively.

    POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS--The Company generally does not provide
postretirement benefits other than pensions for its employees. Certain of Former
Tyco's acquired operations provide these benefits to employees who were eligible
at the date of acquisition. In addition, ADT's electronic security services
operation in the United States sponsors an unfunded defined benefit
postretirement plan which covers both salaried and non-salaried employees and
which provides medical and other benefits. This postretirement health care plan
is contributory, with retiree contributions adjusted annually. The Company
recorded a gain of $8.8 million related to the curtailment of this plan in
Fiscal 1998 which was included in selling, general and administrative expenses.

    AMP provides postretirement health care coverage to qualifying U.S.
retirees. As a result of the merger with Tyco, a $13.7 million adjustment was
recorded to conform AMP's accounting method for postretirement benefits to
Tyco's method, regarding the initial recognition of such benefits upon adoption
of SFAS No. 106 "Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than
Pensions."

    In the second quarter of Fiscal 1999, AMP offered enhanced postretirement
benefits to terminated employees totaling $16.0 million, which was recorded as
part of AMP's second quarter restructuring charge. This amount has not been
included in the determination of net periodic benefit cost presented below.

    Net periodic postretirement benefit cost reflects the following components
($ in millions):




                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

18. RETIREMENT PLANS (CONTINUED)
    The components of the accrued postretirement benefit obligation, all of
which are unfunded, are as follows ($ in millions):



    For measurement purposes, in Fiscal 2000, an 8.15% composite annual rate of
increase in the per capita cost of covered health care benefits was assumed. The
rate was assumed to decrease gradually to 5.00% by the year 2008 and remain at
that level thereafter. The health care cost trend rate assumption may have a
significant effect on the amounts reported. A one-percentage-point change in
assumed healthcare cost trend rates would have the following effects ($ in
millions):



    The combined weighted average discount rate used in determining the
accumulated postretirement benefit obligation was 8.00% at September 30, 2000
(7.75% at September 30, 1999).

19. CONSOLIDATED SEGMENT DATA

    The Company's reportable segments are strategic business units that operate
in different industries and are managed separately. Segment data have been
presented on a basis consistent with how business activities are reported
internally to management. Certain corporate expenses were allocated to each
operating segment's operating income, based generally on net sales and other
factors. For additional information, including a description of the products and
services included in each segment, see Note 1.


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

19. CONSOLIDATED SEGMENT DATA (CONTINUED)
    Selected information by industry segment is presented below ($ in millions).






                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

19. CONSOLIDATED SEGMENT DATA (CONTINUED)



- ------------------------

 (1) Includes a restructuring charge of $16.9 million, of which $0.9 million is
     included in cost of sales, related to AMP's Brazilian operations and
     wireless communications business and a credit of $107.8 million, of which
     $6.3 million is included in cost of sales, primarily representing a
     revision of estimates of merger, restructuring, and other non-recurring
     accruals related to the merger with AMP and AMP's profit improvement plan.

 (2) Includes a non-recurring charge of $13.1 million incurred in connection
     with the TyCom IPO.

 (3) Includes charges for the impairment of long-lived assets of $99.0 million
     and restructuring and other non-recurring charges of $7.9 million, of which
     $6.4 million is included in cost of sales, related to exiting USSC's
     interventional cardiology business. Includes restructuring and other
     non-recurring charges of $11.1 million related to USSC's suture business.
     Also includes a credit of $29.9 million representing a revision in
     estimates of merger, restructuring, and other non-recurring accruals
     consisting of $19.7 million related primarily to the merger with USSC and
     $10.2 million related to the Company's 1997 restructuring accruals.

 (4) Includes a merger, restructuring and other non-recurring credit of
     $11.2 million representing a revision in estimates related to the Company's
     1997 restructuring accruals.

 (5) Includes a non-recurring charges of $275.0 million as a reserve for certain
     claims relating to a merged company in the Healthcare business and other
     non-recurring charges of $1.2 million.

 (6) Includes merger, restructuring and other non-recurring charges of
     $643.3 million, of which $106.4 million is included in cost of sales, and
     charges for the impairment of long-lived assets of $431.5 million primarily
     related to the merger with AMP and AMP's profit improvement plan.

 (7) Includes merger, restructuring and other non-recurring charges of
     $423.8 million and charges for the impairment of long-lived assets of
     $76.0 million, primarily related to the merger with USSC, and a credit of
     $4.7 million representing a revision of estimates related to Tyco's 1997
     restructuring and other non-recurring accruals.

 (8) Includes a credit of $27.2 million representing a revision of estimates
     related to Tyco's 1997 restructuring and other non-recurring accruals.

 (9) Includes restructuring and other non-recurring charges recorded by AMP of
     $185.8 million related to its profit improvement plan and a credit of
     $21.4 million to restructuring charges representing a revision of estimates
     related to AMP's 1996 restructuring activities.

(10) Includes non-recurring charges of $80.5 million primarily related to
     business exit costs and restructuring charges of $12.0 million related to
     USSC's operations.

(11) Includes $111.1 million in spending for construction of the TyCom Global
     Network.

(12) Excludes $234.0 million related to the purchase of property previously
     leased by USSC.


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

20. CONSOLIDATED GEOGRAPHIC DATA

    Selected information by geographic area is presented below ($ in millions).



21. SUPPLEMENTARY BALANCE SHEET INFORMATION

    Selected supplementary balance sheet information is presented below ($ in
millions).




                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

22. SUPPLEMENTARY INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION

    Selected supplementary income statement information is presented below ($ in
millions).



23. SUMMARIZED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

    Summarized quarterly financial data is presented below ($ in millions,
except per share data).





- ------------------------

(1) Includes charges for the impairment of long-lived assets of $99.0 million
    and restructuring and other non-recurring charges of $7.9 million, of which
    $6.4 million is included in cost of sales, related to exiting USSC's
    interventional cardiology business; restructuring and other non-recurring
    charges of $7.7 million related to USSC's suture business; and a
    restructuring charge of $6.5 million related to AMP's Brazilian operations.
    Also includes a credit of $94.7 million representing a revision in estimates
    of merger, restructuring and other non-recurring accruals, consisting of
    $57.8 million related to the merger with AMP and AMP's profit improvement
    plan, $15.5 million related primarily to the merger with USSC and
    $21.4 million related to the Company's 1997 restructuring accruals.

(2) Includes merger, restructuring and other non-recurring charges of
    $10.4 million, of which $0.9 million is included in cost of sales, primarily
    related to activities in AMP's wireless


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

23. SUMMARIZED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED) (CONTINUED)
    communications business and restructuring and other non-recurring charges of
    $0.5 million related to USSC's suture business. Also includes a credit of
    $12.7 million, of which $6.3 million is included in cost of sales, primarily
    representing a revision of estimates of merger, restructuring and other
    non-recurring accruals related to the merger with AMP and AMP's profit
    improvement plan.

(3) Includes restructuring and other non-recurring charges of $2.9 million
    related to USSC's suture business. Also includes a merger, restructuring and
    other non-recurring credit of $9.8 million representing a revision of
    estimates of merger, restructuring and other non-recurring accruals related
    to the merger with AMP and AMP's profit improvement plan.

(4) Includes non-recurring charges of $275.0 million as a reserve for certain
    claims relating to a merged company in the Healthcare business,
    $13.1 million related to a non-recurring charge incurred in connection with
    the TyCom IPO and $1.2 million of other non-recurring charges. Also includes
    credits of $27.5 million and $4.2 million representing a revision of
    estimates of merger, restructuring and other non-recurring accruals related
    to the merger with AMP and AMP's profit improvement plan and the merger with
    USSC, respectively.

(5) Includes merger, restructuring and other non-recurring charges of
    $412.6 million and charges for the impairment of long-lived assets of
    $76.0 million, primarily related to the merger with USSC, and restructuring
    and other non-recurring charges of $116.5 million, of which $28.3 million is
    included in cost of sales, and charges for the impairment of long-lived
    assets of $65.6 million related to AMP's profit improvement plan. Also
    includes a credit of $3.0 million representing a revision of estimates
    related to Tyco's 1997 merger, restructuring and other non-recurring
    accruals.

(6) Includes restructuring and other non-recurring charges of $158.8 million, of
    which $26.9 million is included in cost of sales, and charges for the
    impairment of long-lived assets of $171.1 million related to AMP's profit
    improvement plan. Also includes restructuring and other non-recurring
    charges of $2.0 million related to the merger with USSC and a credit of
    $5.3 million representing a revision of estimates related to Tyco's 1997
    merger, restructuring and other non-recurring accruals.

(7) Includes merger, restructuring and other non-recurring charges of
    $368.0 million, of which $51.2 million is included in cost of sales, and
    charges for the impairment of long-lived assets of $194.8 million, related
    to the merger with AMP and AMP's profit improvement plan. Also includes
    restructuring and other non-recurring charges of $2.8 million related to the
    merger with USSC and a credit of $19.7 million representing a revision of
    estimates related to Tyco's 1997 merger, restructuring and other
    non-recurring accruals.

(8) Includes restructuring and other non-recurring charges of $6.4 million
    related to the merger with USSC. Also includes a credit of $3.9 million
    representing a revision of estimates related to Tyco's 1997 merger,
    restructuring and other non-recurring accruals.

(9) Extraordinary items relate principally to the Company's debt tender offers
    and the write-off of net unamortized deferred refinancing costs relating to
    the early extinguishment of debt.


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

24. TYCO INTERNATIONAL GROUP S.A.

    During Fiscal 2000 and Fiscal 1999, Tyco International Group S.A. ("TIG"), a
wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, issued public debt securities (See
Note 4) which are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Tyco. In accordance
with SEC rules promulgated in August 2000, the following presents condensed
consolidating financial information for TIG and its subsidiaries, as if TIG and
its current organizational structure were in place for all periods presented.
Condensed financial information for Tyco and TIG on a stand-alone basis are
presented using the equity method of accounting for subsidiaries in which it
owns or controls twenty percent or more of the voting shares.

                          CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEET
                               SEPTEMBER 30, 2000




                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

24. TYCO INTERNATIONAL GROUP S.A. (CONTINUED)

                          CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEET
                               SEPTEMBER 30, 1999




                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

24. TYCO INTERNATIONAL GROUP S.A. (CONTINUED)
                     CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
                         YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2000



- ------------------------------

(1) Operating income includes a net charge of $176.3 million, of which
    $1.0 million is included in cost of sales, for restructuring and other
    non-recurring charges, and charges of $99.0 million for the impairment of
    long-lived assets related to the Company exiting the interventional
    cardiology business of USSC. The net charge is comprised of charges of
    $325.2 million, of which $7.3 million is included in cost of sales,
    primarily for non-recurring claims related to a merged company in the
    Healthcare business, the restructuring activities in AMP's Brazilian
    operations and wireless communications business, a non-recurring charge
    incurred in connection with TyCom's initial public offering and credits of
    $148.9 million, of which $6.3 million is included in cost of sales,
    primarily related to a revision in estimates associated with the AMP merger
    and AMP's profit improvement plan, the Company's 1997 restructuring plan and
    the merger with USSC. Income from continuing operations includes a one-time
    pre-tax gain of $1,760.0 million related to the issuance of common shares by
    a subsidiary.

(2) Extraordinary items relate principally to the write-off of net unamortized
    deferred refinancing costs relating to the early extinguishment of debt.


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

24. TYCO INTERNATIONAL GROUP S.A. (CONTINUED)
                     CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
                         YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 1999



- ------------------------------

(1) Operating income includes merger, restructuring and other non-recurring
    charges of $643.3 million, of which $106.4 million is included in cost of
    sales, and charges for the impairment of long-lived assets of
    $431.5 million primarily related to the merger with AMP and AMP's profit
    improvement plan. Also included are merger, restructuring and other
    non-recurring charges of $423.8 million and charges for the impairment of
    long-lived assets of $76.0 million, primarily related to the USSC merger and
    a credit of $31.9 million representing a revision of estimates related to
    Tyco's 1997 restructuring and other non-recurring accruals.

(2) Extraordinary items relate principally to the Company's debt tender offers
    and the write-off of net unamortized deferred refinancing costs relating to
    the early extinguishment of debt.

                     CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
                         YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 1998



- ------------------------------

(1) Operating income includes restructuring and other non-recurring charges
    recorded by AMP of $185.8 million related to its profit improvement plan and
    a credit of $21.4 million to restructuring charges representing a revision
    of estimates related to AMP's 1996 restructuring activities. Also included
    are non-recurring charges of $80.5 million and restructuring charges of
    $12.0 million related to USSC's operations.

(2) Extraordinary items relate principally to the write-off of net unamortized
    deferred refinancing costs relating to the early extinguishment of debt.


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

24. TYCO INTERNATIONAL GROUP S.A. (CONTINUED)

                     CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                         YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2000




                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

24. TYCO INTERNATIONAL GROUP S.A. (CONTINUED)
                     CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                         YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 1999




                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

24. TYCO INTERNATIONAL GROUP S.A. (CONTINUED)
                     CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                         YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 1998




                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

25. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

    On October 4, 2000, the Company entered into an agreement to acquire
InnerDyne, Inc. ("InnerDyne"), a manufacturer and distributor of patented radial
dilating access devices used in minimally invasive medical surgical procedures.
The purchase price is approximately $180 million payable in Tyco common shares.
InnerDyne will be integrated within Tyco's Healthcare business. Tyco intends to
account for the acquisition as a purchase.

    On October 6, 2000, the Company sold its ADT Automotive business to Manheim
Auctions, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cox Enterprises, Inc., for
approximately $1 billion in cash. The sale is expected to generate a one-time
pre-tax gain to the Company in excess of $300 million in the first quarter of
Fiscal 2001.

    On October 17, 2000, the Company acquired Mallinckrodt Inc.
("Mallinckrodt"), a global healthcare company with products used primarily for
respiratory care, diagnostic imaging and pain relief. The Company issued
approximately 64.8 million common shares, valued at approximately $3.2 billion,
and assumed approximately $1.0 billion in debt. Mallinckrodt is being integrated
within the Company's Healthcare business. The Company is accounting for the
acquisition as a purchase.

    On November 13, 2000, the Company agreed to acquire the Lucent Power Systems
("LPS") business unit of Lucent Technologies, Inc. for $2.5 billion in cash. LPS
provides a full line of energy solutions and power products for
telecommunications service providers and for the computer industry and will be
integrated within the Electronics segment. LPS products include AC/DC and DC/DC
switching power supplies, batteries, power supplies and back-up power systems.
The acquisition is subject to customary regulatory approvals.

    On November 17, 2000, the Company completed a private placement offering of
$4,657,500,000 principal at maturity of zero-coupon debt securities due 2020 for
aggregate net proceeds of approximately $3,374,000,000. Each $1,000 principal
amount at maturity security was issued at 74.165% of principal amount at
maturity, acretes at a rate of 1.5% per annum and is convertible into 10.3014
Tyco common shares if certain conditions are met. The Company may be required to
repurchase the securities at the accreted value at the option of the holders on
November 17, 2001, 2003, 2005, 2007 or 2014. The proceeds of this offering will
be used to finance the LPS acquisition and to repay commercial paper.

    On December 4, 2000, the Company agreed to acquire Simplex Time Recorder Co.
("Simplex") for approximately $1.15 billion in cash. Simplex manufactures fire
and security products and communications systems including control panels,
detection devices and system software. Simplex also installs, monitors and
services fire alarms, security systems and access control systems and will be
integrated within the Fire and Security Services segment. The acquisition is
subject to customary regulatory approvals.


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.
                    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                 FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

    Information for all periods presented below reflects the grouping of Tyco's
businesses into five business segments consisting of Electronics,
Telecommunications, Healthcare and Specialty Products, Fire and Security
Services, and Flow Control Products and Services.

    In Fiscal 1999, we consummated two mergers that were accounted for under the
pooling of interests method of accounting. The merger with United States
Surgical Corporation closed on October 1, 1998, and the merger with AMP
Incorporated closed on April 2, 1999. As required by generally accepted
accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP"), we restated our financial
statements as if USSC and AMP had always been a part of Tyco. We recorded as
expenses during Fiscal 1999 costs directly associated with the USSC and AMP
mergers and the costs of terminating employees and closing or consolidating
facilities as a result of the mergers. We also expensed in Fiscal 1999 the costs
of staff reductions and facility closings that AMP undertook as part of a plan
to improve its profitability unrelated to our merger with AMP. In Fiscal 1998,
we expensed charges for staff reductions and facility closings under the AMP
profit improvement plan and charges that USSC incurred to exit certain of its
businesses. These are discussed in more detail under "Liquidity and Capital
Resources" below.

    OVERVIEW

    Sales increased 28.6% during Fiscal 2000 to $28,931.9 million from
$22,496.5 million in Fiscal 1999. Sales in Fiscal 1999 increased 18.0% compared
to Fiscal 1998. Income before extraordinary items was $4,520.1 million in Fiscal
2000, as compared to $1,067.7 million in Fiscal 1999 and $1,168.6 million in
Fiscal 1998. Income before extraordinary items for Fiscal 2000 included an
after-tax net credit of $793.7 million ($1,484.7 million pre-tax) consisting of
restructuring, non-recurring and impairment charges of $327.3 million
($424.2 million pre-tax) primarily for non-recurring claims related to a merged
company and the exiting of USSC's interventional cardiology business, offset by
a credit of $113.6 million ($148.9 million pre-tax) representing a revision of
estimates of merger, restructuring and other non-recurring accruals and a gain
of $1,007.4 million ($1,760.0 million pre-tax) on the issuance of common shares
in connection with TyCom's initial public offering. Income before extraordinary
items for Fiscal 1999 included an after-tax net charge of $1,304.8 million
($1,542.7 million pre-tax) primarily related to the mergers with USSC and AMP
and costs associated with AMP's profit improvement plan. Income before
extraordinary items for Fiscal 1998 included an after-tax charge of
$192.0 million ($256.9 million pre-tax) primarily related to AMP's profit
improvement plan and costs incurred by USSC to exit certain businesses.


    The following table details Tyco's sales and earnings in Fiscal 2000, Fiscal
1999 and Fiscal 1998: ($ in millions)



- ------------------------

 (i) This amount is the sum of the operating income of Tyco's five business
     segments set forth in the segment discussion below, less certain corporate
     expenses, and is before merger, restructuring and other non-recurring
     charges, impairment of long-lived assets and amortization of goodwill.

 (ii) Net restructuring charges in the amount of $1.0 million and
      $106.4 million related to the write-down of inventory have been deducted
      as part of cost of sales in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for
      Fiscal 2000 and 1999, respectively. However, they have not been deducted
      as part of cost of sales for the purpose of calculating operating income
      before certain charges in this table. These charges are instead included
      in merger, restructuring and other non-recurring charges.

    During Fiscal 2000 and 1999, we took merger, restructuring and other
non-recurring charges and charges for the impairment of long-lived assets with
respect to AMP and USSC. Under our restructuring and integration programs, we
terminate employees and close facilities made redundant. The reduction in
manpower and facilities comes from the manufacturing, distribution, sales and
administrative functions. In addition, we discontinue or dispose of product
lines which do not fit the long-term strategy of the respective businesses. We
do not separately track the impact on financial results of the restructuring and
integration programs. However, we estimate that our overall cost structure has
been reduced by approximately $1,000.0 million on an annualized basis due to the
impact associated with these charges. The significant decreases have been to
selling, general and administrative expenses and to cost of sales.

    Operating income and margins for our five business segments, which are
presented in accordance with GAAP in the following discussion, are supplemented
by a discussion of operating income and margins stated before deductions for
merger, restructuring and other non-recurring charges related to business
combinations accounted for under the pooling of interests method of accounting
and charges for impairment of long-lived assets. This supplemental discussion of
operating results before certain charges should not be considered an alternative
to operating or net income as an indicator of the


performance of our business, or as an alternative to cash flows from operating
activities as a measure of liquidity, in each case determined in accordance with
GAAP.

    Operating income improved in all segments in each of Fiscal 2000 and Fiscal
1999. The operating improvements are the result of both increased revenues in
all segments and enhanced margins in all but one segment in Fiscal 2000.
Increased revenues result from organic growth and from acquisitions that are
accounted for under the purchase method of accounting. We enhance our margins
through improved productivity and cost reductions in the ordinary course of
business, unrelated to acquisition or divestiture activities. We regard charges
that we incur to reduce costs in the ordinary course of business as recurring
charges, which are reflected in cost of sales and in selling, general and
administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.

    When we make an acquisition, the acquired company is immediately integrated
with our existing operations. Consequently, we do not separately track the
financial results of acquired companies. The year-to-year sales comparisons that
are presented below include estimates of year-to-year sales growth that exclude
the effects of acquisitions that are accounted for under the purchase method of
accounting. These estimates assume that the acquisitions were made at the
beginning of the relevant fiscal periods.

    SALES AND OPERATING INCOME

    ELECTRONICS

    Tyco's Electronics segment's products and services include:

    - designing, engineering and manufacturing of electronic connector systems,
      fiber optic components, wireless devices, heat shrink products, power
      components, wire and cable, relays, sensors, touch screens, identification
      and labeling products, switches and battery assemblies; and

    - designing and manufacturing of multi-layer printed circuit boards,
      backplane assemblies, electronic modules and similar components.

    The AMP merger occurred in April 1999, but as required under the pooling of
interests method of accounting, AMP's results have been included for all periods
presented. The following table sets forth sales and operating income (loss) and
margins for the Electronics segment ($ in millions):



    The 62.8% increase in sales in Fiscal 2000 over Fiscal 1999 in the
Electronics segment resulted primarily from acquisitions and, to a lesser
extent, increased organic growth. These acquisitions included: the acquisition
in August 1999 of Raychem Corporation; the acquisition in November 1999 of
Siemens Electromechanical Components GmbH & Co. KG; the acquisition in
December 1999 of Praegitzer Industries, Inc.; the acquisition in March 2000 of
Critchley Group PLC; and the acquisition in July 2000 of the Electronic OEM
Business of Thomas & Betts. Excluding the impact of these acquisitions, sales
increased an estimated 15.1%.

    The 5.2% increase in sales in Fiscal 1999 over Fiscal 1998 was predominantly
due to the acquisition of Raychem in August 1999 and Sigma Circuits, Inc. in
July 1998. Excluding the impact of these acquisitions, sales remained relatively
stable.

    The substantial increase in operating income and margins, before certain
credits (charges), in Fiscal 2000 compared with Fiscal 1999 was primarily due to
the acquisitions of Raychem and Siemens


and improved margins at both AMP and Tyco Printed Circuit Group. The improved
operating margins, before certain charges, in Fiscal 2000 compared with Fiscal
1999 resulted from increased volume, improved pricing and continuing cost
reduction programs following the AMP merger.

    In addition to the items discussed above, the substantial increase in
operating income and margins, after certain credits (charges), was due to a
merger, restructuring and other non-recurring net credit of $90.9 million in
Fiscal 2000 compared with a restructuring and other non-recurring charge of
$1,074.8 million in Fiscal 1999.

    The 49.6% increase in operating income, before certain credits (charges), in
Fiscal 1999 compared with Fiscal 1998 was due to improved margins at AMP, the
acquisition of Raychem, and higher sales volume at the Tyco Printed Circuit
Group. The improved operating margins, before certain credits (charges), in
Fiscal 1999 compared with Fiscal 1998 were primarily due to the implementation
of AMP's profit improvement plan, which was initiated in the fourth quarter of
Fiscal 1998, cost reduction programs associated with the AMP merger, a pension
curtailment/settlement gain and the acquisition of Raychem. These improvements
were partially offset by $253.4 million of certain costs in Fiscal 1999 at AMP
prior to the merger with Tyco, including costs to defend the AlliedSignal Inc.
tender offer, the write-off of inventory and other balance sheet write-offs and
adjustments.

    In addition, the decrease in operating income and margins, after certain
credits (charges), was due to merger, restructuring and impairment charges of
$1,074.8 million in Fiscal 1999 compared with net restructuring and impairment
charges of $164.4 million in Fiscal 1998.

    TELECOMMUNICATIONS

    Tyco's 86% owned subsidiary, TyCom Ltd. ("TyCom"), is a leading independent
provider of transoceanic fiber optic networks and services. TyCom's products and
services include:

    - design, engineering, manufacture and installation of undersea cable
      communications systems;

    - service and maintenance of major undersea cable networks; and

    - design, manufacture and installation of a global undersea fiber optic
      network, known as the TyCom Global Network-TM- ("TGN"). TyCom plans to
      operate, maintain and sell bandwidth capacity on the TGN.

    The following table sets forth sales and operating income and margins for
the Telecommunications segment ($ in millions):



    The 56.4% increase in sales in Fiscal 2000 over Fiscal 1999 for the
Telecommunications segment resulted primarily from increased demand for
third-party sales of TyCom systems and, to a much lesser extent, the acquisition
in May of 1999 of Telecomunicaciones Marinas, S.A. ("Temasa"). Excluding the
effect of Temasa, the sales increase for the segment in Fiscal 2000 was an
estimated 54.0%.


    The 26.9% increase in sales in Fiscal 1999 over Fiscal 1998 for the
Telecommunications segment was due primarily to higher industry demand driving
backlog and project activity and to a lesser extent, the acquisition of Temasa
in May 1999. Excluding the impact of Temasa, sales increased an estimated 25.5%.

    The substantial increase in operating income, before and after certain
charges, in Fiscal 2000 compared with Fiscal 1999 was primarily due to higher
sales volume, and to a lesser extent, the Temasa acquisition. The increase in
operating income, after certain charges, was offset by a non-recurring charge of
$13.1 million incurred in connection with the TyCom initial public offering.

    The 21.2% increase in operating income in Fiscal 1999 compared with Fiscal
1998 was due to higher project and service revenues and increased bandwidth
capacity sales commissions, offset in part by one lower margin project.

    During construction of the transatlantic portion of the TGN, which began in
the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2000, revenues and operating income may decrease.
During the same period, operating expenses are expected to increase due to
building TyCom's infrastructure, including network operations, sales and
marketing, research and development and administration.

    HEALTHCARE AND SPECIALTY PRODUCTS

    Tyco's Healthcare and Specialty Products segment's products and services
include:

    - a wide variety of disposable medical products, including wound care
      products, syringes and needles, sutures and surgical staples, incontinence
      products, electrosurgical instruments and laparoscopic instruments;

    - flexible plastic packaging, plastic bags and sheeting, coated and
      laminated packaging materials, tapes and adhesives and plastic garment
      hangers; and

    - ADT Automotive's auto redistribution services (See Note 25).

    Tyco's merger with USSC, which is included in Tyco Healthcare, occurred in
October 1998. As required under the pooling of interests method of accounting,
USSC's results have been included for all periods presented. The following table
sets forth sales and operating income and margins for the Healthcare and
Specialty Products segment ($ in millions):



    The 12.6% increase in sales in Fiscal 2000 over Fiscal 1999 was primarily
the result of increased sales at Tyco Plastics and Adhesives and Tyco Healthcare
and, to a lesser extent, ADT Automotive. The increases for Tyco Healthcare were
due to organic growth and, to a lesser extent, acquisitions. The acquisitions
primarily responsible for the sales increase in Fiscal 2000 included: Graphic
Controls Corporation and Sunbelt Plastics, both acquired in November 1998 and
included in results for all of Fiscal 2000 but only part of Fiscal 1999;
Batts, Inc., acquired in April 1999; General Surgical Innovations, Inc.,
acquired in November 1999; Radionics, acquired in January 2000; and Fiber-Lam,
acquired in March 2000. Excluding the impact of these acquistions, sales for the
segment increased an estimated 8.2% in Fiscal 2000 over Fiscal 1999.

    The 22.9% increase in sales in Fiscal 1999 over Fiscal 1998 was primarily
the result of increased sales at Tyco Healthcare and, to a lesser extent, Tyco
Plastics and Adhesives and ADT Automotive. For Fiscal 1999, the acquisitions
primarily responsible for the sales increase included Valleylab, Sherwood-


Davis & Geck, Confab and Graphic Controls Corporation. Excluding the impact of
these acquisitions, the sales increase for Fiscal 1999 over Fiscal 1998 was
5.1%.

    The 10.2% increase in operating income, before certain credits (charges), in
Fiscal 2000 over Fiscal 1999 was due to increased sales volume at Tyco
Healthcare, Tyco Plastics and Adhesives and, to a lesser extent, ADT Automotive,
slightly offset by a lower operating margin percentage at Tyco Healthcare
principally due to higher raw materials costs.

    In addition to the items discussed above, the substantial increase in
operating income and margins, after certain credits (charges), was due to net
merger, restructuring and other non-recurring and impairment charges of
$88.1 million in Fiscal 2000 compared with net merger, restructuring and other
non-recurring charges of $495.1 million in Fiscal 1999.

    The substantial increase in operating income and operating margins, before
certain credits (charges), in Fiscal 1999 over Fiscal 1998 was due to improved
margins and increased sales volume at Tyco Healthcare, whose margins were
depressed in Fiscal 1998. The increase in Fiscal 1999 also reflected higher
sales volume and better margins at Tyco Plastics and Adhesives and ADT
Automotive. The Fiscal 1998 margins at Tyco Healthcare were brought down by
fourth quarter results at USSC, which lowered sales of higher margin products to
reduce excess inventory levels at distributors, and recorded increased costs,
principally a $105.8 million accrual for special hospital education programs.
Excluding these effects, management estimates that the increase in operating
income in Fiscal 1999 over Fiscal 1998 would have been 48.6% and the operating
margin for the segment in Fiscal 1998 would have been 19.6%. The increase in
margins for Fiscal 1999 above the 19.6% level was primarily attributable to the
effects of the cost reduction programs associated with the USSC merger,
including the termination of 1,282 employees and the consolidation or closure of
20 facilities. The effect of exiting businesses of Tyco Healthcare did not
significantly impact operating margins or income.

    In addition to the items discussed above, the increase in operating income
and margins was offset by net merger, restructuring and impairment charges of
$495.1 million in Fiscal 1999 compared with restructuring and other
non-recurring charges of $92.5 million in Fiscal 1998.

    On October 6, 2000, we sold our ADT Automotive business, which performed
auto redistribution services.

    FIRE AND SECURITY SERVICES

    Tyco's Fire and Security Services segment's products and services include:

    - designing, installing and servicing of a broad line of fire detection,
      prevention and suppression systems;

    - providing electronic security installation and monitoring services; and

    - manufacturing and servicing of fire extinguishers and related products.

    The following table sets forth sales and operating income and margins for
the Fire and Security Services segment ($ in millions):



    The 9.8% increase in sales in Fiscal 2000 over Fiscal 1999 resulted
primarily from increased sales in the worldwide electronic security services
business and higher sales volume in fire protection operations in North America,
Asia and Australia. The increases were due primarily to a higher volume


of recurring service revenues and, to a lesser extent, the effects of
acquisitions in the security services business. These acquisitions included:
Entergy Security Corporation ("Entergy"), acquired in January 1999, and
Alarmguard Holdings ("Alarmguard"), acquired in February 1999, both of which
were included in results for all of Fiscal 2000 but only part of Fiscal 1999.
Excluding the impact of these acquisitions, the sales increase for the segment
in Fiscal 2000 was an estimated 8.9%.

    The 26.0% sales increase in Fiscal 1999 over Fiscal 1998 reflected increased
sales worldwide in both our electronic security services and our fire protection
businesses. The increases were due both to a higher volume of recurring service
revenues and the effects of Fiscal 1999 acquisitions in the security services
business. These acquisitions included CIPE S.A., Wells Fargo Alarm, Entergy and
Alarmguard. Excluding the effects of these acquisitions, the increase in sales
for the segment in Fiscal 1999 was an estimated 15.4%.

    The 13.5% increase in operating income, before certain credits, in Fiscal
2000 over Fiscal 1999 reflects increased service volume in security operations
in the United States and fire protection businesses in North America and Asia.
The increase in operating margins, before certain credits, was due to increased
sales volume in both security services and fire protection offset slightly, in
the case of security services, by the costs of the reorganization of the
security services' dealer program and internal sales force during the first two
quarters of Fiscal 2000.

    The 43.8% increase in operating income, before certain credits, in Fiscal
1999 over Fiscal 1998 reflects the worldwide increase in service volume, both in
security services and fire protection, including the higher margins associated
with recurring monitoring revenue. The increase in operating margins, before
certain credits, in Fiscal 1999 was principally due to increased volume of
higher margin service and inspection work in the North American fire protection
operations; increased volume due to economic improvements in the Asia-Pacific
region; higher incremental margins in the European security operations from
additions to the customer base; and cost reductions related to acquisitions.

    In addition to the items discussed above, operating income and margins,
after certain credits reflect a restructuring and other non-recurring credit of
$11.2 million in Fiscal 2000 and $27.2 million in Fiscal 1999.

    FLOW CONTROL PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

    Tyco's Flow Control Products and Services segment's products and services
include:

    - a full line of valves and related products for industrial and process
      control including butterfly, gate, globe, check, ball, plug, safety
      relief, knife-gate, instrumentation, sampling, and other valves as well as
      actuators, positioners, couplings and related products, which are used to
      transport, control and sample liquids, gases, powders and other
      substances;

    - pipe and tubular products, made primarily from steel, ductile iron and
      plastic, utilized in the mechanical tubing, construction, automotive,
      water distribution, fencing products and other markets;

    - electrical raceway products, including steel conduit, pre-wired armored
      cable, flexible conduit, steel support systems and fasteners, cable tray
      and cable ladder;

    - a broad range of consulting, engineering, construction management and
      operating services for the water, wastewater, environmental,
      transportation and infrastructure markets; and

    - fire sprinkler devices, specialty valves, steel pipe, plastic pipe and
      fittings and pipe couplings used in commercial, residential and industrial
      fire protection systems.


    The following table sets forth sales and operating income and margins for
the Flow Control Products and Services segment ($ in millions):



    The 12.2% sales increase in Fiscal 2000 over Fiscal 1999 was primarily due
to increased volume at Allied Tube and Conduit, increased demand for valve
products in the Asia-Pacific region and Europe, increased sales at Earth Tech
and, to a lesser extent, the impact of acquisitions. These acquisitions
included: Glynwed International, plc ("Glynwed"), acquired in March 1999;
Central Sprinkler Corporation, acquired in August 1999; AFC Cable
Systems, Inc., acquired in November 1999; and Flow Control Technologies,
acquired in February 2000. In August 1999, we sold certain businesses within
this segment, including The Mueller Company ("Mueller") and portions of Grinnell
Supply Sales and Manufacturing ("Grinnell"). Excluding the impacts of these
acquisitions and divestitures, sales increased an estimated 11.9%.

    The 19.8% sales increase in Fiscal 1999 over Fiscal 1998 reflects increased
demand for valve products in Europe, increased sales at Earth Tech and the
impact of acquisitions. These acquisitions included Crosby Valve, Rust
Environmental and Infrastructure, Inc. and Glynwed. Excluding the effect of
these acquisitions and the divestitures of Mueller and Grinnell, the sales
increase for the segment in Fiscal 1999 was an estimated 11.3%.

    The 23.4% increase in operating income in Fiscal 2000 over Fiscal 1999 was
primarily due to increased volume at Allied Tube & Conduit and increased volume
and improved margins in the North American and European valve operations and at
Earth Tech. Also, royalty and licensing fee income from certain intellectual
property associated with the divested businesses offset a portion of the
operating income lost from the divestitures. Increased operating margins in
Fiscal 2000 resulted primarily from royalty and licensing fee income and margin
improvement in the North American and European valve operations and at Earth
Tech.

    The 32.5% increase in operating income in Fiscal 1999 over Fiscal 1998 was
primarily due to increased sales in the European flow control operations and
North American valve products and at Earth Tech. The increase in operating
margins was principally due to cost containment programs that improved margins
in our North American pipe products business and the worldwide valve operations.
The gain on the sale of Mueller and portions of Grinnell in this segment did not
significantly impact operating profits and margins in Fiscal 1999.

    FOREIGN CURRENCY

    The effect of changes in foreign exchange rates during Fiscal 2000, Fiscal
1999 and Fiscal 1998 was not material to our sales and operating income.

    CORPORATE EXPENSES

    Corporate expenses, excluding non-recurring charges of $275.0 million as a
reserve for certain claims relating to a merged company in the Healthcare
business and other non-recurring charges of $1.2 million, were $187.4 million in
Fiscal 2000 compared to $122.9 million in Fiscal 1999 and $68.3 million in
Fiscal 1998. These increases were due principally to higher compensation expense
under our equity-based incentive compensation plans and an increase in corporate
staffing and related costs to support and monitor our expanding businesses and
operations.


    AMORTIZATION OF GOODWILL

    Amortization of goodwill, a non-cash charge, increased $128.3 million to
$344.4 million in Fiscal 2000 compared with Fiscal 1999. Fiscal 1999
amortization of goodwill increased to $216.1 million from $131.8 million in
Fiscal 1998. The increase in amortization of goodwill is due to the
$5,162.0 million in consideration paid for acquisitions and acquisition related
costs in Fiscal 2000, which resulted in goodwill and other intangibles of
$5,206.8 million, and the $6,923.3 million in consideration paid for
acquisitions and acquisition related costs in Fiscal 1999, which resulted in
goodwill and other intangibles of $5,807.9 million.

    INTEREST EXPENSE, NET

    Interest expense, net, increased $284.0 million to $769.6 million in Fiscal
2000, as compared to Fiscal 1999, and increased $240.3 million to
$485.6 million in Fiscal 1999, as compared to Fiscal 1998. These increases were
primarily due to higher average debt balances, resulting from borrowings to
finance acquisitions and our stock repurchase program and, to a lesser extent,
higher average interest rates in Fiscal 2000. The increase in borrowings was
mitigated in part by the use of free cash flow to pay for certain acquisitions.
The weighted-average rate of interest on all long-term debt during Fiscal 2000,
Fiscal 1999 and Fiscal 1998 was 6.5%, 6.2% and 6.4%, respectively.

    EXTRAORDINARY ITEMS

    Extraordinary items in Fiscal 2000, Fiscal 1999 and Fiscal 1998 included
after-tax losses amounting to $0.2 million, $45.7 million and $2.4 million,
respectively, relating primarily to our tender offers for debt and the write-off
of net unamortized deferred financing costs related to the LYONs. Further
details are provided in Notes 4 and 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

    INCOME TAX EXPENSE

    The effective income tax rate, excluding the impact of merger, restructuring
and other non-recurring credits (charges), charges for the impairment of
long-lived assets and gain on the sale of TyCom shares, was 24.8% during Fiscal
2000 as compared to 27.0% in Fiscal 1999 and 30.6% in Fiscal 1998. The decreases
in the effective income tax rates were primarily due to higher earnings in tax
jurisdictions with lower income tax rates. We believe that we will generate
sufficient future income to realize the tax benefits related to our deferred tax
assets. A valuation allowance has been maintained due to continued uncertainties
of realization of certain tax benefits, primarily tax loss carryforwards (See
Note 7).


LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

    The following table shows the sources of our cash flow from operating
activities and the use of a portion of that cash in our operations in Fiscal
2000 and Fiscal 1999. We refer to the net amount of cash generated from
operating activities less capital expenditures and dividends as "free cash
flow."



- ------------------------

(1) This amount is the sum of the operating income of the five business segments
    as set forth above, less certain corporate expenses, and is before merger,
    restructuring and other non-recurring credits and charges, charges for the
    impairment of long-lived assets and goodwill amortization.

(2) This amount is the sum of depreciation of tangible property
    ($1,095.0 million and $979.6 million in Fiscal 2000 and Fiscal 1999,
    respectively) and amortization of intangible property other than goodwill
    ($205.0 million and $115.5 million in Fiscal 2000 and Fiscal 1999,
    respectively).

(3) This amount is net of $100.0 million and $50.0 million received on the sale
    of accounts receivable in Fiscal 2000 and Fiscal 1999, respectively.

(4) This amount is the sum of all cash paid out for (a) merger, restructuring
    and other non-recurring charges in connection with business combinations
    accounted for on a pooling of interests basis and (b) other restructuring
    and non-recurring charges taken by the pooled companies prior to their
    combination with Tyco.

    In addition, in Fiscal 2000 and Fiscal 1999 we paid out $544.2 million and
$354.4 million, respectively, in cash that was charged against reserves
established in connection with acquisitions accounted for under the purchase
accounting method. This amount is included in "Acquisition of businesses, net of
cash acquired" in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.

    Business combinations are accounted for either on a pooling of interests
basis or under the purchase accounting method. In Fiscal 1999, the Company made
two business combinations, USSC and AMP, that were required to be accounted for
on a pooling of interests basis. Under pooling of interests accounting, the
merged companies are treated as if they had always been part of Tyco, and their
financial statements are included in our Consolidated Financial Statements for
all periods presented.

    At the time of each pooling of interests transaction, Tyco establishes a
reserve for transaction costs and the costs that we expect to incur in
integrating the merged company within the relevant Tyco business segment. By
integrating merged companies with our existing businesses, we expect to realize
operating synergies and long-term cost savings. Integration costs, which relate
primarily to termination of employees and the closure of facilities made
redundant, are detailed in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Reserves for merger, restructuring and other non-recurring items are taken as a
charge against current earnings at the time the reserves are established.
Amounts expended for merger, restructuring and other non-recurring costs are
charged against the reserves as they are paid out. If the amount of the reserves
proves to be greater than the costs actually incurred, any excess is credited
against merger, restructuring and other non-recurring charges in the
Consolidated Statement of Operations in the period in which that determination
is made.


    In Fiscal 2000, we established merger, restructuring and other non-recurring
reserves of $325.2 million, of which $7.3 million is included in cost of sales,
primarily related to a reserve for certain claims relating to a merged company
in the Healthcare business, the restructuring activities in AMP's Brazilian
operations and wireless communications business, a non-recurring charge incurred
in connection with the TyCom IPO, charges associated with USSC's suture business
and the exiting of USSC's interventional cardiology business. At the beginning
of the fiscal year, there existed merger, restructuring and other non-recurring
reserves of $399.3 million related to pooling of interests transactions
consummated in prior years and other restructuring charges taken by the merged
companies prior to their combination with Tyco. During Fiscal 2000, we paid out
$155.2 million in cash and incurred $54.5 million in non-cash charges that were
charged against these reserves. Also in Fiscal 2000, we determined that
$148.9 million of merger, restructuring and other non-recurring reserves
established in prior years were not needed. These amounts were taken as merger,
restructuring and other non-recurring credits during Fiscal 2000 and offset
against the reserves. At September 30, 2000, there remained $365.9 million of
merger, restructuring and other non-recurring reserves on our Consolidated
Balance Sheet, of which $334.8 million is included in current liabilities and
$31.1 million is included in long-term liabilities.

    All business combinations completed in Fiscal 2000 were required to be
accounted for under the purchase accounting method. At the time each purchase
acquisition is made, we establish a reserve for transaction costs and the costs
of integrating the purchased company within the relevant Tyco business segment.
The amounts of such reserves established in Fiscal 2000 are detailed in Note 3
to the Consolidated Financial Statements. These amounts are not charged against
current earnings but are treated as additional purchase price consideration and
have the effect of increasing the amount of goodwill recorded in connection with
the respective acquisition. We view these costs as the equivalent of additional
purchase price consideration when we consider making an acquisition. If the
amount of the reserves proves to be in excess of costs actually incurred, any
excess is used to reduce the goodwill account that was established at the time
the acquisition was made.

    In Fiscal 2000, we made acquisitions that were accounted for under the
purchase accounting method at an aggregate cost of $5,162.0 million. Of this
amount, $4,246.5 million was paid in cash (net of cash acquired),
$671.4 million was paid in the form of Tyco common shares, and we assumed
$244.1 million in debt. In connection with these acquisitions, we established
purchase accounting reserves of $426.2 million for transaction and integration
costs. At the beginning of Fiscal 2000, purchase accounting reserves were
$570.3 million as a result of purchase accounting transactions made in prior
years. During Fiscal 2000, we paid out $544.2 million in cash and incurred
$52.1 million in non-cash charges against the reserves established during and
prior to Fiscal 2000. Also in Fiscal 2000, we determined that $117.8 million of
purchase accounting reserves related to acquisitions made prior to Fiscal 2000
were not needed and reversed that amount against goodwill. At September 30,
2000, there remained $372.6 million in purchase accounting reserves on our
Consolidated Balance Sheet, of which $349.2 million is included in current
liabilities and $23.4 million is included in long-term liabilities.


    The following details the Fiscal 2000 capital expenditures and depreciation
by segment:



- ------------------------

(1) Includes $111.1 million in spending for construction of the TyCom Global
Network.

    We continue to fund capital expenditures to improve the cost structure of
our businesses, to invest in new processes and technology, and to maintain high
quality production standards. The level of capital expenditures for the Fire and
Security Services segment significantly exceeded, and is expected to continue to
significantly exceed, depreciation due to the large volume growth of new
residential subscriber systems capitalized. The level of capital expenditures in
the Telecommunications segment is expected to significantly increase due to
construction of the TyCom Global Network. The level of capital expenditures in
the other segments is expected to increase moderately in Fiscal 2001. The source
of funds for capital expenditures is expected to be cash from operating
activities.

    The provision for income taxes in the Consolidated Statement of Operations
for Fiscal 2000 was $1,926.0 million, but the amount of income taxes paid (net
of refunds) during the year was $454.7 million. The difference is due primarily
to the timing of tax payments related to the gain on issuance of shares by
TyCom. The current income tax liability at September 30, 2000 was $1,650.3
million, as compared to $798.0 million at September 30, 1999. After adjustment
for deferred income taxes of acquired companies and other items, the net
increase in deferred income taxes was $507.8 million. The increase in deferred
income taxes is attributable primarily to current utilization of deductions on
restructuring, other non-recurring charges and purchase accounting spending,
other timing differences between book and tax recognition of income and expense,
utilization of net operating loss and credit carryforwards, and the tax benefits
of stock option exercises.

    The net change in working capital, net of the effects of acquisitions and
divestitures, was an increase of $91.7 million. The components of this change
are set forth in detail in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. The
increase in working capital accounts is attributable to the higher level of
business activity in Fiscal 2000 as reflected in the increased sales over the
prior year. We focus on maximizing the cash flow from our operating businesses
and attempt to keep the working capital employed in the businesses to the
minimum level required for efficient operations.

    In addition, we used $1,885.1 million to purchase our own common shares. In
November 1999, we announced the authorization by our Board of Directors to
reacquire up to 20 million Tyco common shares in the open market, which was
completed during the quarter ended March 31, 2000. In January 2000, the Board of
Directors authorized the expenditure of up to an additional $2,000.0 million to
reacquire our shares, of which we have spent nearly $1,100.0 million through
September 30, 2000. In addition, we repurchase our own shares from time to time
in the open market to satisfy certain stock-based compensation arrangements,
such as the exercise of stock options.

    We received proceeds of $2,130.7 million from the issuance of common shares
by a subsidiary in the TyCom IPO and $355.3 million from the exercise of common
share options.


    The source of the cash used for acquisitions was primarily an increase in
total debt and cash flows from operations. Goodwill and other intangible assets
were $16,332.6 million at September 30, 2000, compared to $12,158.9 million at
September 30, 1999. At September 30, 2000, our total debt was
$10,999.0 million, as compared to $10,122.2 million at September 30, 1999. This
increase resulted principally from borrowings under our commercial paper program
and net proceeds of approximately $565.9 million from the issuance of Euro
denominated private placement notes in April 2000. For a full discussion of debt
activity, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

    Shareholders' equity was $17,033.2 million, or $10.11 per share, at
September 30, 2000, compared to $12,369.3 million, or $7.32 per share, at
September 30, 1999. The increase in shareholders' equity was due primarily to
net income of $4,519.9 million, an unrealized gain on available for sale
securities of $1,075.7 million and the issuance of a total of approximately
15.6 million common shares valued at approximately $671.4 million for the
acquisitions of GSI and AFC Cable in November 1999. Total debt as a percent of
total capitalization (total debt and shareholders' equity) was 39% at
September 30, 2000 and 45% at September 30, 1999. Net debt (total debt less cash
and cash equivalents) as a percent of total capitalization was 35% at
September 30, 2000 and 37% at September 30, 1999.

    On October 4, 2000, we entered into an agreement to acquire InnerDyne, Inc.
("InnerDyne"), a manufacturer and distributor of patented radial dilating access
devices used in minimally invasive medical surgical procedures. The purchase
price is approximately $180 million payable in Tyco common shares. InnerDyne
will be integrated within Tyco's Healthcare business. We intend to account for
the acquisition as a purchase.

    On October 6, 2000, we sold our ADT Automotive business to Manheim
Auctions, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cox Enterprises, Inc., for
approximately $1 billion in cash. The sale is expected to generate a one-time
pre-tax gain to Tyco in excess of $300 million in the first quarter of Fiscal
2001.

    On October 17, 2000, we acquired Mallinckrodt Inc. ("Mallinckrodt"), a
global healthcare company with products used primarily for respiratory care,
diagnostic imaging and pain relief. We issued approximately 64.8 million common
shares, valued at approximately $3.2 billion, and assumed approximately $1.0
billion in debt. Mallinckrodt is being integrated within Tyco's Healthcare
business. We are accounting for the acquisition as a purchase.

    On November 13, 2000, we agreed to acquire the Lucent Power Systems ("LPS")
business unit of Lucent Technologies, Inc. for $2.5 billion in cash. LPS
provides a full line of energy solutions and power products for
telecommunications service providers and for the computer industry and will be
integrated within the Electronics segment. LPS products include AC/DC and DC/DC
switching power supplies, batteries, power supplies and back-up power systems.
The acquisition is subject to customary regulatory approvals.

    On November 17, 2000, we completed a private placement offering of
$4,657,500,000 principal at maturity of zero-coupon debt securities due 2020 for
aggregate net proceeds of approximately $3,374,000,000. Each $1,000 principal
amount at maturity security was issued at 74.165% of principal amount at
maturity, accretes at a rate of 1.5% per annum and is convertible into 10.3014
Tyco common shares if certain conditions are met. We may be required to
repurchase the securities at the accreted value at the option of the holders on
November 17, 2001, 2003, 2005, 2007 or 2014. The proceeds of this offering will
be used to finance the LPS acquisition and to repay commercial paper.

    On December 4, 2000, we agreed to acquire Simplex Time Recorder Co.
("Simplex") for approximately $1.15 billion in cash. Simplex manufactures fire
and security products and communications systems including control panels,
detection devices and system software. Simplex also installs, monitors and
services fire alarms, security systems and access control systems and will be
integrated within the Fire and Security Services segment. The acquisition is
subject to customary regulatory approvals.


    We believe that our cash flow from operations, together with our existing
credit facilities and other credit arrangements, is adequate to fund our
operations.

    BACKLOG

    At September 30, 2000, we had a backlog of unfilled orders of approximately
$8,214.8 million, compared to a backlog of approximately $7,581.1 million as of
September 30, 1999. We expect that approximately 86% of our backlog at
September 30, 2000 will be filled during the year ending September 30, 2001.
Backlog by industry segment is as follows ($ in millions):



    The decrease in backlog within the Telecommunications segment is due to
TyCom devoting a substantial portion of its resources to designing and
manufacturing the TGN and therefore taking on less work as a supplier of
undersea fiber optic cable systems for others. Within the Electronics segment,
backlog increased principally due to an increase in demand for the products
manufactured by AMP and Raychem, and to a lesser extent, the effect of
acquisitions. Within the Flow Control Products and Services segment, backlog
increased principally due to increased backlog at Earth Tech, related to new
contract bookings and water and waste water facility contracts, and an increase
in demand for its valves and control products. Within the Fire and Security
Services segment, backlog increased principally due to long-term service
contracts in the Australian fire protection business and, to a lesser extent,
the effect of acquisitions. Backlog in the Healthcare and Specialty Products
segment is not indicative of the level of sales activity. Backlog in this
segment generally represents unfilled orders which are shipped shortly after
purchase orders are received.

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

    We are subject to market risk associated with changes in interest rates,
foreign currency exchange rates and certain commodity prices. In order to manage
the volatility relating to our more significant market risks, we enter into
forward foreign currency exchange contracts, cross-currency swaps, foreign
currency options, commodity swaps and interest rate swaps. The Company does not
anticipate any material changes in our primary market risk exposures in Fiscal
2001.

    We utilize risk management procedures and controls in executing derivative
financial instrument transactions. We do not execute transactions or hold
derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. Derivative financial
instruments related to interest rate sensitivity of debt obligations,
intercompany cross-border transactions and anticipated non-functional currency
cash flows, as well as commodity price exposures, are used with the goal of
mitigating a significant portion of these exposures when it is cost effective to
do so. Counter-parties to derivative financial instruments are limited to
financial institutions with at least an AA long-term credit rating.


    INTEREST RATE SENSITIVITY

    The table below provides information about our financial instruments that
are sensitive to changes in interest rates, including long-term investments,
debt obligations, interest rate swaps and currency swaps. For long-term
investments, the table presents cash flows of principal payments (in millions)
related to a subordinated, non-collateralized zero coupon loan note, based on
the amortized cost of the investment as of September 30, 2000, and the
associated fair value interest rate discount. For debt obligations, the table
presents cash flows of principal repayment (in millions) and weighted-average
interest rates. For interest rate swaps and cross-currency swaps, the table
presents notional amounts (in millions) and weighted-average interest rates.
Notional amounts are used to calculate the contractual payments to be exchanged
under the contract. The amounts included in the table below are in U.S. dollars
($ in millions).



- ------------------------------

 (i) Weighted-average variable interest rates are based on applicable rates as
     of September 30, 2000 per the terms of the contracts of the related
     financial instruments.

 (ii) In March 1994, AMP entered into a cross-currency swap with a financial
      institution to hedge a portion of its net investment in its Japanese
      subsidiary.

(iii) The fair value of the cross-currency swap included in the table reflects
      the portion of the fair value of the contract that is attributable to the
      interest component of the contract.


    EXCHANGE RATE SENSITIVITY

    The table below provides information about Tyco's financial instruments that
are sensitive to foreign currency exchange rates. These instruments include
long-term investments, debt obligations, cross-currency swaps, forward foreign
currency exchange contracts and currency options. For long-term investments, the
table presents cash flows of principal payments (in millions) related to a
subordinated, non-collateralized zero coupon loan note, based on the amortized
cost of the investment as of September 30, 2000, and the associated fair value
interest rate discount. For debt obligations, the table presents cash flows of
principal repayment (in millions) and weighted-average interest rates. For
cross-currency swaps and forward foreign currency exchange contracts, the table
presents notional amounts (in millions) and weighted-average contractual
exchange rates. For currency options, the table presents notional amounts (in
millions) and weighted-average contractual strike prices. Notional amounts are
used to calculate the contractual payments to be exchanged under the contract.
The amounts included in the table below are in U.S. dollars ($ in millions).



- ------------------------------

 (i) Weighted-average variable interest rates are based on applicable rates as
     of September 30, 2000 per the terms of the contracts of the related
     financial instruments.

 (ii) In March 1994, AMP entered into a cross-currency swap with a financial
      institution to hedge a portion of its net investment in its Japanese
      subsidiary.

(iii) The fair value of cross-currency swap included in the table reflects the
      portion of the fair value of the contract that is attributable to the
      foreign currency component of the contracts.


    COMMODITY PRICE SENSITIVITY

    The table below provides information about Tyco's financial instruments that
are sensitive to changes in commodity prices. Total contract dollar amounts (in
millions) and notional quantity amounts are presented for forward commodity
contracts. Contract amounts are used to calculate the contractual payments
quantity of the commodity to be exchanged under the contracts ($ in millions).



YEAR 2000 COMPLIANCE

    Tyco's Year 2000 compliance programs and systems modifications were
completed on time, and the conversion process was successful. Our business has
not been adversely affected due to the failure of key third parties to
successfully complete the Year 2000 conversion. Although there can be no
assurance that all of our material third-party relationships had successful
conversion programs we do not expect that any such failure would have a material
adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity.
The costs of our Year 2000 program to date have not been material, and we know
of no further required modifications to its information technology or embedded
technology systems that would have a material impact on our financial position,
results of operations or liquidity.

ACCOUNTING AND TECHNICAL PRONOUNCEMENTS

    In June 1998 and June 2000, the FASB issued SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" and SFAS No. 138, "Accounting for
Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities." These statements
establish accounting and reporting standards requiring that every derivative
instrument be recorded on the balance sheet as either an asset or liability
measured at its fair value. SFAS Nos. 133 and 138 also require that changes in
the derivative's fair value be recognized currently in earnings unless specific
hedge accounting criteria are met. SFAS Nos. 133 and 138 are effective for
fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2000. We do not expect that the adoption
of these new standards will have a material impact on our earnings or financial
position.

    In December 1999, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") issued
Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101, "Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements"
("SAB 101"), which clarifies certain existing accounting principles for the
timing of revenue recognition and its classification in the financial
statements. In June 2000, the SEC delayed the required implementation date of
SAB 101. As a result, SAB 101 will not be effective for Tyco until the quarter
ended September 30, 2001. In October 2000, the SEC issued further guidance on
the interpretations included in SAB 101. We are currently analyzing the impact
of this Staff Accounting Bulletin.


    In September 2000, the FASB issued SFAS No. 140 ("SFAS 140"), "Accounting
for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of
Liabilities--a replacement of FASB Statement No. 125." SFAS 140 revises the
standards for accounting for securitizations and other transfers of financial
assets and collateral and requires certain disclosures, but it carries over most
of SFAS 125's provisions without reconsideration. This Statement is effective
for transfers and servicing of financial assets and extinguishments of
liabilities occurring after March 31, 2001. This Statement is effective for
recognition and reclassification of collateral and for disclosures relating to
securitization transactions and collateral for fiscal years ending after
December 15, 2000. We are currently analyzing this new standard.

FORWARD LOOKING INFORMATION

    Certain statements in this report are "forward looking statements" within
the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All forward
looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. In particular, any statement
contained herein, in press releases, written statements or other documents filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or in Tyco's communications and
discussions with investors and analysts in the normal course of business through
meetings, phone calls and conference calls, regarding the consummation and
benefits of future acquisitions, as well as expectations with respect to future
sales, earnings, cash flows, operating efficiencies, product expansion, backlog,
financings and share repurchases, are subject to known and unknown risks,
uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond the control of Tyco,
which may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially
from anticipated results, performances or achievements. Factors that might
affect such forward looking statements include, among other things, overall
economic and business conditions; the demand for Tyco's goods and services;
competitive factors in the industries in which Tyco competes; changes in
government regulation; changes in tax requirements (including tax rate changes,
new tax laws and revised tax law interpretations); results of litigation;
interest rate fluctuations and other capital market conditions, including
foreign currency rate fluctuations; economic and political conditions in
international markets, including governmental changes and restrictions on the
ability to transfer capital across borders; the timing of construction and the
successful operation of the TyCom Global Network; the ability to achieve
anticipated synergies and other cost savings in connection with acquisitions;
and the timing, impact and other uncertainties of future acquisitions.


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.

                 SCHEDULE II--VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

                                 (IN MILLIONS)




