
10-K405
TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.



 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
              [X]   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 1998
 
                                       OR
 
            [ ]   TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
                                    0-16979
                            (COMMISSION FILE NUMBER)
 
                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)
 

 
   THE GIBBONS BUILDING, 10 QUEEN STREET, SUITE 301, HAMILTON, HM 11, BERMUDA
              (ADDRESS OF REGISTRANT'S PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICE)
 
                                 441-292-8674*
                        (REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER)
 
                            ------------------------
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:
 

 
        SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT: NONE
 
     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes [X]  No [ ].
 
     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III or this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X].
 
     The aggregate market value of voting common stock held by nonaffiliates of
registrant was $39,636,878,846 as of November 6, 1998.
 
     The number of shares of common stock outstanding as of November 6, 1998 was
647,323,419.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
     See pages 18 to 21 for the exhibit index.

                            ------------------------
 
* The executive offices of registrant's principal United States subsidiary, Tyco
  International (US) Inc., are located at One Tyco Park, Exeter, New Hampshire
  03833. The telephone number there is (603) 778-9700.
 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1.  BUSINESS
 
INTRODUCTION
 
     Tyco International Ltd. ("Tyco" or the "Company") is a diversified
manufacturing and service company that, through its subsidiaries, operates in
four segments: (i) the design, manufacture and distribution of disposable
medical supplies and other specialty products, and the conduct of vehicle
auctions and related services; (ii) the design, manufacture, installation and
service of fire detection and suppression systems, and the installation,
monitoring and maintenance of electronic security systems; (iii) the design,
manufacture and distribution of flow control products; and (iv) the design,
manufacture and distribution of electrical and electronic components, and the
design, manufacture, installation and service of undersea cable communication
systems. See Notes 18 and 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
certain segment and geographic financial data, respectively, relating to the
Company's business.
 
     Tyco's strategy is to be the low-cost, high quality producer and provider
in each of its markets. It promotes its leadership position by investing in
existing businesses, developing new markets and acquiring complementary
businesses and products. Combining the strengths of its existing operations and
its business acquisitions, Tyco seeks to enhance shareholder value through
increased earnings per share and strong cash flows.
 
I.  DISPOSABLE AND SPECIALTY PRODUCTS
 
     The principal divisions in the Disposable and Specialty Products group are
the Tyco Healthcare Group, ADT Automotive and Tyco Plastics and Adhesives.
 
     The Tyco Healthcare Group manufactures and distributes medical supplies,
disposable medical products, personal absorbent products and other products. ADT
Automotive is the second largest provider of vehicle auction services in the
United States. Tyco Plastics and Adhesives manufactures polyethylene films and
packaging, industrial and consumer plastic products, molded plastic garment
hangers, laminated and coated products and adhesive products and tapes.
 
  Tyco Healthcare Group
 
     The principal operating company of this division is called The Kendall
Company ("Kendall"). Kendall conducts its operations through two business units:
Kendall Healthcare and Kendall International. In each of its business units,
Kendall has numerous competitors, including a number of large, well-established
companies. Kendall relies on its reputation for quality and dependable service,
together with its low-cost manufacturing and innovative products, to maintain a
leadership position in its markets.
 
     The Kendall Healthcare business unit is made up of five segments: Medical
Surgical, Vascular Therapy, Alternate Site, Confab and Ludlow Technical
Products. These units manufacture and market a broad range of wound care,
needles and syringes, electrodes, specialized paper, vascular therapy,
urological care, incontinence care, and other nursing care products. These are
distributed to hospitals, rehabilitation centers, long-term care facilities and
homes throughout the United States and Canada.
 
     Kendall Healthcare is one of the largest manufacturers of disposable
healthcare products in the world. Kendall Healthcare is the industry leader in
gauze products with its Kerlix(R) and Curity(R) brand dressings. Kendall
Healthcare's other core product category consists of its vascular therapy
products, principally anti-embolism stockings, marketed under the T.E.D.(R)
brand name, sequential pneumatic compression systems sold under the SCD(R) brand
name and a venous plexus foot pump. Kendall Healthcare pioneered the pneumatic
compression form of treatment and continues to be the dominant participant in
the pneumatic compression and elastic stocking segments of the vascular therapy
market. The acquisition of Sherwood-Davis & Geck ("Sherwood") during 1998
significantly added to the range of disposable healthcare products manufactured
and sold by Kendall Healthcare. Sherwood's core brands of Monoject(R) syringes
and Kangaroo(R) feeding pumps are well known throughout the industry.
 

 
     Kendall Healthcare has also become an industry leader in the adult
incontinence market serving the acute care, long-term care and retail markets.
It offers a complete line of disposable adult briefs, underpads, baby diapers
and other related products. The Confab retail unit markets incontinence and
feminine care products through food and drug chains throughout the United States
and Canada.
 
     Kendall Healthcare's Ludlow Technical Products segment manufactures and
sells a variety of disposable medical products, specialized paper and film
products. These products include medical electrodes and gels for monitoring and
diagnostic tests and hydrogel wound care products and are used primarily in
critical care, physical therapy and rehabilitative departments in hospitals.
Also, this segment produces adhesive tapes used for business forms and in
printing applications, high quality facsimile paper and recording chart papers
for medical and industrial instrumentation.
 
     Kendall Healthcare distributes its products through its own sales force and
through a network of more than 250 independent distributors. Kendall
Healthcare's sales force is divided into five groups: vascular, medical
surgical, alternate site, critical care (Ludlow) and retail (Confab). Most of
the distributors in the United States also sell similar products made by
Kendall's competitors, a practice common in the industry.
 
     Kendall International is responsible for the manufacturing, marketing,
distribution and export of Kendall products worldwide. Kendall International
markets directly to hospitals and medical professionals, as well as through
independent distributors. Its operations are organized primarily into three
geographic regions: Europe, Latin America and the Far East. The range of
products marketed is similar to that of Kendall Healthcare, although the mix of
product lines varies from country to country.
 
     On October 1, 1998, a subsidiary of the Company merged with United States
Surgical Corporation ("USSC"). USSC develops, manufactures and markets a line of
surgical wound closure products and advanced surgical products to hospitals
throughout the world. These products include external surgical staplers,
laparoscopic stapling products and needles and sutures. USSC also manufactures
and distributes other specialized surgical products including spinal cages,
stents, cardiovascular radiation therapy, urology, and breastcare. During 1998,
USSC had previously acquired Valleylab, a division of Pfizer Inc. and a leading
manufacturer of electrosurgical and ultrasound surgical products. In addition,
on November 2, 1998, the Company announced the completion of its acquisition of
Graphic Controls Corporation. Graphic Controls, a leading designer,
manufacturer, marketer and distributor of disposable medical products, will be
integrated with Ludlow Technical Products. See Note 25 to Consolidated Financial
Statements for further discussion.
 
  ADT Automotive
 
     ADT Automotive operates a network of 28 large modern auction centers in the
United States, providing an organized wholesale marketplace for the sale and
purchase of used vehicles. A substantial majority of the vehicles sold at ADT
Automotive auctions are passenger cars and light trucks. Other vehicles sold
consist of heavy trucks and industrial vehicles. Sales of vehicles from specific
market sources are held on a regularly scheduled basis and additional
specialized sales are scheduled as necessary. ADT Automotive operates almost
exclusively in the wholesale marketplace and, in general, the public is not
permitted to attend its auctions. It acts solely as an agent in auction
transactions and does not purchase vehicles for its own account.
 
     The principal sources of vehicles for sale at auction are consignments by
new and used vehicle dealers, vehicle manufacturers, corporate owners of
vehicles such as fleet operators, rental companies, leasing companies, banks and
other financial institutions, manufacturers' credit subsidiaries and government
agencies. The vehicles consigned by dealers consist of vehicles of all types and
ages and include vehicles that have been traded in against new car sales.
Vehicles consigned by corporate and financial owners include both repossessed
and off-lease vehicles and, as a result, are normally in the range of one to
four years old. The principal purchasers of vehicles at auction are new and used
vehicle dealers and distributors.
 
     In addition to the sale process, ADT Automotive provides a comprehensive
range of vehicle redistribution services, including transportation,
reconditioning, title transfer assistance, vehicle repossession and fleet
management services. Vehicle reconditioning is carried out on-site and
principally consists of appearance reconditioning and paint and body work to
bring vehicles up to retail ready condition. More extensive body
 

 
work services, including body panel painting and repair of minor collision
damage, are also carried out. Reconditioning services are also provided for
vehicles other than those going through the auction process, principally for
fleet owners and insurance companies.
 
     ADT Automotive competes with two other significant auction chains and a
large number of independently owned local auctions, which are members of the
National Auto Auction Association. Competition is based primarily on price in
relation to the quality and range of services offered to sellers and buyers of
vehicles and ease of accessibility of auction locations. Relative to the size of
Tyco's other businesses, ADT Automotive does not qualify as a seperately
identifiable segment under external accounting and reporting rules. As such, it
is most appropriately grouped with the Company's other "specialty products"
businesses for purposes of segment reporting.
 
  Tyco Plastics and Adhesives
 
     Tyco Plastics and Adhesives consists of Armin Plastics, Carlisle Plastics,
A&E Products, Tyco Adhesives and Ludlow Coated Products.
 
  Armin Plastics
 
     Armin manufactures polyethylene film and packaging products in a wide range
of size, gauge, construction strength, stretch capacity, clarity and color.
Armin extrudes low density, high density and linear low density polyethylene
film from resin purchased in pellet form, incorporating such additives as
coloring, slip and anti-block chemicals. Armin's products include plastic
supermarket packaging, greenhouse sheeting, shipping covers and liners and a
variety of other packaging configurations for the aerospace, agricultural,
automotive, construction, cosmetics, electronics, food processing, healthcare,
pharmaceutical and shipping industries. Armin also manufactures a number of
other polyethylene products such as reusable plastic pallets, transformer pads
for electric utilities and a large variety of disposable gloves for the
cosmetic, medical, food handling and pharmaceutical industries. Armin generates
the majority of its sales through its own internal sales force and services more
than 6,000 customers in the United States.
 
     Armin competes with a wide range of manufacturers, including some
vertically integrated companies and companies that manufacture polyethylene
resins for their own use. Armin competes in many market segments by emphasizing
product innovation, specialization and customer service.
 
  Carlisle Plastics
 
     Carlisle is a leading producer of industrial and consumer plastic products,
including trash bags, flexible packaging and sheeting. Carlisle supplies plastic
trash bags to mass merchants, grocery chains, and institutional customers
primarily in North America. Carlisle manufactures Ruffies(R), a national brand
consumer trash bag, for mass merchants and other retail stores. Carlisle also
provides heavy duty trash can liners for institutional customers, such as food
service distributors, janitorial supply houses, restaurants, hotels and
hospitals.
 
     In the consumer trash bag market, Carlisle competes primarily with two
nationally advertised brands. Carlisle has historically concentrated on mass
merchants as the primary market for its branded Ruffies(R) trash bags, while the
other major national brands are marketed primarily through food retailers.
 
     Film-Gard(R), Carlisle's leading plastic sheeting product, is sold to
consumers and professional contractors through do-it-yourself outlets, home
improvement centers and hardware stores. A wide range of Film-Gard(R) products
are sold for various uses, including painting, renovation, construction,
landscaping and agriculture.
 
  A&E Products
 
     A&E Products sells molded plastic garment hangers to garment manufacturers,
national, regional and local retailers and mass merchants. Garment manufacturers
put their products on A&E Products hangers before shipping to retail outlets.
National retailers purchase customized hanger designs created and manufactured
by A&E Products. Regional and local retailers buy standard A&E Products hanger
lines for retail clothing displays, and A&E Products also supplies mass
merchants with consumer plastic hangers for sale to the general public.


 
     A&E Products operates in a competitive marketplace where success is
dependent upon price, service and quality.
 
  Tyco Adhesives
 
     The Tyco Adhesives division, formerly known as Kendall-Polyken,
manufactures and markets specialty adhesive products and tapes for industrial
applications, including external corrosion protection tape products for oil, gas
and water pipelines. Other industrial applications include tapes used in the
automotive industry for wire harness wraps, sealing and other purposes, and
tapes used in the aerospace and heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC)
industries. Tyco Adhesives also produces duct, foil, strapping, packaging and
electrical tapes and spray adhesives for industrial and consumer markets
worldwide and manufactures cloth and medical tapes for Kendall Healthcare and
others. Tyco Adhesives' Betham division develops and markets pressure sensitive
adhesives and coatings, principally for the automotive, medical and specialty
markets.
 
     Tyco Adhesives generally markets its pipeline products directly, working
with local manufacturers' representatives, international engineering and
construction companies and the owners and operators of pipeline transportation
facilities. Tyco Adhesives sells its other industrial products either directly
to major end users or through diverse distribution channels, depending upon the
industry being supplied.
 
  Ludlow Coated Products
 
     Ludlow Coated Products produces protective packaging and other materials
made of coated or laminated combinations of paper, polyethylene and foil. Coated
packaging materials provide barriers against grease, oil, light, heat, moisture,
oxygen and other contaminants. The division produces structural coated and
laminated products such as plastic coated kraft, linerboard and bleached boards
for rigid urethane insulation panels, automotive components and wallboard
panels. Other product applications include packaging for photographic film,
frozen foods, health care products, electrical and metallic components,
agricultural chemicals, cement and specialty resins.
 
     Ludlow markets its laminated and coated products through its own sales
force and through independent manufacturers' representatives. Ludlow competes
with many large manufacturers of laminated and coated products on the basis of
price, service, marketing coverage and custom application engineering. There are
various specialized competitors in different markets.
 
II.  FIRE AND SECURITY SERVICES
 
     The Company, through its subsidiaries, is the largest company in the world
for the design, manufacture, installation and service of fire detection,
suppression and sprinkler systems and is the largest provider of electronic
security services in the world.
 
  Fire Protection Contracting and Services
 
     Operating under several trade names including Grinnell, Wormald, Mather &
Platt, Total Walther, O'Donnell Griffin and Tyco, the Company designs,
fabricates, installs and services automatic fire sprinkler systems, fire alarm
and detection systems and special hazard suppression systems in buildings and
other installations.
 
     The Company's fire protection contracting and services business operates
through a network of offices in the United States, Canada, Mexico, Central
America, Puerto Rico, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Saudi Arabia,
United Arab Emirates, Australia, New Zealand, Asia and South America.
 
     The Company installs fire protection systems in both new and existing
structures. Typically, the contracting businesses bid on contracts for fire
protection installation which are let by owners, architects, construction
engineers and mechanical or general contractors. In recent years, the business
of retrofitting existing buildings has grown as a result of legislation
mandating the installation of fire protection systems and also as a result of
lower insurance premiums available for structures with automatic sprinkler
systems.
 

 
     The majority of the fire suppression systems installed by the Company are
water-based. However, the Company is also the world's leading provider of custom
designed special hazard fire protection systems which incorporate various
specialized non-water agents such as foams, dry chemicals and gases. Systems
using agents other than water are especially suited to fire protection in
certain manufacturing, power generation, petrochemical, offshore oil
exploration, transportation, telecommunications, mining and marine applications.
The Company holds exclusive manufacturing and distribution rights in several
regions of the world for INERGEN(R) fire suppression products. INERGEN(R) is an
alternative to the ozone depleting agent known as halon and consists of a
mixture of three inert gases designed to effectively extinguish fires without
polluting the environment, damaging costly equipment or harming people.
 
     In Australia, New Zealand and Asia, the Company also engages in the
installation of electrical wire and related electrical equipment in new and
existing structures and provides specialized electrical contracting services,
including applications for railroad and bridge construction, primarily through
its O'Donnell Griffin division.
 
     Substantially all of the mechanical components (and, in North America, a
high proportion of the pipe) used in the fire protection systems installed by
the Company are manufactured by the Company. The Company also has fabrication
plants worldwide that cut, thread and weld pipe, which is then shipped with
other prefabricated components to job sites for installation. The Company has
developed its own computer-aided-design technology that reduces the time
required to design systems for specific applications and coordinates the
fabrication and delivery of system components.
 
     The Company's fire protection contracting business employs both non-union
and union employees in North America, Europe and Asia-Pacific. Many of the union
employees are employed on an hourly basis for particular jobs. In North America,
the largest number of union employees is represented by a number of local unions
affiliated with the United Association of Plumbers and Pipefitters ("UA"). In
April 1994, following lengthy negotiations, contracts between the Company's
Grinnell Corporation ("Grinnell") subsidiary and a number of locals of the UA
were not renewed. Employees in those locations, representing 64 percent of those
employees represented by the UA unions, went on strike. Grinnell has continued
to operate with former union members who have crossed over and with replacement
workers. The labor action has not had, and is not expected to have, any material
adverse effect on the Company's business or results of operations.
 
     Generally, competition in the fire protection business varies by geographic
location. In North America, the Company competes with hundreds of smaller
contractors on a regional or local basis for the installation of fire
suppression and fire alarm and detection systems. Many of the regional and local
competitors employ non-union labor. In Europe, the Company competes with many
regional or local contractors on a country by country basis. In Australia, New
Zealand and Asia, the Company competes with a few large fire protection
contractors as well as with many smaller regional or local companies. The
Company competes for fire protection contracts primarily on the basis of price,
service and quality.
 
  Electronic Security Services
 
     The Company provides electronic security services principally under the ADT
trade name and also under other trade names including Modern, Thorn Security,
Holmes Protection, CIPE, Zettler, Sonitrol, Securesys, Securiville and
Armourguard Security. Security services are provided in the United States,
Canada, the United Kingdom, Spain, France, Belgium, Greece, The Netherlands,
Germany, The Republic of Ireland, Malaysia, Singapore, Hong Kong, New Zealand
and Australia.
 
     Electronically monitored security systems involve the installation and use
on a customer's premises of devices designed to detect or react to various
occurrences or conditions, such as intrusion, movement, fire, smoke, flooding,
environmental conditions (including temperature or humidity variations),
industrial operations (such as water, gas or steam pressure and process flow
controls) or other hazards. These detection devices are connected to a
microprocessor-based control panel which communicates through telephone lines to
a monitoring center, often located at remote distances from the customer's
premises, where alarm and supervisory signals are received and recorded. In most
systems, control panels can identify the nature of the alarm and the areas
within a building where the sensor was activated. Depending upon the type of
service for


 
which the subscriber has contracted, monitoring center personnel respond to
alarms by relaying appropriate information to the local fire or police
departments, notifying the customer or taking other appropriate action, such as
dispatching employees to the customer's premises. In some instances, the
customer may monitor the system at its own premises or the system may be
connected to local fire or police departments.
 
     The Company provides electronic security services to both commercial and
residential customers. Commercial customers include financial institutions,
industrial and commercial businesses, facilities of federal, state and local
government departments, defense installations, and health care and educational
facilities. Residential electronic security services are provided primarily in
North America. Customers are often prompted to install security systems by their
insurance carriers, which may offer lower insurance premium rates if a security
system is installed or require that a system be installed as a condition to
coverage.
 
     The Company's systems and products are tailored to customers' specific
needs and include electronic monitoring services that provide intrusion and fire
detection, as well as card or keypad activated access control systems and closed
circuit television systems. Systems may be monitored by the customer at its
premises or connected to one of the Company's monitoring centers. In either
case, the Company usually provides support and maintenance through service
contracts. It has been the Company's experience that commercial and residential
contracts are generally renewed after their initial terms. Contract
discontinuances occur principally as a result of customer relocation or closure.
Systems installed at commercial customers' premises may be owned by the Company
or by the customer. The Company usually retains ownership of standard
residential systems, but more sophisticated residential systems are usually
purchased by the customer.
 
     The Company markets its electronic security services to commercial and
residential customers through a direct sales force and an authorized dealer
network. Commercial customers which have multiple locations in North America are
serviced by a separate national accounts sales force. The Company also utilizes
advertising, telemarketing and direct mail to market its services.
 
     The electronic security services business in North America is highly
competitive, with a number of major firms and approximately 12,000 smaller
regional and local companies. The Company also competes with several national
companies and several thousand regional and local companies in the United
Kingdom, continental Europe, Asia, New Zealand and Australia. Competition is
based primarily on price in relation to quality of service. The Company believes
that the quality of its services is higher than that of many of its competitors
and, therefore, the Company's prices may be higher than those charged by its
competitors.
 
  Manufacturing
 
     The Company manufactures most of the components which are used in its own
fire protection contracting business, as well as a variety of products for sale
to other fire protection contractors. In North America, the Company manufactures
pipe and pipe fittings, fire hydrants, sprinkler heads and substantially all of
the mechanical sprinkler components used in automatic fire suppression systems.
In the United Kingdom, France, Germany and the Asia-Pacific region, the Company
manufactures and sells sprinkler heads, specialty valves, fire doors and
electronic panels for use in fire detection systems. In Mexico, the Company
manufactures fire extinguishers, fire hose and related equipment.
 
     The Company's Ansul subsidiary manufactures and sells various lines of dry
chemical, liquid and gaseous portable fire extinguishers and related agents for
industrial, government, commercial and consumer applications. Ansul also
manufactures and sells special hazard fire suppression systems designed for use
in restaurants, marine applications, mining applications, the petrochemical
industry, confined industrial spaces and commercial spaces housing electronic
and other delicate equipment. Ansul also manufactures spill control products
designed to absorb, neutralize and solidify spills of various hazardous
materials.
 
     Thorn Security manufactures certain alarm, detection and activation devices
and central monitoring station equipment which is both installed by the
Company's own units and sold to other installers of alarm and detection devices.
Otherwise, the Company does not manufacture the electronic security system
components which it installs, although it does provide its own specifications to
manufacturers for certain security system components and undertakes some final
assembly work in respect of more sophisticated systems.
 

 
     Fire protection products are sold through the Company's flow control
products distribution network, discussed under "Flow Control Products" below,
and through independent distributors.
 
III.  FLOW CONTROL PRODUCTS
 
     The Company, through its subsidiaries, manufactures and distributes flow
control products in North America, Latin America, Europe, Asia and the Pacific
region. Flow control products include pipe, fittings, valves, meters and related
products which are used to transport, control and measure the flow of liquids
and gases. The principal subsidiaries in the Flow Control Products group are
Grinnell Corporation ("Grinnell"), Allied Tube & Conduit ("Allied"), Mueller Co.
("Mueller") and Keystone International ("Keystone"), as well as a number of
other specialized manufacturers of valves, fittings and couplings. The group
also includes Earth Technology Corporation ("Earth Tech"), which provides a
broad range of environmental, consulting and engineering services.
 
  Manufacturing
 
     The Company manufactures and distributes a wide range of flow control
products, including pipe and pipe fittings, tubing, valves, meters, couplings,
pipe hangers, strut and related components. These products are used in plumbing,
heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) systems, mechanical
contracting, power generation, food and beverage products, water and gas
utilities, wastewater treatment, oil and gas exploration, pulp and paper,
petrochemical and numerous other industrial applications. The Company also
manufactures certain related products such as steel tubing, custom iron
castings, malleable iron pipe fittings and fencing materials.
 
     Allied is the leading North American manufacturer of pipe and other tubular
products. Allied manufactures a full line of steel pipe for the fire protection
and construction industries and for commercial, residential and institutional
markets. Its mechanical tube division offers steel tubing in a wide assortment
of shapes and sizes for a variety of industrial and commercial applications.
Allied's fence division is a leader in the manufacture of products for the
residential, industrial and commercial fence markets. Allied also manufactures
metal framing systems used in the construction, industrial and original
equipment manufacturer markets. In November 1996, the Company acquired Unistrut
Europe, a manufacturer and distributor of metal framing, cable ladder and safety
systems and, in January 1997, acquired American Tube and Pipe Co., Inc., a
manufacturer and distributor of steel pipe for the fire protection and fence
markets and steel products for the housing market.
 
     Mueller, a manufacturer of water and gas distribution products,
manufactures fire hydrants, iron butterfly and gate valves, service-line brass
valves and fittings, gas valves and meter bars, water meters, backflow
preventers and related products for sale to independent distributors and, to a
lesser extent, directly to waterworks contractors, municipalities and gas
companies throughout the United States and Canada.
 
     Keystone, one of the world's leading manufacturers of valves and flow
control products, operates on a worldwide basis through two groups, Industrial
Valves and Controls and Engineered Products, manufacturing valves and other
industrial products that control the flow of liquids, gases and fibrous and
slurry materials.
 
     The Flow Control Products group, operating under several trade names
including Grinnell, Mueller, Hersey, Keystone, Anderson-Greenwood, Yarway,
Crosby Valve, Gimpel, Henry Pratt Co., James Jones Company, Edward Barber & Co.,
Neotecha, Belgicast, Hindle Cockburns, Charles Winn (Valves) Ltd., Sempell,
Smith Valve, Anvil, Canvil, Unistrut, T.J. Cope, and others, supplies a wide
range of valves and flow control devices to the chemical, power, food and
beverage, oil and gas, processing, water utility, wastewater treatment, power
generation and other industries. Products are manufactured and assembled at
facilities in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, France, Italy,
Spain, Germany, The Netherlands, Switzerland, South Korea, China, India,
Malaysia, Australia, New Zealand, Mexico, Brazil and Argentina.
 

 
  Distribution
 
     The Company's Grinnell subsidiary sells flow control and fire protection
products in North America through a distribution network of five regional
distribution centers, strategically located in Georgia, Illinois, California,
Pennsylvania and Texas, that support local branches' product needs and ship
directly to customers. Each center stocks more than 8,500 products. The
Company's worldwide flow control operations stock and sell products through
distribution centers in Europe, Australia, New Zealand, the Middle East and
Asia. In Europe, the Company distributes fire protection products, industrial
valves and products for mechanical markets through warehouses located in The
Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Italy, Spain and Scandinavia.
Products are sold principally to fire protection contractors and in some
instances to mechanical and industrial contractors and original equipment
manufacturers. In Asia, the Pacific region and the Middle East, the Company
distributes fire protection and flow control products through warehouses located
in Australia, New Zealand, Dubai and Singapore. Products are sold directly to
fire protection and other contractors as well as to mechanical and industrial
contractors and independent distributors. While distribution patterns vary, most
centers stock an extensive line of valves, fittings, pipe and other products for
fire protection systems, components for HVAC installations and water and gas
distribution and specialized valves and piping for the chemical, food, power and
beverage processing industries.
 
     Grinnell's North American distribution network competes with independent
manufacturers' representatives and other manufacturers and, to a lesser extent,
with local and regional supply houses all of which carry lines from other United
States and non-United States manufacturers. Grinnell competes on the basis of
price, the breadth of its product line, service and quality. Grinnell competes
for the sale of gray iron pipe fittings, malleable and ductile iron fittings and
other flow control products and fire protection sprinklers and devices
principally with other United States producers as well as with non-United States
manufacturers of fittings. Grinnell uses an internal sales force for the sale of
certain other iron castings sold directly to original equipment manufacturers
and other end users.
 
     Allied competes for the sale of steel pipe, some of which is sold through
Grinnell's distribution network, with pipe from other United States and
non-United States producers. Competition for the sale of pipe is based on price,
service and breadth of product line. Fence and other specialized industrial
tubing is sold to wholesalers, original equipment manufacturers and other
distributors. Competition for the sale of fence products is principally from
national and regional United States producers and, to a lesser extent, from non-
United States companies, on the basis of price, service and distribution. Allied
competes with many small regional manufacturers for sales of specialized
industrial tubing on the basis of price and breadth of product line.
 
     Mueller's water and natural gas distribution flow control products are sold
through independent distributors and, to a lesser extent, directly to utilities,
municipalities and gas distribution companies. Certain of its gas distribution
products are also sold through the Grinnell distribution network. Mueller
competes for the sale of these products on the basis of product quality,
service, price, breadth of product line and conformity with municipal codes and
other engineering standards. Mueller competes with several other manufacturers
in the United States and Canada for the sale of iron and brass flow control
devices for water and natural gas distribution systems.
 
     Keystone's products are sold both in the United States and internationally.
Keystone has numerous competitors in these markets, which, in some instances,
are divisions of larger corporations and, in some instances, are companies with
limited product lines. Advanced technology, global presence, experienced
personnel and price are the primary factors in competition.
 
  Environmental Services
 
     Through its Earth Tech subsidiary, the Company provides a broad range of
environmental, consulting and engineering services. Earth Tech's principal
services consist of full-spectrum environmental and hazardous waste management
services. These include contract operations and management services for water
and wastewater treatment facilities operated by municipal and industrial
clients, infrastructure design and
 

 
construction services and facilities engineering and construction management
services for institutional, civic, commercial and industrial clients.
 
     Earth Tech has a network of offices located throughout North America. It
competes with a number of national, regional and local companies on the basis of
price and breadth and quality of services.
 
IV.  ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS
 
     The Electrical and Electronic Components group consists of Tyco Submarine
Systems Ltd. ("TSSL"), Allied's Electrical Conduit division and the Tyco Printed
Circuit Group ("TPCG"). TSSL designs, manufactures, installs and services
undersea communications cable systems. Allied's Electrical Conduit division
manufactures and distributes electrical conduit and related components used in
commercial electrical installations. TPCG manufactures printed circuit boards
and assembles backplanes for the electronics industry.
 
  Tyco Submarine Systems Ltd.
 
     TSSL, which includes the Company's Simplex Technologies business and the
submarine systems business acquired from AT&T Corp. in July 1997, is the world's
only fully-integrated source for the design, engineering, manufacturing,
installation and servicing of undersea cable communication systems. TSSL designs
and builds both repeatered and non-repeatered cable systems. Repeatered cable
systems, which use Wave Division Multiplexing, can provide 20 gigabytes per
second of capacity over 10,000 kilometers. Non-repeatered systems, which allow
for even greater circuit capacity and reduced transmission costs, support short
haul systems of several hundred kilometers. TSSL has designed, manufactured and
installed approximately 265,000 kilometers of undersea optical cable.
 
     TSSL also operates one of the world's largest fleet of ships designed to
install and service undersea fiber optic transmission systems. These ships lay
cable, perform upgrades and repairs, monitor transmission quality and perform
system tests. TSSL also uses a variety of other undersea tools, including
robotic vehicles for undersea cable burial and retrieval operations.
 
     Simplex Technologies has been the primary supplier of cable and cable
assemblies to the United States Navy for use in data-gathering systems for more
than thirty years. It also manufactures underwater electric power cable and
optical ground wire for use by power authorities and utilities, and
electro-mechanical cable for unique field operations. Through its Rochester
Corporation subsidiary, the Company manufactures wire rope, wirelines,
electro-optical products and subsea products.
 
     TSSL competes on a worldwide basis primarily against two other entities:
Alcatel-Alsthom, headquartered in France, and KDD, located in Japan.
Alcatel-Alsthom, like TSSL, is vertically integrated and produces its own cable,
whereas KDD utilizes a Japanese cable manufacturer.
 
  Allied Electrical Conduit
 
     Allied's Electrical Conduit division is one of the leading producers of
steel electrical conduit in the United States. Electrical conduit is galvanized
steel tubing designed to contain current-carrying electrical wires both inside
and outside building structures. The conduit also serves as an electrical
ground, which ensures proper operation of circuit interrupters, and provides a
channel into which additional wires can be inserted as requirements change. The
division manufactures a full line of electrical conduit as well as metal framing
and other products.
 
     The division's electrical conduit and related products are sold to
wholesale electrical distributors through Allied's distribution facilities by an
internal sales force and a network of commissioned sales agents. The division
competes for the sale of electrical products primarily with several other large
United States manufacturers. Competition in the electrical conduit industry is
primarily based upon price, quality, delivery and breadth of product line.
 

 
  Tyco Printed Circuit Group
 
     TPCG is one of the largest independent manufacturers of complex multi-layer
printed circuit boards and backplane assemblies in the United States. Printed
circuit boards are used in the electronics industry to mount and interconnect
components to create electronic systems. They are categorized by the number of
layers and can be single-sided, double-sided or multi-layer. In general, single
and double-sided boards are less advanced. Multi-layer boards provide greater
interconnection density, while decreasing the number of separate printed circuit
boards that are required to accommodate powerful and sophisticated components.
Backplane assemblies are comprised of printed circuit boards, connectors and
other electronic components, and they serve as an electrical and mechanical
interconnect device.
 
     TPCG manufactures double-sided and multi-layer boards, including highly
sophisticated, precision tooled, custom laminated boards with layer counts up to
68. TPCG also produces sophisticated flexible-rigid circuit boards for use in
commercial, aerospace and military applications. TPCG's backplane facilities
produce soldered, press-fit and surface mount backplane assemblies. In addition,
these facilities also provide turnkey manufacturing services including full "box
build" products. Printed circuit boards and backplane products are manufactured
on a job order basis to the customers' design specifications. The majority of
sales are derived from high-density multi-layer boards.
 
     TPCG markets its products primarily through a direct sales force and, to a
lesser extent, through a network of independent manufacturers' representatives.
Customers are original equipment manufacturers and contract manufacturers in the
communications, computer, aircraft, military and other industrial and consumer
electronics industries. The Company competes with several other large
independent and captive companies that manufacture printed circuit board
products primarily in the United States. Competition is on the basis of quality,
reliability, price and timeliness of delivery. The Company believes that fewer
competitors manufacture the more complex, high-density multi-layer printed
circuit board products.
 
  Subsequent Event
 
     Subsequent to year end, an indirect subsidiary of the Company entered into
a definitive merger agreement for the acquisition of AMP Incorporated ("AMP"),
which is the world's leading manufacturer of electrical, electronic, fiber-optic
and wireless interconnective devices and systems. Its products have uses
wherever an electronic, electrical, computer or telecommunication system is
involved. AMP, with annual revenues of approximately $5.5 billion, sells to
customers in the consumer and industrial, communications, automotive, computer
and power industries. The merger is subject to the approval of AMP's
shareholders, approval by the Company's shareholders of the issuance of Tyco
common shares in connection with the merger and customary regulatory approvals.
See Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.
 
BACKLOG
 
     At September 30, 1998, the Company had a backlog of unfilled orders of
approximately $4.1 billion, compared to a backlog of approximately $2.4 billion
at September 30, 1997. The Company expects that approximately 73 percent of its
backlog at September 30, 1998 will be filled during the year ending September
30, 1999.
 
     Backlog by industry segment is as follows (in millions of dollars):
 

 
     The increase in backlog within the Fire and Security Services group is
primarily due to an increase in backlog at the Company's worldwide security and
North American fire protection businesses. Within the Flow
 

 
Control Products group, the increase is principally due to an increase in
backlog at Earth Tech, including backlog related to acquisitions, and in the
Company's European flow control operations. Within the Electrical and Electronic
Components group, the increase is principally due to contracts awarded to TSSL.
 
PROPERTIES
 
     The Company's operations are conducted in facilities throughout the world
aggregating some 39.5 million square feet of floor space, of which approximately
22.0 million square feet are owned and approximately 17.5 million square feet
are leased. These facilities house manufacturing and warehousing operations as
well as sales, engineering and administrative offices.
 
     Within the Fire and Security Services group, the fire protection
contracting and services business operates through a network of offices located
in North America, South America, Europe, Australia, New Zealand, the Middle East
and Asia. Fire protection components are manufactured at locations in North
America, the United Kingdom, Germany, Australia, New Zealand and Malaysia. The
electronic security services business operates through a network of monitoring
centers and sales and service offices and other properties in North America,
Europe, Australia, New Zealand, Argentina, Chile, Hong Kong, China and Malaysia.
The group occupies some 7.7 million square feet, of which 2.3 million square
feet are owned and 5.4 million square feet are leased.
 
     The Disposable and Specialty Products group has manufacturing facilities in
North America, the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Spain, China, Thailand and
Malaysia. There are 28 vehicle auction facilities located in the United States.
The group occupies some 13.3 million square feet, of which 10.4 million square
feet are owned and 2.9 million square feet are leased.
 
     The Flow Control Products group has manufacturing facilities in North
America, the United Kingdom, Germany, Switzerland, France, Spain, Scotland, The
Netherlands, Italy, China, Malaysia, Australia, Brazil, Argentina, and Mexico.
Products are distributed in North America through a branch distribution network
and through five regional distribution centers. The group also stocks and sells
products through warehouse and distribution centers in The Netherlands, the
United Kingdom, Germany, France, Spain, Italy, Scandinavia, Australia, New
Zealand, Singapore and the Middle East. The environmental services business
operates through a network of offices throughout North America. The group
occupies some 15.5 million square feet, of which 7.4 million square feet are
owned and 8.1 million square feet are leased.
 
     All of the Electrical and Electronic Components group manufacturing
locations are in the United States. The group occupies some 2.9 million square
feet, of which 1.8 million square feet are owned and 1.1 million square feet are
leased.
 
     In the opinion of management, the Company's properties and equipment
generally are in good operating condition and are adequate for its present
needs. The Company does not anticipate difficulty in renewing existing leases as
they expire or in finding alternative facilities. See Note 16 to Consolidated
Financial Statements for a description of the Company's rental obligations.
 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
 
     The amounts expended for Company-sponsored research and development during
Fiscal 1998, Fiscal 1997 and 1996 were $93.3 million, $45.0 million and $39.8
million, respectively. The increase in Fiscal 1998 is principally due to the
inclusion of TSSL, which was acquired in July 1997, as well as the inclusion of
Sherwood acquired in 1998. Customer-funded research and development expenditures
were $3.7 million, $0.5 million and $0.6 million, respectively.
 
     Approximately 678 full-time scientists, engineers and other technical
personnel are engaged in product research and development activities.
 
     Research activity at TSSL involves the continuing design and development of
processes for the next generation of undersea fiber optic cable, while Allied
and the printed circuit companies are principally involved with process
development. Kendall focuses on acquiring rights to new products and
technologies to complement existing product lines and applying expertise to
refine and successfully commercialize such


 
products and technologies. Research activity in fire and security services and
flow control products is related to improvements in hydraulic design which
controls the motion of fluids, resulting in new sprinkler devices and flow
control products. Research and development activity at the specialty packaging
companies involves new product applications.
 
RAW MATERIALS
 
     The Company is one of the largest buyers of steel and of plastic resin in
the United States. Other principal materials include scrap iron of various types
and grades, copper, brass, plastic, polyethylene resin and film, polypropylene,
electronic components, chemicals and additives, thin and flexible copper clad
materials, paper, ink, foil, adhesives, cloth, wax, pulp and cotton. Certain of
the materials used in the Fire and Security Services group and the Flow Control
Products group, principally certain valves and fittings and security systems,
are purchased for installation in fire protection systems or for distribution.
Materials are purchased both in and outside of the United States from a large
number of independent sources. There have been no shortages in materials which
have had a material adverse effect on the Company's businesses.
 
PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS
 
     The Company owns a number of patents which principally relate to healthcare
and specialty products, fire protection devices, electronic security systems,
flow control products, pipe and tubing manufacture, and cable manufacture. The
Company also owns a number of trademarks and is a licensee under a number of
patents. Although these have been of value and are expected to continue to be of
value in the future, in the opinion of management, the loss of any single patent
or group of patents would not materially affect the conduct of the business in
any of the Company's segments. The patents and licenses have remaining lives of
from two to twenty years. Kendall sells certain products under trade names owned
by its suppliers and packages certain products under customer trademarks and
labels.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
     The Company employed approximately 87,000 persons at September 30, 1998, of
which approximately 50,700 are employed in the United States and 36,300 outside
the United States. The Company has collective bargaining agreements with labor
unions covering approximately 18,100 employees at certain of its North American,
European and Asia-Pacific businesses. While the Company believes that its
relations with the labor unions and with its employees are generally
satisfactory, a number of local unions affiliated with the United Association of
Plumbers and Pipefitters, representing 64 percent of Grinnell Fire Protection's
North American union employees, are on strike. See discussion under "Fire and
Security Services" above.
 
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
 
     The Company makes a substantial effort to operate its facilities in
compliance with laws relating to the protection of the environment. Compliance
has not had and is not expected to have a material adverse effect upon the
capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position of the Company.
 
     The Company believes that, consistent with applicable laws and regulations,
it exercises due care and takes appropriate precautions in the management of
wastes. The Company has received notification from the United States
Environmental Protection Agency, and from certain state environmental agencies,
that conditions at a number of sites where hazardous wastes were disposed of by
the Company and other persons require cleanup and other possible remedial
action.
 
     The Company also has a number of projects underway at several of its
manufacturing facilities in order to comply with environmental laws. These
projects relate to a variety of activities, including solvent and metal
contamination clean up and oil spill equipment upgrades and replacement. Some of
the projects are voluntary while others are required under applicable law. The
projects involve both remediation expenses and capital improvements. In
addition, the Company remains responsible for certain environmental issues at
manufacturing locations sold by the Company.
 

 
     The ultimate cost of site cleanup is difficult to predict given the
uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation
of applicable laws and regulations and alternative cleanup methods. Based upon
the Company's experience with the foregoing environmental matters, the Company
has concluded that there is at least a reasonable possibility that remedial
costs will be incurred with respect to these issues in an aggregate amount in
the range of $16.5 million to $44.6 million. As of September 30, 1998, the
Company has concluded that the most probable amount which will be incurred
within this range is $21.0 million and such amount is included in the caption
"accrued expenses and other current liabilities" in the accompanying
Consolidated Balance Sheet. Based upon information available to the Company, at
those sites where there has been an allocation of the liability for cleanup
costs among a number of parties, including the Company, and such liability could
be joint and several, management believes it is probable that other responsible
parties will fully pay the cost allocated to them, except with respect to one
site for which the Company has assumed that one of the identified responsible
parties will be unable to pay the cost apportioned to it and that such party's
cost will be reapportioned among the remaining responsible parties. In view of
the Company's financial position and reserves for environmental matters of $21.0
million, the Company has concluded that its payment of such estimated amounts
will not have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial position,
results of operations or liquidity.
 
ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES
 
     See Item 1. "Business -- Properties" for information relating to the
Company's owned and leased property.
 
ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
     There are no material pending legal proceedings.
 
     See also the discussions under Item 1. "Business -- Environmental Matters".
 
ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
     Not applicable.
 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
     In July 1997, a wholly-owned subsidiary of what was formerly called ADT
Limited ("ADT") merged with Tyco International Ltd ("Former Tyco"). Upon
consummation of the merger, ADT (the surviving public company) changed its name
to Tyco International Ltd. Former Tyco became a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
Company and changed its name to Tyco International (US) Inc. ("Tyco US").
 
     The executive officers of the Company and executive officers of certain
subsidiaries are as follows:
 
     L. Dennis Kozlowski, age 52, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive
Officer since July 1997. Chairman of the Board of Former Tyco from January 1993
to July 1997; Chief Executive Officer of Former Tyco since July 1992, President
of Former Tyco since December 1989, and Chief Operating Officer of Former Tyco
from 1989 to 1992; President of Grinnell since 1984; President of Ludlow
Corporation from 1981 to 1984; associated with Former Tyco since 1975.
 
     Mark A. Belnick, age 52, Executive Vice President and Chief Corporate
Counsel since September 1998. Prior to joining Tyco, Mr. Belnick was a Senior
Partner at the international law firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton &
Garrison since 1987.
 
     Jerry R. Boggess, age 54, President of Tyco Fire and Security Services
since August 1993. Vice President of Former Tyco since February 1996; Executive
Vice President of Grinnell from 1989 to 1993; associated with Former Tyco since
1968.
 
     Neil R. Garvey, age 43, President of Tyco Submarine Systems Ltd. since July
1997. President of Simplex Technologies from July 1995 to June 1997; Vice
President of Sales and Marketing of Simplex Technologies from June 1992 to July
1995; associated with Former Tyco since 1979.
 

 
     Richard A. Gilleland, age 54, President of Tyco Healthcare Group since
October 1998. Director of the Company since July 1997; Director of Former Tyco
from 1994 to November 1997. Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of
Physician's Resource Group, Inc. from December 1997 to September 1998; President
and Chief Executive Officer of AMSCO International, Inc. from July 1995 to July
1996; Senior Vice President of Former Tyco from October 1994 to July 1995;
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of The Kendall Company from July
1990 to July 1995.
 
     Robert P. Mead, age 47, President of the Flow Control Products group since
May 1993. Vice President of Former Tyco since August 1993; Executive Vice
President of Allied Tube and Conduit Corp. from July 1992 to May 1993; Managing
Director of Asia-Pacific region from April 1991 to July 1992; Executive Vice
President -- Manufacturing Division of Grinnell from January 1989 to April 1991;
Vice President -- Finance of Grinnell from February 1985 to January 1989;
associated with Former Tyco since 1973.
 
     Mark H. Swartz, age 38, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer since July 1997. Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Former
Tyco since February 1995; Director of Mergers and Acquisitions of Former Tyco
from 1993 to 1995; associated with Former Tyco since 1991.
 

 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON SHARES AND RELATED SECURITY HOLDER
MATTERS
 
     The approximate number of registered holders of the Company's common shares
at November 18, 1998 was 40,400.
 
     Tyco common shares are listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange
("NYSE"), the London Stock Exchange and the Bermuda Stock Exchange. The
following table sets forth the high and low sales prices per share of Tyco
common shares as reported in the NYSE Composite Transaction Tape, and the
dividends paid on such Tyco common shares, for the quarterly periods presented
below. The price for Tyco common shares have been restated to reflect the
0.48133 reverse stock split related to the merger between ADT and Former Tyco in
July 1997. In addition, the price and dividends for Tyco common shares have been
restated to reflect a two-for-one stock split effected in the form of a stock
dividend which was distributed on October 22, 1997. The prices per Tyco common
shares listed in the table for periods prior to the merger of ADT and Former
Tyco on July 2, 1997 are for common shares of ADT.
 

 
- ---------------
(1) Fiscal 1997 represents the transitional nine month fiscal year ended
    September 30, 1997.
 
(2) Tyco declared aggregate dividends of $ 0.10 per common share in Fiscal 1998
    and $0.025 per common share in the third quarter of Fiscal 1997. Prior to
    the merger with Former Tyco, ADT had not declared any dividends on its
    common shares since April 1991. Former Tyco declared quarterly dividends of
    $0.025 per common share in the first two quarters of Fiscal 1997. The
    payment of dividends by Tyco in the future will depend on business
    conditions, Tyco's financial condition and earnings and other factors.
 

 
ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
     The following table sets forth selected consolidated financial information
of the Company for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1998, the nine month
fiscal period ended September 30, 1997 and the three years in the period ended
December 31, 1996. This selected financial information should be read in
conjunction with the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements and related
notes. The selected financial data reflect the combined results of operations
and financial position of Tyco International Ltd., Former Tyco and Keystone
restated for all periods presented pursuant to the pooling of interests method
of accounting. The selected financial data prior to January 1, 1997 do not
reflect the results of operations and financial position of INBRAND, which was
acquired in 1997 and accounted for under the pooling of interests method of
accounting, due to immateriality. The combinations are collectively referred to
as the "Mergers". See Notes 1 and 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 

 
- ---------------
(1) In September 1997, the Company changed its fiscal year end from December 31
    to September 30. Accordingly, the nine month transition period ended
    September 30, 1997 is presented.
 
(2) Operating loss in Fiscal 1997 includes charges related to merger,
    restructuring and other non-recurring costs of $917.8 million and impairment
    of long-lived assets of $148.4 million primarily related to the Mergers and
    integration of ADT, Former Tyco, Keystone, and INBRAND. See Notes 11 and 15
    to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Fiscal 1997 also includes a charge
    of $361.0 million for the write-off of purchased in-process research and
    development related to the acquisition of the submarine systems business of
    AT&T Corp.
 
(3) Operating loss in 1996 includes non-recurring charges of $744.7 million
    related to the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
    121 "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed Of",
    $237.3 million related principally to the restructuring of ADT's electronic
    security services business in the United States and United Kingdom and $8.8
    million of fees and expenses related to the ASH merger. See Notes 11 and 15
    to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
(4) Operating income in 1995 includes a loss of $65.8 million on the disposal of
    the European auto auction business and a gain of $31.4 million from the
    disposal of the European electronic article surveillance business. See Note
    3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Operating income also includes
    non-recurring charges of $97.1 million for restructuring charges at ADT and
    at Keystone and for the fees and expenses related to the Kendall merger, as
    well as a charge of $8.2 million relating to the divestiture of certain
    assets by Keystone. See Notes 11 and 15 to Consolidated Financial
    Statements.
 

 
(5) Prior to the mergers in Fiscal 1997, ADT and Keystone had a calendar year
    end and the Former Tyco had a June 30 fiscal year end. The historical
    results have been combined using a calendar year end for ADT, Keystone and
    the Former Tyco for the year ended December 31, 1996. For 1995 and 1994, the
    results of operations and financial position reflect the combination of ADT
    and Keystone with a calendar year end and the Former Tyco with a June 30
    fiscal year end. Net sales and net income for the Former Tyco for the period
    July 1, 1995 through December 31, 1995 (which results are not included in
    the historical combined results) were $2.46 billion and $136.4 million,
    respectively.
 
(6) Per share amounts for all periods presented have been restated to give
    effect to the mergers between ADT, Former Tyco, Keystone and INBRAND in
    Fiscal 1997 (See Notes 1 and 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements),
    including the 0.48133 reverse stock split, and a two-for-one stock split
    distributed on October 22, 1997 effected in the form of a stock dividend.
 
(7) The Company has declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.025 per common
    share since July 1997. Prior to the merger with Former Tyco, ADT had not
    declared any dividends on its common shares since April 1991. Former Tyco
    declared quarterly dividends of $0.025 per share in the first two quarters
    of Fiscal 1997 and in fiscal years 1996, 1995 and 1994. Keystone declared
    quarterly dividends of $0.19 per share in each of the three quarters of
    Fiscal 1997 and in fiscal years 1996, 1995 and 1994. The payment of
    dividends by Tyco in the future will depend on business conditions, Tyco's
    financial condition and earnings and other factors.
 
ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
OPERATING RESULTS
 
     See Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Operating Results which appears on pages 62 to 67 of this Form 10-K.
 
ITEM 7A.  FINANCIAL INSTRUMENT DISCLOSURE
 
     See Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Operating Results which appears on pages 62 to 67 of this Form 10-K.
 
ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
     The following consolidated financial statements and schedules are filed as
part of this Annual Report:
 
     Financial Statements:
 
        Reports of Independent Accountants
 
        Consolidated Balance Sheets -- September 30, 1998 and September 30, 1997
 
        Consolidated Statements of Operations for the fiscal year ended
        September 30, 1998, the nine month fiscal period ended September 30,
        1997 and the year ended December 31, 1996
 
        Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the fiscal year
        ended September 30, 1998, the nine month fiscal period ended September
        30, 1997 and the year ended December 31, 1996
 
        Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the fiscal year ended
        September 30, 1998, the nine month fiscal period ended September 30,
        1997 and the year ended December 31, 1996
 
        Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
     Financial Statement Schedule:
 
        Schedule II -- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
 
     All other financial statements and schedules have been omitted since the
information required to be submitted has been included in the consolidated
financial statements and related notes or because they are either not applicable
or not required under the rules of Regulation S-X.
 
     See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for Summarized Quarterly
Financial Data (unaudited).
 

 
ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
     None.
 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
     Information concerning the Directors of the Registrant is hereby
incorporated by reference to the Registrant's definitive proxy statement or an
Amendment to this Form 10-K which will be filed with the Commission within 120
days after the close of the fiscal year.
 
ITEM 11.  MANAGEMENT REMUNERATION
 
     Information concerning management remuneration is hereby incorporated by
reference to the Registrant's definitive proxy statement or an Amendment to this
Form 10-K which will be filed with the Commission within 120 days after the
close of the fiscal year.
 
ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
     Information concerning security ownership of certain beneficial owners and
management is hereby incorporated by reference to the Registrant's definitive
proxy statement or an Amendment to this Form 10-K which will be filed with the
Commission within 120 days after the close of the fiscal year.
 
ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
     Information concerning certain relationships and related transactions is
hereby incorporated by reference to the Registrant's definitive proxy statement
or an Amendment to this Form 10-K which will be filed with the Commission within
120 days after the close of the fiscal year.
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
     (a) (1) and (2) Financial Statements and Schedules -- see Item 8.
 
     (b) Exhibits
 

 


 

 

 


 
- ---------------
 (1) Incorporated by reference to an Exhibit to the Registrant's Annual Report
     on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992.
 
 (2) Incorporated by reference to an Exhibit to the Registrant's Quarterly
     Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1993.
 
 (3) Incorporated by reference to an Exhibit to the Registrant's Quarterly
     Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1995.
 
 (4) Incorporated by reference to an Exhibit to the Former Tyco's Current Report
     dated March 17, 1997 on Form 8-K filed March 25, 1997.
 
 (5) Incorporated by reference to an Exhibit to the Registrant's Schedule 14D-9
     dated March 3, 1997.
 
 (6) Incorporated by reference to an Exhibit to the Registrant's Current Report
     dated July 2, 1997 on Form 8-K filed July 10, 1997.
 
 (7) Incorporated by reference to an Exhibit to the Registrant's Quarterly
     Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1997.
 
 (8) Incorporated by reference to an Exhibit to the Registrant's Quarterly
     Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 1997.
 
 (9) Incorporated by reference to an Exhibit to the Registrant's Current Report
     dated February 27, 1998 on Form 8-K filed March 11, 1998.
 
(10) Incorporated by reference to an Exhibit to the Registrant's Current Report
     dated May 25, 1998 on Form 8-K filed June 24, 1998.
 
(11) Incorporated by reference to an Exhibit to the Registrant's Form S-3 filed
     June 9, 1998.
 
(12) Incorporated by reference to an Exhibit to the Registrant's and TIG's
     Co-Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Nos. 333-50855 and
     333-50855-01) filed June 9, 1998.
 
   * Management contract or compensatory plan.
 
     (c) Reports on Form 8-K.
 
     No reports on Form 8-K were filed by the Company during the last quarter of
Fiscal 1998.
 

 
                                   SIGNATURES
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
                                          TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.
 
                                          By       /s/ MARK H. SWARTZ
                                            ------------------------------------
                                                       MARK H. SWARTZ
                                             EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF
                                                      FINANCIAL OFFICER
                                            (PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL AND ACCOUNTING
                                                          OFFICER)
Date: December 10, 1998
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
 

 

 
                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
 
To the Board of Directors
and Shareholders of Tyco International Ltd.:
 
     In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the
accompanying index present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of Tyco International Ltd. and its subsidiaries at September 30, 1998
and 1997, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the year
ended September 30, 1998, the nine months ended September 30, 1997 and the year
ended December 31, 1996, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles in the United States. In addition, in our opinion, the financial
statement schedule listed in the accompanying index presents fairly, in all
material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction
with the related consolidated financial statements. These financial statements
and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company's
management; our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits. We did not
audit the financial statements of Keystone International, Inc., a wholly owned
subsidiary, for the year ended December 31, 1996, which statements reflect net
sales constituting 8.4% of consolidated net sales for the year ended December
31, 1996. Those statements were audited by other auditors whose report thereon
has been furnished to us, and our opinion expressed herein, insofar as it
relates to the amounts included for Keystone International, Inc. is based solely
on the report of the other auditors. We conducted our audits of these statements
in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in the United States,
which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance
about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles
used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above.
 
                                          PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS
 
Hamilton, Bermuda
October 23, 1998
 

 
                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
 
To the Shareholders and Board of Directors,
Keystone International, Inc.:
 
     We have audited the consolidated statements of income, changes in
shareholders' investment and cash flows of Keystone International, Inc. (a Texas
corporation) and subsidiaries for the year ended December 31, 1996, which are
not included herein. These consolidated financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit.
 
     We conducted our audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
     In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the results of operations and cash
flows of Keystone International, Inc. and subsidiaries for the year ended
December 31, 1996, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.
 
                                          ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
 
January 31, 1997
Houston, Texas
 

 
                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.
 
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 

 
                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


 
                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.
 
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 

 
                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


 
                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.
 
                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
 

 
                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


 
                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.
 
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 

 
                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


 
                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.
 
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
1.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
     Basis of Presentation -- The consolidated financial statements have been
prepared in United States dollars in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles in the United States. As described more fully in Note 2,
on July 2, 1997 a wholly-owned subsidiary of what was formerly called ADT
Limited ("ADT") merged with Tyco International Ltd. (the "Former Tyco"). Upon
consummation of the merger, ADT (the continuing public company) changed its name
to Tyco International Ltd. (the "Company" or "Tyco"). Former Tyco became a
wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company and changed its name to Tyco
International (US) Inc. ("Tyco US"). In addition, as more fully described in
Note 2, Tyco merged with INBRAND Corporation ("INBRAND") and Keystone
International, Inc. ("Keystone") on August 27, 1997 and August 29, 1997,
respectively. These transactions are referred to herein as the "mergers". These
consolidated financial statements include the consolidated accounts of Tyco, a
company incorporated in Bermuda, and its subsidiaries. They have been prepared
following the pooling of interests method of accounting for the mergers and
therefore reflect the combined financial position, operating results and cash
flows of ADT, Former Tyco and Keystone as if they had been combined for all
periods presented and of INBRAND from January 1, 1997. The restated combined
financial statements do not include the financial position, operating results
and cash flows of INBRAND prior to January 1, 1997 due to immateriality. In
accordance with the pooling of interests method of accounting, the Fiscal 1997
beginning Accumulated Earnings (Deficit) balance in the Consolidated Statement
of Shareholders' Equity has been restated to record the merger with INBRAND.
Prior to the mergers, ADT and Keystone had calendar year ends and the Former
Tyco had a June 30 fiscal year end. The Consolidated Statements of Operations,
Shareholders' Equity and Cash Flows for the year ended December 31, 1996 reflect
the combination of the calendar year end consolidated results of operations and
cash flows for ADT, Keystone and the Former Tyco. The results of operations and
cash flows for the Former Tyco from July 1, 1995 to December 31, 1995, which
have been excluded from historical combined results, are reflected as
adjustments in the 1996 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity and Cash
Flows.
 
     Principles of Consolidation -- Tyco is a holding company whose assets
consist of its investments in its subsidiaries, intercompany balances and
holdings of cash and cash equivalents. The businesses of the consolidated group
are conducted through the Company's subsidiaries. The Company consolidates
companies in which it owns or controls more than fifty percent of the voting
shares unless control is likely to be temporary. The results of companies
acquired or disposed of during the fiscal year are included in the consolidated
financial statements from the effective date of acquisition or up to the date of
disposal except in the case of pooling of interests (see Note 2). All
significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in
consolidation.
 
     Change in Year End -- In September 1997 the Company changed its fiscal year
end from December 31 to September 30. The change in year end resulted in a short
fiscal year covering the nine month transition period from January 1 to
September 30, 1997. References to Fiscal 1998, Fiscal 1997 and 1996 throughout
these consolidated financial statements refer to the twelve months ended
September 30, 1998, the nine months ended September 30, 1997 and the calendar
year ended December 31, 1996, respectively.
 
     Cash Equivalents -- All highly liquid investments purchased with a maturity
of three months or less are considered to be cash equivalents.
 
     Inventories -- Inventories are recorded at the lower of cost (primarily
first-in, first-out) or market value.
 

                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     Property, Plant and Equipment -- Property, plant and equipment are
principally recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation. Maintenance and
repair expenditures are charged to expense when incurred. The straight-line
method of depreciation is used over the estimated useful lives of the related
assets as follows:
 

 
     Gains and losses arising on the disposal of property, plant and equipment
are included in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
 
     Associates -- For investments in which the Company owns or controls more
than twenty percent of the voting shares, or over which it exerts significant
influence over operating and financial policies, the equity method of accounting
is used. The Consolidated Statements of Operations include the Company's share
of net income of associates less applicable goodwill amortization.
 
     Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets -- Goodwill, which is being amortized
on a straight-line basis over periods ranging from 10 to 40 years, was $5,635.0
million and $2,631.7 million at September 30, 1998 and 1997, respectively.
Accumulated amortization amounted to $453.8 million at September 30, 1998 and
$332.5 million at September 30, 1997. Impairment of goodwill, if any, is
measured periodically on the basis of whether anticipated undiscounted operating
cash flows generated by the acquired businesses will recover the recorded net
goodwill balances over the remaining amortization period.
 
     Other intangible assets include patents, trademarks, customer contracts and
other items, which are being amortized on a straight-line basis over lives
ranging from 2 to 30 years. At September 30, 1998 and September 30, 1997,
accumulated amortization amounted to $108.6 million and $76.9 million,
respectively.
 
     Revenue Recognition -- Revenue from the sale of services or products is
recognized as services are rendered or shipments are made. Subscriber billings
for services not yet rendered are deferred and taken into income as earned, and
the deferred element is included in current liabilities. Revenue from the
installation of electronic security systems is recognized when installations are
completed.
 
     Contract sales for installation of fire protection systems, underwater
cable systems and other construction related projects are recorded on the
percentage-of-completion method. Profits recognized on contracts in process are
based upon estimated contract revenue and related cost to completion. Revisions
in cost estimates as contracts progress have the effect of increasing or
decreasing profits in the current period. Provisions for anticipated losses are
made in the period in which they first become determinable.
 
     Accounts receivable include amounts billed under retainage provisions for
fire protection contracts. Retention balances of $38.7 million at September 30,
1998, which become due upon contract completion and acceptance, are expected to
be substantially collected during the fiscal year ending September 30, 1999
("Fiscal 1999").
 
     Share Premium and Contributed Surplus -- In accordance with the Bermuda
Companies Act of 1981, when the Company issues shares for cash at a premium to
their par value, the resulting premium is credited to a share premium account, a
non-distributable reserve. When the Company issues shares in exchange for shares
of another company, the excess of the fair value of the shares acquired over the
par value of the shares issued by the Company is credited, where applicable, to
contributed surplus, which is, subject to certain conditions, a distributable
reserve.
 
     Income Taxes -- Deferred tax liabilities and assets are recognized for the
expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in the
consolidated financial statements or tax returns. Deferred tax
 

                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
liabilities and assets are determined based on the differences between the
consolidated financial statements and the tax basis of assets and liabilities,
using tax rates in effect for the years in which the differences are expected to
reverse. A valuation allowance is provided to offset any net deferred tax assets
if, based upon the available evidence, it is more likely than not that some or
all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.
 
     Research and Development -- Research and development expenditures are
expensed when incurred.
 
     Advertising -- Advertising costs are expensed when incurred.
 
     Translation of Foreign Currency -- Assets and liabilities of the Company's
subsidiaries operating outside of the United States which account in a
functional currency other than U.S. dollars, other than those operating in
highly inflationary environments, are translated into U.S. dollars using
year-end exchange rates. Revenues and expenses are translated at the average
exchange rates effective during the year. Foreign currency translation gains and
losses are included as a separate component of shareholders' equity. For
subsidiaries operating in highly inflationary environments, inventories and
property, plant and equipment, including related expenses, are translated at the
rate of exchange in effect on the date the assets were acquired, while other
assets and liabilities are translated at year-end exchange rates. Translation
adjustments for these operations are included in net income (loss).
 
     Gains and losses resulting from foreign currency transactions, the amounts
of which are not material, are included in net income (loss).
 
     Interest Rate Swaps, Currency Options and Other Contracts -- From time to
time the Company enters into a variety of interest rate swaps, interest rate
locks of future fundings, currency options and cross-currency swaps in its
management of interest costs and foreign currency exposures.
 
     Interest rate swaps and interest rate locks hedge interest rates on certain
indebtedness and involve the exchange of fixed and floating rate interest
payment obligations over the life of the related agreement without the exchange
of the notional amount. The interest differentials to be paid or received under
interest rate swaps or locks are recognized over the life of the underlying
agreement or indebtedness, respectively, as an adjustment to interest expense.
 
     Currency options, acquired for the purpose of hedging foreign operating
income generally for periods not exceeding twelve months, are marked to market
with any realized and unrealized gains or losses reflected in selling, general
and administrative expenses. Under cross-currency swaps, which hedge certain net
foreign investments, changes in valuation are recorded in the currency
translation adjustment account. The interest differentials from swaps are
recorded in interest expense.
 
     Use of Estimates -- The preparation of consolidated financial statements in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to
make extensive use of certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amount of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported periods.
Significant estimates in these consolidated financial statements include
allowances for doubtful accounts receivable, estimates of future cash flows
associated with assets, asset impairments, useful lives for depreciation and
amortization, loss contingencies, net realizable value of inventories, estimated
contract revenues and related costs, environmental liabilities, income taxes and
tax valuation reserves, and the determination of discount and other rate
assumptions for pension and post-retirement employee benefit expenses. Actual
results could differ from those estimates.
 
     Accounting Pronouncements -- In June 1997, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board (the "FASB") issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
("SFAS") No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income" and SFAS No. 131,
"Disclosures About Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information", which are
both effective for years beginning after December 15, 1997. Adoption of these
standards is not expected to impact the financial results of the Company.


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     In February 1998, the FASB issued SFAS No. 132, "Employers' Disclosures
about Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits", which is effective for fiscal
years beginning after December 15, 1997. This statement revises financial
statement disclosure requirements for pension and other postretirement benefit
plans but does not change the measurement or recognition of those plans.
Adoption of this standard is not expected to impact the financial results of the
Company.
 
     In June 1998, the FASB issued SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities", which is effective for fiscal years
beginning after June 15, 1999. This statement establishes accounting and
reporting standards requiring that every derivative instrument be recorded in
the balance sheet as either an asset or liability measured at its fair value.
SFAS No. 133 also requires that changes in the derivative's fair value be
recognized currently in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are
met. The Company is currently analyzing this new standard.
 
     Reclassifications -- Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to
conform with current year presentation.
 
     Stock Split -- Per share amounts and share data have been retroactively
adjusted to reflect the two-for-one stock split described in Note 10.
 
2.  MERGERS
 
     Tyco's Merger with Keystone -- In August 1997, Tyco merged with Keystone
International, Inc. A total of approximately 34.8 million Tyco common shares
were issued to the former shareholders of Keystone.
 
     Tyco's Merger with INBRAND -- In August 1997, Tyco merged with INBRAND
Corporation. A total of approximately 10.2 million Tyco common shares were
issued to the former shareholders of INBRAND.
 
     ADT's Merger with the Former Tyco -- In July 1997, a wholly-owned
subsidiary of ADT merged with the Former Tyco. Shareholders of ADT, through a
reverse stock split, received 0.48133 shares of the Company's common stock for
each share of ADT common stock outstanding, and the Former Tyco shareholders
received one share of the Company's common stock for each share of the Former
Tyco common stock outstanding or a total of approximately 336.8 million Tyco
common shares. All historical common share and per share data of the Company
have been retroactively restated to reflect the reverse stock split.
 
     Each of the three merger transactions discussed above was accounted for
under the pooling of interests accounting method, which presents as a single
interest, common shareholder interests which were previously independent. The
historical consolidated financial statements for periods prior to the
consummation of the combination are restated as though the companies had been
combined during such periods. As discussed in Note 1, the consolidated financial
statements for periods prior to January 1, 1997 do not include INBRAND due to
immateriality.
 
     Aggregate fees and expenses related to the three mergers discussed above
and to the integration of the combined companies have been expensed in the
accompanying consolidated statement of operations for the nine months ended
September 30, 1997 as required under the pooling of interests accounting method.
This includes transaction costs of approximately $239.8 million relating to
legal, printing, accounting, financial advisory services, severance costs
payable at the effective time of the merger and other direct expenses. It also
includes charges of approximately $678.0 million to reflect the combination of
the four companies, including severance costs, integration costs, the costs
associated with the elimination of excess facilities and the satisfaction of
certain liabilities. In addition, the Company recorded a charge of $148.4
million for the impairment of long-lived assets. See Notes 11 and 15.
 

                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     Combined and separate results of ADT, Former Tyco, Keystone and INBRAND for
the periods preceding the mergers were as follows:
 

 
- ---------------
(i) The restated combined financial statements for periods prior to January 1,
    1997 do not include INBRAND due to immateriality (see Note 1).
 
  ADT's Merger with Automated Security (Holdings) PLC ("ASH")
 
     In September 1996, ADT merged with and acquired the whole of the issued
capital of ASH, a United Kingdom quoted company (the "ASH merger"). ASH is
engaged in the provision of electronic security services in North America and
Europe. The total consideration in respect of the whole of the issued capital of
ASH consisted of the issue of approximately 6.8 million common shares of the
Company.
 
     The consolidated financial statements of ASH have previously been presented
in pounds sterling, ASH's functional currency. For the purposes of these
consolidated financial statements, ASH's consolidated financial statements have
been translated into United States dollars at the appropriate exchange rates. In
addition, ASH's fiscal year end was November 30. ASH has been accounted for as a
pooling of interests and its results have been combined with ADT's using the
November year end. The results of operations and cash flows for ASH for the
month of December 1996, which have been excluded from these consolidated
financial statements, are reflected as adjustments in the 1997 Consolidated
Statements of Shareholders' Equity and Cash Flows.
 
     Combined and separate results of ADT and ASH for the periods preceding the
ADT and ASH merger were as follows:
 

 
- ---------------
(i) Income tax adjustment arising on preference share dividends accrued by the
    ASH group but not payable following merger.
 
     All fees and expenses related to the ASH merger have been expensed as
required under the pooling of interests accounting method. Such fees and
expenses amounted to $8.8 million in 1996.
 
3.  ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES
 
     During Fiscal 1998 the Company acquired companies in each of its business
segments for an aggregate of $4.20 billion, including $3.82 billion in cash, the
assumption of approximately $240 million in debt and the


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
issuance of 271,416 common shares valued at $14.7 million and 1,254 subsidiary
preference shares valued at $125.4 million. The cash portions of the
acquisitions were made utilizing cash on hand, borrowings under the bank credit
agreements, proceeds of approximately $1.25 billion from the sale of common
shares, as well as borrowings under the Company's uncommitted lines of credit.
Each of these acquisitions was accounted for as a purchase and the results of
operations of the acquired companies were included in the consolidated results
of the Company from their respective acquisition dates. As a result of the
acquisitions, approximately $3.62 billion in goodwill and other intangibles was
recorded by the Company, which reflects the adjustments necessary to allocate
the individual purchase prices to the fair value of assets acquired, liabilities
assumed and additional purchase liabilities recorded. Additional purchase
liabilities recorded during Fiscal 1998 include approximately $57.8 million for
transaction and other direct costs, $151.0 million for severance and related
costs and $278.9 million for costs associated with the shut down and
consolidation of certain acquired facilities. At September 30, 1998, accrued
liabilities for approximately $38.8 million in transaction and other costs,
$121.9 million in severance costs and $264.7 million for facility related costs
remained on the balance sheet.
 
     The Fiscal 1998 acquisitions discussed above include the acquisition of the
Sherwood-Davis & Geck division ("Sherwood") of American Home Products
Corporation, which was purchased for cash of $1.77 billion. As a result of this
acquisition, approximately $1.44 billion in goodwill and other intangibles was
recorded by the Company. Sherwood is a manufacturer of medical and surgical
devices, such as catheters, needles and syringes, sutures, thermometers and
other specialized disposable medical products, with annual revenues of
approximately $1.0 billion. Sherwood is being integrated with Kendall within
Tyco's Disposable and Specialty Products segment.
 
     In July 1998, the Company acquired the U.S. operations of Crosby Valve,
Inc. in exchange for 1,254 cumulative dividend preference shares of a newly
created subsidiary, valued at $125.4 million. The subsidiary has authorized
2,000 cumulative dividend preference shares. The holders of these preference
shares have the option to require the Company to repurchase the preference
shares at par value plus unpaid dividends at any time after July 2001. The
outstanding preference shares were issued at $100,000 par value each and have
been classified in Other Long-Term Liabilities on the accompanying 1998
Consolidated Balance Sheet. Cash dividends accumulate on a preferred basis,
whether or not earned or declared, at the rate of $3,750 per share per annum.
Upon liquidation, the holders of shares are entitled to receive an amount equal
to $100,000 per share, plus any unpaid dividends. These preference shares may be
redeemed by the subsidiary at any time on or after December 31, 2008 at a price
per share of $100,000, plus unpaid dividends, adjusted for certain increases in
the value of Tyco's stock, as defined.
 

                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     The following unaudited pro forma data summarize the results of operations
for the periods indicated as if these acquisitions had been completed on January
1, 1997. The pro forma data give effect to actual operating results prior to the
acquisitions and adjustments to interest expense, goodwill amortization and
income taxes. These pro forma amounts do not purport to be indicative of the
results that would have actually been obtained if the acquisitions had occurred
on January 1, 1997 or that may be obtained in the future. The pro forma data do
not give effect to acquisitions completed subsequent to September 30, 1998.
 

 
     In addition to the mergers discussed in Note 2, in Fiscal 1997 the Company
acquired companies in each of its business segments for an aggregate of $1.36
billion, including $1.34 billion in cash and the assumption of approximately
$15.7 million in debt. The cash portions of the acquisitions were made utilizing
cash on hand, funding from an equity offering of $645.2 million, as well as
borrowings under the Company's uncommitted lines of credit. Each of these
acquisitions was accounted for as a purchase and the results of operations of
the acquired companies were included in the consolidated results of the Company
from their respective acquisition dates. As a result of the acquisitions,
approximately $531.7 million in goodwill and other intangibles, net of the
write-off of purchased in-process research and development, was recorded by the
Company, which reflects the adjustments necessary to allocate the individual
purchase prices to the fair value of assets acquired, liabilities assumed and
additional purchase liabilities recorded. At September 30, 1998, purchase
liabilities for approximately $6.9 million in severance costs and $28.9 million
for facility and other related costs remained on the balance sheet. In
connection with the acquisition of AT&T's submarine systems business, the
Company allocated $361.0 million of the purchase price to in-process research
and development projects that had not reached technological feasibility and had
no probable alternative future uses. The Company expects that the payout for
employee severance and its consolidation of facilities related to these
acquisitions will be substantially completed in Fiscal 1999, excluding certain
leases for abandoned facilities.
 
     During 1996, the Company acquired companies in each of its business
segments for an aggregate of $1.1 billion, including $822.6 million in cash, 3.5
million shares of the Company's common stock valued at $130.4 million and the
assumption of approximately $155.0 million in debt. The cash acquisitions were
made utilizing cash on hand, proceeds of approximately $300 million from the
issuance of 6 1/2% public notes, as well as borrowings under the Company's
uncommitted lines of credit. Each of the acquisitions was accounted for as a
purchase and the results of operations of the acquired companies were included
in the consolidated results of the Company from their respective acquisition
dates. As a result of the acquisitions, approximately $859.2 million in goodwill
was recorded by the Company, which reflects the adjustments necessary to
allocate the individual purchase prices to the fair value of assets acquired,
liabilities assumed and additional purchase liabilities recorded. At September
30, 1998, purchase liabilities for approximately $21.5 million in severance
costs and facility related costs remained on the balance sheet. The Company
expects to complete the payout for employee severance and its consolidation of
facilities in Fiscal 1999, excluding certain leases for abandoned facilities.
 
     As a result of the sale of a business in 1995, the Company holds a
subordinated, non-collateralized zero coupon loan note maturing in 2004 ("Vendor
Note"), together with a 10% interest of the ordinary share
 

                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
capital of the issuer. The Vendor Note has a $205.4 million aggregate principal
amount at maturity with an issue price of $83.9 million, reflecting a yield to
maturity of 10.0% per annum, and was originally valued by the Company at $74.6
million. As of September 30, 1998, the Vendor Note is included in Long-Term
Investments on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet and has been
accounted for at its amortized cost of $111.1 million (which approximates fair
value). The fair value of the Vendor Note was estimated based on the Company's
calculation of an appropriate fair value interest rate discount. This discount
rate was determined based on an evaluation of current UK market conditions
(private placement rates, discussions with financial sources, etc.) and the
continued risk margin associated with deep discount debentures.
 
     During 1996, the Company entered into a settlement agreement related to a
1990 acquisition and a lawsuit originated by the Company in 1991. After
deducting legal and other settlement costs, the net gain arising on this
settlement amounted to $69.7 million, of which $65.0 million was included in
other income and $4.7 million was included in interest income in 1996.
 
4.  INDEBTEDNESS
 
     Long-term debt is as follows:
 

 
- ---------------
(i)   In February 1998, Tyco US entered into a new $2.25 billion credit
      agreement with a group of commercial banks, giving it the right to borrow
      (a) up to $1.75 billion until February 12, 1999, with the option to extend
      to February 12, 2000, and (b) up to $0.5 billion until February 12, 2003.
      Interest payable on borrowings is variable based upon the borrower's
      option of selecting a Eurodollar rate plus
 

                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
      margins ranging from 0.17% to 0.19%, a certificate of deposit rate plus
      margins ranging from 0.295% to 0.315%, or a base rate, as defined. If the
      outstanding principal amount of loans equals or exceeds one-third of the
      commitments, the Eurodollar and certificate of deposit margins are
      increased by 0.10%. Repayments of amounts outstanding under this agreement
      are guaranteed by the Company. In accordance with the terms of this
      agreement, in June 1998 Tyco US and Tyco International Group S.A. ("TIG"),
      a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, elected that TIG become the
      borrower and that Tyco US cease to be the borrower under this agreement.
      All other terms and conditions in effect remained unchanged. Substantially
      all amounts outstanding under this credit agreement have been classified
      as long-term based on the Company's ability and intent to refinance this
      obligation on a long term basis.
 
      Simultaneously with the closing of the new credit agreement, Tyco US
      reduced aggregate commitments available under the previously existing
      credit agreement from $1.75 billion to $950 million. In March 1998, Tyco
      US terminated the $950 million credit agreement. Balances outstanding at
      the time of termination were repaid with net proceeds from the sale of
      common shares (Note 10).
 
(ii)  Uncommitted lines of credit are borrowings by Tyco US from commercial
      banks on an "as offered" basis. Borrowings and repayments occur daily and
      contain no specific terms other than due dates and interest rates. The due
      dates generally range from overnight to 90 days, and interest rates
      approximate those available under the TIG credit agreement.
 
(iii) In May 1997, a Tyco subsidiary entered into a L60 million term loan with a
      bank to refinance certain intercompany loans with external debt. Interest
      payable on borrowings was variable based upon U.K. LIBOR plus 0.35%. In
      March 1998, the term loan was repaid and the facility was terminated.
 
(iv)  In July 1997, Tyco US tendered for its $145.0 million 8.125% public notes
      due 1999 and $200.0 million 9.5% public debentures due 2022, and ADT
      Operations, Inc. tendered for its $250.0 million 8.25% senior notes due
      2000 and $294.1 million 9.25% senior subordinated notes due 2003. The
      percentage of debt tendered was 92.8% of the 8.125% notes, 75.5% of the
      9.5% debentures, 96.2% of the 8.25% notes and 95.2% of the 9.25% notes. 
      The two companies paid an aggregate amount, including accrued interest, of
      approximately $900.8 million to the note holders, of which $800.0 million
      was financed from the previously existing credit agreement discussed 
      above. In connection with the tender, the Company recorded an after-tax 
      charge of approximately $58.3 million, net of related income tax benefit 
      of $33.0 million, primarily representing unamortized debt issuance fees 
      and the premium paid, which was reported as an extraordinary loss 
      (Note 13).
 
      The $250.0 million 8.25% senior notes due August 2000 were issued in
      August 1993, through a public offering, by ADT Operations, Inc. and are
      guaranteed on a senior basis by the Company and certain subsidiaries of
      ADT Operations, Inc. The senior notes are not redeemable prior to
      maturity.
 
      The $294.1 million 9.25% senior subordinated notes due August 2003 were
      issued in August 1993, through a public offering, by ADT Operations, Inc.,
      and are guaranteed on a senior subordinated basis by the Company. The
      notes are redeemable in whole or in part, at the option of ADT Operations,
      Inc., at any time after August 1998 at the following redemption prices:
      during the twelve month period beginning (a) August 1998 at 103.75%, (b)
      August 1999 at 102.50%, (c) August 2000 at 101.25%, and thereafter at
      100.00% of the principal amount. During 1996 the Company reacquired in the
      market $23.1 million face value of the senior subordinated notes at a
      purchase cost of $24.0 million, which was financed from cash on hand. The
      loss arising on reacquisition of $0.9 million, and related costs of $0.5
      million, were included in extraordinary items (Note 13). In December 1998,
      ADT Operations, Inc. sent a notice of redemption to holders of these
      notes, calling the notes for redemption on December 31, 1998.
 
      In conjunction with the tenders described above, ADT Operations, Inc.,
      through consent of the holders of the senior and senior subordinated
      notes, eliminated in the indentures pursuant to which such notes were
      issued (a) certain restrictive covenants and provisions and references to
      such restrictive covenants,
 

                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
      (b) certain events of default to the extent relating to such restrictive
      covenants and (c) certain definitions to the extent relating to such
      restrictive covenants and events of default.
 
(v)   In June 1998, TIG issued $750 million 6 1/8% notes due 2001, $750 million
      6 3/8% notes due 2005, $750 million 6 1/4% Dealer Remarketable
      Securities(SM) ("Drs.")(SM) due 2013 and $500 million 7.0% notes due 2028
      under a $3.75 billion public shelf registration statement. Interest is
      payable semi-annually in June and December. Under the terms of the Drs.,
      the Remarketing Dealer has an option to remarket the Drs. in June 2003,
      which if exercised would subject the Drs. to mandatory tender to the
      Remarketing Dealer and reset the interest rate to an adjusted fixed rate
      until June 2013. If the Remarketing Dealer does not exercise its option,
      then all Drs. are required to be tendered to the Company in June 2003.
      Repayment of amounts outstanding under these debt securities are fully and
      unconditionally guaranteed by Tyco (Note 24). The net proceeds of
      approximately $2.74 billion were ultimately used to repay borrowings under
      the $2.25 billion bank credit facility and uncommitted lines of credit of
      Tyco US. During Fiscal 1998, the effective interest rate on these
      instruments approximated the coupon rate.
 
(vi)  In March 1997, ADT Finance entered into a sterling denominated bank credit
      facility of which $137.5 million (L85 million) is a term loan facility and
      $8 million is a revolving credit facility. The term loan facility was 
      fully drawn down and was used to repay in part the $26 million drawn down 
      under another sterling denominated bank credit facility entered into in 
      January 1997. The new facility has a term of five years and is guaranteed 
      by the Company and certain of its subsidiaries. Interest is payable at 
      LIBOR plus a margin. Amounts outstanding under the term loan facility were
      repaid as of September 30, 1998 and the facility was terminated.
 
(vii) In July 1995, ADT Operations, Inc. issued $776.3 million aggregate
      principal amount at maturity of its zero coupon subordinated Liquid Yield
      Option Notes ("LYONs") maturing July 2010. The net proceeds of the issue
      amounted to $287.4 million which was used to repay in full all amounts
      outstanding under ADT Operations Inc.'s previous bank credit agreement,
      which was subsequently canceled. The issue price per LYON was $383.09,
      being 38.309% of the principal amount of $1,000 per LYON at maturity,
      reflecting a yield to maturity of 6.5% per annum (computed on a
      semi-annual bond equivalent basis). The discount amortization on the LYONs
      is being charged as interest expense through the consolidated statements
      of operations on a basis linked to the yield to maturity. The LYONs
      discount amortization for Fiscal 1998 amounted to $11.0 million (Fiscal
      1997 -- $15.9 million; 1996 -- $20.3 million). Each LYON is exchangeable
      for common shares of the Company at the option of the holder at any time
      prior to maturity, unless previously redeemed or otherwise purchased by
      ADT Operations, Inc., at an exchange rate of 27.176 common shares per
      LYON. During Fiscal 1998 and Fiscal 1997, respectively, 342,752 and
      188,290 Notes with carrying values of $155.3 million and $83.0 million
      were exchanged for 9,314,599 and 5,116,923 common shares of the Company.
      Any LYON will be purchased by ADT Operations, Inc., at the option of the
      holder, as of July 2002 for a purchase price per LYON of $599.46. At this
      time, if the holder exercises the option, the Company has the right to
      deliver all or a portion of the purchase price in the form of common
      shares of the Company. Beginning July 2002, the LYONs are redeemable for
      cash at any time at the option of ADT Operations, Inc., in whole or in
      part, at redemption prices equal to the issue price plus accrued original
      issue discount to the date of redemption. The LYONs are guaranteed on a
      subordinated basis by the Company.
 
     The weighted-average rate of interest on all long-term debt during Fiscal
1998 was 6.5% (Fiscal 1997 -- 7.6%; 1996 -- 8.0%).
 
     The aggregate amounts of total debt maturing during the next five years are
as follows (in millions): $350.0 in Fiscal 1999, $1,247.5 in Fiscal 2000,
$1,092.9 in Fiscal 2001, $65.0 in Fiscal 2002 and $19.8 in Fiscal 2003.
 
     In June 1998, TIG entered into two interest rate swap agreements with a
financial institution to hedge a portion of the fixed rate terms of its public
notes. The agreements are for notional amounts of $650 million each and expire
in June 2003 and June 2005, respectively. The Company receives payments at fixed
rates of
 

                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
6.25% and 6.375%, respectively, and makes floating rate payments based on LIBOR,
as defined, but not to exceed 7.0% and 7.125%, respectively. At September 30,
1998, the floating rates under these agreements were 5.58% and 5.55%,
respectively. The impact of the Company's interest rate swap activities on its
weighted-average borrowing rate was not material in any year. The impact on
reported interest expense was a reduction of $1.9 million, $0.8 million and $1.8
million for Fiscal 1998, Fiscal 1997 and 1996, respectively.
 
     Subsequent to September 30, 1998, TIG issued $800 million of debt in a
private placement offering consisting of two series of Notes: $400 million of
5.875% Notes due November 2004 and $400 million of 6.125% Notes due November
2008. Interest on each series of Notes is payable on May 1 and November 1 of
each year, beginning May 1, 1999. The Notes are fully and unconditionally
guaranteed by Tyco. The net proceeds of approximately $791.7 million were used
to repay borrowings under TIG's $2.25 billion bank credit facility. In addition,
TIG entered into an interest rate swap agreement with a notional amount of $400
million to hedge the fixed rate terms of the 6.125% Notes due 2008. Under this
agreement, which expires in November 2008, TIG will receive payments at a fixed
rate of 6.125% and will make floating rate payments based on LIBOR, as defined.
 
5.  SALE OF ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE
 
     The Company has an agreement under which one of its operating subsidiaries
sells a defined pool of trade accounts receivable to a limited purpose
subsidiary of the Company. The subsidiary, a separate corporate entity, owns all
of its assets and sells participating interests in such accounts receivable to
financiers who, in turn, purchase and receive ownership and security interests
in those assets. As collections reduce accounts receivable included in the pool,
the operating subsidiary sells new receivables. The limited purpose subsidiary
has the risk of credit loss on the receivables and, accordingly, the full amount
of the allowance for doubtful accounts has been retained on the Company's
Consolidated Balance Sheets. At September 30, 1998 and 1997, the $300 million
available under the program was fully utilized. The proceeds from the sales were
used to reduce borrowings under uncommitted lines of credit and are reported as
operating cash flows in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. The
proceeds of sale are less than the face amount of accounts receivable sold by an
amount that approximates the purchaser's financing costs of issuing its own
commercial paper backed by these accounts receivable. The discount from the face
amount is accounted for as a loss on the sale of receivables of $17.3 million,
$10.4 million, and $12.1 million during Fiscal 1998, Fiscal 1997 and 1996,
respectively, and has been included in selling, general and administrative
expenses in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations. The operating
subsidiary, as servicing agent for the purchaser, retains collection and
administrative responsibilities for the participating interests in the defined
pool.
 
6.  FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
     The Company's financial instruments consist primarily of cash in banks,
temporary investments, accounts receivable and debt. The Company also has
currency options (notional amount of $153.6 million), as well as interest rate
swaps. At September 30, 1998 and at September 30, 1997, the fair value of
interest rate swaps approximated book value, and the fair value of long-term
debt was approximately $5,044.7 million (book value of $4,652.6 million) and
$2,482.6 million (book value of $2,480.6 million), respectively, based on
current interest rates. The fair value of financial instruments included in
working capital approximated book value.
 
     None of the Company's financial instruments represent a concentration of
credit risk as the Company deals with a variety of major banks worldwide and its
accounts receivable are spread among a number of major industries, customers and
geographic areas. None of the Company's off-balance sheet financial instruments
would result in a significant loss to the Company if a counterparty failed to
perform according to the terms of its agreement.
 

                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
7.  INCOME TAXES
 
     The provision (benefit) for income taxes and the reconciliation between the
notional United States federal income taxes at the statutory rate on
consolidated income (loss) before taxes and the Company's income tax provision
are as follows:
 

 
     The provisions for Fiscal 1998, Fiscal 1997, and 1996 included $154.8
million, $101.1 million and $45.3 million, respectively, for non-U.S. income
taxes. The non-U.S. component of income (loss) before income taxes was $627.8
million, $(183.9) million and $(117.7) million for Fiscal 1998, Fiscal 1997, and
1996, respectively.
 

                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     The deferred income tax balance sheet accounts result from temporary
differences between the amount of assets and liabilities recognized for
financial reporting and tax purposes. The components of the net deferred income
tax asset are as follows:
 

 
     As of September 30, 1998, the Company had approximately $185 million of net
operating loss carryforwards in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions. Of these, $166
million have no expiration, and the remaining $19 million will expire in future
years to 2004. U.S. operating loss carryforwards at September 30, 1998 were
approximately $600 million and will expire in future years to 2018. A valuation
allowance has been provided for operating loss carryforwards that are not
expected to be utilized.
 
8.  KEY EMPLOYEE LOAN PROGRAM
 
     Loans are made to employees of the Company under the Former Tyco 1983 Key
Employee Loan Program for the payment of taxes upon the vesting of shares
granted under Former Tyco's Restricted Stock Ownership Plans. The loans are
unsecured and bear interest, payable annually, at a rate which approximates the
Company's incremental short-term borrowing rate. Loans are generally repayable
in ten years, except that earlier payments are required under certain
circumstances. During Fiscal 1998, the maximum amount outstanding was $143.5
million. Loans receivable under this program were $22.2 million and $12.3
million at September 30, 1998 and September 30, 1997, respectively.
 
9.  CONVERTIBLE REDEEMABLE PREFERENCE SHARES
 
     The Company has authorized 125,000,000 convertible cumulative redeemable
preference shares of $1 each, of which none was outstanding at September 30,
1998 or September 30, 1997. Of the 125,000,000 convertible cumulative redeemable
preference shares authorized, 7,500,000 have been classified as Series A First
Preference Shares and are reserved for issuance pursuant to the Shareholder
Rights Plan described below. Rights as to dividends, return of capital,
redemption, conversion, voting and otherwise of the remaining 117,500,000
convertible cumulative redeemable preference shares of $1 each, none of which
are issued and outstanding, may be determined by the Company on or before the
time of allotment.

                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     In November 1996, the Board of Directors of ADT adopted a Shareholder
Rights Plan, which was amended in March 1997 and July 1997 (the "Plan"). Under
the Plan, each common shareholder has received a distribution of rights for each
common share held. After giving effect to the exchange ratio related to the
merger between ADT and Former Tyco and the two-for-one stock split distributed
on October 22, 1997, the number of Rights associated with each common share is
1.03879. Each right entitles the holder to purchase from the Company shares of a
new series of first preference shares at an initial purchase price of $90 per
one-hundredth of a first preference share. The rights will become exercisable
and will detach from the common shares a specified period of time after any
person becomes the beneficial owner of 15% or more of the Company's common
shares, or commences a tender or exchange offer which, if consummated, would
result in any person becoming the beneficial owner of 15% or more of the
Company's common shares. Once exerciseable each right will entitle the holder,
other than the acquiring person, to purchase, for the rights purchase price,
common shares having a market value of twice the rights purchase price.
 
     If, following an acquisition of 15% or more of the Company's common shares,
the Company is involved in any mergers or other business combinations or sells
or transfers more than 50% of its assets or earnings power, each right will
entitle the holder to purchase, for the rights purchase price, common shares of
the other party to such transaction, having a market value of twice the rights
purchase price. The merger between ADT and Former Tyco (see Note 2) was
specifically excluded from these provisions by an amendment to the Plan in July
1997.
 
     The Company may redeem the rights at a price of $0.01 per right at any time
prior to the specified period of time after a person has become the beneficial
owner of 15% or more of the Company's common shares. The rights will expire in
November 2005 unless exercised or redeemed earlier.
 
     In the event of liquidation of the Company, the holders of all of the
Company's convertible redeemable preference shares are together entitled to
payment to them of the amount for which the preference shares were subscribed
and any unpaid dividend, prior to any payment to the common shareholders.
 
10.  SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
     During the second quarter of Fiscal 1998, the shareholders approved an
increase in the number of authorized common shares from 750,000,000 to
1,503,750,000.
 
     In December 1997 the Company filed a shelf registration to enable it to
offer from time to time unsecured debt securities or shares of common stock, or
any combination of the foregoing, at an aggregate initial offering price not to
exceed $2.0 billion. In March 1998, the Company sold 25.3 million common shares
at $50.75 per share. The net proceeds from the sale of approximately $1.25
billion were used to repay indebtedness incurred for previous acquisitions.
 
     During the last quarter of Fiscal 1997, the Board of Directors declared a
two-for-one stock split effected in the form of a 100% stock dividend on the
Company's common shares. Per share amounts and share data have been
retroactively adjusted to reflect the stock split.
 
     In March and April 1997, Former Tyco sold an aggregate of 23 million shares
of common stock at $28.88 per share. The net proceeds from the sale of $645.2
million were used to repay indebtedness incurred for previous acquisitions.
 
     Prior to the merger of ADT with the Former Tyco, the shareholders of ADT
approved the consolidating of $0.10 par value common shares into new $0.20 par
value common shares and an increase in the number of authorized common shares to
750 million. Per share amounts and per share data have been retroactively
adjusted to reflect the consolidation into new par value shares. Information
with respect to ADT common shares and options has been retroactively restated in
connection with the merger on July 2, 1997 to reflect the reverse stock split in
the ratio of 0.48133 share of ADT for each share or option outstanding and the
issuance
 

                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
of one share for each share of the Former Tyco outstanding (see Note 2).
Information with respect to Keystone and INBRAND common shares and options have
been retroactively restated in connection with their mergers with Tyco to
reflect their applicable merger exchange ratios of 0.48726 and 0.43,
respectively.
 
     Restricted Stock -- The Former Tyco's 1978 Restricted Stock Ownership Plan
(the "1978 Plan") provided for the award of 9.6 million shares of common stock
to key employees through November 30, 1988. Under the 1978 Plan, approximately
9.5 million shares were granted, net of surrenders. The 1983 Restricted Stock
Ownership Plan (the "1983 Plan") provided for the award of 13.6 million shares
of common stock to key employees through October 18, 1993. Under the 1983 Plan,
approximately 13.5 million shares were awarded, net of surrenders. The Former
Tyco's 1994 Restricted Stock Ownership Plan (the "1994 Plan"), which was assumed
by the Company, provides for the award of an initial amount of shares of common
stock plus an amount equal to one-half of one percent of the total shares
outstanding at the beginning of each fiscal year. At September 30, 1998, there
were 8,540,055 shares available, of which 3,475,624 shares had been granted.
Common shares are awarded subject to certain restrictions with vesting varying
over periods of up to ten years.
 
     For grants which vest based on certain specified performance criteria, the
fair market value of the shares at the date of vesting is expensed over the
period the performance criteria are measured. For grants that vest through
passage of time, the fair market value of the shares at the time of the grant is
amortized (net of tax benefit) to expense over the period of vesting. The
unamortized portion of deferred compensation expense is recorded as a reduction
of shareholders' equity. Recipients of all restricted shares have the right to
vote such shares and receive dividends. Income tax benefits resulting from the
vesting of restricted shares, including a deduction for the excess, if any, of
the fair market value of restricted shares at the time of vesting over their
fair market value at the time of the grants and from the payment of dividends on
unvested shares, are credited to contributed surplus.
 
     The total compensation cost expensed for all stock-based compensation
awards was $45.1 million, $48.5 million and $15.8 million for Fiscal 1998,
Fiscal 1997 and 1996, respectively, including $29.6 million in Fiscal 1997
related to accelerated vesting in connection with changes in control provisions.
 
     Employee Stock Purchase Plan -- Substantially all full-time employees of
the Company's U.S. subsidiaries and employees of certain qualified non-U.S.
subsidiaries are eligible to participate in an employee stock purchase plan.
Eligible employees authorize payroll deductions to be made for the purchase of
shares. The Company matches a part of the employee contribution by contributing
an additional 15% of the employee's payroll deduction. All shares purchased
under the plan are purchased on the open market by a designated broker.
 
     Stock Options -- The Company has granted employee share options which were
issued under five fixed share option plans and schemes which reserve common
shares for issuance to the Company's directors, executives and managers. The
majority of options have been granted under the Tyco International Ltd. Long
Term Incentive Plan (formerly known as the ADT 1993 Long-Term Incentive
Plan -- the "Incentive Plan"). The Incentive Plan was originally approved by
shareholders of ADT in October 1993 and certain subsequent amendments to the
Incentive Plan were approved by shareholders of ADT in April 1996 and July 1997.
The Incentive Plan is administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of
Directors of the Company, which consists exclusively of independent
non-executive directors of the Company. Options are generally granted to
purchase the Company common shares at prices which equate to the market price of
the common shares on the date the option is granted. Conditions of vesting are
determined at the time of grant. Certain options have been granted in prior
years in which participants were required to pay a subscription price as a
condition of vesting. Options which have been granted under the Incentive Plan
to date have generally vested and become exercisable in installments over a
three year period from the date of grant and have a maximum term of ten years.
The Company has reserved 44.0 million common shares for issuance under the
Incentive Plan. Awards which the Company becomes obligated to make through the
assumption of, or in substitution


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
for, outstanding awards previously granted by an acquired company do not count
against the shareholder approved shares available for award under the Incentive
Plan. At September 30, 1998 there were 4,557,648 shares available for future
grant under the Incentive Plan. Subsequent to year end, a broad-based option
plan for non-officer employees, the Tyco Long-Term Incentive Plan II ("LTIP
II"), was approved by the Board of Directors on October 21, 1998. The Company
has reserved 25.0 million common shares for issuance under the LTIP II. The
terms and conditions of this plan are similar to the Incentive Plan.
 
     In connection with the acquisition of Holmes Protection in Fiscal 1998,
options outstanding under the Holmes' stock option plans were assumed by Tyco's
Incentive Plan. In connection with the mergers occurring in Fiscal 1997 (see
Note 2), all of the options outstanding under the Former Tyco, Keystone and
INBRAND stock option plans were assumed by Tyco's Incentive Plan. These options
are administered under the Incentive Plan but retain all of the rights, terms
and conditions of the respective plans under which they were originally granted.
 
     During 1995, the Former Tyco established a stock option plan under which
certain employees, excluding officers and directors, have been granted options
to purchase common stock at a price equal to fair market value on the date of
grant. The options vest on a pro-rata basis over five years, with 50% becoming
exercisable at the end of the third year and the remaining exercisable at the
end of the fifth year. Grants are for periods generally not in excess of ten
years.
 
     Keystone granted share options under its incentive stock option plans for
the benefit of its key employees and directors. Stock options were generally
issued at exercise prices which are not less than the fair market value at the
date of grant. The options vest after one to five years and expire after five to
ten years from the date of grant.
 
     During 1993, INBRAND adopted The INBRAND Corporation Stock Incentive Plan
("the INBRAND Incentive Plan"). Awards under the INBRAND Incentive Plan were in
the form of qualified and non-qualified stock options and/or stock appreciation
rights (SAR's). Grants under the INBRAND Incentive Plan could be made to any
employee of INBRAND, any Director of the company, or any other person to whom
the Compensation Committee determines that making such a grant is in the best
interests of the company. The INBRAND Incentive Plan provides for a
performance-based stock option format which governs the vesting of option
awards. The INBRAND Incentive Plan provided that the exercise price shall not be
less than the fair market value of the common stock as of the determination or
grant date. Each option granted is exercisable only during the term fixed by the
Compensation Committee, with such term ending from five to ten years after the
grant date. If an option holder is still employed by the company thirty days
prior to the option's expiration date, the options will fully vest. The INBRAND
Incentive Plan contains provisions that restrict the transferability of grants
and limit their exercise in the event of termination of employment or the
disability or death of the grantee.
 

                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     Share option activity for all plans since January 1, 1996 has been as
follows:
 

 
     The following table summarizes information about outstanding and
exercisable options at September 30, 1998:
 

 
     Stock-Based Compensation -- During 1996, the Company was required to adopt
SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" ("SFAS 123"). SFAS 123
allows companies to measure
 

                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
compensation cost in connection with executive share option plans and schemes
using a fair value based method, or to continue to use an intrinsic value based
method which generally does not result in a compensation cost. The Company has
decided to continue to use the intrinsic value based method and no compensation
cost has been recorded. Had the fair value based method been adopted consistent
with the provisions of SFAS 123, the Company's proforma net income (loss) and
proforma net income (loss) per common share for Fiscal 1998, Fiscal 1997 and
1996 would have been as follows:
 

 
     The estimated weighted average fair value of Tyco options granted during
Fiscal 1998 was $16.48 on the date of grant using the option-pricing model and
assumptions referred to below. The estimated weighted average fair value of
Tyco, Former Tyco and INBRAND options granted during Fiscal 1997 was $12.15,
$9.55 and $37.17, respectively, on the date of grant using the option-pricing
model and assumptions referred to below. There were no stock option grants for
Keystone in Fiscal 1997.
 
     The fair value of each option grant was estimated on the date of grant
using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The following weighted average
assumptions were used for Fiscal 1998:
 

 
     The following weighted average assumptions were used for Fiscal 1997:
 

 
     The following weighted average assumptions were used for 1996:
 

 
     The effects of applying SFAS 123 in this proforma disclosure are not
indicative of future amounts. SFAS 123 does not apply to awards prior to 1995
and additional awards in future years are anticipated.
 
     Stock Warrants -- The Company has outstanding warrants to purchase common
stock at per share exercise prices of $2.99 (the "A Warrants") and $3.98 (the "B
Warrants"), respectively (together, the "Warrants"). The Warrants expire on July
7, 1999. During Fiscal 1998, 31,397 A Warrants and 14,539 B Warrants were
exercised. During Fiscal 1997, 36,532 A Warrants and 25,000 B Warrants were
exercised. During 1996, 30,240 A Warrants and 25,120 B Warrants were exercised.
At September 30, 1998, 91,212 A Warrants and 66,566 B Warrants were outstanding.
 

                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     In July 1996, as part of an agreement to combine with Republic Industries,
Inc. ("Republic"), ADT granted to Republic a warrant (the "Warrant") to acquire
14,439,900 common shares of the Company at an exercise price of $20.78 per
common share. Following termination of the agreement to combine with Republic,
the Warrant vested and was exercisable by Republic in the six month period
commencing September 27, 1996. In March 1997, the Warrant was exercised by
Republic and the Company received $300 million in cash.
 
     Treasury Shares -- From time to time the Company, through its subsidiaries,
purchases shares in the open market to satisfy certain stock-based compensation
arrangements. During Fiscal 1998, certain executives sold approximately 2.6
million common shares to the Company at the shares' then fair market value.
 
     Dividends -- The Company has paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.025 per
common share since July 1997. Prior to the merger with ADT, Former Tyco paid a
quarterly cash dividend of $0.025 in Fiscal 1997 and 1996. ADT paid no dividends
on its common shares in Fiscal 1997 or 1996. Keystone paid quarterly dividends
of $0.19 per share in Fiscal 1997 and 1996.
 
11. CHARGE FOR THE IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS
 
     Charges for the impairment of long-lived assets are as follows:
 

 
     Effective January 1, 1996, the Company adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived
Assets and Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of" ("SFAS 121"). SFAS 121 requires
the recoverability of the carrying value of long-lived assets, primarily
property, plant and equipment and related goodwill and other intangible assets,
to be reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be fully recoverable.
Under SFAS 121 impairment losses are recognized when expected future cash flows
are less than the assets' carrying value. When indicators of impairment are
present, the carrying values of the assets are evaluated in relation to the
operating performance and future undiscounted cash flows of the underlying
business. The net book value of the underlying assets are adjusted if the sum of
expected future cash flows is less than book value.
 
  1997 Charges
 
     The Company recorded charges of $148.4 million for the impairment of
long-lived assets in Fiscal 1997.
 
     The Fire and Security Services group recorded a charge of $118.8 million.
This includes $98.8 million related to subscriber security systems installed at
customers' premises in the United States and Canada, determined following a
review of the carrying value of the assets. It also includes an impairment in
the carrying value of goodwill of $20.0 million resulting from the combination
of ADT's electronic security business with that of Former Tyco.
 
     The Flow Control Products group recorded a charge of $29.6 million
reflecting an impairment in the carrying value of goodwill resulting from the
combination of Keystone's valve manufacturing and distribution business with
that of Former Tyco.
 

                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
  1996 Charges
 
     Following the adoption of SFAS 121, in particular the change in methodology
requiring the Company to evaluate assets at the lowest level of asset grouping,
rather than on an aggregate basis, the Company recorded a charge of $731.7
million in the Fire and Security Services segment relating to the electronic
security services business of ADT. The assets principally comprise subscriber
systems installed at customers' premises, which are included in property, plant
and equipment, and the related goodwill and other intangible assets.
 
     Of this charge, $397.1 million related to an impairment in the carrying
value of subscriber systems, principally in the commercial sector, including the
related goodwill, which principally arose on the acquisition of ADT Security
Services in 1987. Since 1989, the Company's electronic security services
operations in the residential sector have developed at a very rapid rate based
principally on internally generated growth. As a consequence, the Company's
operations in the commercial sector, which were acquired principally in 1987,
have now been complemented by a significant residential electronic security
services operation and operations have been reorganized along separate
commercial and residential business lines, rather than on an aggregate
geographic basis. When the financial projections and estimated cash flows of the
commercial sector were analyzed separately, they indicated that the carrying
value of the related assets may not be fully recoverable. The impairment charge
amounted to $303.4 million in the United States, $56.7 million in Canada and
$37.0 million in Europe.
 
     The remaining $334.6 million impairment charge relates to the electronic
security services of the ASH Group, which principally arose on the acquisition
of certain of the businesses of Modern Security Systems in 1989 and 1990, API
Security in 1989 and the Sonitrol Group in 1992. After a review of the carrying
value of subscriber systems and related goodwill and other intangibles in
connection with a reorganization of both the commercial and residential business
sectors to address, in part, changes in the electronic security services
business environment and performance similar to those being addressed by the ADT
group, an impairment charge in the carrying values of the assets was recorded.
In addition, the aggregate fair value of ADT common shares issued to ASH
shareholders was significantly less than ASH's consolidated net asset value. It
was for all of these reasons that the Company reviewed the assets for impairment
upon adoption of SFAS 121. The impairment charge amounted to $211.2 million in
the United Kingdom and $123.4 million in the United States.
 
     An impairment charge of $13.0 million was recorded in the Company's vehicle
auction business, included in the Disposable and Specialty Products segment,
relating to an impairment in the carrying value of property and related
improvements, including related goodwill, which principally arose on the
acquisition of ADT Automotive in 1987.
 
12.  OTHER INCOME LESS EXPENSES
 
     Other income less expenses in 1996 consists of a litigation settlement gain
of $65.0 million (See Note 3) and gains on long-term investments of $54.4
million. During 1996 gains arising from the ownership of long-term investments
comprised a net gain of $53.4 million relating to the disposal in November 1996
of ADT's entire investment in Limelight Group plc, a United Kingdom quoted
company, which was previously valued and accounted for by ADT at a nominal
amount, a net gain of $1.2 million relating to the disposal of ADT's equity
investment in Integrated Transport Systems Limited (Note 3) and other net losses
of $0.2 million principally arising from the disposal of other non-core
investments.
 
13.  EXTRAORDINARY ITEMS
 
     The extraordinary item during Fiscal 1998 of $3.6 million was the write off
of unamortized deferred financing costs related to the LYONS (Note 4) and was
stated net of applicable income tax benefit of $1.2 million. During Fiscal 1997
and 1996 the Company reacquired in the market certain of its long-term debt
 

                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
which was financed from cash on hand and new credit agreements. Extraordinary
items during Fiscal 1997 and 1996 included the loss arising on reacquisition of
these notes of $79.7 million and $5.1 million, respectively, and the write off
of unamortized deferred refinancing costs and other related fees of $11.6
million and $4.0 million, respectively, and were stated net of applicable income
tax benefit of $33.0 million and $0.7 million, respectively.
 
14.  EARNINGS (LOSS) PER COMMON SHARE
 
     During the first quarter of Fiscal 1998, the Company was required to adopt
SFAS No. 128, "Earnings Per Share." SFAS No. 128 specifies the computation,
presentation and disclosure requirements for earnings per share and is
substantially similar to the standards recently issued by the International
Accounting Standards Committee entitled "International Accounting Standards
Earnings Per Share". Prior period earnings per common share data have been
restated in accordance with the provisions of this statement.
 
     The reconciliations between basic and diluted earnings (loss) per common
share are as follows:
 

 
     The computation of diluted income per common share in Fiscal 1998 excludes
the effect of the assumed exercise of approximately 3.6 million stock options
that were outstanding as of September 30, 1998 because the effect would be
anti-dilutive. The effect on diluted loss per common share in Fiscal 1997 and
1996 resulting from the assumed exercise of all outstanding stock options and
warrants and the exchange of outstanding LYONS is anti-dilutive.
 
15.  MERGER, RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER NON-RECURRING CHARGES
 
     Merger, restructuring and other non-recurring charges are as follows:
 

 
  1997 Charges
 
     In connection with the mergers consummated in Fiscal 1997 (Note 2), the
Company recorded merger, restructuring and other non-recurring charges of $917.8
million. Transaction costs of $239.8 million to effect
 

                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
the mergers relate to legal, accounting, financial advisory services, severance
and other costs payable at the effective time of the mergers as well as other
direct expenses. These were expensed as is required under the pooling of
interests accounting method. Also incurred were costs required to combine ADT's
electronic security business, Keystone's valve manufacturing and distribution
business and INBRAND's disposable medical products business with the related
businesses of Former Tyco. These costs include the cost of workforce reductions
of $130.3 million including the elimination of approximately 4,000 positions,
the combination of certain facilities of $194.2 million involving the closure of
18 manufacturing facilities and the consolidation of sales and service offices,
electronic security system monitoring centers, warehouses and other locations,
disposing of excess equipment and other assets of $133.5 million and other costs
of $220.0 million relating to the consolidation of certain product lines, the
satisfaction of certain liabilities and other non-recurring charges.
Approximately $137.6 million of accrued merger and restructuring costs are
included in other current liabilities and $49.4 million in other noncurrent
liabilities at September 30, 1998. The Company currently anticipates that the
restructurings will be completed during Fiscal 1999, except for certain
long-term contractual obligations.
 
  1996 Charges
 
     During 1996, a charge was recorded which was principally attributable to
planned technological infrastructure enhancements to facilitate further
consolidation of ADT's entire United States and Canadian monitoring center
networks together with all related operations. The charge amounted to $139.5
million and included the write-off of certain property, plant and equipment of
$83.9 million, provision for idle property leases of $20.7 million, the
termination of certain contractual obligations and other settlement costs of
$9.4 million and other integration and restructuring costs of $25.5 million.
 
     Also in 1996, ADT commenced a strategic and detailed review of the
electronic security services businesses acquired as part of the acquisition of
ASH in September 1996. This review was intended to integrate fully the ASH group
into ADT's existing electronic security service businesses in the United Kingdom
and the United States. A restructuring charge of $97.8 million was recorded
which included the write-off of certain property, plant and equipment of $13.2
million, provision for idle property leases of $22.5 million, the termination of
certain contractual obligations and other settlement costs of $35.2 million and
other integration and restructuring costs of $26.9 million.
 
     Approximately $17.6 million of costs related to these charges are included
in other current and noncurrent liabilities at September 30, 1998. These
restructurings are substantially complete.
 
     The fees and expenses related to the ASH merger were expensed as required
under the pooling of interests accounting method. Such fees and expenses
amounted to $8.8 million in 1996.
 
16.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
 
     The Company occupies certain facilities under leases that expire at various
dates through the year 2021. Rental expense under these leases and leases for
equipment was $202.6 million, $153.5 million and $178.8 million for Fiscal 1998,
Fiscal 1997, and 1996, respectively. At September 30, 1998, the minimum lease
payment obligations under noncancelable operating leases were as follows: $147.6
million in Fiscal 1999, $121.6 million in Fiscal 2000, $78.7 million in Fiscal
2001, $62.8 million in Fiscal 2002, $46.7 million in Fiscal 2003 and an
aggregate of $222.3 million in Fiscal years 2004 through 2021.
 
     In the normal course of business, the Company is liable for contract
completion and product performance. In the opinion of management, such
obligations will not significantly affect the Company's financial position or
results of operations.
 
     The Company is involved in various stages of investigation and cleanup
related to environmental remediation matters at a number of sites. The ultimate
cost of site cleanup is difficult to predict given the


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation
of applicable laws and regulations and alternative cleanup methods. Based upon
the Company's experience with the foregoing environmental matters, the Company
has concluded that there is at least a reasonable possibility that remedial
costs will be incurred with respect to these sites in an aggregate amount in the
range of $16.5 million to $44.6 million. At September 30, 1998, the Company has
concluded that the most probable amount that will be incurred within this range
is $21.0 million, and such amount is included in the caption "accrued expenses
and other current liabilities" in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Based upon information available to the Company, at those sites where there has
been an allocation of the liability for cleanup costs among a number of parties,
including the Company, and such liability could be joint and several, management
believes it is probable that other responsible parties will fully pay the cost
allocated to them, except with respect to one site for which the Company has
assumed that one of the identified responsible parties will be unable to pay the
cost apportioned to it and that such party's cost will be reapportioned among
the remaining responsible parties. In view of the Company's financial position
and reserves for environmental matters of $21.0 million, the Company has
concluded that its payment of such estimated amounts will not have a material
effect on its financial position, results of operations or liquidity.
 
     The Company is a defendant in a number of other pending legal proceedings
incidental to present and former operations, acquisitions and dispositions. The
Company does not expect the outcome of these proceedings either individually or
in the aggregate to have a material adverse effect on its financial position,
results of operations or liquidity.
 
17.  RETIREMENT PLANS
 
     Defined Benefit Pension Plans -- The Company has a number of
noncontributory and contributory defined benefit retirement plans covering
certain of its U.S. and non-U.S. employees, designed in accordance with
conditions and practices in the countries concerned. Contributions are based on
periodic actuarial valuations which use the projected unit credit method of
calculation and are charged to the consolidated statements of operations on a
systematic basis over the expected average remaining service lives of current
employees. The net pension expense is assessed in accordance with the advice of
professionally qualified actuaries in the countries concerned or is based on
subsequent formal reviews for the purpose. The Company's funding policy is to
make annual contributions to the extent such contributions are tax deductible as
actuarially determined. The benefits under the defined benefit plans are based
on years of service and compensation.
 
     The net periodic pension (benefit) cost for all defined benefit pension
plans includes the following components:
 

 

                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     Accrued (prepaid) pension cost at September 30, 1998 for all defined
benefit plans is as follows:
 

 
     Accrued (prepaid) pension cost at September 30, 1997 for defined benefit
plans is as follows:
 

 
     Pursuant to the provisions of SFAS 87, "Employers' Accounting for
Pensions," the Company recorded, in other liabilities, an additional minimum
pension liability adjustment of $35.8 million and $11.0 million as of September
30, 1998 and September 30, 1997, respectively, representing the amount by which
the accumulated benefit obligation exceeded the fair value of plan assets plus
accrued amounts previously recorded. The additional liability has been offset by
an intangible asset, included in goodwill and other intangible assets, to


                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
the extent of previously unrecognized prior service cost. The amount in excess
of previously unrecognized prior service cost is recorded, net of the related
deferred tax benefit, as a reduction of shareholders' equity in the amount of
$13.8 million at September 30, 1998 and $1.9 million at September 30, 1997,
respectively.
 
     During Fiscal 1998, the Company recorded a gain of $28.4 million related to
the curtailment of a subsidiary's defined benefit pension plan. In Fiscal 1998,
Fiscal 1997, and 1996, the Company terminated certain defined benefit pension
plans and distributed the plans' assets to the participants. Gains and losses in
Fiscal 1997 and 1996 resulting from terminations were not material. In addition,
the Company recognized liabilities for certain plans related to business
acquisitions in each of the years presented, the amounts of which were not
material.
 
     Of the total plan obligations in Fiscal 1998, 54% relate to U.S. plans and
46% relate to non-U.S. plans (in Fiscal 1997, 53% and 47%, respectively). The
average discount rate used in determining the actuarial present value of the
projected benefit obligation, weighted in relation to plan obligations, was 6.5%
at September 30, 1998 (7.5 % at September 30, 1997). The average rate of
increase in future compensation levels was 4.0% at September 30, 1998 (4.8% at
September 30, 1997). The weighted average long-term rate of return on assets was
9.3% at September 30, 1998 (9.6% at September 30, 1997). Plan assets are
invested principally in equity and fixed income instruments.
 
     The Former Tyco also participates in a number of multi-employer defined
benefit plans on behalf of certain employees. Pension expense related to
multi-employer plans was $1.7 million, $1.5 million, and $2.0 million for Fiscal
1998, Fiscal 1997, and 1996, respectively.
 
     Defined Contribution Retirement Plans -- The Company maintains several
defined contribution retirement plans, which include 401(k) matching programs,
as well as qualified and nonqualified profit sharing and stock bonus retirement
plans. Pension expense for the defined contribution plans is computed as a
percentage of participants' compensation and was $36.2 million, $28.0 million
and $31.2 million for Fiscal 1998, Fiscal 1997, and 1996, respectively. The
Company also maintains an unfunded Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan
("SERP"). This plan is nonqualified and restores the employer match that certain
employees lose due to IRS limits on eligible compensation under the defined
contribution plans. Expense related to the SERP was $3.7 million, $2.2 million
and $1.7 million in Fiscal 1998, Fiscal 1997 and 1996, respectively.
 
     Post-retirement Benefit Plans -- The Company generally does not provide
post-retirement benefits other than pensions for its employees. Certain of
Former Tyco's acquired operations provide these benefits to employees who were
eligible at the date of acquisition. In addition, ADT's electronic security
services operation in the United States sponsors an unfunded defined benefit
post-retirement plan which covers both salaried and non-salaried employees and
which provides medical and other benefits. This post-retirement health care plan
is contributory, with retiree contributions adjusted annually. The Company
recorded a gain of $8.8 million related to the curtailment of this plan in
Fiscal 1998.
 
     Net periodic post-retirement benefit cost reflects the following
components:
 

 

                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     The components of the accrued post-retirement benefit obligation, all of
which are unfunded, are as follows:
 

 
     For measurement purposes, in Fiscal 1998, a 9.1% composite annual rate of
increase in the per capita cost of covered health care benefits was assumed. The
rate was assumed to decrease gradually to 4.5% by the year 2008 and remain at
that level thereafter. The health care cost trend rate assumption may have a
significant effect on the amounts reported. To illustrate, increasing the
assumed health care cost trend rate by one percentage point would increase the
accumulated post-retirement benefit obligation as of September 30, 1998 by $4.2
million and the aggregate of the service and interest cost component of net
periodic post-retirement benefit cost for the year then ended by $0.3 million.
The weighted average discount rate used in determining the accumulated
post-retirement benefit obligation was 6.75% at September 30, 1998 (7.5% at
September 30, 1997).
 
18.  CONSOLIDATED SEGMENT DATA
 
     Selected information by industry segment is presented below.
 

 

                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 

 
- ---------------
 (1) Includes charges of $131.3 million related to merger, restructuring and
     other non-recurring charges in connection with the INBRAND merger.
 
 (2) Includes charges of $530.3 million related to merger, restructuring and
     other non-recurring charges and $118.8 million related to the impairment of
     long-lived assets in connection with the merger of ADT and Former Tyco.
 
 (3) Includes charges of $256.2 million related to merger, restructuring and
     other non-recurring charges and $29.6 million related to the impairment of
     long-lived assets in connection with the Keystone merger.
 
 (4) Includes a charge of $361.0 million related to the write off of purchased
     research and development costs in connection with an acquisition.
 
 (5) Includes a charge of $13.0 million related to the impairment of long-lived
     assets in ADT's vehicle auction services operations.
 
 (6) Includes charges of $731.7 million related to the impairment of long-lived
     assets and $237.3 million relating to restructuring and other non-recurring
     items in ADT's electronic security services operations and $8.8 million
     related to professional and other transaction costs in connection with the
     ASH merger.
 

                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
19.  CONSOLIDATED GEOGRAPHIC DATA
 
     Selected information by geographic area is presented below.
 

 

                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
20.  SUPPLEMENTARY BALANCE SHEET INFORMATION:
 
     Selected supplementary balance sheet information is presented below.
 

 
21.  SUPPLEMENTARY INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION:
 
     Selected supplementary income statement information is presented below.
 

 

                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
22.  COMPARATIVE RESULTS (UNAUDITED)
 
     The change in year end resulted in Fiscal 1997 covering the nine month
period ended September 30, 1997. The following unaudited financial information
for the twelve months ended September 30, 1997 is presented to provide
comparative results to those for Fiscal 1998 included in the accompanying
Consolidated Statement of Operations (in millions, except per share amounts).
 

 
23.  SUMMARIZED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)
 
     Summarized quarterly financial data is presented below.
 

 

                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 

 
- ---------------
(1) Includes charges of $9.6 million in the first quarter, $47.0 million in the
    second quarter and $861.2 million in the third quarter related to merger,
    restructuring and other non-recurring charges primarily in connection with
    the merger of ADT and Former Tyco and the Keystone and INBRAND mergers.
 
(2) Includes a charge for the impairment of long-lived assets of $148.4 million
    and $361.0 million for the write-off of purchased in-process research and
    development costs.
 
(3) Extraordinary items were comprised principally of losses on repayment and
    the write off of net unamoritized deferred refinancing costs relating to the
    early extinguishment of debt.
 
24.  TYCO INTERNATIONAL GROUP S.A.
 
     As discussed in Note 4, TIG issued $2.75 billion of debt securities, which
are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Tyco. TIG, a Luxembourg holding
company, is the parent company of substantially all the operating subsidiaries
of the Company. The Company has not included separate financial statements and
footnotes for TIG, because of the full and unconditional guarantee by Tyco and
the Company's belief that such information is not material to the holders of the
debt securities. The following presents consolidated summary financial
information for TIG and its subsidiaries, as if TIG and its organizational
structure as of September 30, 1998 were in place for all periods presented.
 

 

                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 

 
- ---------------
(1) Loss before extraordinary items in Fiscal 1997 includes charges related to
    merger, restructuring and other non-recurring costs of $816.8 million and
    impairment of long-lived assets of $148.4 million primarily related to the
    mergers and integration of ADT, Former Tyco, Keystone, and INBRAND. (See
    Notes 11 and 15). Fiscal 1997 also includes a charge of $361.0 million for
    the write-off of purchased in-process research and development costs.
 
(2) Loss before extraordinary items in 1996 includes non-recurring charges of
    $744.7 million related to the adoption of SFAS No. 121, $237.3 million
    related principally to the restructuring of ADT's electronic security
    services business in the United States and United Kingdom and $8.8 million
    of fees and expenses related to the ASH merger. (See Notes 11 and 15).
 
(3) Extraordinary items were comprised principally of losses on repayment and
    the write off of net unamortized deferred refinancing costs relating to the
    early extinguishment of debt.
 
25.  SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
 
     On October 1, 1998, Tyco consummated a merger with United States Surgical
Corporation ("USSC"), which develops, manufactures and markets a line of
surgical wound closure products and advanced surgical products to hospitals
throughout the world. Shareholders of USSC received 0.7606 shares of Tyco common
stock in exchange for each outstanding share of USSC. A total of approximately
59.2 million shares were issued in this transaction, which will be accounted for
under the pooling of interests method of accounting.
 
     The following pro forma data summarize the consolidated results of
operations for the periods indicated assuming the merger with USSC had been
consummated as of September 30, 1998 and all periods presented are restated for
this transaction (unaudited).
 

 
     In November 1998, the Company announced the completion of its acquisition
of Graphic Controls Corporation for approximately $460 million, including the
assumption of certain outstanding debt. Graphic Controls, a leading designer,
manufacturer, marketer and distributor of disposable medical products, will be
integrated with Ludlow Technical Products within the Tyco Healthcare Group. The
Company intends to account for the acquisition as a purchase.
 

                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     In November 1998, the boards of directors of Tyco and AMP Incorporated
("AMP") approved a definitive merger agreement pursuant to which AMP will merge
with an indirect subsidiary of Tyco. It is estimated that Tyco will issue up to
approximately 186.0 million common shares for delivery by its subsidiary to the
former shareholders of AMP in the merger. The actual number of shares will be
based on Tyco's weighted average stock price for a fifteen day trading period
prior to AMP's shareholder vote on the merger.
 
     AMP, with annual revenues of approximately $5.5 billion, designs,
manufactures and markets a broad range of electronic, electrical, fiber-optic
and wireless interconnective devices and systems. AMP serves customers in the
consumer and industrial, communications, automotive, computer and power
industries. The merger is subject to the approval of both companies'
shareholders and customary regulatory approvals. The transaction is expected to
be accounted for as a pooling of interests.
 

 
                    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                 FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
     Information for all periods presented below reflects the grouping of the
Company's businesses into four business segments consisting of Disposable and
Specialty Products, Fire and Security Services, Flow Control Products, and
Electrical and Electronic Components.
 
     In September 1997, the Company changed its fiscal year end from December 31
to September 30. References to Fiscal 1998, Fiscal 1997 and 1996 refer to the
twelve month fiscal year ended September 30, 1998, the transitional nine month
fiscal year ended September 30, 1997 and the calendar year ended December 31,
1996, respectively. In the discussions below, the results of operations for
Fiscal 1998 compare the fiscal year ended September 30, 1998 with the twelve
months ended September 30, 1997 (unaudited), and the results of operations for
Fiscal 1997 compare the nine months ended September 30, 1997 with the nine
months ended September 30, 1996 (unaudited).
 
  Overview
 
     Income (loss) before extraordinary items was $1.18 billion, or $2.02 per
share on a diluted basis for Fiscal 1998, as compared to ($708.7) million, or
($1.39) per share, for the twelve months ended September 30, 1997. Excluding the
$1.40 billion ($2.59 per share) after-tax charge in the twelve months ended
September 30, 1997 for merger and transaction costs, writeoffs and integration
costs associated with acquisitions (see Notes 2 and 3 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements), income (loss) before extraordinary items rose 70.2% from
$691.4 million, or $1.30 per diluted share. The increase was attributable to
margin improvements, increased sales and results of acquired companies in each
of the Company's business segments.
 
     After each acquisition, acquired companies are immediately integrated and
Tyco does not separately track post-acquisition financial results. Accordingly,
amounts in the following analysis related to the impact of acquired companies
are estimates based on pre-acquisition results.
 
  Sales
 
     Sales increased 25% during Fiscal 1998 to $12.31 billion from $9.82 billion
in the twelve months ended September 30, 1997. Sales of the Disposable and
Specialty Products group increased $865.2 million to $3.45 billion, or 34%,
principally due to increased sales at Kendall, and to a lesser extent ADT
Automotive and Tyco Plastics and Adhesives. The increase at Kendall was
primarily due to the inclusion of Sherwood-Davis & Geck ("Sherwood") and CONFAB,
which were acquired in February 1998 and April 1998, respectively. Excluding the
impact of these acquisitions, sales increased an estimated $213.0 million, or
6%. Sales of the Fire and Security Services group increased $574.1 million, or
14%, to $4.74 billion primarily due to increased sales in the Company's
electronic security services business in the United States. This increase
relates to increased volume of recurring service revenues and to a lesser
extent, the inclusion of the results of companies acquired during Fiscal 1998.
Additionally, sales increased in the European security and fire protection
businesses due to an increase in service and recurring revenues and the
inclusion of the results of acquired companies. Sales of the Flow Control
Products group increased $146.2 million to $2.34 billion, or 7%, reflecting
increased demand for the Company's valve products in North America and Europe,
higher volume at existing businesses at Allied Tube & Conduit and Mueller and
the inclusion of companies acquired in Fiscal 1998. Sales of the Electrical and
Electronic Components group increased $905.5 million to $1.78 billion, or 103%,
principally due to increased sales at Tyco Submarine Systems Ltd. ("TSSL"), as
well as increased sales at Tyco Printed Circuit Group, offset slightly by
decreased sales at Allied Electrical Conduit. The increased sales at TSSL
resulted principally from the acquisition of AT&T's submarine systems business
in July 1997. Excluding the impact of this acquisition, sales increased an
estimated $273.9 million, or 18%.
 
     Sales increased 29% during the nine month fiscal period ended September 30,
1997 to $7.59 billion from $5.87 billion in the nine months ended September 30,
1996. Sales of the Disposable and Specialty Products group increased $580.3
million to $2.0 billion, or 41%, due to increased sales at Kendall, Tyco
Plastics and ADT Automotive. At Kendall and Tyco Plastics, the increase in sales
resulted principally from the INBRAND and Carlisle acquisitions, respectively,
as well as internal growth at Kendall's Healthcare and
 

 
Polyken businesses. Sales of the Fire and Security Services group increased
$473.2 million, or 18%, to $3.15 billion due to increased sales in each
geographic region of the Company's fire protection operations, primarily as a
result of an increase in the volume of service business, as well as increases in
the Company's electronic security services businesses. Additionally, the results
include Thorn Security ("Thorn") which was acquired in July 1996. Sales of the
Flow Control Products group increased $266.8 million to $1.68 billion, or 19%,
reflecting higher volume at European Flow Control, including businesses acquired
in the last quarter of 1996 and first quarter of Fiscal 1997, from Mueller,
including businesses acquired in the third quarter of 1996, as well as increased
volume in existing businesses at Allied, including businesses acquired in the
first quarter of Fiscal 1997, and Grinnell's distribution operations, where
sales increased due to price increases. Sales were relatively unchanged at
Keystone, where growth in international operations was offset by reduced U.S.
dollar equivalents due to currency fluctuations. Sales of the Electrical and
Electronic Components group increased $396.4 million to $754.7 million, or 111%,
resulting principally from the acquisition of AT&T's submarine systems business
in July 1997 and increased sales at Simplex. Increased sales at the Printed
Circuit Group businesses were largely due to the acquisition of ElectroStar in
January 1997, and increased unit volume. Allied's electrical conduit operations
also increased sales.
 
  Income (Loss) Before Income Taxes and Extraordinary Items
 
     Pre-tax income (loss) before extraordinary items was $1.72 billion in
Fiscal 1998, as compared to ($491.2) million in the twelve months ended
September 30, 1997. Pre-tax income for the twelve months ended September 30,
1997 included charges of $1.54 billion for merger, restructuring and other
non-recurring charges. See Notes 11 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements. Excluding these non-recurring charges, pre-tax income (loss)
increased $667.3 million, or 63%, from $1.05 billion in the twelve months ended
September 30, 1997. Amortization expense for goodwill and other intangible
assets was $153.0 million for Fiscal 1998 and $115.8 million for the twelve
months ended September 30, 1997. The following analysis is presented exclusive
of these non-recurring charges to better portray the comparability of recurring
operations.
 
     Operating profits of the Disposable and Specialty Products group increased
$218.6 million to $643.7 million in Fiscal 1998, or 51%. Operating profits were
18.7% of sales in Fiscal 1998 and 16.5% in the twelve months ended September 30,
1997. The increase was principally due to the increased sales at Kendall,
including the effect of the acquisition of Sherwood, fixed cost reductions due
to the integration of Sherwood and increased volume and better margins at Tyco
Plastics and Adhesives. Operating profits of the Fire and Security Services
group increased $217.5 million to $654.9 million, or 50%. Operating profits as a
percentage of sales were 13.8% in Fiscal 1998, as compared to 10.5% in the
twelve months ended September 30, 1997. The overall increase was principally due
to increases in service volume, including recurring monitoring revenue, in the
security and fire protection businesses and higher margins in each geographic
region of the Company's security services business. The operating profits of the
Flow Control Products group increased $80.3 million to $325.9 million, or 33%.
Operating profits were 13.9% of sales in Fiscal 1998, as compared to 11.2% in
the twelve months ended September 30, 1997. The increase was due to increased
volume and margins in the Company's North American and European Flow Control
Products operations, including Keystone's valve products, which have been
integrated into the Company's operations. In addition, there were higher sales
and margins at Allied Tube & Conduit. Operating profits of the Electrical and
Electronic Components group increased $208.6 million to $367.5 million, or 131%,
principally due to the acquisition of AT&T's submarine systems business in July
1997. Operating profits as a percentage of sales were 20.6% in Fiscal 1998, as
compared to 18.2% in the twelve months ended September 30, 1997. Operating
margins increased due to sales increasing at a higher rate than expenses at Tyco
Printed Circuit Group and improved operating efficiencies at Allied Electrical
Conduit, offset by slightly decreased margins at Tyco Submarine Systems Ltd.
 
     The effect of changes in foreign exchange rates during Fiscal 1998, as
compared to the twelve months ended September 30, 1997, was not material to the
Company's sales and operating profits.
 
     Operating profits of the Disposable and Specialty Products group increased
$52.4 million to $328.7 million in Fiscal 1997, or 19%, reflecting higher
earnings at Kendall, including improved manufacturing efficiencies and the
earnings of INBRAND, Tyco Plastics, which, in addition to internal growth in
volume and
 

 
prices, includes the results of Carlisle from September 1996, and ADT
Automotive. Operating profits of the Fire and Security Services group increased
$77.9 million to $336.7 million, or 30%, due to higher margins in each
geographic region of the Company's fire protection operations and electronic
security businesses as well as the inclusion of Thorn. The higher margins in
fire protection were the result of a higher mix of service work within the
contracting business. The operating profits of the Flow Control Products group
increased $47.2 million to $193.7 million, or 32%, resulting principally from
increases in each of Company's operations, and the results of businesses
acquired in Fiscal 1997. Increases in the Company's European Flow Control
businesses were primarily due to increased margins as well as the inclusion of
acquisitions. Increases at Allied and Mueller were a combination of stronger
operating profits resulting from improved operating efficiencies as well as the
inclusion of acquisitions. Operating profits of the Electrical and Electronic
Components group increased $69.9 million to $136.4 million, or 105%, due to
increased earnings at TSSL, principally due to the acquisition of AT&T's
submarine systems business and increased operating levels. Earnings were also up
at the Printed Circuit Group businesses, including ElectroStar, and at Allied's
Electrical Conduit operations.
 
     The effect of changes in foreign exchange rates during Fiscal 1997, as
compared to the nine months ended September 30, 1996 was not material to the
Company's sales and operating profits.
 
     Corporate and other expenses were $68.3 million in Fiscal 1998 compared to
$56.8 million in the twelve months ended September 30, 1997. Corporate and other
expenses were $44.8 million in Fiscal 1997 and $31.4 million in the nine months
ended September 30, 1996. These increases were due principally to higher
compensation expense under the Company's performance-related, incentive
compensation plans.
 
  Selling, General and Administrative Expenses
 
     Total selling, general and administrative expenses were 19.0% of sales in
Fiscal 1998, 20.2% in the twelve months and nine months ended September 30, 1997
and 20.6% during the nine months ended September 30, 1996. The reductions in
selling, general and administrative costs as a percentage of sales is
principally due to the effect of higher sales and the termination of employees
and consolidation of facilities associated with the Fiscal 1997 acquisitions.
 
  Interest Expense
 
     Interest expense increased $47.4 million to $236.2 million in Fiscal 1998,
as compared to the twelve months ended September 30, 1997, due to higher average
debt balances, as a result of monies borrowed to pay for acquisitions, partially
offset by lower average interest rates. The weighted average rate of interest on
all long-term debt during Fiscal 1998, Fiscal 1997 and 1996 was 6.5%, 7.6% and
8.0%, respectively. Interest expense decreased $4.5 million to $137.5 million
during Fiscal 1997, as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 1996, due
to lower average interest rates partially offset by higher average debt
balances, as a result of monies borrowed to make acquisitions.
 
  Extraordinary Items
 
     Extraordinary items in Fiscal 1998, Fiscal 1997 and 1996 included net
losses amounting to $2.4 million, $58.3 million and $8.4 million, respectively,
arising on the reacquisition of certain of the Company's senior, senior
subordinated and public notes and the write off of net unamortized deferred
financing costs related to the LYONS. Further details are provided in Notes 4
and 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
  Income Tax Expense
 
     The effective income tax rate was 31.5% during Fiscal 1998, 34.2% in the
twelve months ended September 30, 1997, 35.2% in the nine months ended September
30, 1997 and 36.4% in the nine months ended September 30, 1996. The decreases in
the effective income tax rates were due to higher earnings in domiciles with
lower income tax rates. The effective income tax rates for 1997 and 1996 exclude
the impact of non-recurring charges. Management believes that the Company will
generate sufficient future income to realize the tax benefits related to its
deferred tax asset. A valuation allowance has been maintained due to continued
uncertainties of realization of certain tax attributes, primarily tax loss
carryforwards. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 

 
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
 
     As presented in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, net cash provided
by operating activities was $1.64 billion in Fiscal 1998. The significant
changes in working capital were a $317.7 million decrease in accounts payable,
accruals and other liabilities resulting principally from spending for merger,
restructuring and other non-recurring costs, a $150.3 million increase in income
taxes payable, a $91.4 million increase in contracts in process and a $86.2
million increase in accounts receivable. The impact of changes in foreign
exchange rates during Fiscal 1998 did not materially affect net working capital.
Working capital requirements are not anticipated to increase substantially in
Fiscal 1999.
 
     During Fiscal 1998, the Company used cash of $3.82 billion to acquire
companies in its four business segments, $781.3 million to purchase property,
plant and equipment, $222.6 million to purchase treasury shares and $56.5
million to pay dividends to shareholders.
 
     The level of capital expenditures is expected to increase moderately in
Fiscal 1999, and the primary source of funds for such expenditures is expected
to be cash from operations.
 
     Expenditures for environmental matters are not expected to have a material
effect on the Company in Fiscal 1999. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.
 
     The source of the cash used for acquisitions was an increase in total debt,
proceeds from the sale of common shares and cash flows from operations. At
September 30, 1998, the Company's total debt was $5.00 billion, as compared to
$2.73 billion at September 30, 1997. The increase resulted principally from net
proceeds received of approximately $2.74 billion from the issuance of public
debt discussed below, partially offset by the repayment of amounts outstanding
under the sterling denominated bank facility and the exchange of $155.3 million
principal balance of LYON's for common shares. Goodwill and other intangible
assets were $6.40 billion at September 30, 1998, compared to $2.93 billion at
September 30, 1997. Shareholder's equity was $6.14 billion, or $10.46 per share,
at September 30, 1998, compared to $3.43 billion, or $6.39 per share, at
September 30, 1997. The increase in shareholders' equity was due primarily to
net proceeds of approximately $1.25 billion from the sale of 25.3 million common
shares, net income of $1.17 billion and proceeds of $307.4 million from the
exercise of options. Total debt as a percent of total capitalization (total debt
and shareholders' equity) was 45% at September 30, 1998 and 44% at September 30,
1997.
 
     In February 1998, Tyco US entered into a new $2.25 billion credit agreement
with a group of commercial banks, giving it the right to borrow (a) up to $1.75
billion until February 12, 1999, with the ability to extend, at the option of
Tyco US, to February 12, 2000, and (b) up to $0.5 billion until February 12,
2003. Interest payable on borrowings is variable based upon the borrower's
option of selecting a Eurodollar rate plus margins ranging from 0.17% to 0.19%,
a certificate of deposit rate plus margins ranging from 0.295% to 0.315%, or a
base rate, as defined. If the outstanding principal amount of loans equals or
exceeds one-third of the commitments, the Eurodollar and certificate of deposit
margins are increased by 0.10%. Repayments of amounts outstanding under this
agreement are guaranteed by the Company. In accordance with the terms of this
agreement, in June 1998 Tyco US and Tyco International Group S.A. ("TIG"), a
wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, elected that TIG become the borrower and
that Tyco US cease to be the borrower under this agreement. All other terms and
conditions in effect remained unchanged. Substantially all amounts outstanding
under this credit agreement have been classified as long-term, based on the
Company's ability and intent to refinance this obligation on a long term basis.
 
     Simultaneous with the closing of the new credit agreement, Tyco US reduced
aggregate commitments available under the previously existing credit agreement
from $1.75 billion to $950 million. In March 1998, Tyco US terminated the $950
million credit agreement. Balances outstanding at the time of termination were
repaid with net proceeds from the sale of common shares, discussed below.
 
     In March 1998, the Company sold 25.3 million common shares for
approximately $1.25 billion under a $2.0 billion public shelf registration
statement. The net proceeds from the sale were used to repay indebtedness
incurred for previous acquisitions.
 

 
     In June 1998, TIG issued $750 million 6 1/8% notes due 2001, $750 million
6 3/8% notes due 2005, $750 million 6 1/4% Dealer Remarketable
Securities(sm)("Drs.")(sm) due 2013 and $500 million 7.0% notes due 2028 under a
$3.75 billion public shelf registration statement. Under the terms of the Drs.,
the Remarketing Dealer has an option to remarket the Drs. in June 2003, which if
exercised would subject the Drs. to mandatory tender to the Remarketing Dealer
and reset the interest rate to an adjusted fixed rate until June 2013. If the
Remarketing Dealer does not exercise its option then all Drs. are required to be
tendered to the Company in June 2003. Repayment of amounts outstanding under
these debt securities are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Tyco. The net
proceeds of approximately $2.74 billion were used to repay borrowings under the
$2.25 billion bank credit facility and uncommitted lines of credit of Tyco US.
In connection with the offering of these debt securities, TIG has entered into
two interest rate swap agreements to hedge a portion of the fixed interest rate
terms. These two swap agreements are each based on a notional amount of $650
million and are for a five and seven year term, respectively. Under the terms of
the agreements, TIG receives payments based on fixed interest rates and pays
variable rates, based on LIBOR, not to exceed a specified maximum. Interest is
received or paid semi-annually in June and December. During Fiscal 1998, the
effective interest rate on these instruments approximated the coupon rate.
 
     In October 1998, TIG issued $800 million of debt in a private placement
offering consisting of two series of Notes: $400 million of 5.875% Notes due
November 2004 and $400 million of 6.125% Notes due November 2008. The Notes are
fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Tyco. The net proceeds of approximately
$791.7 million were used to repay borrowings under TIG's $2.25 billion bank
credit facility. In addition, TIG entered into an interest rate swap agreement
to hedge the fixed rate terms of the $400 million Notes due 2008. Under this
agreement, which expires in November 2008, TIG will receive payments at a fixed
rate of 6.125% and will make floating rate payments based on LIBOR, as defined.
See Note 4 to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
     The Company believes that its funding sources are adequate for its
anticipated requirements through expected cash flow from operations.
 
  Backlog
 
     Backlog at September 30, 1998 amounted to $4.1 billion, compared to $2.4
billion at September 30, 1997. Backlog increased in the Company's Electrical and
Electronic Components, Flow Control Products and Fire and Security Services
segments. Within the Electrical and Electronic Components group, backlog
increased principally due to contracts awarded to the Company's submarine
systems business. Within the Flow Control Products group, backlog increased
principally due to an increase in backlog at Earth Tech, including backlog
related to acquisitions, and in the Company's European flow control operations.
Within the Fire and Security Services group, backlog increased principally due
to an increase in backlog at the Company's worldwide security and North American
fire protection businesses.
 
YEAR 2000 COMPLIANCE
 
     Year 2000 compliance programs and systems modifications were initiated by
the Company in Fiscal 1997 in an attempt to ensure that these systems and key
processes will remain functional. The Company is continuing its assessment of
the potential impact of the Year 2000 on date-sensitive information in computer
software programs and operating systems in its product development, financial
business systems and administrative functions, and has begun implementing
strategies to avoid adverse implications. This objective is expected to be
achieved either by modifying present systems using existing internal and
external programming resources or by installing new systems, and by monitoring
supplier, customer and other third-party readiness. Review of the systems
affecting the Company is progressing. The costs of the Company's Year 2000
program to date have not been material and the Company does not anticipate that
the costs of any required modifications to its information technology or
embedded technology systems will have a material adverse effect on its financial
position, results of operations or liquidity.
 
     In the event that the Company or material third parties fail to complete
their Year 2000 compliance programs successfully and on time, the Company's
ability to operate its businesses, service customers, bill or
 

 
collect its revenues or purchase products in a timely manner could be adversely
affected. Although there can be no assurance that the conversion of the
Company's systems will be successful or that the Company's key third-party
relationships will have successful conversion programs, management does not
expect that any such failure would have a material adverse effect on the
financial position, results of operations or liquidity of the Company. The
Company has day-to-day operational contingency plans, and management is in the
process of updating these plans for possible Year 2000 specific operational
requirements.
 
ACCOUNTING AND TECHNICAL PRONOUNCEMENTS
 
     In June 1998, the FASB issued SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities" which is effective for fiscal years
beginning after June 15, 1999. This statement establishes accounting and
reporting standards requiring that every derivative instrument be recorded in
the balance sheet as either an asset or liability measured at its fair value.
SFAS No. 133 also requires that changes in the derivative's fair value be
recognized currently in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are
met. The Company is currently analyzing this new standard.
 
FORWARD LOOKING INFORMATION
 
     Certain statements in this report are "forward looking statements" within
the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All forward
looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. In particular, any statement
contained herein, in press releases, written statements or other documents filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or in the Company's communications
and discussions with investors and analysts in the normal course of business
through meetings, phone calls and conference calls, regarding the consummation
and benefits of future acquisitions, as well as expectations with respect to
future sales, operating efficiencies and product expansion, are subject to known
and unknown risks, uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond the
control of the Company, which may cause actual results, performance or
achievements to differ materially from anticipated results, performances or
achievements. Factors that might affect such forward looking statements include,
among other things, overall economic and business conditions; the demand for the
Company's goods and services; competitive factors in the industries in which the
Company competes; changes in government regulation; changes in tax requirements
(including tax rate changes, new tax laws and revised tax law interpretations);
interest rate fluctuations and other capital market conditions, including
foreign currency rate fluctuations; economic and political conditions in
international markets, including governmental changes and restrictions on the
ability to transfer capital across borders; the ability to achieve anticipated
synergies and other cost savings in connection with acquisitions; the timing,
impact and other uncertainties of future acquisitions; and the Company's ability
and its customers' and suppliers' ability to replace, modify or upgrade computer
programs in order to adequately address the Year 2000 issue.
 

 
                            TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD.
 
                SCHEDULE II -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                                 (IN MILLIONS)
 

 
- ---------------
(1) Deducted from assets.
 
(2) Write-off of accounts receivable considered uncollectible.
 

