
10-K
0001.txt
FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT




                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

[ X ]     ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
          EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

              For the fiscal year ended December 29, 2000

                                       OR

[   ]   TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

             For the transition period from __________ to __________

                          Commission File Number 1-8022

                                 CSX CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                  Virginia                                      62-1051971
      (State or other jurisdiction of                        (I.R.S. Employer
       incorporation or organization)                       Identification No.)

  901 East Cary Street, Richmond, Virginia                      23219-4031
  (Address of principal executive offices)                      (Zip Code)

                                 (804) 782-1400
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

       Title of each class                Name of exchange on which registered
       -------------------                ------------------------------------

   Common Stock, $1 Par Value                   New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes (X) No ( )

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of the registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. ( )

Exhibit Index can be found on page 6.

On January 26, 2001, the aggregate market value of the Registrant's voting stock
held by non-affiliates was approximately $4.2 billion (based on the New York
Stock Exchange closing price on such date).

On January 26, 2001, there were 212,982,301 shares of Common Stock outstanding.

                                                 Portion of Form 10-K into which
    Documents Incorporated by Reference            Documents are Incorporated
    -----------------------------------            --------------------------
1. Portions of the Registrant's Annual                  Part I, II & IV
   Report to Shareholders for the fiscal
   year ended December 29, 2000 ("Annual
   Report")

2. Portions of the Registrant's                             Part III
   Definitive Proxy Statement to be
   filed with respect to its annual
   meeting of shareholders scheduled to
   be held on May 1, 2001 ("Proxy
   Statement")

                                      -1-


                                     PART I

Item 1.   Business

         In response to this Item, the information set forth on page 1 under the
caption "Financial Highlights", page 6 for Rail Operations, page 8 under the
captions "CSX Intermodal", "CSX Lines", "CSX World Terminals", and pages 15-27
under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations" of the Annual Report is incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 2.   Properties

         In response to this Item, the information set forth on pages 15-27
under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations", page 32 under the caption "Properties" and page 38
under the caption "Note 10. Properties." of the Annual Report is incorporated
herein by reference.

Item 3.   Legal Proceedings

         In response to this Item, the information set forth on pages under the
captions "New Orleans Tank Car Fire Litigation" and "Environmental Management",
page 25 under the captions "New Orleans Tank Car Fire" and "ECT Dispute" and
pages 44 and 45 under the captions "Environmental" and "Other Legal Proceedings"
of the Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

         There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders in the
fourth quarter of 2000.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

         Executive officers of CSX Corporation are elected by the CSX Board of
Directors and hold office until the next annual election of officers. Officers
of CSX business units are elected annually by the respective Boards of Directors
of the business units. There are no family relationships or any arrangement or
understanding between any officer and any other person pursuant to which such
officer was selected.

Name and Age                     Business Experience During Past 5 Years
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
John W. Snow, 61                 Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
                                 of CSX since February 1991.

Paul R. Goodwin, 58              Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer of
                                 CSX since April 2000. Prior to April 2000, Mr
                                 Goodwin served as CSX Executive Vice
                                 President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer.

Mark  G. Aron, 58                Executive Vice President-Law and Public Affairs
                                 of CSX since April 1995.

Andrew B. Fogarty, 56            Senior Vice President-Corporate Services of CSX
                                 since September 1997. Prior to September 1997,
                                 Mr. Fogarty served as Senior Vice
                                 President-Finance and Planning, Sea-Land, from
                                 June 1996 to August 1997; and prior thereto as
                                 CSX Vice President-Audit and Advisory Services

                                      -2-


Lester M. Passa, 46              Senior Vice President - Strategic Planning of
                                 CSX since November 2000. Prior to November
                                 2000, Mr. Passa served as President and CEO of
                                 CSX Intermodal from November 1997 to November
                                 2000; CSXT Vice President-Commercial
                                 Integration from July 1997 to November 1997;
                                 and prior thereto as an officer of Conrail Inc.
                                 as Senior Vice President-Automotive Service
                                 Group from February 1997 to July 1997; and
                                 prior thereto as Vice President-Logistics &
                                 Corporate Strategy.

Jesse R. Mohorovic, 58           Group Vice President-Corporate Communications
                                 and Investor Relations since April 1998. Prior
                                 to April 1998, Mr. Mohorovic served as CSX Vice
                                 President-Corporate Relations.

James L. Ross, 62                Vice President and Controller of CSX since
                                 April 1996. Prior to April 1996, Mr. Ross
                                 served as CSX Vice President-Special Projects.

Michael J. Ward, 50              President of CSXT since November 2000. Prior to
                                 November 2000, Mr Ward served as an officer of
                                 CSXT as Executive Vice President - Operations,
                                 from April 2000 to November 2000; Executive
                                 Vice President-Coal Service Group from August
                                 1999 to April 2000; Executive Vice
                                 President-Coal & Merger Planning from October
                                 1998 to August 1999; Executive Vice
                                 President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer
                                 from June 1996 to October 1998; and prior
                                 thereto as Senior Vice President-Finance.


P. Michael Giftos, 54            Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial
                                 Officer of CSXT since April 2000. Prior to
                                 April 2000, Mr. Giftos served as CSXT Senior
                                 Vice President and General Counsel.

Frederick J. Favorite, Jr., 47   Senior Vice President-Finance of CSXT since
                                 February 2000. Prior to February 2000, Mr.
                                 Favorite served as Vice President-Finance,
                                 CSXT, from December 1998 to January 2000; as
                                 Vice President-Planning, CSXT, from September
                                 1996 to December 1998; and prior thereto as
                                 Vice President-Finance, Sea-Land.

Robert J. Grassi, 54             President and Chief Executive Officer of CSX
                                 World Terminals since June 1999. Prior to June
                                 1999, Mr. Grassi served as an officer of
                                 Sea-Land as Senior Vice President-Finance and
                                 Planning from August 1997 to June 1999; Senior
                                 Vice President-Atlantic, AME Services from June
                                 1996 to August 1997; and prior thereto as
                                 Senior Vice President - Finance and Planning.

                                      -3-


Charles G. Raymond, 57           President and Chief Executive Officer of CSX
                                 Lines since June 1999. Prior to June 1999, Mr.
                                 Raymond served as an officer of Sea-Land as
                                 Senior Vice President and Chief Transportation
                                 Officer.


                                     PART II

Item 5.    Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

         In response to this Item, the information set forth on page 50,
"Shareholder Information", and page 51, "Corporate Information", of the Annual
Report is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 6.    Selected Financial Data

         In response to this Item, the information set forth on page 1 of the
Annual Report under the caption "Financial Highlights" is incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 7.    Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
           Results of Operations

         In response to this Item, the information set forth on pages 15-27 of
the Annual Report under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations" is incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 7A.   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

         In response to this Item, the information set forth on page 21 of the
Annual Report under the caption "Market Risk" is incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 8.    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

         In response to this Item, the information set forth on pages 28-48 and
page 49 under the caption "Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)" of the Annual
Report is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 9.    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
           Financial Disclosure

         None.

                                      -4-


                                    PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

         In accordance with Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K, the information
required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the Proxy
Statement, except for the information regarding the executive officers of the
Registrant which is included in Part I of this report under the caption
"Executive Officers of the Registrant."

Item 11.   Executive Compensation

         In accordance with Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K, the information
required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the Proxy
Statement.

Item 12.   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

         In accordance with Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K, the information
required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the Proxy
Statement.

Item 13.   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

         In accordance with Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K, the information
required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the Proxy
Statement.


                                     PART IV

Item 14.   Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K

        (a) (1)   Financial Statements

                  The following consolidated financial statements and
                  independent auditor's report, which appear on pages 28-48 of
                  the Annual Report, are incorporated herein by reference:

                      Consolidated Statement of Earnings for the Fiscal Years
                      Ended Dec. 29, 2000, Dec. 31, 1999, and Dec. 25, 1998

                      Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the Fiscal Years
                      Ended Dec. 29, 2000, Dec. 31, 1999, and Dec. 25, 1998

                      Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at Dec. 29,
                      2000 and Dec. 31, 1999

                      Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders' Equity
                      for the Fiscal Years Ended Dec. 29, 2000, Dec. 31, 1999,
                      and Dec. 25, 1998

                      Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                      Report of Independent Auditors

                      The following financial statement footnote was not
                      included in the Annual Report.

                                      -5-


                      Note 20. Summarized Consolidating Financial Data - CSX
                      Lines (formerly Sea-Land )

                      During 1987, Sea-Land entered into agreements to sell and
                      lease back by charter three new U.S. -built , U.S. -flag,
                      D-7 class container ships. The ships were not included in
                      the sale of international liner assets to Maersk in
                      December 1999 and the related debt remains an obligation
                      of CSX Lines. CSX has guaranteed the obligations of CSX
                      Lines pursuant to the related charters which, along with
                      the container ships, serve as collateral for debt
                      securities registered with the Securities and Exchange
                      Commission (SEC). The 2000 consolidating schedules reflect
                      CSX Lines as the obligor and the 1999 and 1998
                      consolidating schedules reflect Sea-Land as the obligor.
                      In accordance with SEC disclosure requirements,
                      consolidating financial information for the parent and
                      guarantors are as follows: (amounts in millions)














                      (2)  Financial Statement Schedules

                  The information required by Rule 3-09 is included in the
                  Annual Report in Note 3 to the consolidated financial
                  statements, "Investment in and Integrated Rail Operations with
                  Conrail" and the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements of
                  Conrail Inc., filed herewith as exhibit 99.1. The information
                  required by Schedule II is included in the Annual Report in
                  Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements, "Casualty,
                  Environmental and Other Reserves." All other financial
                  statement schedules are not applicable.

         (3)      Exhibits

                  3.1      Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of the
                           Registrant (incorporated herein by reference to
                           Exhibit 3 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form
                           10-K dated February 15, 1991)
                  3.2      Bylaws of the Registrant, as amended (incorporated
                           herein by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the
                           Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K dated March
                           7, 2000)
                  4.1(a)   Indenture, dated August 1, 1990, between the
                           Registrant and The Chase Manhattan Bank, as Trustee
                           (incorporated herein by reference to the Registrant's
                           Form SE dated September 7, 1990)
                  4.1(b)   First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 15,
                           1991, between the Registrant and The Chase Manhattan
                           Bank, as Trustee (incorporated herein by reference to
                           Exhibit 4(c) to the Registrant's Form SE, dated May
                           28, 1992, filed with the Commission)
                  4.1(c)   Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of May 6,
                           1997, between the Registrant and The Chase Manhattan
                           Bank, as Trustee (incorporated herein by reference to
                           Exhibit 4.3 to the Registrant's Registration
                           Statement on Form S-4 (Registration No. 33-28523)
                           filed with the Commission on June 5, 1997)
                  4.1(d)   Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 22,
                           1998, between the Registrant and The Chase Manhattan
                           Bank, as Trustee (incorporated herein by reference to
                           Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant's Current Report on
                           Form 8-K filed with the Commission on May 12, 1998)

                  Pursuant to Regulation S-K, Item 601(b)(4)(iii), instruments
                  that define the rights of holders of the Registrant's
                  long-term debt securities, where the long-term debt securities
                  authorized under each such instrument do not exceed 10% of the
                  Registrant's total assets, have been

                                      -6-


                  omitted and will be furnished to the Commission upon request.

                  10.1     CSX Stock Plan for Directors, as amended
                           (incorporated herein by reference to Appendix A to
                           the Definitive Proxy Statement dated March 18,
                           1997)**
                  10.2     Corporate Director Deferred Compensation Plan, as
                           amended (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
                           10.3 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K
                           dated February 18, 1998)**
                  10.3     CSX Directors' Charitable Gift Plan, as amended
                           (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to
                           the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K dated
                           March 4, 1994)**
                  10.4     CSX Directors' Matching Gift Plan, as amended
                           (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to
                           the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K dated
                           March 14, 1997)**
                  10.5     Form of Agreement with J. W. Snow, and R.J. Grassi
                           (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to
                           the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K dated
                           March 3, 1995)**
                  10.6     Form of Amendment to Agreement with R.J. Grassi
                           (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to
                           the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K dated
                           March 14, 1997)**
                  10.7     Form of Retention Agreement with A. R. Carpenter
                           (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to
                           the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K dated
                           February 28, 1992)**
                  10.8     Agreement with J. W. Snow (incorporated herein by
                           reference to Exhibit 10.9 to the Registrant's Annual
                           Report on Form 10-K dated March 4, 1994)**
                  10.9     Amendment to Agreement with J. W. Snow (incorporated
                           herein by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to the
                           Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K dated March
                           14, 1997)**
                  10.10    Amendment to Agreement with J. W. Snow (incorporated
                           herein by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to the
                           Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K dated
                           February 18, 1998)**
                  10.11    Agreement with R. J. Conway (incorporated herein by
                           reference to Exhibit 10.11 to the Registrants Annual
                           Report on Form 10K dated March, 7, 2000)**
                  10.12    Employment Agreement with J. W. Snow (incorporated
                           herein by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to the
                           Registrants Annual Report on Form 10K dated March, 7,
                           2000)**
                  10.13    Employment Agreement with A. R. Carpenter
                           (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.13 to
                           the Registrants Annual Report on Form 10K dated
                           March, 7, 2000)**
                  10.14    Employment Agreement with R. J. Conway (incorporated
                           herein by reference to Exhibit 10.14 to the
                           Registrants Annual Report on Form 10K dated March, 7,
                           2000)**
                  10.15*   Employment Separation and Consulting Agreement with
                           R. J. Conway**
                  10.16*   Form of Employment Agreement with A. R. Carpenter, P.
                           R. Goodwin and M. G. Aron**
                  10.17*   Form of Stock Option Agreement**
                  10.18    CSX Market Value Cash Plan (incorporated herein by
                           reference to Exhibit 10.13 to the Registrant's Annual
                           Report on Form 10-K dated March 3, 1999)**
                  10.19    Stock Purchase and Loan Plan, as amended
                           (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10. 14
                           to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K dated
                           March 3,

                                      -7-


                           1999)**
                  10.20    1987 Long-Term Performance Stock Plan, as Amended and
                           Restated Effective April 25, 1996 (as Amended through
                           September 8, 1999)-(incorporated by reference to
                           Exhibit 10.18 to the Registrant's Annual Report on
                           Form 10-K dated March 7, 2000)**
                  10.21    1985 Deferred Compensation Program for Executives of
                           CSX Corporation and Affiliated Companies, as amended
                           (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.16 to
                           the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K dated
                           February 18, 1998)**
                  10.22    Supplementary Savings Plan and Incentive Award
                           Deferral Plan for Eligible Executives of CSX
                           Corporation and Affiliated Companies, as Amended and
                           Restated January 1, 1995 (as Amended through
                           September 8, 1999)-(Incorporated by reference to
                           Exhibit 10.20 to the Registrant's Annual Report on
                           Form 10-K dated March 7, 2000)**
                  10.23*   Special Retirement Plan of CSX Corporation and
                           Affiliated Companies, as Amended and Restated January
                           1, 1995 (as Amended through June 27, 2000)**
                  10.24*   Supplemental Retirement Benefit Plan of CSX
                           Corporation and Affiliated Companies, as Amended and
                           Restated January 1, 1995 (as Amended through June 27,
                           2000)**
                  10.25    Senior Executive Incentive Compensation Plan
                           (incorporated herein by reference to Appendix B to
                           the Registrant's Definitive Proxy Statement dated
                           March 17, 2000)**
                  10.26    CSX Omnibus Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference
                           to Appendix A to the Registrant's Definitive Proxy
                           Statement dated March 17, 2000)
                  10.27    1990 Stock Award Plan as Amended and Restated
                           Effective February 14, 1996
                           (as Amended through September 8, 1999)-(Incorporated
                           by reference to Exhibit 10.24 to the Registrants
                           Annual Report on Form 10-K dated March 7, 2000)**
                  10.28*   CSX Long Term Incentive Cash Program**
                  10.29    CSX 2000 Stock Reacquisition Plan
                           (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99 to the
                           Registrant's Registration Statement on Form S-8
                           (Registration No. 33-48896 filed with the Commission
                           on October 30, 2000)**
                  10.30    Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (incorporated
                           herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
                           Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with
                           the Commission on June 4, 1997)
                  10.31    Transaction Agreement (incorporated herein by
                           reference to Exhibit 10 to the Registrant's Current
                           Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on July
                           8, 1997)
                  10.32    Amendment No. 1, dated as of August 22, 1998, to the
                           Transaction Agreement, dated as of June 10, 1997, by
                           and among CSX Corporation, CSX Transportation, Inc.,
                           Norfolk Southern Corporation, Norfolk Southern
                           Railway Company, Conrail Inc., Consolidated Rail
                           Corporation, and CRR Holdings LLC. (incorporated
                           herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
                           Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with
                           the Commission on June 11, 1999)
                  10.33    Amendment No. 2, dated as of June 1, 1999, to the
                           Transaction Agreement, dated June 10, 1997, by and
                           among CSX Corporation, CSX Transportation, Inc.,
                           Norfolk Southern Corporation, Norfolk Southern
                           Railway Company, Conrail Inc., Consolidated Rail
                           Corporation, and CRR Holdings, LLC. (incorporated
                           herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the
                           Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with
                           the Commission on June 11, 1999)
                  10.34*   Amendment No. 3, dated as of August 1, 2000, to the
                           Transaction Agreement by and among CSX
                           Corporation,CSX Transportation, Inc., Norfolk
                           Southern Corporation, Norfolk Southern Railway
                           Company, Conrail Inc., Consolidated Rail Corporation,
                           and CRR Holdings LLC.
                  10.35    Operating Agreement, dated as of June 1, 1999, by and
                           between New York Central Lines LLC and CSX
                           Transportation, Inc. (incorporated herein by
                           reference to

                                      -8-


                           Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant's Curren Report on
                           Form 8-K filed with the Commission on June 11, 1999)
                  10.36    Shared Assets Area Operating Agreement for North
                           Jersey, dated as of June 1, 1999, by and among
                           Consolidated Rail Corporation, CSX Transportation,
                           Inc., and Norfolk Southern Railway Company, with
                           exhibit thereto (incorporated herein by reference to
                           Exhibit 10.4 to the Registrant's Current Report on
                           Form 8-K filed with the Commission on June 11, 1999)
                  10.37    Shared Assets Area Operating Agreement for Southern
                           Jersey/Philadelphia, dated as of June 1, 1999, by and
                           among Consolidated Rail Corporation, CSX
                           Transportation, Inc., and Norfolk Southern Railway
                           Company, with exhibit thereto (incorporated herein by
                           reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Registrant's Current
                           Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on June
                           11, 1999)
                  10.38    Shared Assets Area Operating Agreement for Detroit,
                           dated as of June 1, 1999, by and among Consolidated
                           Rail Corporation, CSX Transportation, Inc., and
                           Norfolk Southern Railway Corporation, with exhibit
                           thereto (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
                           10.6 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K
                           filed with the Commission on June 11, 1999)
                  10.39    Monongahela Usage Agreement, dated as of June 1,
                           1999, by and among CSX Transportation, Inc., Norfolk
                           Southern Railway Company, Pennsylvania Lines LLC, and
                           New York Central Lines LLC, with exhibit thereto
                           (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to
                           the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed
                           with the Commission on June 11, 1999)
                  10.40*   Agreement with Bank of America for limited guaranty
                           of loan to A.R. Carpenter**
                  10.41*   Agreement with Bank of America for limited guaranty
                           of loan to J.W. Snow**
                  12*      Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges
                  13*      Annual Report to Shareholders***
                  21*      Subsidiaries of the Registrant
                  23.1*    Consent of Ernst & Young LLP
                  23.2*    Consent of Ernst & Young LLP and KPMG LLP,
                           Independent Auditors
                  23.3*    Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, Independent
                           Accountants
                  24*      Powers of Attorney
                  99.1*    Audited Consolidated Financial Statements of Conrail
                           Inc. for the Years Ended Dec. 31, 2000,1999, and 1998

                                      -9-


                  *        Filed herewith
                  **       Management Contract or Compensatory Plan or
                           Arrangement
                  ***      Except for those portions of the Annual Report which
                           are expressly incorporated by reference in this Form
                           10-K, the Annual Report is furnished for the
                           information of the Securities and Exchange Commission
                           only and is not to be deemed "filed" as part of this
                           Form 10-K.

     (b)      Reports on Form 8-K

              Form 8-K filed on January 31, 2001 to restate prior-period
              financial statements to reflect the contract logistics segment as
              a discontinued operation.

                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
                                       CSX CORPORATION
                                       (Registrant)

                                       By: /s/JAMES L. ROSS
                                           ----------------
                                           James L. Ross
                                           Vice President and Controller
                                           (Principal Accounting Officer)
Dated:  February 28, 2001


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and
in the capacities indicated on February 28, 2001.

Signature                              Title
- ------------------------------         --------------------------------------

/s/ JOHN W. SNOW*                      Chairman of the Board, President,
- -----------------
John W. Snow                           Chief Executive Officer and Director
                                       (Principal Executive Officer)

/s/ PAUL R. GOODWIN*                   Executive Vice President-Finance and
- --------------------
Paul R. Goodwin                        Chief Financial Officer
                                       (Principal Financial Officer)

/s/ ELIZABETH E. BAILEY*               Director
- ------------------------
Elizabeth E. Bailey

/s/ H. FURLONG BALDWIN*                Director
- -----------------------
H. Furlong Baldwin

/s/ CLAUDE S. BRINEGAR*                Director
- -----------------------
Claude S. Brinegar

/s/ ROBERT L. BURRUS, JR.*             Director
- --------------------------
Robert L. Burrus, Jr.

                                      -10-


/s/ BRUCE C. GOTTWALD*                 Director
- ----------------------
Bruce C. Gottwald

/s/ JOHN R. HALL*                      Director
- -----------------
John R. Hall

/s/ E. BRADLEY JONES*                  Director
- ---------------------
E. Bradley Jones

/s/ ROBERT D. KUNISCH*                 Director
- ----------------------
Robert D. Kunisch

/s/ JAMES W. MCGLOTHLIN*               Director
- ------------------------
James W. McGlothlin

/s/ SOUTHWOOD J. MORCOTT*              Director
- -------------------------
Southwood J. Morcott

/s/ CHARLES E. RICE*                   Director
- --------------------
Charles E. Rice

/s/ WILLIAM C. RICHARDSON*             Director
- --------------------------
William C. Richardson

/s/ FRANK S. ROYAL, M.D.*              Director
- -------------------------
Frank S. Royal, M.D.

*By: /s/ ELLEN M. FITZSIMMONS
     ------------------------
Ellen M. Fitzsimmons
Attorney-in-Fact

                                      -11-

