
10-K405
0001.txt
10-K DOCUMENT


                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                           Washington, D. C.  20549

                                  Form  10-K

                 Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d)
                     of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000   Commission file number 1-6682
                          -----------------                          ------

                                 Hasbro, Inc.
                             --------------------
                             (Name of Registrant)
      Rhode Island                                          05-0155090
- ------------------------                                -------------------
(State of Incorporation)                                 (I.R.S. Employer
                                                        Identification No.)

              1027 Newport Avenue, Pawtucket, Rhode Island 02861
              --------------------------------------------------
                   (Address of Principal Executive Offices)

                                (401) 431-8697
                                --------------

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                     Name of each exchange
      Title of each class                             on which registered
      -------------------                            ---------------------

Common Stock                                        New York Stock Exchange
Preference Share Purchase Rights                    New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes[X] or No[ ].

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part II of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K. [X]


The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant computed by reference to the price at which the stock was sold on
March 23, 2001 was $1,946,512,990.

The number of shares of Common Stock outstanding as of March 23, 2001 was
172,456,278.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

  Portions of registrant's definitive proxy statement for its 2001 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders are incorporated by reference into Part III of this
Report.

  Selected information contained in registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders
for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000, is included as Exhibit 13, and
incorporated by reference into Parts I and II of this Report.


                                    PART I

ITEM  1.  BUSINESS
          --------
  (a) General Development of Business
      -------------------------------
  Except as expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, as
used herein, the "Company" means Hasbro, Inc., a Rhode Island corporation
organized on January 8, 1926, and its subsidiaries.

  The Company is a worldwide leader in children's and family leisure time and
entertainment products and services, including the design, manufacture and
marketing of games and toys ranging from traditional to high-tech. Both
internationally and in the U.S., its widely recognized core brands such as
PLAYSKOOL, TONKA, SUPER SOAKER, MILTON BRADLEY, PARKER BROTHERS, TIGER, and
WIZARDS OF THE COAST provide what the Company believes to be the highest
quality play experiences in the world. In its offerings are a broad variety of
games, including traditional board and card, hand-held electronic, electronic
interactive products, robotic pets, electronic learning aid, children's
consumer electronic, trading card, roleplaying and puzzles. Toy offerings
include boys' action, preschool, creative play and girls' toys, dolls and
plush products. The Company also licenses to others various trademarks,
characters and other property rights for use in connection with consumer
promotions and the sale by others of noncompeting toys and non-toy products.

  (b) Description of Business Segments and Products
      ---------------------------------------------
  The Company's focus on managing its business covers two major areas, Toys
and Games. Organizationally, the Company's reportable segments are U.S. Toys,
Games, International and Global Operations. Financial information with respect
to the Company's segments is included in the Annual Report to Shareholders for
the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000.

  In the United States, the U.S. Toy segment includes the design, development,
marketing and selling of boys' action figures, vehicles and playsets, girls'
toys, preschool toys and infant products and creative play products. The Games
segment includes the design, development, marketing and selling of traditional
board and card games and puzzles, handheld electronic games, electronic
interactive products, children's consumer electronics, electronic learning
aids, and trading card and roleplaying games.  During 2000, the Games segment
also included interactive software games based on the Company's owned and
licensed brands.  The business units carrying these games were sold in January
2001. Within the International segment, the Company develops, markets and
sells both toy and certain game products in non-U.S. markets. The marketing
and sale of WIZARDS OF THE COAST products internationally and TIGER products
in the United Kingdom are managed through the Company's Games segment.

  Global Operations manufactures and sources product for the majority of the
Company's segments. The Company also has other segments which license certain
of the Company's intellectual property to third parties and, which develop and
market non-traditional toy and game based product and historically have
realized more than half of their revenues and the majority of their operating
profit in the first half of the year, which is contra-seasonal to the rest of
the Company's business. In 2000, these other segments did not meet the
quantitative thresholds for reportable segments.

    (i) U.S. Toy
        --------
  In the U.S. Toy segment, the Company's products are marketed as boys' toys,
girls' toys, preschool and creative play.

  Boys' toys are offered across a wide range of core popular properties such
as G.I. JOE, ACTION MAN, TRANSFORMERS action figures, and the TONKA line of
trucks and interactive toys. Other products are tied to entertainment
properties, including STAR WARS, POKEMON and BATMAN toys and accessories. In
2001, the Company will be reintroducing its TRANSFORMERS - ROBOTS IN DISGUISE
line accompanied by an all-new kids television series, as well as a kid-
focused G.I. JOE line. Also in 2001, the Company plans to introduce B.I.O.
BUGS, robotic bugs that can act autonomously using advanced "nervous network"
technology. In addition, the TONKA 2001 product line includes DUSTY MY TALKIN'
TOOL BENCH, an interactive tool bench with personality, and CHOMPER MY TALKIN'
TRUCKBOT, a follow-up to last year's award-winning TUCKER MY TALKIN' TRUCKBOT.
The Company will also feature toy lines based on JURASSIC PARK III, scheduled
for release in July 2001 and Disney/Pixar's MONSTERS, INC., which is due out
in theaters in November 2001.

  Hasbro's girls' toys include the classic RAGGEDY ANN and RAGGEDY ANDY rag
dolls. The Company also offers such popular dolls as MAKEUP MINDY. In 2001,
the Company is introducing SHOEZIES collectible shoe fashions, a kids line of
collectible miniature shoes.

  The U.S. Toy segment's preschool products include a portfolio of core brands
primarily marketed under the PLAYSKOOL trademark.  The PLAYSKOOL line includes
such well-known products as MR. POTATO HEAD, SIT 'N SPIN and GLOWORM, as well
as a successful line of infant toys such as KICK START GYM and the FIRST
STARTS infant line, and preschool role-play products. New products being

introduced during 2001 are the PLAYSKOOL MAGIC SCREEN LEARNING DESK, which
helps children discover letters, numbers, shapes and colors on a unique,
animated light-up screen and three fun play and learn keyboards, and the
PLAYSKOOL BABY EINSTEIN product line, which incorporates music, poetry,
language and art. New 2001 products also feature a licensed product line based
on HIT Entertainment's BOB THE BUILDER, which airs on NICKELODEON.

  Creative Play items for both girls and boys include such classic core lines
as PLAY-DOH, EASY-BAKE OVEN, and LITE-BRITE and SPIROGRAPH design toys. During
2001, the Company will be offering new PLAY-DOH playsets featuring CHUCK E.
CHEESE, BOB THE BUILDER, and Disney/Pixar's MONSTERS, INC., and licensed
refill bake sets for the EASY-BAKE OVEN, including CHIPS AHOY! chocolate chips
and LIFESAVERS cakes.

    (ii) Games
         -----
  The Company markets its games and puzzles under several well known core
brands, including MILTON BRADLEY, PARKER BROTHERS, AVALON HILL, TIGER, AND
WIZARDS OF THE COAST.

  The MILTON BRADLEY, PARKER BROTHERS and AVALON HILL brand portfolios consist
of a broad assortment of games for children, families and adults. The
Company's staple items include MONOPOLY, BATTLESHIP, THE GAME OF LIFE,
SCRABBLE, CHUTES AND LADDERS, CANDY LAND, TROUBLE, MOUSETRAP, OPERATION,
HUNGRY HUNGRY HIPPOS, CONNECT FOUR, TWISTER, YAHTZEE, JENGA, CLUE, SORRY!,
RISK, BOGGLE, OUIJA, DIPLOMACY, ACQUIRE and TRIVIAL PURSUIT as well as a line
of jigsaw puzzles for children and adults. The Company has put in place a
series of marketing initiatives designed to encourage game play among a wide
variety of audiences, including MY FIRST GAMES, FAMILY GAME NIGHT and GET
TOGETHER GAMES. New product introductions for 2001 include POX, a portable
electronic game where players can compete using wireless technology, providing
numerous challenges as characters are built and collected, and M.A.G.S., the
Music Activated Games System where a player's personal choice of music
determines the game experience. In addition, new board games will include
WHEELS ON THE BUS, a preschool game based on the children's song, HANG IN
THERE, a jungle themed skill and action game, and MOODS, a party game testing
verbal and acting skills.

  TIGER ELECTRONICS brand products bring innovation and technology to
entertainment and lifestyle products for the whole family. Electronic
interactive products include POO-CHI, MEOW-CHI, SUPER POO-CHI and FURBY.
Planned for 2001 are I-CYBIE, a fully articulated robo-dog that goes through
several stages of development from puppy to adult dog, as well as a broadened
line of ROBO-CHI interactive pet offerings including CHIRPY-CHI, DINO-CHI,
ROBO-BABY, and PETAL-CHI. Electronic learning aids include licensed product
featuring WINNIE THE POOH and BOB THE BUILDER. Innovative items in the 2001
line include the interactive animatronic SHELBY, a special friend of FURBY,
who has a vocabulary of more than 180 words, as well as OTTOBOT the robotic
friend and MUTSU the interactive fish.  Consumer electronics include HITCLIPS
micro music systems and YAHOO! CAM. 2001 consumer electronics offerings
include i-KARAOKE, a consumer targeted portable karaoke system. Also new for
2001 is a line of robots based on the television show BATTLEBOTS that children
can build, customize and put into action.

  WIZARDS OF THE COAST trading card and roleplaying games include the popular
MAGIC: THE GATHERING, DUNGEONS AND DRAGONS, POKEMON and MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL
SHOWDOWN. MAGIC: THE GATHERING, created in 1993, has worldwide popularity,
with more than six million players in over fifty countries. In 2001, MAGIC:
THE GATHERING - SEVENTH EDITION basic card set will be introduced as well as
the PLANESHIFT, APOCALYPSE and ODYSSEY expansions. WIZARDS OF THE COAST has a
unique organized play program for its trading card games, sanctioning over
80,000 game tournaments around the world in 2000. The Company operates
approximately 100 retail stores under the WIZARDS OF THE COAST and GAME KEEPER
names, many of which not only sell a wide range of games, but provide
important locations for tournaments and other organized play activities. New
for 2001 are the NFL SHOWDOWN and NBA SHOWDOWN trading card games which allow
players to assemble their own lineups, collect their favorite football and
basketball players and compete against other players' teams, the NEO GENESIS
and NEO DISCOVERY expansions for the POKEMON trading card game, and the HARRY
POTTER trading card game, based on the NEW YORK TIMES best-selling novels.

  During 2000, the Company marketed interactive software games under the
HASBRO INTERACTIVE, MICROPROSE and EUROPRESS brands, which include ROLLER
COASTER TYCOON, CIVILIZATION, FALCON and the ATARI properties, such as
CENTIPEDE, MISSILE COMMAND, and PONG. The Company also completed the soft
launch of its internet games portal, Games.com.  In December 2000, the Company
announced it had entered into an agreement with Infogrames Entertainment S.A.
(Infogrames) to sell the business units which make up Hasbro Interactive, as
well as its internet portal, Games.com. This sale closed in January 2001. In
conjunction with this agreement, the Company entered into a licensing
agreement with Infogrames whereby they will develop interactive games based on
the Company's properties. The Company will receive annual royalties, including
a minimum guarantee, from Infogrames based on sales generated under the
licensing agreement.

    (iii) International
          -------------
  In addition to the United States, the Company operates in more than 25
countries, selling a representative range of the toy and game products
marketed in the United States, together with some items which are sold only
internationally. Key international brands for 2000 included POKEMON, ACTION
MAN and FURBY. New products for 2001 include many of those noted in the U.S.
Toy and Game segments above, as well as TURBO SNAILS, a new line of boys'
action figures.

    (iv) Global Operations
         -----------------
  The Company primarily sources production through unrelated manufacturers in
various Far East countries, principally China, using a Hong Kong subsidiary
for quality control and order coordination purposes.  The Company also
manufactures products in the United States, Ireland and Spain. See
"Manufacturing and Importing" below.

    (v) Other Information
        -----------------

  The Company has other segments which generate revenue through the licensing
of intellectual property for promotional and merchandising uses as well as
design, develop and market certain traditional and non-traditional toy and
game based product including the SUPER SOAKER line of water products, the NERF
line of soft action play equipment, a TINKERTOY classic line, and KOOSH brand
products.

  In 2001, the Company has realigned its business segments to consolidate the
toy-related products into its U.S. Toy segment. As a result, many of the
brands reflected in other segments including SUPER SOAKER, NERF, TINKERTOYS,
and KOOSH will be marketed under the boys, girls, preschool and creative play
lines of the U.S. Toy segment in the future.

  To further extend its range of products in its various segments, the Company
has Hong Kong units which market directly to retailers a line of high quality,
low priced toys, games and related products, primarily on a direct import
basis. Direct sales to these customers are reflected in the revenue of the
segment in which the product sold resides.

  In addition, various products are licensed to other companies for certain
countries where the Company does not otherwise have a presence.

  During the 2000 fiscal year, revenues from the POKEMON trading card line of
products contributed 15% of consolidated net revenues of the Company. In 1999,
revenues from the FURBY line of products and the STAR WARS boys toys line of
products contributed 13% and 12%, respectively, of consolidated net revenues
for the Company.

  Working Capital Requirements
  ----------------------------
  The Company's production needs have been financed historically by means of
short-term borrowings which reach peak levels during September through
November of each year when receivables also generally reach peak levels. The
revenue pattern of the Company results in the second half of the year being
more significant to its overall business and, within that half, the fourth
quarter being the most prominent. The trend of retailers over the past few
years has been to make a higher percentage of their purchases within or close
to the fourth quarter holiday consumer selling season, which includes
Christmas. The Company expects that this trend will continue. The toy business
is also characterized by customer order patterns which vary from year to year
largely because of differences each year in the degree of consumer acceptance
of a product line, product availability, marketing strategies and inventory
policies of retailers, the dates of theatrical releases of major motion
pictures for which the Company has licenses for promotional product, and
differences in overall economic conditions. As a result, comparisons of
unshipped orders on any date with those at the same date in a prior year are
not necessarily indicative of sales for that entire given year. Also, quick
response inventory management practices now being used results in fewer orders
being placed in advance of shipment and more orders being placed for immediate
delivery. The Company's unshipped orders at March 4, 2001 and March 5, 2000
were approximately $166,933,000 and $375,000,000, respectively. Also, it is a
general industry practice that orders are subject to amendment or cancellation
by customers prior to shipment. The backlog at any date in a given year can be

affected by programs the Company may employ to induce its customers to place
orders and accept shipments early in the year. This method is a general
industry practice. The programs the Company is employing to promote sales in
2001 are not substantially different from those employed in 2000.

  The Company commits to inventory production, advertising and marketing
expenditures prior to the peak third and fourth quarter retail selling season.
In addition, accounts receivable generally are at peak levels during the
fourth quarter and early in the first quarter of the subsequent year, making
it necessary for the Company to borrow significant amounts pending these
collections. During 2000, the Company relied on internally generated funds and
short-term borrowing arrangements, including commercial paper, to finance its
working capital needs. In February 2001, the Company entered into amended and
restated secured revolving and line of credit facility agreements with its
existing lenders.  These committed lines include long-term and short-term
secured credit agreements of $325,000,000 each. The facilities are secured by
substantially all domestic accounts receivable and inventory, as well as
certain investments and intangible assets of the Company.  The Company is not
required to maintain compensating balances under the agreements.  The
agreements contain certain restrictive covenants setting forth minimum cash
flow and coverage requirements, and a number of other limitations, including
with respect to capital expenditures, investments, acquisitions, share
repurchases and dividend payments.  During 2001, the Company expects to fund
its seasonal working capital needs through operations and these lines of
credit and believes that the funds available to it are adequate to meet its
needs. Amounts available for borrowing under the committed revolving and line
of credit facilities are $325,000,000 (long-term) and $325,000,000 (short-
term) and vary by quarter, with availability at its lowest point of
$300,000,000 in the first quarter of 2001.  Of this amount available,
$213,000,000 is unused at March 4, 2001. In addition, the Company has
$143,000,000 of available uncommitted and unsecured lines of credit at March
4, 2001.

  Royalties, Research and Development
  -----------------------------------
  The continuing development of new products and the redesigning of existing
items for continuing market acceptance are key determinants of success in the
toy and game industry. In 2000, 1999 and 1998, approximately $208,485,000,
$254,599,000 and $184,962,000, respectively, were incurred on activities
relating to the development, design and engineering of new products and their
packaging (including items brought to the Company by independent designers)
and to the improvement or modification of ongoing products. Much of this work
is performed by the Company's staff of designers, artists, model makers and
engineers.

  In addition to its own staff, the Company deals with a number of independent
toy and game designers for whose designs and ideas the Company competes with
other toy and game manufacturers. Rights to such designs and ideas, when
acquired by the Company, are usually exclusive under agreements requiring the
Company to pay the designer a royalty on the Company's net sales of the item.
These designer royalty agreements in some cases provide for advance royalties
and minimum guarantees.

  The Company also produces a number of toys under trademarks and copyrights
utilizing the names or likenesses of familiar movie, television and comic
strip characters, for whose rights the Company competes with other toy and
game manufacturers. Licensing fees are generally paid as a royalty on the
Company's net sales of the item. Licenses for the use of characters are
generally exclusive for specific products or product lines in specified
territories. In many instances, advance royalties and minimum guarantees are
required by character license agreements. Under terms of agreements existing
at December 31, 2000, in certain circumstances the Company may be required to
pay an aggregate of up to $741,000,000 in guaranteed or minimum royalties
between 2001 and 2007. Of this amount, approximately $238,000,000 has been
paid. Approximately $58,000,000 is included in the $66,509,000 of prepaid
royalties which are a component of prepaid expenses and other current assets
on the balance sheet. Included in other assets is $180,000,000 representing
the long-term portion of the amount paid. Of the remaining unpaid minimum
guaranty, Hasbro may be required to pay approximately $44,000,000,
$193,000,000, $89,000,000, $56,000,000, and $121,000,000 in 2001, 2002, 2003,
2004 and 2005, respectively. Such payments are related to royalties which are
expected to be incurred on anticipated revenues in the years 2001 through
2008.

  Marketing and Sales
  -------------------
  The Company's products are sold nationally and internationally to a broad
spectrum of customers including wholesalers, distributors, chain stores,
discount stores, mail order houses, catalog stores, department stores and
other traditional retailers, large and small, as well as internet-based "e-
tailers." The Company and its subsidiaries employ their own sales forces which
account for the majority of sales of their products. Remaining sales are
generated by independent distributors who sell the Company's products
principally in areas of the world where the Company does not otherwise
maintain a presence. With the acquisition of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. in the
fourth quarter of 1999, the Company acquired a specialized line of retail
stores featuring game, hobby and related products and an area for in-store
game play, as well as an online retail site. The Company maintains showrooms
in New York and selected other major cities world-wide as well as at most of
its subsidiary locations. Although the Company had more than 3,500 customers
in the United States and Canada during 2000 with the inclusion of specialty
retailers carrying trading card games and toy-related product there has been
significant consolidation at the retail level over the last several years, and
the majority of the Company's sales are to large chain stores, distributors
and wholesalers. In other countries, the Company has in excess of 20,000
customers, many of which are individual retail stores. During 2000, sales to
the Company's two largest customers, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and Toys `R Us,
Inc., represented 14% and 13%, respectively, of consolidated net revenues, and
sales to its top five customers accounted for approximately 41% of
consolidated net revenues.

  The Company advertises many of its toy and game products extensively on
television. The Company generally advertises selected items in its product
groups in a manner designed to promote the sale of other specific items in
those product groups. Through 2001, the Company introduced its new products in
New York City at the time of the American International Toy Fair in February.

It also introduced some of its products to major customers during the prior
year.

  In 2000, the Company spent approximately $452,978,000 in advertising,
promotion and marketing programs compared to $456,978,000 in 1999 and
$440,692,000 in 1998.

Manufacturing and Importing
  ---------------------------
  During 2000, the Company's products were manufactured in third party
facilities in the Far East as well as in the Company's own three principal
facilities located in East Longmeadow, Massachusetts, Waterford, Ireland, and
Valencia, Spain. Most of its products are manufactured from basic raw
materials such as plastic, paper and cardboard, although certain products also
make use of electronic components. All of these materials are readily
available but may be subject to significant fluctuations in price. The
Company's manufacturing processes include injection molding, blow molding,
spray painting, printing, box making and assembly. The Company purchases
certain components and accessories used in its toys and games and some
finished items from United States manufacturers as well as from manufacturers
in the Far East, which is the largest manufacturing center of toys in the
world, and other countries. The 1996 implementation of the General Agreement
on Tariffs and Trade reduced or eliminated customs duties on many products
imported by the Company. The Company believes that the manufacturing capacity
of third party manufacturers as well as its own facilities and the supply of
components, accessories and completed products which it purchases from
unaffiliated manufacturers are adequate to meet the demand in 2001 for the
products which it markets. The Company's reliance on external sources of
manufacturing can be shifted, over a period of time, to alternative sources of
supply for products it sells, should such changes be necessary.

  However, if the Company is prevented from obtaining products from a
substantial number of its current Far East suppliers due to political, labor
or other factors beyond its control, the Company's operations would be
disrupted while alternative sources of product were secured. In 2000, the
United States Congress approved "permanent normal trade relations" status for
China, which was intended to eliminate the United States' annual review of
China trade relations status. China has signed similar agreements with the
European Union and other World Trade Organizations members in order to gain
support for its entry into the World Trade Organization, although such entry
is not guaranteed at this time. However, the imposition of trade sanctions by
the United States or the European Union against a class of products imported
by the Company from, or the loss of "normal trade relations" status by, the
People's Republic of China could significantly increase the cost of the
Company's products imported into the United States or Europe.

  The Company makes its own tools and fixtures for its manufacturing
facilities but purchases dies and molds principally from independent United
States and international sources.

  Competition
  -----------
  The Company's business is highly competitive and it competes with several
large and many small United States and international designers, manufacturers
and marketers. The Company is a worldwide leader in the design, manufacture
and marketing of games and toys.

  Employees
  ---------
  At December 31, 2000, the Company employed approximately 8,900 persons
worldwide, approximately 5,500 of whom are located in the United States.

  Trademarks, Copyrights and Patents
  ----------------------------------
  The Company's products are protected, for the most part and in as many
countries as practical, by registered trademarks, copyrights and patents to
the extent that such protection is available and meaningful. The loss of such
rights concerning any particular product would not have a material adverse
effect on the Company's business, although the loss of such protection for a
number of significant items might have such an effect.

  Government Regulation
  ---------------------
  The Company's toy and game products sold in the United States are subject to
the provisions of the Consumer Product Safety Act (the "CPSA"), The Federal
Hazardous Substances Act (the "FHSA"), the Flammable Fabrics Act (the "FFA"),
and the regulations promulgated thereunder. The CPSA empowers the Consumer
Product Safety Commission (the "CPSC") to take action against hazards
presented by consumer products, including the formulation and implementation
of regulations and uniform safety standards. The CPSC has the authority to
seek to declare a product "a banned hazardous substance" under the CPSA and to
ban it from commerce. The CPSC can file an action to seize and condemn an
"imminently hazardous consumer product" under the CPSA and may also order
equitable remedies such as recall, replacement, repair or refund for the
product. The FHSA provides for the repurchase by the manufacturer of articles
which are banned. Consumer product safety laws also exist in some states and
cities within the United States and in Canada, Australia and Europe. The
Company maintains laboratories which have testing and other procedures
intended to maintain compliance with the CPSA, the FHSA, the FFA,
international standards, and the Company's own standards.  Notwithstanding the
foregoing, there can be no assurance that all of the Company's products are or
will be hazard free. Any material product recall could have an effect on the
Company, depending on the product, and could affect sales of other products.

  The Children's Television Act of 1990 and the rules promulgated thereunder
by the United States Federal Communications Commission as well as the laws of
certain countries place certain limitations on television commercials during
children's programming.

  The Company maintains programs to comply with various United States federal,
state, local and international requirements relating to the environment, plant
safety and other matters.

Forward-Looking Information and Risk Factors
  ------------------------------------------
  From time to time, the Company may publish forward-looking statements
relating to such matters as anticipated financial performance, business
prospects, technological developments, new products, research and development
activities and similar matters. Forward-looking statements are inherently
subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are known by, or self-
evident to, the investing public. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act
of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements. These
statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking words or phrases
such as "anticipate," "believe," "could," "expect," "intend," "looking
forward," "may," "planned," "potential," "should," "will" and "would." In
order to comply with the terms of the safe harbor, the Company notes that a
variety of factors could cause its actual results and experience to differ
materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed in its
forward-looking statements. The factors listed below are illustrative and
other risks and uncertainties may arise as are or may be detailed from time to
time in the Company's public announcements and filings with the Securities and
Exchange Commission. The risks and uncertainties that may affect the
operations, performance, development and results of Hasbro's business and
impact forward looking information are as follows:

    Volatility of consumer preferences and the high level of competition in
the
    family entertainment industry makes it difficult to maintain the long-term
    success of existing product lines and consistently introduce successful
new
    products.

  Our business and operating results depend largely upon the appeal of our
family entertainment products, principally games and toys. A decline in the
popularity of our existing products and product lines or the failure of new
products and product lines to achieve and sustain market acceptance could
result in reduced overall revenues and margins, which could have a material
adverse effect on our business financial condition and results of operations.
Our continued success will depend on our ability to redesign, restyle and
extend our existing family entertainment product lines and to develop,
introduce and gain customer acceptance of new family entertainment product
lines. However consumer preferences with respect to family entertainment are
continuously changing and are difficult to predict. Individual family
entertainment products typically have short life cycles. The success of
entertainment properties released theatrically, such as STAR WARS related
productions, can significantly impact revenues derived by the Company from
licensed product related to that property. In addition, competition in the
industry could adversely impact our ability to secure, maintain, and renew
popular licenses, and to attract and retain the talented employees necessary
to design, develop and market successful products. There can be no assurances
that:

  1) Any of our current products or product lines will continue to be popular
for any significant period of time;

  2) Any property for which the Company has a significant license will achieve
popularity;

  3) Any new products and product lines introduced by us will achieve an
adequate degree of market acceptance; or

  4) Any new product's life cycle will be sufficient to permit us to
profitably recover development, manufacturing, marketing, royalties (including
royalty advances and guarantees) and other costs of the product; or

  5) We will be able to manufacture, source and ship new or continuing
products in a timely basis to meet consumer demands.

    Our business is seasonal and therefore our annual operating results will
    depend, in large part, on our sales during the relatively brief holiday
    season. Further, this seasonality is increasing, as large retailers
    become more efficient in their control of inventory levels through quick
    response management techniques.

  Sales of our family entertainment products at retail are seasonal, with a
majority of retail sales occurring during the period from September through
December in anticipation of the holiday season. This seasonality is
increasing, as large retailers become more efficient in their control of
inventory levels through quick response management techniques. These customers
are timing reorders so that they are being filled by suppliers closer to the
time of purchase by consumers, which to a large extent occur during September
through December, rather than maintaining large on-hand inventories throughout
the year to meet consumer demand. While these techniques reduce a retailer's
investment in inventory, they increase pressure on suppliers like us to fill
orders promptly and shift a significant portion of inventory risk and carrying
costs to the supplier. The limited inventory carried by retailers may also
reduce or delay retail sales. Additionally, the logistics of supplying more
and more product within shorter time periods will increase the risk that we
fail to achieve tight and compressed shipping schedules. This seasonal pattern
requires significant use of working capital mainly to manufacture inventory
during the year, prior to the holiday season, and requires accurate
forecasting of demand for products during the holiday season. Our failure to
accurately predict and respond to consumer demand could result in our
underproducing popular items and overproducing less popular items.

    The continuing consolidation of our retail customer base means that
    changes in the purchasing policies of our major customers could have a
    significant impact on us.

  If one or more of our major customers were to experience difficulties in
fulfilling their obligations to us, cease doing business with us, or
significantly reduce the amount of their purchases from us, it could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of
operations. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
and Toys R Us, Inc. accounted for approximately 14% and 13%, respectively, of
our consolidated net revenues and our five largest customers, including Wal-
Mart and Toys R Us, in the aggregate accounted for approximately 41% of our
consolidated net revenues.

    We may not realize anticipated benefits of acquisitions or these benefits
    may be delayed or reduced in their realization.

  Acquisitions have been a significant part of our growth over the years and
have enabled us to further broaden and diversify our product offerings. While
we target companies having what we believe to be attractive family
entertainment product offerings, there can be no assurance that the products
of companies we acquire will continue to be popular. In addition, in some
cases, we expect that the integration of the product lines of the companies
that we acquire into our operations will create production, marketing and
other operating synergies. We believe that creating these synergies can create
greater revenue growth and profitability and, where applicable, cost savings,
operating efficiencies and other synergies. However, we can provide no
assurances that these synergies, efficiencies and cost savings will be
realized. Even if achieved, these benefits may be delayed or reduced in their
realization. In other cases, we acquire companies with what we believe to have
strong and creative management, in which case we plan to create synergies by
operating them autonomously rather than integrating them into our operations.
There can be no assurance, however, that the key talented individuals at these
companies will continue to work for us after the acquisition or that they will
continue to develop popular and profitable products or services. Moreover,
because of limitations in our credit agreements, we are limited in our ability
to make substantial acquisitions in the near term. Although we plan to focus
greater attention and resources on our core owned and controlled brands, there
is no assurance that such efforts will produce revenue growth to replace the
growth historically provided by acquisitions.

    Our sales and manufacturing operations outside the United States subject
    us to risks normally associated with international operations.

  Various international risks could negatively impact our international sales
and manufacturing operations, which could have a material adverse effect on
our business, financial condition and results of operations. For the year
ended December 31, 2000, our net revenues from international customers
comprised approximately 41% of our total consolidated net revenues. We expect
our sales to international customers to continue to account for a significant
portion of our revenues. Additionally, we utilize third-party manufacturers
principally in the Far East and we have manufacturing facilities in Ireland
and Spain. These sales and manufacturing operations are subject to the risks
normally associated with international operations, including:

  1) Currency conversion risks and currency fluctuations;

  2) Limitations, including taxes, on the repatriation of earnings;

  3) Political instability, civil unrest and economic instability;

  4) Greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws
protecting such rights;

  5) Complications in complying with laws in varying jurisdictions and changes
in governmental policies;

  6) Natural disasters and the greater difficulty and expense in recovering
therefrom;

  7) Transportation delays and interruptions; and

  8) The imposition of tariffs.

Our reliance on external sources of manufacturing can be shifted, over a
period of time, to alternative sources of supply, should such changes be
necessary. However, if we were prevented from obtaining products or components
for a material portion of our product line due to political, labor or other
factors beyond our control, Hasbro's operations would be disrupted while
alternative sources of products were secured. Also, the imposition of trade
sanctions by the United States or the European Union against a class of
products imported by us from, or the loss of "normal trade relations" status
by, the Peoples Republic of China could significantly increase our cost of
products imported into the United States or Europe.

    The impact of market conditions, government actions and regulations and
    other third party conduct could negatively impact implementation of the
    Company's consolidation programs, margins, and other business initiatives.

Economic conditions, such as rising fuel prices, may adversely impact our
margins. Other conditions, such as the unavailability of electrical
components, may impede our ability to manufacture, source and ship new and
continuing products on a timely basis. Other conditions outside of our control
could delay or increase the cost of implementing our consolidation programs or
alter our actions and reduce actual results.

    The impact of our reduced ability to obtain external financing at low
    rates and the restrictions imposed by our amended and restated credit
    facility agreements could alter our business practices.

In February 2001, we entered into amended and restated secured revolving and
line of credit facility agreements with our existing lenders. The facilities
are secured by substantially all of our domestic accounts receivable and
inventory, as well as certain of our investments and intangible assets. The
agreements contain certain restrictive covenants setting forth minimum cash
flow and coverage requirements, and a number of other limitations, including
restrictions on capital expenditures, investments, acquisitions, share
repurchases and dividend payments.  These restrictive covenants may limit our
future actions, and financial, operating and strategic flexibility.

We believe that our cash flow from operations, together with our cash and
access to existing credit facilities, are adequate for current and planned
needs in 2001. However, our actual experience may differ from these
expectations.  Factors that may lead to a difference include, but are not
limited to, the matters discussed herein as well as future events that might
have the effect of reducing our available cash balance (such as unexpected
material operating losses or increased capital or other expenditures, as well
as increases in inventory or accounts receivable) or future events that may
reduce or eliminate the availability of external financial resources. Our

failure to comply with covenants in our credit agreements could result in
significant negative consequences.


  (c) Financial Information About International and United States
      -----------------------------------------------------------
       Operations and Export Sales
       ---------------------------
  The information required by this item is included in note 16 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements in Exhibit 13 to this Report and is
incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM  2.  PROPERTIES
          ----------
                                                                    Lease
                                              Square   Type of    Expiration
Location              Use                       Feet   Possession    Dates
- --------              ---                      ------  ----------  ----------

Rhode Island
- ------------
 Pawtucket (1)(2)(3)  Administrative, Sales
                       & Marketing Offices &
                       Product Development    343,000     Owned        --
 Pawtucket (2)        Executive Office         23,000     Owned        --
 East Providence (2)  Administrative Office   120,000     Leased      2004
 Central
  Falls (1)(2)(3)     Warehouse               261,500     Owned        --

California
- ----------
 Ontario (1)          Warehouse               432,000     Leased      2002

Illinois
- --------
 Vernon Hills (1)     Office & Warehouse       21,000     Leased      2002

Massachusetts
- -------------
 East Longmeadow      Office, Manufacturing
  (1)(4)               & Warehouse          1,148,000     Owned        --

New Jersey
- ----------
 Mt. Laurel (3)       Office                   11,000     Leased      2001

New York
- --------
 New York(1)(2)(3)(5) Office & Showroom       106,800     Leased      2011

Texas
- -----
 Arlington (1)        Warehouse                60,200     Leased      2003
 Dallas (1)           Warehouse               127,000     Leased      2003
 Grand Prairie (1)    Warehouse                93,500     Leased      2003
 Grand Prairie (1)    Warehouse                50,400     Leased      2001

Washington
- ----------
 Renton (1)           Offices                 158,000     Leased      2005
 Seattle (1)          Warehouse                30,500     Leased      2002

Argentina
- ---------
Buenos Aires (5)      Offices                   6,500     Leased      2003

Australia
- ---------
 Lidcombe (5)         Office & Warehouse      161,400     Leased      2007
 Eastwood (5)         Office                   16,900     Leased      2001

Austria
- -------
 Vienna (5)           Office                    4,400     Leased      2001

Belgium
- -------
 Brussels (5)         Office & Showroom        18,800     Leased      2008

Canada
- ------
 Montreal (5)         Office, Warehouse
                       & Showroom             133,900     Leased      2004
 Mississauga (5)      Sales Office & Showroom  16,300     Leased      2004
 Montreal (5)         Warehouse                88,100     Leased      2004

Chile
- -----
 Santiago (5)         Warehouse                54,000     Leased      2001
 Santiago (5)         Office                    3,500     Leased      2001

Denmark
- -------
 Glostrup (5)         Office                    9,200     Leased      2004

England
- -------
 Uxbridge (5)         Office & Showroom        92,900     Leased      2013

France
- ------
 Le Bourget du Lac(5) Office & Warehouse      107,900     Owned        --
 Savoie Technolac (5) Office                   33,500     Owned        --
 Creutzwald (5)       Warehouse               301,300     Owned        --

Germany
- -------
 Dietzenbach (5)      Office                   43,000     Leased      2006
 Soest (5)            Office & Warehouse      164,200     Owned        --

Greece
- ------
 Athens (5)           Office & Warehouse       25,100     Leased      2007

Hong Kong
- ---------
 Kowloon (1)(3)(4)(5) Office & Warehouse       10,500     Leased      2000
 Kowloon (1)(3)(4)(5) Office & Warehouse       33,700     Leased      2002
 Kowloon (4)          Offices                  43,400     Leased      2002
 New Territories (4)  Office & Warehouse       17,800     Leased      2001
 New Territories (4)  Warehouse                11,500     Leased      2002
 New Territories (4)  Warehouse                 8,100     Leased      2003
 New Territories (4)  Office                    7,300     Leased      2002

Hungary
- -------
 Budapest (5)         Office                    6,300     Leased      2001

Ireland
- -------
 Waterford (4)        Office, Manufacturing
                       & Warehouse            244,000     Owned        --

Italy
- -----
 Milan (5)            Office & Showroom        12,100     Leased      2002

Mexico
- ------
 Periferico (5)       Office                   16,100     Leased      2001
 Carretera (5)        Warehouse               215,500     Leased      2004

The Netherlands
- ---------------
 Ter Apel (5)         Warehouse               106,400     Leased      2001
 Utrecht  (5)         Office                   12,800     Leased      2003

New Zealand
- -----------
 Auckland (5)         Office & Warehouse      110,900     Leased      2005

Peru
- ----
 Lima (5)             Warehouse                32,400     Leased      2001
 Lima (5)             Office                   11,000     Leased      2001

Poland
- ------
 Warsaw (5)           Office & Warehouse       21,400     Leased      2001

Portugal
- --------
 Estoril-Lisboa (5)   Office                    2,900     Leased      2003

Singapore
- ---------
 Singapore (5)        Office & Warehouse        9,300     Leased      2003

Spain
- -----
 Valencia (4)(5)      Office, Manufacturing
                       & Warehouse            322,700     Owned        --
 Valencia (4)(5)      Office, Manufacturing
                       & Warehouse            144,800     Leased      2011

Sweden
- ------
 Vosby (5)            Office                    7,400     Leased      2003

Switzerland
- -----------
 Berikon (5)          Office & Warehouse       25,000     Leased      2001
 Delemont (5)         Office                    9,200     Leased      2004

Wales
- -----
 Newport (5)          Warehouse                75,000     Leased      2003
 Newport (5)          Warehouse               170,000     Owned        --

     (1) Property used in the U.S. Toy or Games segment.
     (2) Property used in the Corporate area.
     (3) Property used in Other segments.
     (4) Property used in the Global Operations segment.
     (5) Property used in the International segment.

  In addition to the above listed facilities, the Company either owns or
leases various other properties approximating 486,000 square feet which are
utilized by its various segments and include retail and game play locations
operated under the WIZARDS OF THE COAST and GAME KEEPER names. The Company
also either owns or leases an aggregate of approximately 103,000 square feet
not currently being utilized in its operations.

  The foregoing properties consist, in general, of brick, cinder block or
concrete block buildings which the Company believes are in good condition and
well maintained.



ITEM  3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
          -----------------
  The Company is party to certain legal proceedings, substantially involving
routine litigation incidental to the Company's business, none of which,
individually or in the aggregate, is deemed to be material to the financial
condition of the Company.


ITEM  4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
          ---------------------------------------------------
  None.



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
- ------------------------------------
  The following persons are the executive officers of the Company and its
subsidiaries and divisions. Such executive officers are elected annually. The
position and office listed below are the principal position(s) and office(s)
held by such person with the Company, subsidiary or divisions employing such
person. The persons listed below generally also serve as officers and
directors of the Company's various subsidiaries at the request and convenience
of the Company.

                                                                Period
                                                                Serving in
                                                                Current
Name                         Age  Position and Office Held      Position
- ----                         ---  ------------------------      ----------
Alan G. Hassenfeld (1)       52  Chairman of the Board and
                                 Chief Executive Officer        Since 1999

Alfred J. Verrecchia (2)     58  President and Chief
                                 Operating Officer              Since 2001

Harold P. Gordon             63  Vice Chairman                  Since 1995

David D. R. Hargreaves (3)   48  Senior Vice President and
                                 Chief Financial Officer        Since 2001

George B. Volanakis (4)      53  Executive Vice President       Since 2000

Brian Goldner (5)            37  Senior Vice President and
                                 General Manager, Hasbro U.S.
                                 Toy Group                      Since 2000

Richard B. Holt              59  Senior Vice President and
                                 Controller                     Since 1992

Barry Nagler (6)             44  Senior Vice President and
                                 General Counsel                Since 2000

Martin R. Trueb (7)          49  Senior Vice President and
                                 Treasurer                      Since 1997

Phillip H. Waldoks           48  Senior Vice President -
                                 Corporate Legal Affairs
                                 and Secretary                  Since 1995

  (1)  Prior thereto, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive
       Officer.

  (2)  Prior thereto, President, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial
       officer from 2000 to 2001; prior thereto, Executive Vice President and
       Chief Financial Officer from 1999 to 2000; prior thereto Executive
       Vice President, Global Operations and Development during 1999; prior
       thereto, Executive Vice President and President, Global Operations
       from 1996 to 1999; prior thereto,  Chief Operating Officer, Domestic
       Toy Operations.


  (3)  Prior thereto, Senior Vice President and Deputy Chief Financial
       Officer from 1999 to 2000; prior thereto, Senior Vice President,
       Finance during 1999; prior thereto, Senior Vice President, Finance
       and Planning, Global Marketing from 1997 to 1999; prior thereto,
       Senior Vice President, Finance and Planning, Global Operations from
       1996 to 1997; prior thereto, Senior Vice President, Finance and
       Administration, Domestic Toy Operations.

  (4)  Prior thereto, General Manager and Sector Head, International
       Businesses from 1999 to 2000; prior thereto, President, European Sales
       and Marketing from 1998 to 1999; prior thereto, President and Chief
       Executive Officer, The Ertl Company, Inc.

  (5)  Prior thereto, during 2000, Chief Operating Officer of Tiger
       Electronics, Inc., a subsidiary of the Company; prior thereto, Chief
       Operating Officer, Bandai America, Inc., from 1997 to 2000; prior
       thereto, Worldwide Director in Charge, Entertainment Division,
       J. Walter Thompson Advertising.

  (6)  Prior thereto, Senior Vice President and General Counsel, Reebok
       International, Ltd. (Reebok) from 1997 to 2000; prior thereto, Vice
       President and General Counsel, Reebok.

  (7)  Prior thereto, Assistant Treasurer, Amway Corporation.


                                    PART II

ITEM  5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
          -----------------------------------------------------
           STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
           -------------------
  The information required by this item is included in Market for the
Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters in Exhibit 13 to
this Report and is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM  6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
          -----------------------
  The information required by this item is included in Selected Financial Data
in Exhibit 13 to this Report and is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM  7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
          -----------------------------------------------------------
           AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
           -------------------------
  The information required by this item is included in Management's Review in
Exhibit 13 to this Report and is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM  8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
          -------------------------------------------
  The information required by this item is included in Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data in Exhibit 13 to this Report and is incorporated herein
by reference.


ITEM  9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING
          -----------------------------------------------------------
           AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
           ------------------------
  None.


                                    PART III

ITEMS 10, 11, 12 and 13.

  The information required by these items is included in registrant's
definitive proxy statement for the 2001 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is
incorporated herein by reference, except that the sections under the headings
(a) "Comparison of Five Year Cumulative Total Shareholder Return Among Hasbro,
S&P 500 and Russell 1000 Consumer Discretionary Economic Sector" and
accompanying material, (b) "Report of the Compensation and Stock Option
Committee of the Board of Directors", and (c) "Report of the Audit Committee
of the Board of Directors" in the definitive proxy statement shall not be
deemed "filed" with the Securities and Exchange Commission or subject to
Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.



                                    PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
         ---------------------------------------------------------------
  (a) Financial Statements, Financial Statement Schedules and Exhibits
      ----------------------------------------------------------------
    (1)  Financial Statements
         --------------------
           Included in PART II of this report:
             Independent Auditors' Report

             Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2000 and
              December 26, 1999

             Consolidated Statements of Operations for the Three Fiscal
              Years Ended in December 2000, 1999 and 1998

             Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the
              Three Fiscal Years Ended in December 2000, 1999 and 1998

             Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Three
              Fiscal Years Ended in December 2000, 1999 and 1998

             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

    (2)  Financial Statement Schedules
         -----------------------------
           Included in PART IV of this Report:
             Report of Independent Certified Public Accountants
              on Financial Statement Schedule

             For the Three Fiscal Years Ended in December 2000, 1999
              and 1998:
               Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and
                              Reserves

Schedules other than those listed above are omitted for the reason that they
are not required or are not applicable, or the required information is shown
in the financial statements or notes thereto. Columns omitted from schedules
filed have been omitted because the information is not applicable.

    (3)   Exhibits
          --------
  The Company will furnish to any shareholder, upon written request, any
exhibit listed below upon payment by such shareholder to the Company of the
Company's reasonable expenses in furnishing such exhibit.

Exhibit
- -------
    3.  Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws
         (a)  Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company.
             (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the
              Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended
              July 2, 2000, File No. 1-6682.)


         (b)  Amendment to Articles of Incorporation, dated June 28, 2000.
             (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.4 to the Company's
              Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended July 2,
              2000, File No. 1-6682.)

         (c)  Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company. (Incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit (3) to the Company's Current Report on
              Form 8-K, dated February 16, 1996, File No. 1-6682.)

         (d)  Certificate of Designations of Series C Junior Participating
              Preference Stock of Hasbro, Inc. dated June 29, 1999.
             (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the Company's
              Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended
              July 2, 2000, File No. 1-6682.)

         (e)  Certificate of Vote(s) authorizing a decrease of class or
              series of any class of shares. (Incorporated by reference to
              exhibit 3.3 to the Company's Quarterly report on Form 10-Q for
              the period ended July 2, 2000, File No. 1-6682.)

    4.  Instruments defining the rights of security holders, including
        indentures.
         (a)  Indenture, dated as of July 17, 1998, by and between the
              Company and Citibank, N.A. as Trustee. (Incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Current Report on
              Form 8-K dated July 14, 1998, File No. 1-6682.)

         (b)  Indenture, dated as of March 15, 2000, by and between the
              Company and the Bank of Nova Scotia Trust Company of New
              York. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(b)(i) to the
              Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
              December 26, 1999, File Number 1-6682.)

         (c)  Amended and Restated Line of Credit Agreement dated as of
              February 16, 2001 by and among the Company, the Banks party
              thereto, and Fleet National Bank, as Agent for the Banks.

         (d)  Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of
              February 16, 2001 by and among the Company, the Banks party
              thereto, and Fleet National Bank, as Agent for the Banks.

         (e)  Rights Agreement, dated as of June 16, 1999, between the Company
              and Fleet National Bank (the Rights Agent). (Incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit 4 to The Company's Current Report on
              Form 8-K dated as of June 16, 1999.)

         (f)  First Amendment to Rights Agreement, dated as of December 4,
              2000, between the Company and the Rights Agent.


   10.  Material Contracts
         (a)  Lease between Hasbro Canada Corporation (formerly named Hasbro
              Industries (Canada) Ltd.)("Hasbro Canada") and Central Toy
              Manufacturing Co. ("Central Toy"), dated December 23, 1976.
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.15 to the Company's
              Registration Statement on Form S-14, File No. 2-92550.)

         (b)  Lease between Hasbro Canada and Central Toy, together
              with an Addendum thereto, each dated as of May 1, 1987.
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the Company's
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended
              December 27, 1987, File No. 1-6682.)

         (c)  Addendum to lease, dated March 5, 1998, between Hasbro Canada
              and Central Toy. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c)
              to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal
              Year Ended December 28, 1997, File No. 1-6682.)

         (d)  Letter agreement, dated December 13, 2000, between Hasbro
              Canada and Central Toy.

         (e)  Toy License Agreement between Lucas Licensing Ltd. and the
              Company, dated as of October 14, 1997. (Portions of this
              agreement have been omitted pursuant to a request for
              confidential treatment under Rule 24b-2 of the Securities
              Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.)(Incorporated by reference to
              Exhibit 10(d) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
              the Fiscal Year Ended December 27, 1998, File No. 1-6682.)

         (f)  First Amendment to Toy License Agreement between Lucas
              Licensing Ltd. and the Company, dated as of September 25, 1998.
              (Portions of this  agreement have been omitted pursuant to a
              request for confidential treatment under Rule 24b-2 of the
              Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.)(Incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit 10(e) to the Company's Annual Report on
              Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended December 27, 1998, File No.
              1-6682.)

         (g)  Agreement of Strategic Relationship between Lucasfilm Ltd. and
              the Company dated as of October 14, 1997. (Portions of this
              agreement have been omitted pursuant to a request for
              confidential treatment under Rule 24b-2 of the Securities
              Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.) (Incorporated by reference
              to Exhibit 10(f) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
              for the Fiscal Year Ended December 27, 1998, File No. 1-6682.)

         (h)  First Amendment to Agreement of Strategic Relationship between
              Lucasfilm Ltd. and the Company, dated as of September 25, 1998.
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(g) to the Company's
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year ended December
              27, 1998, File No. 1-6682.)

         (i)  Warrant, dated October 14, 1997 between the Company and
              Lucas Licensing Ltd. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
              10(h) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
              Fiscal Year ended December 27, 1998, File No. 1-6682.)

         (j)  Warrant, dated October 14, 1997 between the Company and
              Lucasfilm Ltd. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
              10(i) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
              Fiscal Year ended December 27, 1998, File No. 1-6682.)

         (k)  Warrant, dated October 30, 1998 between the Company and
              Lucas Licensing Ltd. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
              10(j) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
              Fiscal Year ended December 27, 1998, File No. 1-6682.)

         (l)  Warrant, dated October 30, 1998 between the Company and
              Lucasfilm Ltd. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
              10(k) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
              Fiscal Year ended December 27, 1998, File No. 1-6682.)

         (m)  Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of February 8, 1998,
              together with Amendment thereto dated as of March 31, 1998,
              by and among the Company, Tiger Electronics Ltd. (formerly
              named HIAC X Corp. and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
              Company), Tiger Electronics, Inc. and certain affiliates
              thereof and Owen Randall Rissman and the Rissman Family 1997
              Trust. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2(a) to the
              Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, dated April 1, 1998,
              File No. 1-6682.)

        Executive Compensation Plans and Arrangements
         (n)  Employee Incentive Stock Option Plan. (Incorporated by
              reference to  Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Registration
              Statement on Form S-8, File No. 2-78018.)

         (o)  Amendment No. 1 to Employee Incentive Stock Option Plan.
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(l) to the Company's
              Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended
              December 28, 1986, File No. 1-6682.)

         (p)  Amendment No. 2 to Employee Incentive Stock Option Plan.
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(n) to the Company's
              Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended
              December 27, 1987, File No. 1-6682.)

         (q)  Amendment No. 3 to Employee Incentive Stock Option Plan.
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(o) to the Company's
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended
              December 25, 1988, File No. 1-6682.)

         (r)  Amendment No. 4 to Employee Incentive Stock Option Plan.
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(s) to the Company's
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended
              December 31, 1989, File No. 1-6682.)

         (s)  Form of Non Qualified Stock Option Agreement under the
              Employee Incentive Stock Option Plan. (Incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit 10(q) to the Company's Annual Report
              on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended December 25, 1988,
              File No. 1-6682.)

         (t)  Non Qualified Stock Option Plan. (Incorporated by reference
              to Exhibit 10.10 to the Company's Registration Statement on
              Form S-14, File No. 2-92550.)


         (u)  Amendment No. 1 to Non Qualified Stock Option Plan.
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(j) to the
              Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal
              Year Ended December 28, 1986, File No. 1-6682.)

         (v)  Amendment No. 2 to Non Qualified Stock Option Plan.
              (Incorporated by reference to Appendix A to the Company's
              definitive proxy statement for its 1987 Annual Meeting of
              Shareholders, File No. 1-6682.)

         (w)  Amendment No. 3 to Non Qualified Stock Option Plan.
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(l) to the Company's
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended
              December 31, 1989, File No. 1-6682.)

         (x)  Form of Stock Option Agreement (For Employees) under the Non
              Qualified Stock Option Plan. (Incorporated by reference to
              Exhibit 10(t) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
              for the Fiscal Year Ended December 27, 1992, File No.
              1-6682.)

         (y)  1992 Stock Incentive Plan. (Incorporated by reference to
              Appendix A to the Company's definitive proxy statement for
              its 1992 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, File No. 1-6682.)

         (z)  Form of Stock Option Agreement under the 1992 Stock Incentive
              Plan, the Stock Incentive Performance Plan and the Employee
              Non-Qualified Stock Plan. (Incorporated by reference to
              Exhibit 10(v) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
              the Fiscal Year Ended December 27, 1992, File No. 1-6682.)

        (aa)  Hasbro, Inc. Stock Incentive Performance Plan. (Incorporated
              by reference to Appendix A to the Company's definitive proxy
              statement for its 1995 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, File
              No. 1-6682.)

        (bb)  First Amendment to the 1992 Stock Incentive Plan and the Stock
              Incentive Performance Plan. (Incorporated by reference to
              Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
              the period ended June 27, 1999, File No. 1-6682.)

        (cc)  Second Amendment to the Stock Incentive Performance Plan.
              (Incorporated by reference to Appendix A to the Company's
              definitive proxy statement for its 2000 Annual Meeting of
              Shareholders, File No. 1-6682.)

        (dd)  Employee Non-Qualified Stock Plan. (Incorporated by reference
              to Exhibit 10(dd) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
              for the Fiscal Year Ended December 29, 1996, File No. 1-6682.)

        (ee)  First Amendment to the Employee Non-Qualified Stock Plan.
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 to the Company's
              Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 28,
              1999, File No. 1-6682.)


        (ff)  Form of Stock Option Agreement (For Participants in the Long
              Term Incentive Program) under the 1992 Stock Incentive Plan,
              the Stock Incentive Performance Plan, and the Employee Non-
              Qualified Stock Plan. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
              10(w) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
              Fiscal Year Ended December 27, 1992, File No. 1-6682.)

        (gg)  Form of Restricted Stock Agreement.

        (hh)  Form of Deferred Restricted Stock Unit Agreement.

        (ii)  Form of Employment Agreement between the Company and ten
              Company executives. (Incorporated by reference to
              Exhibit 10(v) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
              the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 1989, File No. 1-6682.)

        (jj)  Form of Amendment, dated as of March 10, 2000, to Form of
              Employment Agreement included as Exhibit 10(ii) above.
             (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(ff) to the Company's
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended December
              26, 1999.)

        (kk)  Hasbro, Inc. Retirement Plan for Directors. (Incorporated
              by  reference to Exhibit 10(x) to the Company's Annual
              Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended December 30,
              1990, File No. 1-6682.)

        (ll)  Form of Director's Indemnification Agreement. (Incorporated
              by reference to Appendix B to the Company's definitive proxy
              statement for its 1988 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, File
              No. 1-6682.)

        (mm)  Hasbro, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee
              Directors.(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(cc) to
              the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year
              Ended December 26, 1993, File No. 1-6682.)

        (nn)  Hasbro, Inc. Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors.
              (Incorporated by reference to Appendix A to the Company's
              definitive proxy statement for its 1994 Annual Meeting of
              Shareholders, File No. 1-6682.)

        (oo)  First Amendment to the Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee
              Directors. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the
              Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended
              June 27, 1999, File No. 1-6682.)

        (pp)  Form of Stock Option Agreement for Non-Employee Directors
              under the Hasbro, Inc. Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee
              Directors. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(w) to
              the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year
              Ended December 25, 1994, File No. 1-6682.)


        (qq)  Hasbro, Inc. 1999 Senior Management Annual Performance Plan.
              (Incorporated by reference to Appendix A to the Company's
              definitive proxy statement for its 1999 Annual Meeting of
              Shareholders, File No. 1-6682.)

        (rr)  Hasbro, Inc. Amended and Restated Nonqualified Deferred
              Compensation Plan. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10
              to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the Period
              Ended March 29, 1998, File No. 1-6682.)

        (ss)  Employment Agreement, dated as of January 1, 1996, between
              the Company and Harold P. Gordon. (Incorporated by reference
              to Exhibit 10(aa) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
              for the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 1995, File No. 1-6682.)

        (tt)  Letter dated January 26, 1998 from the Company to George B.
              Volanakis. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(ii) to
              the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year
              Ended December 28, 1997, File No. 1-6682.)

        (uu)  Employment Agreement dated as of January 5, 1999, between the
              Company and Herbert M. Baum. (Incorporated by reference to
              Exhibit 10(rr) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
              the Fiscal Year ended December 27, 1998, File No. 1-6682.)

        (vv)  Settlement Agreement, dated January 31, 2001, among the
              Company, Herbert M. Baum and the Dial Corporation.

        (ww)  Employment Agreement, dated as of March 18, 2000, among
              Tiger Electronics, Ltd., the Company and Brian Goldner.


   11.  Statement re computation of per share earnings

   12.  Statement re computation of ratios

   13.  Selected information contained in Annual Report to Shareholders

   21.  Subsidiaries of the registrant

   23.  Consents of KPMG LLP

  The Company agrees to furnish the Securities and Exchange Commission, upon
request, a copy of each agreement with respect to long-term debt of the
Company, the authorized principal amount of which does not exceed 10% of the
total assets of the Company and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.

  (b) Reports on Form 8-K
      -------------------
        A Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 8, 2001 was filed to
        announce the Company's results for the quarter and year ended
        December 31, 2000. Consolidated statements of earnings (without
        notes) for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2000 and
        December 26, 1999 and consolidated condensed balance sheets
        (without notes) as of said dates were also filed.

  (c) Exhibits
      --------
        See (a)(3) above

  (d) Financial Statement Schedules
      -----------------------------
        See (a)(2) above




                        INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT


The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Hasbro, Inc.:


     Under date of February 7, 2001, we reported on the consolidated balance
sheets of Hasbro, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2000 and December
26, 1999 and the related consolidated statements of operations, shareholders'
equity, and cash flows for each of the fiscal years in the three-year period
ended December 31, 2000, as contained in the 2000 annual report to
shareholders.  These consolidated financial statements and our report thereon
are incorporated by reference in the annual report on Form 10-K for the year
2000. In connection with our audits of the aforementioned consolidated
financial statements, we also audited the related financial statement schedule
listed in Item 14 (a) (2).  This financial statement schedule is the
responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express
an opinion on this financial statement schedule based on our audits.

     In our opinion, such financial statement schedule when considered in
relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.




/s/ KPMG LLP




Providence, Rhode Island
February 7, 2001





                           HASBRO, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves

                           Fiscal Years Ended in December

                               (Thousands of Dollars)


                          Provision
             Balance at   Charged to                Write-Offs    Balance
            Beginning of   Costs and     Other          And      at End of
                Year       Expenses     Additions    Other (a)     Year
            ------------  ----------  ------------  -----------  ---------

Valuation
 accounts
 deducted
 from assets
 to which
 they apply -
 for doubtful
 accounts
 receivable:


  2000        $65,000        4,387           59      (14,446)     $55,000
               ======       ======       ======       ======       ======
  1999        $64,400        9,053        2,329      (10,782)     $65,000
               ======       ======       ======       ======       ======
  1998        $51,700       13,057        2,832       (3,189)     $64,400
               ======       ======       ======       ======       ======


    (a) Includes write-offs, recoveries of previous write-offs, translation
        adjustments, and an adjustment in 2000 to reflect the transfer of
        balances related to business units held for sale, now included in
        prepaid expenses and other current assets.  Translation adjustments
        and the transfer of balances in 2000 amounted to approximately $6,600.




SIGNATURES


  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

HASBRO, INC.  (Registrant)


By: /s/ Alan G. Hassenfeld                            Date: March 31, 2001
   -------------------------                               ---------------
   Alan G. Hassenfeld
   Chairman of the Board



  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

Signature                      Title                        Date
- ---------                      -----                        ----

/s/ Alan G. Hassenfeld
- ----------------------------   Chairman of the Board,       March 31, 2001
Alan G. Hassenfeld             Chief Executive Officer
                               and Director
                               (Principal Executive Officer)


/s/ David D.R. Hargreaves
- ----------------------------   Senior Vice President and    March 31, 2001
David D.R. Hargreaves          Chief Financial Officer
                              (Principal Financial and
                               Accounting Officer)


/s/ Alan R. Batkin
- ----------------------------   Director                     March 31, 2001
Alan R. Batkin




/s/ E. Gordon Gee
- ----------------------------   Director                     March 31, 2001
E. Gordon Gee


/s/ Harold P. Gordon
- ----------------------------   Director                     March 31, 2001
Harold P. Gordon


/s/ Sylvia K. Hassenfeld
- ----------------------------   Director                     March 31, 2001
Sylvia K. Hassenfeld



- ----------------------------   Director                     March   , 2001
Marie-Josee Kravis


/s/ Claudine B. Malone
- ----------------------------   Director                     March 31, 2001
Claudine B. Malone


/s/ Norma T. Pace
- ----------------------------   Director                     March 31, 2001
Norma T. Pace


/s/ E. John Rosenwald, Jr.
- ----------------------------   Director                     March 31, 2001
E. John Rosenwald, Jr.


/s/ Eli J. Segal
- ----------------------------   Director                     March 31, 2001
Eli J. Segal



- ----------------------------   Director                     March   , 2001
Carl Spielvogel


/s/ Preston Robert Tisch
- ----------------------------   Director                     March 31, 2001
Preston Robert Tisch


/s/ Alfred J. Verrecchia
- ----------------------------   Director                     March 31, 2001
Alfred J. Verrecchia



                                  HASBRO, INC.

                            Annual Report on Form 10-K

                       for the Year Ended December 31, 2000

                                  Exhibit Index
Exhibit
- -------
    3.  Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws
         (a)  Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company.
             (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the
              Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended
              July 2, 2000, File No. 1-6682.)

         (b)  Amendment to Articles of Incorporation, dated June 28, 2000.
             (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.4 to the Company's
              Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended July 2,
              2000, File No. 1-6682.)

         (c)  Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company. (Incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit (3) to the Company's Current Report on
              Form 8-K, dated February 16, 1996, File No. 1-6682.)

         (d)  Certificate of Designations of Series C Junior Participating
              Preference Stock of Hasbro, Inc. dated June 29, 1999.
             (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the Company's
              Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended
              July 2, 2000, File No. 1-6682.)

         (e)  Certificate of Vote(s) authorizing a decrease of class or
              series of any class of shares. (Incorporated by reference to
              exhibit 3.3 to the Company's Quarterly report on Form 10-Q for
              the period ended July 2, 2000, File No. 1-6682.)

    4.  Instruments defining the rights of security holders, including
        indentures.
         (a)  Indenture, dated as of July 17, 1998, by and between the
              Company and Citibank, N.A. as Trustee. (Incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Current Report on
              Form 8-K dated July 14, 1998, File No. 1-6682.)

         (b)  Indenture, dated as of March 15, 2000, by and between the
              Company and the Bank of Nova Scotia Trust Company of New
              York. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(b)(i) to the
              Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
              December 26, 1999, File Number 1-6682.)

         (c)  Amended and Restated Line of Credit Agreement dated as of
              February 16, 2001 by and among the Company, the Banks party
              thereto, and Fleet National Bank, as Agent for the Banks.

         (d)  Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of
              February 16, 2001 by and among the Company, the Banks party
              thereto, and Fleet National Bank, as Agent for the Banks.


         (e)  Rights Agreement, dated as of June 16, 1999, between the Company
              and Fleet National Bank (the Rights Agent). (Incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit 4 to The Company's Current Report on
              Form 8-K dated as of June 16, 1999.)

         (f)  First Amendment to Rights Agreement, dated as of December 4,
              2000, between the Company and the Rights Agent.


   10.  Material Contracts
         (a)  Lease between Hasbro Canada Corporation (formerly named Hasbro
              Industries (Canada) Ltd.)("Hasbro Canada") and Central Toy
              Manufacturing Co. ("Central Toy"), dated December 23, 1976.
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.15 to the Company's
              Registration Statement on Form S-14, File No. 2-92550.)

         (b)  Lease between Hasbro Canada and Central Toy, together
              with an Addendum thereto, each dated as of May 1, 1987.
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the Company's
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended
              December 27, 1987, File No. 1-6682.)

         (c)  Addendum to lease, dated March 5, 1998, between Hasbro Canada
              and Central Toy. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c)
              to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal
              Year Ended December 28, 1997, File No. 1-6682.)

         (d)  Letter agreement, dated December 13, 2000, between Hasbro
              Canada and Central Toy.

         (e)  Toy License Agreement between Lucas Licensing Ltd. and the
              Company, dated as of October 14, 1997. (Portions of this
              agreement have been omitted pursuant to a request for
              confidential treatment under Rule 24b-2 of the Securities
              Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.)(Incorporated by reference to
              Exhibit 10(d) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
              the Fiscal Year Ended December 27, 1998, File No. 1-6682.)

         (f)  First Amendment to Toy License Agreement between Lucas
              Licensing Ltd. and the Company, dated as of September 25, 1998.
              (Portions of this  agreement have been omitted pursuant to a
              request for confidential treatment under Rule 24b-2 of the
              Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.)(Incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit 10(e) to the Company's Annual Report on
              Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended December 27, 1998, File No.
              1-6682.)

         (g)  Agreement of Strategic Relationship between Lucasfilm Ltd. and
              the Company dated as of October 14, 1997. (Portions of this
              agreement have been omitted pursuant to a request for
              confidential treatment under Rule 24b-2 of the Securities
              Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.) (Incorporated by reference
              to Exhibit 10(f) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
              for the Fiscal Year Ended December 27, 1998, File No. 1-6682.)


         (h)  First Amendment to Agreement of Strategic Relationship between
              Lucasfilm Ltd. and the Company, dated as of September 25, 1998.
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(g) to the Company's
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year ended December
              27, 1998, File No. 1-6682.)

         (i)  Warrant, dated October 14, 1997 between the Company and
              Lucas Licensing Ltd. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
              10(h) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
              Fiscal Year ended December 27, 1998, File No. 1-6682.)

         (j)  Warrant, dated October 14, 1997 between the Company and
              Lucasfilm Ltd. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
              10(i) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
              Fiscal Year ended December 27, 1998, File No. 1-6682.)

         (k)  Warrant, dated October 30, 1998 between the Company and
              Lucas Licensing Ltd. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
              10(j) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
              Fiscal Year ended December 27, 1998, File No. 1-6682.)

         (l)  Warrant, dated October 30, 1998 between the Company and
              Lucasfilm Ltd. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
              10(k) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
              Fiscal Year ended December 27, 1998, File No. 1-6682.)

         (m)  Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of February 8, 1998,
              together with Amendment thereto dated as of March 31, 1998,
              by and among the Company, Tiger Electronics Ltd. (formerly
              named HIAC X Corp. and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
              Company), Tiger Electronics, Inc. and certain affiliates
              thereof and Owen Randall Rissman and the Rissman Family 1997
              Trust. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2(a) to the
              Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, dated April 1, 1998,
              File No. 1-6682.)

        Executive Compensation Plans and Arrangements
         (n)  Employee Incentive Stock Option Plan. (Incorporated by
              reference to  Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Registration
              Statement on Form S-8, File No. 2-78018.)

         (o)  Amendment No. 1 to Employee Incentive Stock Option Plan.
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(l) to the Company's
              Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended
              December 28, 1986, File No. 1-6682.)

         (p)  Amendment No. 2 to Employee Incentive Stock Option Plan.
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(n) to the Company's
              Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended
              December 27, 1987, File No. 1-6682.)

         (q)  Amendment No. 3 to Employee Incentive Stock Option Plan.
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(o) to the Company's
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended
              December 25, 1988, File No. 1-6682.)

         (r)  Amendment No. 4 to Employee Incentive Stock Option Plan.
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(s) to the Company's
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended
              December 31, 1989, File No. 1-6682.)

         (s)  Form of Non Qualified Stock Option Agreement under the
              Employee Incentive Stock Option Plan. (Incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit 10(q) to the Company's Annual Report
              on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended December 25, 1988,
              File No. 1-6682.)

         (t)  Non Qualified Stock Option Plan. (Incorporated by reference
              to Exhibit 10.10 to the Company's Registration Statement on
              Form S-14, File No. 2-92550.)

         (u)  Amendment No. 1 to Non Qualified Stock Option Plan.
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(j) to the
              Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal
              Year Ended December 28, 1986, File No. 1-6682.)

         (v)  Amendment No. 2 to Non Qualified Stock Option Plan.
              (Incorporated by reference to Appendix A to the Company's
              definitive proxy statement for its 1987 Annual Meeting of
              Shareholders, File No. 1-6682.)

         (w)  Amendment No. 3 to Non Qualified Stock Option Plan.
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(l) to the Company's
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended
              December 31, 1989, File No. 1-6682.)

         (x)  Form of Stock Option Agreement (For Employees) under the Non
              Qualified Stock Option Plan. (Incorporated by reference to
              Exhibit 10(t) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
              for the Fiscal Year Ended December 27, 1992, File No.
              1-6682.)

         (y)  1992 Stock Incentive Plan. (Incorporated by reference to
              Appendix A to the Company's definitive proxy statement for
              its 1992 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, File No. 1-6682.)

         (z)  Form of Stock Option Agreement under the 1992 Stock Incentive
              Plan, the Stock Incentive Performance Plan and the Employee
              Non-Qualified Stock Plan. (Incorporated by reference to
              Exhibit 10(v) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
              the Fiscal Year Ended December 27, 1992, File No. 1-6682.)

        (aa)  Hasbro, Inc. Stock Incentive Performance Plan. (Incorporated
              by reference to Appendix A to the Company's definitive proxy
              statement for its 1995 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, File
              No. 1-6682.)

        (bb)  First Amendment to the 1992 Stock Incentive Plan and the Stock
              Incentive Performance Plan. (Incorporated by reference to
              Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
              the period ended June 27, 1999, File No. 1-6682.)


        (cc)  Second Amendment to the Stock Incentive Performance Plan.
              (Incorporated by reference to Appendix A to the Company's
              definitive proxy statement for its 2000 Annual Meeting of
              Shareholders, File No. 1-6682.)

        (dd)  Employee Non-Qualified Stock Plan. (Incorporated by reference
              to Exhibit 10(dd) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
              for the Fiscal Year Ended December 29, 1996, File No. 1-6682.)

        (ee)  First Amendment to the Employee Non-Qualified Stock Plan.
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 to the Company's
              Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 28,
              1999, File No. 1-6682.)

        (ff)  Form of Stock Option Agreement (For Participants in the Long
              Term Incentive Program) under the 1992 Stock Incentive Plan,
              the Stock Incentive Performance Plan, and the Employee Non-
              Qualified Stock Plan. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
              10(w) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
              Fiscal Year Ended December 27, 1992, File No. 1-6682.)

        (gg)  Form of Restricted Stock Agreement.

        (hh)  Form of Deferred Restricted Stock Unit Agreement.

        (ii)  Form of Employment Agreement between the Company and ten
              Company executives. (Incorporated by reference to
              Exhibit 10(v) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
              the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 1989, File No. 1-6682.)

        (jj)  Form of Amendment, dated as of March 10, 2000, to Form of
              Employment Agreement included as Exhibit 10(ii) above.
             (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(ff) to the Company's
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended December
              26, 1999.)

        (kk)  Hasbro, Inc. Retirement Plan for Directors. (Incorporated
              by  reference to Exhibit 10(x) to the Company's Annual
              Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended December 30,
              1990, File No. 1-6682.)

        (ll)  Form of Director's Indemnification Agreement. (Incorporated
              by reference to Appendix B to the Company's definitive proxy
              statement for its 1988 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, File
              No. 1-6682.)

        (mm)  Hasbro, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee
              Directors.(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(cc) to
              the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year
              Ended December 26, 1993, File No. 1-6682.)

        (nn)  Hasbro, Inc. Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors.
              (Incorporated by reference to Appendix A to the Company's
              definitive proxy statement for its 1994 Annual Meeting of
              Shareholders, File No. 1-6682.)

        (oo)  First Amendment to the Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee
              Directors. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the
              Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended
              June 27, 1999, File No. 1-6682.)

        (pp)  Form of Stock Option Agreement for Non-Employee Directors
              under the Hasbro, Inc. Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee
              Directors. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(w) to
              the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year
              Ended December 25, 1994, File No. 1-6682.)

        (qq)  Hasbro, Inc. 1999 Senior Management Annual Performance Plan.
              (Incorporated by reference to Appendix A to the Company's
              definitive proxy statement for its 1999 Annual Meeting of
              Shareholders, File No. 1-6682.)

        (rr)  Hasbro, Inc. Amended and Restated Nonqualified Deferred
              Compensation Plan. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10
              to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the Period
              Ended March 29, 1998, File No. 1-6682.)

        (ss)  Employment Agreement, dated as of January 1, 1996, between
              the Company and Harold P. Gordon. (Incorporated by reference
              to Exhibit 10(aa) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
              for the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 1995, File No. 1-6682.)

        (tt)  Letter dated January 26, 1998 from the Company to George B.
              Volanakis. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(ii) to
              the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year
              Ended December 28, 1997, File No. 1-6682.)

        (uu)  Employment Agreement dated as of January 5, 1999, between the
              Company and Herbert M. Baum. (Incorporated by reference to
              Exhibit 10(rr) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
              the Fiscal Year ended December 27, 1998, File No. 1-6682.)

        (vv)  Settlement Agreement, dated January 31, 2001, among the
              Company, Herbert M. Baum and the Dial Corporation.

        (ww)  Employment Agreement, dated as of March 18, 2000, among
              Tiger Electronics, Ltd., the Company and Brian Goldner.


   11.  Statement re computation of per share earnings

   12.  Statement re computation of ratios

   13.  Selected information contained in Annual Report to Shareholders

   21.  Subsidiaries of the registrant

   23.  Consents of KPMG LLP



