
10-K405
10-K DOCUMENT


                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                           Washington, D. C.  20549

                                  Form  10-K

                 Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d)
                     of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 28, 1997   Commission file number 1-6682
                          -----------------                          ------

                                 Hasbro, Inc.
                             --------------------
                             (Name of Registrant)
      Rhode Island                                          05-0155090 
- - ------------------------                                -------------------
(State of Incorporation)                                 (I.R.S. Employer
                                                        Identification No.)

              1027 Newport Avenue, Pawtucket, Rhode Island 02861
              --------------------------------------------------
                   (Address of Principal Executive Offices)

                                (401) 431-8697
                                --------------

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                     Name of each exchange
      Title of each class                             on which registered
      -------------------                            ---------------------

Common Stock                                        American Stock Exchange
Preference Share Purchase Rights                    American Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports 
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the 
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to 
such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes[X] or No[ ].

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to 
the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information 
statements incorporated by reference in Part II of this Form 10-K or any 
amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the 
registrant computed by reference to the price at which the stock was sold on 
March 20, 1998 was $4,489,943,387.

The number of shares of Common Stock outstanding as of March 20, 1998 was 
133,122,242.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

  Portions of registrant's definitive proxy statement for its 1998 Annual 
Meeting of Shareholders are incorporated by reference into Part III of this 
Report.

  Selected information contained in registrant's Annual Report to 
Shareholders for the fiscal year ended December 28, 1997, is included as 
Exhibit 13, and incorporated by reference into Parts I and II of this Report.


                                    PART I

ITEM  1.  BUSINESS
          --------
  (a) General Development of Business
      -------------------------------
  The Company designs, manufactures and markets a diverse line of toy 
products and related items throughout the world. Included in its offerings 
are games, including traditional board and card, hand-held electronic and 
interactive CD-ROM, and puzzles, preschool, boys' action and girls' toys, 
dolls, plush products and infant products. The Company also licenses various 
tradenames, characters and other property rights for use in connection with 
the sale by others of noncompeting toys and non-toy products.

  Except as expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, as 
used herein, the "Company" means Hasbro, Inc., a Rhode Island corporation 
organized on January 8, 1926, and its subsidiaries.

  During 1996, the Company began to take steps to become more marketing and 
brands driven and globally focused. The new focus is designed to allow the 
development of brands and products globally, which will provide greater 
coordination of key brands from a world-wide perspective, while still 
recognizing regional differences in product requirements and the sales 
process. It also will allow for the global coordination of production and 
sourcing requirements.

  During 1997, the Company operated through its existing units, Games, Toys 
and International, while at the same time put into place a new organizational 
structure. The new organizational structure includes three primary groups; 
Global Brands and Product Development, which has the responsibility for 
developing and managing the Company's global and regional brands, acquiring 
new brands and licenses, developing products and determining strategies for 
marketing those products; Global Operations, which is responsible for 
manufacturing or otherwise sourcing products developed by the Brands Group; 
and Regional Sales and Marketing, which is responsible for taking the 
products developed by the Brands Group and manufactured or sourced by the 
Operations Group and marketing them throughout the world. The Company's 
interactive and emerging business units will not be operated within the 
confines of the three primary groups but will rather operate as `stand alone' 
units, utilizing the expertise of those groups.



                                     -2-


  (b) Description of Business Products
      --------------------------------
  Within the United States, the Company's products sold by the Sales and 
Marketing group are categorized for marketing purposes as follows:

    (i) Boys' Toys
        ---------
  Boys' toys are offered in a wide range of products, many of which are tied 
to entertainment properties, including Star Wars(R), Batman(R) and Jurassic 
Park(TM) action figures and accessories. It also offers such classic 
properties as G.I. Joe(R), Action Man(TM), Starting Line-Up(R), 
Transformers(R), the Tonka(R) line of trucks, and vehicles including the 
XRC(R) radio-controlled vehicles and the Nerf(R) line of soft action play 
equipment. The focus in 1998 for this category will be on the core brands, 
with introductions of new action figures and accessories utilizing the Action 
Man, G.I. Joe, Star Wars, Batman, Jurassic Park and Starting Line-Up brands. 
Additionally, the Company will offer a range of action figures and 
accessories using characters associated with DreamWorks' forthcoming movie, 
Small Soldiers(TM) and several new collectible figurines of NASCAR drivers 
and additions to the Winner's Circle(TM) line of die cast vehicle 
assortments.

   (ii) Games
        -----
  The Company markets its games and puzzles under both the Milton Bradley(R) 
and Parker Brothers(R) brands. Milton Bradley maintains a line of board, 
strategy and word games, skill and action games, hand-held electronic games 
and travel games with a diversified line of more than 200 games and puzzles 
for children and adults. Its staple items include Battleship(R), The Game of 
Life(R), Scrabble(R), Chutes and Ladders(R), Candy Land(R), Trouble(R), 
Mousetrap(R), Operation(R), Hungry Hungry Hippos(R), Connect Four(R), 
Twister(R) and Big Ben(R) Puzzles. The Company also provides games and 
puzzles for the entire family, including such games as Yahtzee(R), 
Parcheesi(R), Aggravation(R), Jenga(R) and Scattergories(R) and Puzz 3-D(R), 
a series of three dimensional jigsaw puzzles. Items added within the Milton 
Bradley brand for 1998 include Totally Twister(TM), TV Guide(R)-The Game and 
Fishin' Around(TM), a game for younger players.

  Under the Parker Brothers brand, the Company markets a full line of games 
for families, children and adults. Its classic line of family board games 
includes Monopoly(R), Clue(R), Sorry!(R), Risk(R), Boggle(R), Ouija(R) and 
Trivial Pursuit(R), some of which have been in the Parker Brothers' line for 
more than 50 years. The Company also markets traditional card games such as 
Mille Bornes(R), Rook(R) and Rack-O(R), games for adults such as Outburst(R) 
and Catch Phrase(R), a line of Playskool(R) Games for children, including 
Kanga-Banga Roo(TM) and Mr. Potato Head Pals(TM), as well as a line of 
puzzles. New under the Parker Brothers' brand in 1998 are the Electronic 
Hand-Held Monopoly(R) game and Bamboozle(TM), a game for adult play.







                                     -3-


  (iii) Girls' Toys
        -----------
  Hasbro's girls' items include the Raggedy Ann(R) and Raggedy Andy(R) line 
of rag dolls along with a large doll line which includes Baby Go Bye Bye(TM). 
Included in its new introductions for 1998 are McDonaldland(R) Happy Meal(R) 
Girl Doll and Dial-A-Doctor Baby(TM) Doll large dolls and figures and 
accessories based on the soon to be released movie, Quest for Camelot(TM). 
Also being reintroduced in 1998 is a line of My Little Pony(R) figures and 
playsets.

   (iv) Preschool
        ---------
  The preschool line is focused on four key brands; Playskool(R); Barney(TM); 
Arthur(TM); and, being launched this year, Teletubbies(TM). The Playskool 
brand includes such well known products as Mr. Potato Head(R), 1-2-3 Bike(TM) 
and the "Busy(R)" line of toys; electronic items including the new Real 
Recordin' Message Center(TM) and Police Talk(TM) Radio; and sports toys such 
as 1-2-3 Baseball(TM) and Flash `n Go In-Line Skates(TM). Other new items 
within this brand for 1998 include Knock-Knock Mr. Potato Head(R), an 
interactive soft toy which tells over 50 `knock-knock" jokes and the Musical 
Ice Cream Cart(TM). The Barney brand includes a range of products including 
Talking Barney(R) and other products featuring the purple dinosaur and his 
friends. The PBS television show, Arthur, inspired a line of products 
featuring this child-like aardvark and his sister D.W.(TM). Teletubbies are 
based on the new PBS series featuring four lovable characters: Dipsy(TM); 
Po(TM); Laa-Laa(TM); and Tinky Winky(TM).

    (v) Creative Play
        -------------
  Creative play items for both girls and boys include such classic lines as 
Play-Doh(R), Easy-Bake(R) Oven, Tinkertoy(R), Lincoln Logs(R) and the 
Spirograph(R) design toy. New offerings for 1998 include an Easy Bake 
licensed bake set assortment using the M&M(R) and Oreo(R) brands, several new 
Play-Doh playsets and several items featuring characters from Small Soldiers.

  The Company also develops and markets certain products, both in the United 
States and internationally, through two other organizations, Hasbro 
Interactive and the Emerging Business Group.

   (vi) Hasbro Interactive
        ------------------
  Hasbro Interactive, Inc. develops and markets interactive CD-ROM games 
based on the Company's traditional games and brands, including  Monopoly, 
Risk, Sorry!, Battleship and, for younger children, Tonka Construction(TM). 
It also produces games using licensed properties such as Frogger(R). Among 
its 1998 introductions will be Wheel of Fortune(R) and Jeopardy(R), in both 
CD-ROM and Sony(R) Playstation(TM) versions, and two interactive playsets. In 
1998, Hasbro Interactive will also launch, Centipede(R), its first game 
utilizing the recently acquired rights from Atari.  






                                     -4-


  (vii) Emerging Business Group
        -----------------------
  The emerging business group develops and markets the Larami(R) Super 
Soaker(TM) line of water products, the Koosh(R) range of soft play items and 
a line of interactive candy. Included in this group's line of interactive 
candy in 1998 will be Sound Bites(TM) which allows one to hear sounds inside 
one's head while eating the candy.


  The Company conducts its international operations through subsidiaries in 
more than 25 countries which sell a representative range of the global brands 
and products marketed in the United States together with some items which are 
sold only internationally.


  To further extend its range of products, the Company has Hong Kong units 
which market directly to retailers, both in the United States and 
internationally, a line of high quality, low priced toys, games and related 
products, primarily on a direct import basis.

  In addition, certain toy products are licensed to other toy companies to 
manufacture and sell product in certain international markets where the 
Company does not otherwise have a presence.


  For all of the Company's units, the Operations group manufactures products 
in the United States, Mexico, Ireland and Spain and sources products, largely 
through a Hong Kong subsidiary working primarily through unrelated 
manufacturers in various Far East countries. The Company has small 
investments in joint ventures in India and the Peoples Republic of China 
which manufacture and sell products both to the Company and unaffiliated 
customers.

  Working Capital Requirements
  ----------------------------
  Production has been financed historically by means of short-term borrowings 
which reach peak levels during September through November of each year when 
receivables also generally reach peak levels. The revenue pattern of the 
Company continues to shift with the second half of the year growing in 
significance to its overall business and, within that half, the fourth 
quarter becoming more prominent. The Company expects that this trend will 
continue. The toy business is also characterized by customer order patterns 
which vary from year to year largely because of differences each year in the 
degree of consumer acceptance of a product line, product availability, 
marketing strategies and inventory levels of retailers and differences in 
overall economic conditions. As a result, comparisons of unshipped orders on 
any date with those at the same date in a prior year are not necessarily 
indicative of sales for that entire given year. Also, quick response 
inventory management practices now being used results in fewer orders being 
placed in advance of shipment and more orders, when placed, for immediate 
delivery. The Company's unshipped orders at March 1, 1998 and March 2, 1997 
were approximately $155,000,000 and $215,000,000, respectively. Also, it is a



                                     -5-


general industry practice that orders are subject to amendment or 
cancellation by customers prior to shipment. The backlog at any date in a 
given year can be affected by programs the Company may employ to induce its 
customers to place orders and accept shipments early in the year. This method 
is a general industry practice. The programs the Company is employing to 
promote sales in 1998 are not substantially different from those employed in 
1997.

  As part of the traditional marketing strategies of the toy industry, many 
sales made early in the year are not due for payment until the fourth quarter 
or early in the first quarter of the subsequent year, thus making it 
necessary for the Company to borrow significant amounts pending these 
collections. During the year, the Company relies on internally generated 
funds and short-term borrowing arrangements, including commercial paper, to 
finance its working capital needs. Currently, the Company has available to it 
unsecured lines of credit, which it believes are adequate, of approximately 
$1,000,000,000 including a $440,000,000 revolving credit agreement with a 
group of banks which is also used as a back-up to commercial paper issued by 
the Company.

  Royalties, Research and Development
  -----------------------------------
  The Company's business is based to a substantial extent on the continuing 
development of new products and the redesigning of existing items for 
continuing market acceptance. In 1997, 1996 and 1995, approximately 
$154,710,000, $152,487,000 and $148,057,000, respectively, were incurred on 
activities relating to the development, design and engineering of new 
products and their packaging (including items brought to the Company by 
independent designers) and to the improvement or modification of ongoing 
products. Much of this work is performed by the Company's staff of designers, 
artists, model makers and engineers.

  In addition to its own staff, the Company deals with a number of 
independent toy designers for whose designs and ideas the Company competes 
with other toy manufacturers. Rights to such designs and ideas, when acquired 
by the Company, are usually exclusive under agreements requiring the Company 
to pay the designer a royalty on the Company's net sales of the item. These 
designer royalty agreements in some cases provide for advance royalties and 
minimum guarantees.

  The Company also produces a number of toys under trademarks and copyrights 
utilizing the names or likenesses of familiar movie, television and comic 
strip characters, for whose rights the Company competes with other toy 
manufacturers. Licensing fees are generally paid as a royalty on the 
Company's net sales of the item. Licenses for the use of characters are 
generally exclusive for specific products or product lines in specified 
territories. In many instances, advance royalties and minimum guarantees are 
required by character license agreements. Under terms of currently existing 
agreements, in certain circumstances the Company may be required to pay an 
aggregate of up to $500,000,000 in guaranteed or minimum royalties between 
1998 and 2005.




                                     -6-


  Marketing and Sales
  -------------------
  The Company's products are sold nationally and internationally to a broad 
spectrum of customers including wholesalers, distributors, chain stores, 
discount stores, mail order houses, catalog stores, department stores and 
other retailers, large and small. The Company and its subsidiaries employ 
their own sales forces which account for nearly all of the sales of their 
products. Remaining sales are generated by independent distributors who sell 
the Company's products principally in areas of the world where the Company 
does not otherwise maintain a presence. The Company maintains showrooms in 
New York and selected other major cities world-wide as well as at most of its 
subsidiary locations. Although the Company has more than 2,000 customers in 
the United States and Canada, most of which are wholesalers, distributors or 
large chain stores, there has been significant consolidation at the retail 
level over the last several years. In other countries, the Company has in 
excess of 20,000 customers, many of which are individual retail stores. 
During 1997, sales to the Company's two largest customers, Toys R Us, Inc. 
and Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., represented 22% and 15%, respectively, of 
consolidated net revenues.

  The Company advertises many of its toy and game products extensively on 
television. The Company generally advertises selected items in its product 
groups in a manner designed to promote the sale of other specific items in 
those product groups. Each year, the Company introduces its new products at 
its New York City showrooms at the time of the American International Toy 
Fair in February.  It also introduces some of its products to major customers 
during the prior year.

  In 1997, the Company spent approximately $411,574,000 in advertising, 
promotion and marketing programs compared to $418,003,000 in 1996 and 
$417,886,000 in 1995.

  Manufacturing and Importing
  ---------------------------
  The Company manufactures its products in facilities within the United 
States and various other countries (see "Properties"). Most of its products 
are manufactured from basic raw materials such as plastic and cardboard which 
are readily available but which may be subject to significant fluctuations in 
price. The Company's manufacturing process includes injection molding, blow 
molding, metal stamping, spray painting, printing, box making, assembly and 
wood processing. The Company purchases certain components and accessories 
used in its toys and games and some finished items from United States 
manufacturers as well as from manufacturers in the Far East, which is the 
largest manufacturing center of toys in the world, and other countries. The 
1996 implementation of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade reduced or 
eliminated customs duties on many products imported by the Company. The 
Company believes that the manufacturing capacity of its facilities and the 
supply of components, accessories and completed products which it purchases 
from unaffiliated manufacturers is adequate to meet the foreseeable demand 
for the products which it markets. The Company's reliance on external sources 
of manufacturing can be shifted, over a period of time, to alternative 
sources of supply for products it sells, should such changes be necessary.



                                     -7-


However, if the Company is prevented from obtaining products from a 
substantial number of its current Far East suppliers due to political, labor 
or other factors beyond its control, the Company's operations would be 
disrupted while alternative sources of product were secured. The imposition 
of trade sanctions by the United States or the European Union against a class 
of products imported by the Company from, or the loss of "most favored 
nation" trading status by, the People's Republic of China could significantly 
increase the cost of the Company's products imported into the United States 
or Europe from China.

  The Company makes its own tools and fixtures but purchases dies and molds 
principally from independent United States and international sources. Several 
of the Company's North American production departments operate on a two-shift 
basis and its molding departments operate on a continuous basis through most 
of the year.

  Competition
  -----------
  The Company's business is highly competitive and it competes with several 
large and many small United States and international manufacturers. The 
Company is a worldwide leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of 
toys and games.

  Employees
  ---------
  The Company employs approximately 12,000 persons worldwide, approximately 
6,500 of whom are located in the United States.  

  Trademarks, Copyrights and Patents
  ----------------------------------
  The Company's products are protected, for the most part and in as many 
countries as practical, by registered trademarks, copyrights and patents to 
the extent that such protection is available and meaningful. The loss of such 
rights concerning any particular product would not have a material adverse 
effect on the Company's business, although the loss of such protection for a 
number of significant items might have such an effect.

  Government Regulation
  ---------------------
  The Company's toy products sold in the United States are subject to the 
provisions of the Consumer Product Safety Act (the "CPSA"), The Federal 
Hazardous Substances Act (the "FHSA") and the regulations promulgated 
thereunder. The CPSA empowers the Consumer Product Safety Commission (the 
"CPSC") to take action against hazards presented by consumer products, 
including the formulation and implementation of regulations and uniform 
safety standards. The CPSC has the authority to seek to declare a product "a 
banned hazardous substance" under the CPSA and to ban it from commerce. The 
CPSC can file an action to seize and condemn an "imminently hazardous 
consumer product" under the CPSA and may also order equitable remedies such 
as recall, replacement, repair or refund for the product. The FHSA provides 
for the repurchase by the manufacturer of articles which are banned. Similar 
laws exist in some states and cities within the United States and in Canada, 
Australia and Europe. The Company maintains laboratories which have testing 
and other procedures intended to maintain compliance with the CPSA and FHSA.

                                     -8-  


Notwithstanding the foregoing, there can be no assurance that all of the 
Company's products are or will be hazard free. While the Company neither has 
had any material product recalls nor knows of any currently, should any such 
problem arise, it could have an effect on the Company depending on the 
product and could affect sales of other products.

  The Children's Television Act of 1990 and the rules promulgated thereunder 
by the United States Federal Communications Commission as well as the laws of 
certain countries place certain limitations on television commercials during 
children's programming.

  The Company maintains programs to comply with various United States 
federal, state, local and international requirements relating to the 
environment, plant safety and other matters.

  Toys "R" Us Litigation
  ----------------------
  On September 25, 1997, an administrative law judge ("ALJ") of the Federal 
Trade Commission (the "Commission") issued an Initial Decision against Toys 
"R" Us, finding that Toys "R" Us had engaged in unfair business practices in 
violation of Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act. In particular, 
the ALJ found that Toys "R" Us entered into vertical agreements with, and 
facilitated horizontal agreements among, various toy manufacturers, including 
the Company, to restrict the supply of certain toys to warehouse club 
retailers. Toys "R" Us' appeal of the ALJ's decision is currently pending 
before the Commission. Although the Company voluntarily produced documents 
and witnesses in the action, the Company was not named a defendant by the 
Commission in the action.

  In the wake of the ALJ's decision, numerous antitrust actions have been 
filed naming Toys "R" Us, the Company, and certain other toy manufacturers as 
defendants. All of these actions generally allege that Toys "R" Us 
orchestrated an illegal conspiracy with various toy manufacturers to 
improperly cut-off supplies of popular toys to the warehouse clubs and other 
low margin retailers that compete with Toys "R" Us. The Company has been 
named as a defendant in twenty-seven private antitrust class actions in 
federal courts in California, Illinois, Maryland, New Jersey, New York, 
Pennsylvania and Vermont, all of which purport to represent nationwide 
classes of customers. These actions allege, among other things, violations of 
the Sherman and Clayton Acts. In addition, on October 2, 1997, the Attorney 
General of the State of New York ("NYAG") filed an action against Toys "R" 
Us, the Company, and several other toy manufacturers alleging violations of 
federal and state antitrust law, on behalf of all persons in the State of New 
York who purchased toy products from retailers from 1989 to the present. The 
NYAG complaint has been amended to add as plaintiffs attorneys general from 
an additional thirty-seven states, the District of Columbia and the 
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.

  On February 11, 1998, the Judicial Panel on Multi-District Litigation 
consolidated and transferred, for all pretrial proceedings, the NYAG action 
and all of the pending private actions in the federal courts. The 
consolidated cases are titled In Re Toys "R" Us Antitrust Litigation, MDL-
1211 and are pending in the Federal District Court in the Eastern District of 
New York.

                                     -9-



  In addition, the Company has been named as a defendant, along with Toys "R" 
Us and certain other toy manufacturers, in an action titled Struthers v. Toys 
"R" Us et al., No. H198813-6, filed in the Superior Court for the State of 
California, Alameda County, alleging violations of state antitrust laws. On 
February 9, 1998, the Superior Court ordered the Struthers case to be 
coordinated with three pending state court actions previously filed against 
Toys "R" Us in California. On March 2, 1998, the Superior Court entered an 
order providing for six months hiatus in all of the California litigations to 
encourage the parties to pursue settlement discussions and negotiations in 
good faith. These discussions are to be coordinated with a mediation ordered 
in a case titled Wilson v. Toys "R" Us, Case No. CV96-574, pending in 
Tuscaloosa County Circuit Court in Alabama. The Company is not a party to the 
Alabama case.

  All of the foregoing complaints seek injunctive relief, unspecified treble 
damages, expenses or costs and attorneys fees. The Company has not responded 
to the complaints in any of these actions, and there are no current dates for 
responding to any of the complaints.

  The Company intends to vigorously defend the actions in which it is named 
as a defendant involving the Toys "R" Us matter. Due to the preliminary 
nature of the various actions and proceedings against the Company, the 
ultimate outcome and materiality of these matters cannot presently be 
determined.

  Forward-Looking Information
  ---------------------------
  From time to time, the Company may publish forward-looking statements 
relating to such matters as anticipated financial performance, business 
prospects, technological developments, new products, research and development 
activities and similar matters. Forward-looking statements are inherently 
subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are known by, or self-
evident to, the investing public. The Private Securities Litigation Reform 
Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements. In order 
to comply with the terms of the safe harbor, the Company notes that a variety 
of factors could cause its actual results and experience to differ materially 
from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed in its forward-
looking statements. The risks and uncertainties that may affect the 
operations, performance, development and results of Hasbro's business include 
the following:

   1)  The Company's dependence on its timely development and introduction of 
new products and the acceptance, in a competitive product environment, by 
both the customer and consumer, of new and continuing products;

   2)  The impact of competition on revenue, margins and other aspects of the 
Company's business;

   3)  Economic conditions and currency fluctuations in the various markets 
in which the Company operates throughout the world, including the effect of 
currency fluctuations on reportable income;



                                    -10-


   4)  The continuing trend of increased concentration of Hasbro's revenues 
in the second half and fourth quarter of the year, together with the 
increased reliance by retailers on quick response inventory management 
practices, which increases the risk of the Company's underproduction of 
popular items, overproduction of less popular items and failure to achieve 
tight and compressed shipping schedules;

   5)  Third party actions or approval that could delay, modify or increase 
the cost of implementation of the Company's global integration and profit 
enhancement program;

   6)  The risk that anticipated benefits of acquisitions may not occur or be 
delayed or reduced in their realization; and

   7)  Other risks and uncertainties as are or may be detailed from time to 
time in Hasbro's public announcements and filings with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission.

  (c) Financial Information About International and United States
      -----------------------------------------------------------
       Operations and Export Sales
       ---------------------------
  The information required by this item is included in note 16 of Notes to 
Consolidated Financial Statements in Exhibit 13 to this Report and is 
incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM  2.  PROPERTIES
          ----------
                                                                  Lease
                                           Square   Type of    Expiration
Location          Use                       Feet   Possession    Dates
- - --------          ---                      ------  ----------  ----------

Rhode Island
- - ------------
 Pawtucket        Executive, Sales &
                   Marketing Offices &
                   Product Development    343,000     Owned        --
 Pawtucket        Administrative Office    23,000     Owned        --
 East Providence  Administrative Office   120,000     Leased      1999
 Central Falls    Manufacturing           261,500     Owned (1)    --

California
- - ----------
 Petaluma         Warehouse                80,000     Leased      1998
 Campbell         Office                   17,000     Leased      2002

Massachusetts
- - -------------
 East Longmeadow  Office, Manufacturing
                   & Warehouse          1,147,500     Owned        -- 



                                    -11-


 East Longmeadow  Office, Manufacturing
                   & Warehouse            254,400     Owned (1)    --
 East Longmeadow  Warehouse               500,000     Leased      2000
 Beverly          Office                  100,000     Owned        --

New Jersey
- - ----------
 Northvale        Warehouse                75,000     Leased      2002
 Mt. Laurel       Office                   11,000     Leased      1999

New York
- - --------
 New York         Office & Showroom        70,300     Leased      2000
 New York         Offices & Showrooms      32,300     Leased      1999

Ohio
- - ----
 Bedford Heights  Office and warehouse    187,100     Leased      2000
 Euclid           Warehouse                29,300     Leased      1998
 Cincinnati       Office                  174,000     Leased      2007
 Cincinnati       Warehouse                31,800     Leased      2008

Texas
- - -----
 El Paso          Manufacturing
                   & Warehouse            373,000     Owned (1)    --
 El Paso          Warehouse               744,900     Leased      2008
 El Paso          Warehouses              111,000     Leased      1998

Vermont
- - -------
 Fairfax          Manufacturing            43,000     Owned (1)    --

Washington
- - ----------
 Seattle          Office & Warehouse      125,100     Leased(2)   1998

Australia
- - ---------
 Lidcombe         Office & Warehouse      161,400     Leased      2002
 Eastwood         Office                   16,900     Leased      2001

Argentina
- - ---------
 Buenos Aires     Office and Warehouse     61,000     Leased      2000

Austria
- - -------
 Vienna           Office                    2,500     Leased      1998

Belgium
- - -------
 Brussels         Office & Showroom        20,700     Leased      1998


                                    -12-


Canada
- - ------
 Montreal         Office, Manufacturing
                   & Showroom             133,900     Leased      2001
 Mississauga      Sales Office & Showroom  16,300     Leased      1998
 Montreal         Warehouse                88,100     Leased      1998

Chile
- - -----
 Santiago         Warehouse                23,800     Leased      1998
 Santiago         Office                    3,500     Leased      1999

Denmark
- - -------
 Glostrup         Office                    9,200     Leased      1999

England
- - -------
 Uxbridge         Office & Showroom        94,500     Leased      2013

Finland
- - -------
 Helsinki         Office                    8,000     Leased      2001

France
- - ------
 Le Bourget
  du Lac          Office, Manufacturing
                   & Warehouse            108,300     Owned        --
 Savoie Technolac Office                   33,500     Owned        --
 Creutzwald       Warehouse                92,900     Owned        --
 Gresy            Warehouse               265,000     Leased      1998

Germany
- - -------
 Dietzenbach      Office                   39,400     Leased      1998
 Soest            Office & Warehouse      156,300     Owned        --

Greece
- - ------
 Athens           Office & Warehouse       84,700     Leased      1998

Hong Kong
- - ---------
 Kowloon          Office                   36,800     Leased      2000
 Shatkin          Office & Warehouse       17,800     Leased      1999

Hungary
- - -------
 Budapest         Office                    6,300     Leased      1999





                                    -13-


Ireland
- - -------
 Waterford        Office, Manufacturing
                   & Warehouse            244,400     Owned        --

Italy
- - -----
 Milan            Office & Showroom        12,100     Leased      2002

Japan
- - -----
 Tokyo            Office                    7,200     Leased      1998

Malaysia
- - -------
 Selangor
  Darul Ehsan     Office                    4,900     Leased      2000

Mexico
- - ------
 Tijuana          Office & Manufacturing  143,800     Leased      1998
 Tijuana          Manufacturing           205,000     Leased      1998
 Tijuana          Warehouse                46,900     Leased      1998
 Periferico       Office                   16,100     Leased      2001
 Juarez           Manufacturing           169,500     Owned (1)    --
 Venados          Warehouses              118,100     Leased      1999

The Netherlands
- - ---------------
 Ter Apel         Office & Warehouse      139,300     Owned        --
 Ter Apel         Warehouse                79,400     Leased      1998
 Utrecht          Office                   17,000     Leased      1999

New Zealand
- - -----------
 Auckland         Office, Manufacturing
                   & Warehouse            110,900     Leased(1)   2005

Norway
- - ------
 Asker            Office                    6,500     Leased      1999

Peru
- - ----
 Lima             Warehouse                32,400     Leased      1999
 Lima             Office                   11,000     Leased      1998

Poland
- - ------
 Warsaw           Office                    5,000     Leased      1998

Portugal
- - --------
 Estoril-Lisboa   Office                    2,900     Leased      1998

                                    -14-  


Singapore
- - ---------
 Singapore        Office & Warehouse        9,300     Leased      2000

Spain
- - -----
 Valencia         Office, Manufacturing
                   & Warehouse            115,100     Leased      1998
 Valencia         Office                   27,600     Leased      2011
 Valencia         Manufacturing
                   & Warehouse            201,900     Leased      2011
 Valencia         Warehouse                48,100     Leased      1998
 Valencia         Warehouse               161,700     Leased      2002

Sweden
- - ------
 Vosby            Office                    7,400     Leased      1998

Switzerland
- - -----------
 Mutschellen      Office & Warehouse       23,400     Leased      1998

Taiwan
- - ------
 TPE County       Warehouse                14,400     Leased      1998

Wales
- - -----
 Newport          Warehouse                76,000     Leased      2003
 Newport          Warehouse                52,000     Owned        --

    (1)  As part of its global integration and profit enhancement program,
         the Company has announced that it will cease manufacturing at this
         location during 1998.
    (2)  In addition, at this location the Port of Seattle operates a
         400,000 square foot distribution facility pursuant to an agreement
         with the Company.

  In addition to the above listed facilities, the Company either owns or 
leases various other properties approximating 350,000 square feet which are 
utilized in its operations. The Company also either owns or leases an 
aggregate of approximately 250,000 square feet not currently being utilized 
in its operations.  Most of these properties are being leased, subleased or 
offered for sublease or sale.

  The foregoing properties consist, in general, of brick, cinder block or 
concrete block buildings which the Company believes are in good condition and 
well maintained.







                                    -15-


ITEM  3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
          -----------------
  The Company is party to certain legal proceedings, substantially involving 
routine litigation incidental to the Company's business, none of which, 
individually or in the aggregate, is deemed to be material to the financial 
condition of the Company. For a description of the "Toys `R' Us litigation", 
see Item 1.


ITEM  4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
          ---------------------------------------------------
  None.


EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
- - ------------------------------------
  The following persons are the executive officers of the Company and its 
subsidiaries and divisions. Such executive officers are elected annually. The 
position and office listed below are the principal position(s) and office(s) 
held by such person with the Company, subsidiary or divisions employing such 
person. The persons listed below generally also serve as officers and 
directors of the Company's various subsidiaries at the request and 
convenience of the Company.

                                                                Period
                                                                Serving in
                                                                Current
Name                         Age  Position and Office Held      Position
- - ----                         ---  ------------------------      ----------
Alan G. Hassenfeld           49  Chairman of the Board,
                                 President and Chief Executive
                                 Officer                        Since 1989
 
Harold P. Gordon (1)         60  Vice Chairman                  Since 1995

Adam Klein (2)               46  Executive Vice President,
                                 Global Strategy and
                                 Development                    Since 1996

John T. O'Neill              53  Executive Vice President and
                                 Chief Financial Officer        Since 1989

Alfred J. Verrecchia(3)      55  Executive Vice President and
                                 President, Global Operations   Since 1996

Virginia H. Kent (4)         43  President, Global Brands and
                                 Product Development            Since 1996

E. David Wilson (5)          60  President, Hasbro Americas     Since 1996

George B. Volanakis (6)      50  President, European Sales
                                 and Marketing                  Since 1998



                                    -16-


Dan D. Owen (7)              49  President, Emerging Business
                                 Group                          Since 1997

Donal A. Barksdale (8)       47  Senior Vice President and
                                 Chief Information Officer      Since 1997

Richard B. Holt              56  Senior Vice President and
                                 Controller                     Since 1992

Cynthia S. Reed (9)          42  Senior Vice President and
                                 General Counsel                Since 1995

Martin R. Trueb (10)         46  Senior Vice President and
                                 Treasurer                      Since 1997

Phillip H. Waldoks (11)      45  Senior Vice President -
                                 Corporate Legal Affairs
                                 and Secretary                  Since 1995

  (1)  Prior thereto, Partner, Stikeman, Elliott (law firm).

  (2)  Prior thereto, President, Klein & Co. (consulting firm specializing
       in managing strategic change).

  (3)  Prior thereto, Chief Operating Officer, Domestic Toy Operations.

  (4)  Prior thereto, General Manager, Girls/Boys/Nerf, from 1994 to 1996;
       prior thereto, Senior Vice President, Marketing, Kenner.

  (5)  Prior thereto, President Hasbro Games Group, from 1995 to 1996; prior
       thereto, President, Milton Bradley.

  (6)  Prior thereto, President and Chief Executive Officer, The Ertl
       Company, Inc.

  (7)  Prior thereto, President, Hasbro USA, from 1996 to 1997; prior
       thereto, President, Hasbro Toy Group, from 1994 to 1996; prior
       thereto, President, Playskool.

  (8)  Prior thereto, Senior Director, Applications Development, Anheuser-
       Busch Companies, Inc., from 1996 to 1997; prior thereto, Vice
       President, Information Systems, General Electric Company.

  (9)  Prior thereto, Vice President - Legal.

 (10)  Prior thereto, Assistant Treasurer, Amway Corporation, from 1995
       to 1997; prior thereto, Director, International Treasury, 
       RJR Nabisco, Inc.  

 (11)  Prior thereto, Senior Vice President - Corporate Legal Affairs.  





                                    -17-


                                    PART II

ITEM  5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
          -----------------------------------------------------
           STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
           -------------------
  On October 14, 1997, the Company issued an aggregate of 6,500,000 warrants 
to purchase 6,500,000 shares of common stock, par value $.50 per share, of 
the Company, at an exercise price of $28.00 per share, subject to anti-
dilution adjustment in certain events, to a motion picture studio and a 
subsidiary thereof, in connection with, and as partial consideration for, the 
acquisition of certain long-term rights.  The warrants were issued without 
registration under the Securities Act of 1933 (the "Act") on the basis of 
Section 4(2) of the Act in reliance upon the representations of each warrant 
holder that it is an accredited investor, as defined in Rule 501 of 
Regulation D under the Act, and that it is acquiring the warrants for 
investment purposes only and not with a view to, or for resale in connection 
with, any "distribution" thereof for purposes of the Act.  The warrants are 
not exercisable prior to the occurrence of an event expected to take place in 
1999, except that exercisability would be accelerated on a change in control 
of the Company. The warrants would remain exercisable, with respect to 
3,900,000 warrants until October 14, 2008 and with respect to 2,600,000 
warrants until October 14, 2009.

  The remainder of the information required by this item is included in 
Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters in 
Exhibit 13 to this Report and is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM  6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
          -----------------------
  The information required by this item is included in Selected Financial 
Data in Exhibit 13 to this Report and is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM  7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
          -----------------------------------------------------------
           AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
           -------------------------
  The information required by this item is included in Management's Review in 
Exhibit 13 to this Report and is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM  8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
          -------------------------------------------
  The information required by this item is included in Financial Statements 
and Supplementary Data in Exhibit 13 to this Report and is incorporated 
herein by reference.


ITEM  9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING
          -----------------------------------------------------------
           AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
           ------------------------
  None.
                                    -18-




                                    PART III

ITEMS 10, 11, 12 and 13.

  The information required by these items is included in registrant's 
definitive proxy statement for the 1998 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is 
incorporated herein by reference, except that the sections under the headings 
(a) "Comparison of Five Year Cumulative Total Shareholder Return Among 
Hasbro, S&P 500 and Russell 1000 Consumer Discretionary Economic Sector" and 
accompanying material and (b) "Report of the Compensation and Stock Option 
Committee of the Board of Directors" in the definitive proxy statement shall 
not be deemed "filed" with the Securities and Exchange Commission or subject 
to Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.


                                    PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
         ---------------------------------------------------------------
  (a) Financial Statements, Financial Statement Schedules and Exhibits
      ----------------------------------------------------------------
    (1)  Financial Statements
         --------------------
           Included in PART II of this report:
             Independent Auditors' Report

             Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 28, 1997 and 
              December 29, 1996

             Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the Three Fiscal
              Years Ended in December 1997, 1996 and 1995

             Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the
              Three Fiscal Years Ended in December 1997, 1996 and 1995

             Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Three
              Fiscal Years Ended in December 1997, 1996 and 1995

             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

    (2)  Financial Statement Schedules
         -----------------------------
           Included in PART IV of this Report:
             Report of Independent Certified Public Accountants
              on Financial Statement Schedule

             For the Three Fiscal Years Ended in December 1997, 1996
              and 1995:
               Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and
                              Reserves



                                    -19-


  Schedules other than those listed above are omitted for the reason that 
they are not required or are not applicable, or the required information is 
shown in the financial statements or notes thereto. Columns omitted from 
schedules filed have been omitted because the information is not applicable.

    (3)   Exhibits
          --------
  The Company will furnish to any shareholder, upon written request, any 
exhibit listed below upon payment by such shareholder to the Company of the 
Company's reasonable expenses in furnishing such exhibit.

Exhibit
- - -------
    3.  Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws
         (a)  Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company.
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (c)(2) to the
              Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, dated July 15,
              1993, File No. 1-6682.) 

         (b)  Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company. (Incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit (3) to the Company's Current Report on
              Form 8-K, dated February 16, 1996, File No. 1-6682.)

    4.  Instruments defining the rights of security holders, including
        indentures.
         (a)  Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of June 22, 1992, among
              the Company, certain banks (the "Banks"), and The First
              National Bank of Boston, as agent for the Banks (the 
              "Agent"). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(a) to the
              Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year
              Ended December 27, 1992, File No. 1-6682.)

         (b)  Subordination Agreement, dated as of June 22, 1992, among
              the Company, certain subsidiaries of the Company, and the
              Agent. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(b) to the
              Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year
              Ended December 27, 1992, File No. 1-6682.)

         (c)  Amendment No. 1, dated as of April 1, 1994, to Revolving
              Credit Agreement among the Company, the Banks and the Agent.
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to the Company's
              Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the Period Ended March 27,
              1994, File No. 1-6682.)

         (d)  Amendment No. 2, dated as of May 1, 1995, to the Revolving
              Credit Agreement among the Company, the Banks and the Agent.
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to the Company's
              Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the Period Ended April 2,
              1995, File No. 1-6682.)

         (e)  Amendment No. 3, dated as of May 10, 1996, to the Revolving
              Credit Agreement among the Company, the Banks and the Agent.
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to the Company's
              Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the Period Ended March 31,
              1996, File No. 1-6682.)
                                    -20-


         (f)  Amendment No. 4, dated as of May 14, 1997, to the Revolving
              Credit Agreement among the Company, the Banks and the agent.
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to the Company's
              Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the Period Ended June 29,
              1997, File No. 1-6682.)

   10.  Material Contracts
         (a)  Lease between Hasbro Canada Inc. (formerly named Hasbro
              Industries (Canada) Ltd.) and Central Toy Manufacturing Co.
              ("Central Toy"), dated December 23, 1976. (Incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit 10.15 to the Company's Registration 
              Statement on Form S-14, File No. 2-92550.)

         (b)  Lease between Hasbro Canada Inc. and Central Toy, together
              with an Addendum thereto, each dated as of May 1, 1987.
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the Company's
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended
              December 27, 1987, File No. 1-6682.)

         (c)  Addendum to lease, dated March 5, 1998, between Hasbro Canada
              and Central Toy.

        Executive Compensation Plans and Arrangements
         (d)  Employee Incentive Stock Option Plan. (Incorporated by
              reference to  Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Registration 
              Statement on Form S-8, File No. 2-78018.)

         (e)  Amendment No. 1 to Employee Incentive Stock Option Plan.
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(l) to the Company's
              Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended
              December 28, 1986, File No. 1-6682.)

         (f)  Amendment No. 2 to Employee Incentive Stock Option Plan.
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(n) to the Company's
              Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended
              December 27, 1987, File No. 1-6682.)

         (g)  Amendment No. 3 to Employee Incentive Stock Option Plan.
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(o) to the Company's
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended
              December 25, 1988, File No. 1-6682.)

         (h)  Amendment No. 4 to Employee Incentive Stock Option Plan.
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(s) to the Company's
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended
              December 31, 1989, File No. 1-6682.)

         (i)  Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement for incentive stock
              options. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(o) to the
              Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year
              Ended December 27, 1987, File No. 1-6682.)




                                    -21-


         (j)  Form of Non Qualified Stock Option Agreement under the
              Employee Incentive Stock Option Plan. (Incorporated by 
              reference to Exhibit 10(q) to the Company's Annual Report
              on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended December 25, 1988,
              File No. 1-6682.)

         (k)  Non Qualified Stock Option Plan. (Incorporated by reference
              to Exhibit 10.10 to the Company's Registration Statement on
              Form S-14, File No. 2-92550.)

         (l)  Amendment No. 1 to Non Qualified Stock Option Plan.
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(j) to the
              Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal 
              Year Ended December 28, 1986, File No. 1-6682.)

         (m)  Amendment No. 2 to Non Qualified Stock Option Plan.
              (Incorporated by reference to Appendix A to the Company's
              definitive proxy statement for its 1987 Annual Meeting of
              Shareholders, File No. 1-6682.)

         (n)  Amendment No. 3 to Non Qualified Stock Option Plan.
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(l) to the Company's
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended
              December 31, 1989, File No. 1-6682.)

         (o)  Form of Stock Option Agreement (For Employees) under the Non
              Qualified Stock Option Plan. (Incorporated by reference to
              Exhibit 10(t) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
              for the Fiscal Year Ended December 27, 1992, File No.
              1-6682.)

         (p)  1992 Stock Incentive Plan (Incorporated by reference to
              Appendix A to the Company's definitive proxy statement for
              its 1992 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, File No. 1-6682.)

         (q)  Form of Stock Option Agreement under the 1992 Stock Incentive
              Plan, the Stock Incentive Performance Plan and the Employee
              Non-Qualified Stock Plan. (Incorporated by reference to 
              Exhibit 10(v) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
              the Fiscal Year Ended December 27, 1992, File No. 1-6682.) 

         (r)  Form of Stock Option Agreement (For Participants in the Long
              Term Incentive Program) under the 1992 Stock Incentive Plan
              and the Stock Incentive Performance Plan. (Incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit 10(w) to the Company's Annual Report on
              Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended December 27, 1992, File
              No. 1-6682.)

         (s)  Form of Employment Agreement between the Company and nine
              executive officers of the Company. (Incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit 10(v) to the Company's Annual Report on
              Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 1989,
              File No. 1-6682.)


                                    -22-


         (t)  Hasbro, Inc. Retirement Plan for Directors. (Incorporated
              by  reference to Exhibit 10(x) to the Company's Annual 
              Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended December 30,
              1990, File No. 1-6682.)

         (u)  Form of Director's Indemnification Agreement. (Incorporated
              by reference to Appendix B to the Company's definitive proxy
              statement for its 1988 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, File
              No. 1-6682.)

         (v)  Hasbro, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee
              Directors.(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(cc) to
              the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year
              Ended December 26, 1993, File No. 1-6682.)

         (w)  Hasbro, Inc. Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors.
              (Incorporated by reference to Appendix A to the Company's
              definitive proxy statement for its 1994 Annual Meeting of
              Shareholders, File No. 1-6682.)

         (x)  Form of Stock Option Agreement for Non-Employee Directors
              under the Hasbro, Inc. Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee
              Directors. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(w) to
              the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year
              Ended December 25, 1994, File No. 1-6682.)

         (y)  Hasbro, Inc. Senior Management Annual Performance Plan.
              (Incorporated by reference to Appendix B to the Company's
              definitive proxy statement for its 1994 Annual Meeting of
              Shareholders, File No. 1-6682.)

         (z)  Hasbro, Inc. Stock Incentive Performance Plan. (Incorporated
              by reference to Appendix A to the Company's definitive proxy
              statement for its 1995 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, File
              No. 1-6682.)

        (aa)  Employee Non-Qualified Stock Plan. (Incorporated by reference
              to Exhibit 10(dd) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
              for the Fiscal Year Ended December 29, 1996, File No. 1-6682.)

        (bb)  Hasbro, Inc. Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan.

        (cc)  Employment Agreement, dated as of January 1, 1996, between
              the Company and Harold P. Gordon. (Incorporated by reference
              to Exhibit 10(aa) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
              for the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 1995, File No. 1-6682.)

        (dd)  Severance And Settlement Agreement And Release, dated as of
              December 20, 1995, and addendum thereto, between the Company
              and Dan D. Owen. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(bb)
              to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal
              Year Ended December 31, 1995, File No. 1-6682.)



                                    -23-


        (ee)  Amendment, effective as of January 1, 1997 to Severance and
              Settlement Agreement and Release between the Company and
              Dan D. Owen. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(cc)
              to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal
              Year Ended December 29, 1996, File No. 1-6682.)

        (ff)  Amendment, dated February 20, 1998, to Severance
              And Settlement Agreement And Release between the Company and
              Dan D. Owen.

        (gg)  Letter agreements, dated January 30, 1998, between the Company
              and George R. Ditomassi, Jr.

        (hh)  Consulting Agreement, dated January 31, 1998, between the
              Company and George R. Ditomassi, Jr.

        (ii)  Letter dated January 26, 1998 from the Company to George B.
              Volanakis.

   11.  Statement re computation of per share earnings

   12.  Statement re computation of ratios

   13.  Selected information contained in Annual Report to Shareholders

   22.  Subsidiaries of the registrant

   24.  Consents of experts and counsel
         (a)  Consent of KPMG Peat Marwick LLP

   27.  Financial data schedule

  The Company agrees to furnish the Securities and Exchange Commission, upon 
request, a copy of each agreement with respect to long-term debt of the 
Company, the authorized principal amount of which does not exceed 10% of the 
total assets of the Company and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.

  (b) Reports on Form 8-K
      -------------------
        A Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 5, 1998 was filed to
        announce the Company's results for the quarter and year ended
        December 28, 1997. Consolidated statements of earnings (without
        notes) for the quarter and year ended December 28, 1997 and
        December 29, 1996 and consolidated condensed balance sheets
        (without notes) as of said dates were also filed.

        A Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 9, 1998 was filed to
        announce the Company's definitive agreement with Tiger Electronics,
        Inc. (Tiger), under which it will acquire the operating assets of
        Tiger and its affiliates.

        A Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 24, 1998 was filed to
        announce the Company's revenue and earnings expectations for the
        first quarter of 1998.  

                                    -24-


  (c) Exhibits
      --------
        See (a)(3) above

  (d) Financial Statement Schedules
      -----------------------------
        See (a)(2) above
















































                                    -25-







                        INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT


The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Hasbro, Inc.:


        Under date of February 4, 1998, we reported on the consolidated 
balance sheets of Hasbro, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 28, 1997 and 
December 29, 1996 and the related consolidated statements of earnings, 
shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the fiscal years in the 
three-year period ended December 28, 1997, as contained in the 1997 annual 
report to shareholders. These consolidated financial statements and our 
report thereon are incorporated by reference in the annual report on Form 10-
K for the year 1997. In connection with our audits of the aforementioned 
consolidated financial statements, we also audited the related financial 
statement schedule listed in Item 14 (a)(2). This financial statement 
schedule is the responsibility of the Company's management. Our 
responsibility is to express an opinion on this financial statement schedule 
based on our audits.

        In our opinion, such financial statement schedule when considered in 
relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, 
presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.




/s/ KPMG Peat Marwick LLP   



Providence, Rhode Island

February 4, 1998















                                    -26-


                                                             SCHEDULE II
                           HASBRO, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves

                           Fiscal Years Ended in December

                               (Thousands of Dollars)


                          Provision
             Balance at   Charged to                Write-Offs    Balance
            Beginning of   Costs and     Other          And      at End of
                Year       Expenses     Additions    Other (a)     Year
            ------------  ----------  ------------  -----------  ---------

Valuation 
 accounts
 deducted
 from assets
 to which
 they apply -
 for doubtful
 accounts
 receivable:
  1997        $46,600        9,229            -       (4,129)     $51,700
               ======       ======       ======       ======       ======
  1996        $48,800        5,834            -       (8,034)     $46,600
               ======       ======       ======       ======       ======
  1995        $51,000        5,860            -       (8,060)     $48,800
               ======       ======       ======       ======       ======

  


    (a) Includes write-offs, recoveries of previous write-offs and
        translation adjustments.


















                                    -27-


SIGNATURES


  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed 
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

HASBRO, INC.  (Registrant)


By: /s/ Alan G. Hassenfeld                            Date: March 27, 1998
   -------------------------                               ---------------
   Alan G. Hassenfeld
   Chairman of the Board



  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this 
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the 
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

Signature                      Title                        Date
- - ---------                      -----                        ----


 
 /s/ Alan G. Hassenfeld
- - ----------------------------   Chairman of the Board,       March 27, 1998
Alan G. Hassenfeld             President, Chief Executive
                               Officer and Director
                               (Principal Executive Officer)


 /s/ John T. O'Neill
- - ----------------------------   Executive Vice President     March 27, 1998
John T. O'Neill                and Chief Financial Officer
                               (Principal Financial and
                               Accounting Officer)


 /s/ Alan R. Batkin
- - ----------------------------   Director                     March 27, 1998
Alan R. Batkin


 /s/ Harold P. Gordon
- - ----------------------------   Director                     March 27, 1998
Harold P. Gordon







                                    -28-





- - ----------------------------   Director                     March   , 1998
Alex Grass



- - ----------------------------   Director                     March   , 1998
Sylvia K. Hassenfeld


 /s/ Marie-Josee Kravis
- - ----------------------------   Director                     March 27, 1998
Marie-Josee Kravis


 /s/ Claudine B. Malone
- - ----------------------------   Director                     March 27, 1998
Claudine B. Malone


 /s/ Morris W. Offit
- - ----------------------------   Director                     March 27, 1998
Morris W. Offit


 /s/ Norma T. Pace
- - ----------------------------   Director                     March 27, 1998
Norma T. Pace


 /s/ E. John Rosenwald, Jr.
- - ----------------------------   Director                     March 27, 1998
E. John Rosenwald, Jr.


 /s/ Carl Spielvogel
- - ----------------------------   Director                     March 27, 1998
Carl Spielvogel


 /s/ Henry Taub
- - ----------------------------   Director                     March 27, 1998
Henry Taub


 /s/ Preston Robert Tisch
- - ----------------------------   Director                     March 27, 1998
Preston Robert Tisch





                                    -29-





 /s/ Paul Wolfowitz
- - ----------------------------   Director                     March 27, 1998
Paul Wolfowitz


 /s/ Alfred J. Verrecchia
- - ----------------------------   Director                     March 27, 1998
Alfred J. Verrecchia












































                                    -30-


                                   HASBRO, INC.

                            Annual Report on Form 10-K

                       for the Year Ended December 28, 1997

                                  Exhibit Index

Exhibit
- - -------
    3.  Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws
         (a)  Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company.
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (c)(2) to the
              Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, dated July 15,
              1993, File No. 1-6682.) 

         (b)  Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company. (Incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit (3) to the Company's Current Report on
              Form 8-K, dated February 16, 1996, File No. 1-6682.).

    4.  Instruments defining the rights of security holders, including
        indentures
         (a)  Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of June 22, 1992, among
              the Company, certain banks (the "Banks"), and The First
              National Bank of Boston, as agent for the Banks (the 
              "Agent"). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(a) to the
              Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year
              Ended December 27, 1992, File No. 1-6682.)

         (b)  Subordination Agreement, dated as of June 22, 1992, among
              the Company, certain subsidiaries of the Company, and the
              Agent. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(b) to the
              Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year
              Ended December 27, 1992, File No. 1-6682.)

         (c)  Amendment No. 1, dated as of April 1, 1994, to Revolving
              Credit Agreement among the Company, the Banks and the Agent.
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to the Company's
              Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the Period Ended March 27,
              1994, File No. 1-6682.)

         (d)  Amendment No. 2, dated as of May 1, 1995, to Revolving
              Credit Agreement among the Company, the Banks and the Agent.
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to the Company's
              Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the Period Ended April 2,
              1995, File No. 1-6682.)

         (e)  Amendment No. 3, dated as of May 10, 1996, to Revolving
              Credit Agreement among the Company, the Banks and the Agent.
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to the Company's
              Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the Period Ended March 31,
              1996, File No. 1-6682.)



                                     -1-


         (f)  Amendment No. 4, dated as of May 14, 1997, to the Revolving
              Credit Agreement among the Company, the Banks and the agent.
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to the Company's
              Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the Period Ended June 29,
              1997, File No. 1-6682.)

   10.  Material Contracts
         (a)  Lease between Hasbro Canada Inc. (formerly named Hasbro
              Industries (Canada) Ltd.) and Central Toy Manufacturing Co.
              ("Central Toy"), dated December 23, 1976. (Incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit 10.15 to the Company's Registration 
              Statement on Form S-14, File No. 2-92550.)

         (b)  Lease between Hasbro Canada Inc. and Central Toy, together
              with an Addendum thereto, each dated as of May 1, 1987.
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the Company's
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended
              December 27, 1987, File No. 1-6682.)

         (c) Addendum to lease, dated March 5, 1998, between Hasbro Canada
              and Central Toy.

        Executive Compensation Plans and Arrangements
         (d)  Employee Incentive Stock Option Plan. (Incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Registration 
              Statement on Form S-8, File No. 2-78018.)

         (e)  Amendment No. 1 to Employee Incentive Stock Option Plan.
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(l) to the Company's
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended
              December 28, 1986, File No. 1-6682.)

         (f)  Amendment No. 2 to Employee Incentive Stock Option Plan.
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(n) to the Company's
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended
              December 27, 1987, File No. 1-6682.)

         (g)  Amendment No. 3 to Employee Incentive Stock Option Plan.
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(o) to the Company's
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended
              December 25, 1988, File No. 1-6682.)

         (h)  Amendment No. 4 to Employee Incentive Stock Option Plan.
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(s) to the Company's
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended
              December 31, 1989, File No. 1-6682.)

         (i)  Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement for incentive stock
              options. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(o) to the
              Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year
              Ended December 27, 1987, File No. 1-6682.)




                                     -2-


         (j)  Form of Non Qualified Stock Option Agreement under the
              Employee Incentive Stock Option Plan. (Incorporated by 
              reference to Exhibit 10(q) to the Company's Annual Report
              on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended December 25, 1988,
              File No. 1-6682.)

         (k)  Non Qualified Stock Option Plan. (Incorporated by reference
              to Exhibit 10.10 to the Company's Registration Statement on
              Form S-14, File No. 2-92550.)

         (l)  Amendment No. 1 to Non Qualified Stock Option Plan.
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(j) to the
              Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal 
              Year Ended December 28, 1986, File No. 1-6682.)

         (m)  Amendment No. 2 to Non Qualified Stock Option Plan.
              (Incorporated by reference to Appendix A to the Company's
              definitive proxy statement for its 1987 Annual Meeting of
              Shareholders, File No. 1-6682.)

         (n)  Amendment No. 3 to Non Qualified Stock Option Plan.
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(l) to the Company's
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended
              December 31, 1989, File No. 1-6682.)

         (o)  Form of Stock Option Agreement (For Employees) under the Non 
              Qualified Stock Option Plan. (Incorporated by reference to
              Exhibit 10(t) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
              for the Fiscal Year Ended December 27, 1992, File No.
              1-6682.)

         (p)  1992 Stock Incentive Plan (Incorporated by reference to
              Appendix A to the Company's definitive proxy statement for
              its 1992 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, File No. 1-6682.)

         (q)  Form of Stock Option Agreement under the 1992 Stock Incentive
              Plan, the Stock Incentive Performance Plan and the Employee
              Non-Qualified Stock Plan. (Incorporated by reference to 
              Exhibit 10(v) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
              the Fiscal Year Ended December 27, 1992, File No. 1-6682.)

         (r)  Form of Stock Option Agreement (For Participants in the Long
              Term Incentive Program) under the 1992 Stock Incentive Plan
              and the Stock Incentive Performance Plan. (Incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit 10(w) to the Company's Annual Report on
              Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended December 27, 1992, File
              No. 1-6682.)

         (s)  Form of Employment Agreement between the Company and nine
              executive officers of the Company. (Incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit 10(v) to the Company's Annual Report on
              Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 1989,
              File No. 1-6682.)

 
                                     -3-


         (t)  Hasbro, Inc. Retirement Plan for Directors. (Incorporated
              by  reference to Exhibit 10(x) to the Company's Annual 
              Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended December 30,
              1990, File No. 1-6682.)

         (u)  Form of Director's Indemnification Agreement. (Incorporated
              by reference to Appendix B to the Company's definitive proxy
              statement for its 1988 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, File
              No. 1-6682.)

         (v)  Hasbro, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee
              Directors. (Incorporated by  reference to Exhibit 10(cc) to
              the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year
              Ended December 26, 1993, File No. 1-6682.)

         (w)  Hasbro, Inc. Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors.
              (Incorporated by reference to Appendix A to the Company's
              definitive proxy statement for its 1994 Annual Meeting of
              Shareholders, File No. 1-6682.)

         (x)  Form of Stock Option Agreement for Non-Employee Directors
              under the Hasbro, Inc. Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee
              Directors. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(w) to
              the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year
              Ended December 25, 1994, File No. 1-6682.)

         (y)  Hasbro, Inc. Senior Management Annual Performance Plan.
              (Incorporated by reference to Appendix B to the Company's
              definitive proxy statement for its 1994 Annual Meeting of
              Shareholders, File No. 1-6682.)

         (z)  Hasbro, Inc. Stock Incentive Performance Plan. (Incorporated
              by reference to Appendix A to the Company's definitive proxy
              statement for its 1995 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, File
              No. 1-6682.)

        (aa)  Employee Non-Qualified Stock Plan. (Incorporated by reference
              to Exhibit 10(dd) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
              for the Fiscal Year Ended December 29, 1996, File No. 1-6682.)

        (bb)  Hasbro, Inc. Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan.

        (cc)  Employment Agreement, dated as of January 1, 1996, between
              the Company and Harold P. Gordon. (Incorporated by reference
              to Exhibit 10(aa) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
              for the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 1995, File No. 1-6682.)

        (dd)  Severance And Settlement Agreement And Release, dated as of
              December 20, 1995, and addendum thereto, between the Company
              and Dan D. Owen. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(bb)
              to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal
              Year Ended December 31, 1995, File No. 1-6682.)



                                     -4-


        (ee)  Amendment, effective as of January 1, 1997 to Severance and
              Settlement Agreement and Release between the Company and
              Dan D. Owen. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(cc)
              to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal
              Year Ended December 29, 1996, File No. 1-6682.)

        (ff)  Amendment, dated February 20, 1998, to Severance
              And Settlement Agreement And Release between the Company and
              Dan D. Owen.

        (gg)  Letter agreements, dated January 30, 1998, between the Company
              and George R. Ditomassi, Jr.

        (hh)  Consulting Agreement, dated January 31, 1998, between the
              Company and George R. Ditomassi, Jr.

        (ii)  Letter dated January 26, 1998 from the Company to George B.
              Volanakis.

   11.  Statement re computation of per share earnings

   12.  Statement re computation of ratios

   13.  Selected information contained in Annual Report to Shareholders

   22.  Subsidiaries of the registrant

   24.  Consents of experts and counsel
         (a)  Consent of KPMG Peat Marwick LLP

   27.  Financial data schedule
























                                     -5-











