
10-K405
a2033209z10-k405.txt
10-K405



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                   FORM 10-K
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

/X/  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
     ACT OF 1934

                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000

                                       OR

/ /  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                            ------------------------

                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-10427

                         ROBERT HALF INTERNATIONAL INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)





       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (650) 234-6000
                            ------------------------

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:



          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                                      None
                            ------------------------

    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes _X_ No ____

    Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. /X/

    As of February 28, 2001, the aggregate market value of the Common Stock held
by non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately $3,900,000,000 based on
the closing sale price on that date. This amount excludes the market value of
13,747,339 shares of Common Stock directly or indirectly held by registrant's
directors and officers and their affiliates.

    As of February 28, 2001, there were outstanding 176,201,160 shares of the
registrant's Common Stock.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

    Portions of the registrant's Proxy Statement to be mailed to stockholders in
connection with the registrant's annual meeting of stockholders, scheduled to be
held in May 2001, are incorporated by reference in Part III of this report.
Except as expressly incorporated by reference, the registrant's Proxy Statement
shall not be deemed to be part of this report.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

    Robert Half International Inc. is the world's largest specialized provider
of temporary and permanent personnel in the fields of accounting and finance.
Its divisions include ACCOUNTEMPS-Registered Trademark- and ROBERT
HALF-Registered Trademark-, providers of temporary and permanent personnel,
respectively, in the fields of accounting and finance. The Company, utilizing
its experience as a specialized provider of temporary and permanent personnel,
has expanded into additional specialty fields. In 1991, the Company formed
OFFICETEAM-Registered Trademark- to provide skilled temporary administrative and
office personnel. In 1994, the Company established RHI
CONSULTING-Registered Trademark- to concentrate on providing temporary and
contract information technology professionals in positions ranging from PC
support technician to chief information officer. In 1992, the Company acquired
THE AFFILIATES-Registered Trademark-, which focuses on placing temporary and
regular employees in paralegal, legal administrative and other legal support
positions. In 1997, the Company established RHI MANAGEMENT
RESOURCES-REGISTERED TRADEMARK- to provide senior level project professionals
specializing in the accounting and finance fields. THE CREATIVE
GROUP-Registered Trademark- provides project staffing in the advertising,
marketing and web design fields.

    The Company's business was originally founded in 1948. Prior to 1986, the
Company was primarily a franchisor of ACCOUNTEMPS and ROBERT HALF offices.
Beginning in 1986, the Company and its current management embarked on a strategy
of acquiring franchised locations and other local or regional independent
providers of specialized temporary service personnel. The Company has acquired
all but three of the ACCOUNTEMPS and ROBERT HALF franchises and has also
acquired other local or regional providers of specialized temporary service
personnel. Since 1986, the Company has significantly expanded operations at many
of the acquired locations and has opened many new locations. The Company
believes that direct ownership of offices allows it to better monitor and
protect the image of its tradenames, promotes a more consistent and higher level
of quality and service throughout its network of offices and improves
profitability by centralizing many of its administrative functions. The Company
currently has more than 300 offices in 40 states and the District of Columbia
and nine foreign countries and placed approximately 240,000 employees on
temporary assignment with clients in 2000.

ACCOUNTEMPS

    The ACCOUNTEMPS temporary services division offers customers a reliable and
economical means of dealing with uneven or peak work loads for accounting, tax
and finance personnel caused by such predictable events as vacations, taking
inventories, tax work, month-end activities and special projects and such
unpredictable events as illness and emergencies. Businesses increasingly view
the use of temporary employees as a means of controlling personnel costs and
converting such costs from fixed to variable. The cost and inconvenience to
clients of hiring and firing permanent employees are eliminated by the use of
ACCOUNTEMPS temporaries. The temporary workers are employees of ACCOUNTEMPS and
are paid by ACCOUNTEMPS only when working on customer assignments. The customer
pays a fixed rate only for hours worked.

    ACCOUNTEMPS clients may fill their permanent employment needs by using an
ACCOUNTEMPS employee on a trial basis and, if so desired, "converting" the
temporary position to a permanent position. The client typically pays a one-time
fee for such conversions.

OFFICETEAM

    The Company's OFFICETEAM division, which commenced operations in 1991,
places temporary and permanent office and administrative personnel, ranging from
word processors to office managers. OFFICETEAM operates in much the same fashion
as the ACCOUNTEMPS and ROBERT HALF divisions.


ROBERT HALF

    The Company offers permanent placement services through its office network
under the name ROBERT HALF. The Company's ROBERT HALF division specializes in
placing accounting, financial, tax and banking personnel. Fees for successful
permanent placements are paid only by the employer and are generally a
percentage of the new employee's annual compensation. No fee for permanent
placement services is charged to employment candidates.

RHI CONSULTING

    The Company's RHI CONSULTING division, which commenced operations in 1994,
specializes in providing information technology contract consultants and placing
regular employees in areas ranging from multiple platform systems integration to
end-user support, including specialists in programming, networking, systems
integration, database design and help desk support.

THE AFFILIATES

    Since 1992, the Company has been placing temporary and permanent employees
in attorney, paralegal, legal administrative and legal secretarial positions
through its THE AFFILIATES division. The legal profession's requirements (the
need for confidentiality, accuracy and reliability, a strong drive toward cost-
effectiveness, and frequent peak workload periods) are similar to the demands of
the clients of the ACCOUNTEMPS division.

RHI MANAGEMENT RESOURCES

    The Company's RHI MANAGEMENT RESOURCES division, which commenced operations
in 1997, specializes in providing senior level project professionals in the
accounting and finance fields, including chief financial officers, controllers,
and senior financial analysts, for such tasks as financial systems conversions,
expansion into new markets, business process reengineering and post-merger
financial consolidation.

THE CREATIVE GROUP

    THE CREATIVE GROUP division, the Company's newest division, commenced
operations in 1999 and serves clients in the areas of advertising, marketing and
web design and places project consultants in a variety of positions such as
creative directors, graphics designers, web content developers, web designers,
media buyers, and public relations specialists.

MARKETING AND RECRUITING

    The Company markets its services to clients as well as employment
candidates. Local marketing and recruiting are generally conducted by each
office or related group of offices. Local advertising directed to clients and
employment candidates consists primarily of yellow pages advertisements,
classified advertisements, websites, trade shows and advertising on the
internet. Direct marketing through mail and telephone solicitation also
constitutes a significant portion of the Company's total advertising. National
advertising conducted by the Company consists primarily of radio, television,
print advertisements in national newspapers, magazines and certain trade
journals. The Company has initiated programs to take advantage of the Internet
as a resource for recruiting candidates and filling client orders. Recent
Internet initiatives include forging traffic building alliances with leading
Internet career search sites. The Company plans to expand its use of the
Internet in all aspects of sales and recruitment. Joint marketing arrangements
have been entered into with Microsoft, Peachtree Software and Intuit and
typically provide for cooperative advertising, joint mailings and similar
promotional activities. The Company also actively seeks endorsements and
affiliations with professional organizations in the business management, office
administration and professional secretarial fields. The Company also conducts
public relations activities designed to enhance public recognition of the
Company and its services. Local employees are encouraged to be active in civic
organizations and industry trade groups.


    The Company owns many trademarks, service marks and tradenames, including
the ROBERT HALF-Registered Trademark-, ACCOUNTEMPS-Registered Trademark-,
OFFICETEAM-Registered Trademark-, THE AFFILIATES-Registered Trademark-, RHI
CONSULTING-Registered Trademark-, RHI MANAGEMENT RESOURCES-REGISTERED TRADEMARK-
and THE CREATIVE GROUP-Registered Trademark- marks, which are registered in the
United States and in a number of foreign countries.

ORGANIZATION

    Management of the Company's operations is coordinated from its headquarters
facilities in Menlo Park and Pleasanton, California. The Company's headquarters
provides support and centralized services to its offices in the administrative,
marketing, accounting, training and legal areas, particularly as it relates to
the standardization of the operating procedures of its offices. The Company has
more than 300 offices in 40 states and the District of Columbia and nine foreign
countries. Office managers are responsible for most activities of their offices,
including sales, local advertising and marketing and recruitment.

COMPETITION

    The Company faces competition in its efforts to attract clients as well as
high-quality specialized employment candidates. The temporary and permanent
placement businesses are highly competitive, with a number of firms offering
services similar to those provided by the Company on a national, regional or
local basis. In many areas the local companies are the strongest competitors.
The most significant competitive factors in the temporary and permanent
placement businesses are price and the reliability of service, both of which are
often a function of the availability and quality of personnel. The Company
believes it derives a competitive advantage from its long experience with and
commitment to the specialized employment market, its national presence, and its
various marketing activities.

EMPLOYEES

    The Company has approximately 8,300 full-time staff employees. The Company's
offices placed approximately 240,000 employees on temporary assignments with
clients during 2000. Temporary employees placed by the Company are the Company's
employees for all purposes while they are working on assignments. The Company
pays the related costs of employment, such as workers' compensation insurance,
state and federal unemployment taxes, social security and certain fringe
benefits. The Company provides voluntary health insurance coverage to interested
temporary employees.

OTHER INFORMATION

    The Company's current business constitutes two business segments. (See
Note L of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statement in Item 8. Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data for financial information about the Company's
segments.)

    The Company is not dependent upon a single customer or a limited number of
customers. The Company's operations are generally more active in the first and
fourth quarters of a calendar year. Order backlog is not a material aspect of
the Company's business and no material portion of the Company's business is
subject to government contracts.

    Information about foreign operations is contained in Note L of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. The Company does not have export
sales.

RISK FACTORS

    The Company's business prospects are subject to various risks and
uncertainties that impact its business. The most important of these risks and
uncertainties are as follows:

    BUSINESS HIGHLY DEPENDENT UPON THE STATE OF THE ECONOMY.  The demand for the
Company's services is highly dependent upon the state of the economy and upon
the staffing needs of the Company's clients. Any variation in the economic
condition or unemployment levels of the U.S. or of any of the foreign countries
in which the Company does business, or in the economic condition of any region
of any of the foregoing, or


in any specific industry may severely reduce the demand for the Company's
services and thereby significantly decrease the Company's revenues and profits.

    AVAILABILITY OF CANDIDATES.  The Company's business consists of the
placement of individuals seeking temporary and permanent employment. There can
be no assurance that qualified candidates for employment will continue to seek
temporary employment through the Company. Qualified candidates generally seek
temporary or permanent positions through multiple sources, including the Company
and its competitors. Any shortage of qualified candidates could materially
adversely affect the Company.

    HIGHLY COMPETITIVE BUSINESS.  The personnel services business is highly
competitive and, because it is a service business, the barriers to entry are
quite low. There are many competitors, some of which have greater resources than
the Company, and new competitors are entering the market all the time. In
addition, long-term contracts form a negligible portion of the Company's
revenue. Therefore, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to
retain clients or market share in the future. Nor can there be any assurance
that the Company will, in light of competitive pressures, be able to remain
profitable or, if profitable, maintain its current profit margins.

    POTENTIAL LIABILITY TO EMPLOYEES AND CLIENTS.  The Company's temporary
services business entails employing individuals on a temporary basis and placing
such individuals in clients' workplaces. The Company's ability to control the
workplace environment is limited. As the employer of record of its temporary
employees, the Company incurs a risk of liability to its temporary employees for
various workplace events, including claims of physical injury, discrimination or
harassment. While such claims have not historically had a material adverse
effect upon the Company, there can be no assurance that such claims in the
future will not result in adverse publicity or have a material adverse effect
upon the Company. The Company also incurs a risk of liability to its clients
resulting from allegations of errors, omissions or theft by its temporary
employees. The Company maintains insurance with respect to many of such claims.
While such claims have not historically had a material adverse effect upon the
Company, there can be no assurance that the Company will continue to be able to
obtain insurance at a cost that does not have a material adverse effect upon the
Company or that such claims (whether by reason of the Company not having
insurance or by reason of such claims being outside the scope of the Company's
insurance) will not have a material adverse effect upon the Company.

    DEPENDENCE UPON PERSONNEL.  The Company is engaged in the personnel services
business. As such, its success or failure is highly dependent upon the
performance of its management personnel and employees, rather than upon
technology or upon tangible assets (of which the Company has few). There can be
no assurance that the Company will be able to attract and retain the personnel
that are essential to its success.

    GOVERNMENT REGULATION OF THE PERSONNEL SERVICES BUSINESS.  The Company's
business is subject to regulation or licensing in many states and in certain
foreign countries. While the Company has had no material difficulty complying
with regulations in the past, there can be no assurance that the Company will be
able to continue to obtain all necessary licenses or approvals or that the cost
of compliance will not prove to be material. Any inability of the Company to
comply with government regulation or licensing requirements could materially
adversely affect the Company.

    GOVERNMENT REGULATION OF THE WORKPLACE.  The Company's temporary services
business entails employing individuals on a temporary basis and placing such
individuals in clients' workplaces. Increased government regulation of the
workplace or of the employer-employee relationship could materially adversely
affect the Company.

    RELIANCE ON SHORT-TERM CONTRACTS.  Because long-term contracts are not a
significant part of the Company's business, future results cannot be reliably
predicted by considering past trends or extrapolating past results.


ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

    The Company's headquarters operations are located in Menlo Park and
Pleasanton, California. Placement activities are conducted through more than 300
offices located in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Belgium,
France, the Netherlands, Germany, the Czech Republic, Ireland and Australia. All
of the offices are leased.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

    The Company is not a party to any material pending legal proceedings other
than routine litigation incidental to its business.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

    No matter was submitted to a vote of the Company's security holders during
the fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report.


                                    PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

    The Company's Common Stock is listed for trading on the New York Stock
Exchange under the symbol "RHI". On December 31, 2000, there were approximately
2,400 holders of record of the Common Stock.

    Following is a list by fiscal quarters of the sales prices of the stock,
adjusted, as appropriate, to reflect the two-for-one stock split effected in the
form of a stock dividend in June 2000:



    No cash dividends were paid in 2000 or 1999. The Company, as it deems
appropriate, may continue to retain all earnings for use in its business or may
consider paying a dividend in the future.


ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

    Following is a table of selected financial data of the Company for the last
five years:







    All shares and per share amounts have been restated to retroactively reflect
the two-for-one stock split effected in the form of a stock dividend in
June 2000 and the three-for-two stock split effected in the form of a stock
dividend in September 1997.


ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS

    Certain information contained in Management's Discussion and Analysis and in
other parts of this report may be deemed forward-looking statements regarding
events and financial trends that may affect the Company's future operating
results or financial positions. These statements may be identified by words such
as "estimate", "project", "plan", "intend", "believe", "expect", "anticipate",
or variations or negatives thereof or by similar or comparable words or phrases.
Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could
cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the
statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the
following: changes in levels of unemployment and other economic conditions in
the U.S. or foreign countries where the Company does business, or in particular
regions or industries; reduction in the supply of qualified candidates for
temporary employment or the Company's ability to attract qualified candidates;
the entry of new competitors into the marketplace or expansion by existing
competitors; the ability of the Company to maintain existing client
relationships and attract new clients in the context of changing economic or
competitive conditions; the impact of competitive pressures, including any
change in the demand for the Company's services, on the Company's ability to
maintain its profit margins; the possibility of the Company incurring liability
for the activities of its temporary employees or for events impacting its
temporary employees on clients' premises; the success of the Company in
attracting, training and retaining qualified management personnel and other
staff employees; and whether governments will impose additional regulations or
licensing requirements on personnel services businesses in particular or on
employer/ employee relationships in general. Because long-term contracts are not
a significant part of the Company's business, future results cannot be reliably
predicted by considering past trends or extrapolating past results.

    RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000

    Temporary and consultant staffing revenues were $2.45 billion, $1.92 billion
and $1.66 billion for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998,
respectively, increasing by 28% during 2000 and 16% during 1999. The increase in
revenues during these periods reflected in part revenues generated from the
Company's OFFICETEAM, RHI CONSULTING, and RHI MANAGEMENT RESOURCES divisions,
which were started in 1991, 1994 and 1997, respectively. Permanent placement
staffing revenues were $252 million, $159 million and $136 million for the years
ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively, increasing by 58% during
2000 and 17% during 1999. Overall revenue increases reflect continued demand for
the Company's services, which the Company believes is a result of increased
acceptance in the use of professional staffing services.

    As of December 31, 2000, the Company had more than 300 offices in 40 states
and the District of Columbia and nine foreign countries. Revenues from domestic
operations represented 89%, 88% and 89% of revenues for the years ended
December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. Revenues from foreign operations
represented 11%, 12% and 11% of revenues for the years ended December 31, 2000,
1999 and 1998, respectively.

    Gross margin dollars from the Company's temporary and consultant staffing
services represent revenues less direct costs of services, which consist of
payroll, payroll taxes and insurance costs for temporary employees. Gross margin
dollars from permanent placement staffing services are equal to revenues, as
there are no direct costs associated with such revenues. Gross margin dollars
for the Company's temporary and consultant staffing services were $908 million,
$703 million and $586 million for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and
1998, respectively, increasing by 29% in 2000 and 20% in 1999. Gross margin
amounts equaled 37% of revenues for temporary and consultant staffing services
for both the years ended December 31, 2000 and 1999 and 35% of revenues for
temporary and consultant staffing services for the year ended December 31, 1998,
which the Company believes reflects its ability to adjust billing rates and wage
rates to underlying market conditions. Gross margin dollars for the Company's
permanent placement staffing division were $252 million, $159 million and $136
million for


each of the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively,
increasing by 58% and 17% in 2000 and 1999, respectively.

    Selling, general and administrative expenses were $864 million during 2000,
compared to $628 million in 1999 and $502 million in 1998. Selling, general and
administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues were 32% for the year ended
December 31, 2000, and 30% for the year ended December 31, 1999 and 28% for the
year ended December 31, 1998. Selling, general and administrative expenses
consist primarily of staff compensation, advertising, depreciation and occupancy
costs. The increase in 2000 relates primarily to additional field staff,
technology, and various candidate recruitment initiatives, including those
related to the Internet.

    The Company allocates the excess of cost over the fair market value of the
net tangible assets first to identifiable intangible assets, if any, and then to
goodwill. Although management believes that goodwill has an unlimited life, the
Company amortizes these costs over 40 years. Management believes that its
previous acquisitions of established companies in established markets and
maintaining its presence in these markets preserves the goodwill for an
indeterminate period. The carrying value of intangible assets is periodically
reviewed by the Company and impairments are recognized when the expected future
operating cash flows derived from such intangible assets is less than their
carrying value. Based upon its most recent analysis, the Company believes that
there was no material impairment of intangible assets at December 31, 2000. Net
intangible assets represented 17% of total assets and 23% of total stockholders'
equity at December 31, 2000.

    Interest income for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998 was
$11.3 million, $6.8 million and $6.9 million, respectively. Interest expense for
the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998 was $.9 million, $.7 million
and $1.4 million, respectively. The increase in interest income is primarily
attributable to increased balances in interest-bearing cash and cash
equivalents.

    The provision for income taxes was 38% for the year ended December 31, 2000,
and 40% for the year ended December 31, 1999 and 41% for the year ended
December 31, 1998. This decrease reflects the impact of various state tax
planning initiatives undertaken during 1999.

    LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

    The change in the Company's liquidity during the past three years is the net
effect of funds generated by operations and the funds used for the staffing
services acquisitions, capital expenditures, repurchases of common stock, and
principal payments on outstanding notes payable. As of December 31, 2000, the
Company has authorized the repurchase, from time to time, of up to 18 million
shares of the Company's common stock on the open market or in privately
negotiated transactions, depending on market conditions. During the year ended
December 31, 2000, the Company repurchased approximately 3.9 million shares of
common stock on the open market bringing the total shares repurchased under the
authorization to 15.7 million. All shares have been restated to retroactively
reflect the two-for-one stock split effected in the form of a stock dividend in
June 2000. Repurchases of the securities have been funded with cash generated
from operations. For the year ended December 31, 2000, the Company generated
$267 million from operations, used $77 million in investing activities and used
$102 million in financing activities.

    The Company's working capital at December 31, 2000, included $239 million in
cash and cash equivalents. In addition, at December 31, 2000, the Company had
available $75 million of its $80 million bank revolving line of credit. The
Company's working capital requirements consist primarily of the financing of
accounts receivable. While there can be no assurances in this regard, the
Company expects that internally generated cash plus the bank revolving line of
credit will be sufficient to support the working capital needs of the Company,
the Company's fixed payments, and other obligations on both a short and
long-term basis. As of December 31, 2000, the Company had no material capital
commitments.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

    The Company's market risk sensitive instruments do not subject the Company
to material market risk exposures.


ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

                ROBERT HALF INTERNATIONAL INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION

                      (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AMOUNTS)



     All shares and amounts have been restated to retroactively reflect the
 two-for-one stock split effected in the form of a stock dividend in June 2000.

          The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
              are an integral part of these financial statements.


                ROBERT HALF INTERNATIONAL INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)



     All per share amounts have been restated to retroactively reflect the
 two-for-one stock split effected in the form of a stock dividend in June 2000.

          The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
              are an integral part of these financial statements.


                ROBERT HALF INTERNATIONAL INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

                                 (IN THOUSANDS)



     All shares and amounts have been restated to retroactively reflect the
 two-for-one stock split effected in the form of a stock dividend in June 2000.

          The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
              are an integral part of these financial statements.


                ROBERT HALF INTERNATIONAL INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

                                 (IN THOUSANDS)



          The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
              are an integral part of these financial statements.


                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE A--SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

    NATURE OF OPERATIONS.  Robert Half International Inc. (the "Company")
provides specialized staffing services through such divisions as ACCOUNTEMPS,
ROBERT HALF, OFFICETEAM, RHI CONSULTING, RHI MANAGEMENT RESOURCES, THE
AFFILIATES and THE CREATIVE GROUP. The Company, through its ACCOUNTEMPS, ROBERT
HALF, and RHI MANAGEMENT RESOURCES divisions, is the world's largest specialized
provider of temporary, full-time, and project professionals in the fields of
accounting and finance. OFFICETEAM specializes in highly skilled temporary
administrative support personnel. RHI CONSULTING provides information technology
professionals. THE AFFILIATES provides temporary, project, and full-time
staffing of attorneys and specialized support personnel within law firms and
corporate legal departments. THE CREATIVE GROUP provides project staffing in the
advertising, marketing, and web design fields. Revenues are predominantly from
temporary services. The Company operates in the United States, Canada, Europe,
and Australia. The Company is a Delaware corporation.

    PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION.  The Consolidated Financial Statements include
the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries, all of which are wholly-owned.
All significant intercompany balances have been eliminated. Certain
reclassifications have been made to the 1999 and 1998 financial statements to
conform to the 2000 presentation.

    REVENUE RECOGNITION.  Temporary and consultant staffing services revenues
are recognized when the services are rendered by the Company's temporary
employees. Permanent placement staffing revenues are recognized when employment
candidates accept offers of permanent employment. Allowances are established to
estimate losses due to placed candidates not remaining employed for the
Company's guarantee period, typically 90 days.

    CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS.  The Company considers all highly liquid
investments with a maturity of three months or less as cash equivalents.

    INTANGIBLE ASSETS.  Intangible assets primarily consist of the cost of
acquired companies in excess of the fair market value of their net tangible
assets at acquisition date, which are being amortized on a straight-line basis
over a period of 40 years. The carrying value of intangible assets is
periodically reviewed by the Company and impairments are recognized when the
expected future operating cash flows derived from such intangible assets are
less than their carrying value. Based upon its most recent analysis, the Company
believes that there was no material impairment of intangible assets at
December 31, 2000.

    INCOME TAXES.  Deferred taxes are computed based on the difference between
the financial statement and income tax bases of assets and liabilities using the
enacted marginal tax rates.

    FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION.  The results of operations of the Company's
foreign subsidiaries are translated at the monthly average exchange rates
prevailing during the period. The financial position of the Company's foreign
subsidiaries is translated at the current exchange rates at the end of the
period, and the related translation adjustments are recorded as a component of
comprehensive income within Stockholders' Equity. Gains and losses resulting
from foreign currency transactions are included in the Consolidated Statements
of Income.

    USE OF ESTIMATES.  The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
during the reporting period.


             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE A--SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
    PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT.  Property and equipment are recorded at cost.
Depreciation expense is computed using the straight-line method over the
estimated useful lives of the assets. Leasehold improvements are amortized over
the shorter of the life of the related asset or the life of the lease.

    ADVERTISING COSTS.  The Company expenses all advertising costs as incurred.

NOTE B--ACQUISITIONS

    The acquisitions made during 2000 and 1998 had no material pro forma impact
on the results of operations. There were no acquisitions made in 1999.

NOTE C--NOTES PAYABLE AND OTHER INDEBTEDNESS

    The Company issued promissory notes as well as other forms of indebtedness
in connection with certain acquisitions and other payment obligations. These are
due in varying installments, carry varying interest rates and, in aggregate,
amounted to $3.8 million at December 31, 2000 and $3.5 million at December 31,
1999. At December 31, 2000, $2.4 million of the notes were secured by a standby
letter of credit (see Note D). The following table shows the schedule of
maturities for notes payable and other indebtedness at December 31, 2000 (in
thousands):



    At December 31, 2000, the notes carried fixed rates and the weighted average
interest rate for the above was approximately 7.8%, 8.1% and 8.2% for the years
ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

NOTE D--BANK LOAN (REVOLVING CREDIT)

    The Company has an unsecured credit facility which provides a line of credit
of up to $80 million, which is available to fund the Company's general business
and working capital needs, including acquisitions and the purchase of the
Company's common stock, and to cover the issuance of debt support standby
letters of credit up to $15 million.

    The Company had no borrowings on the line of credit outstanding and had used
$5.2 million in debt support standby letters of credit as of December 31, 2000
and 1999. There is a commitment fee on the unused portion of the entire credit
facility of .09%. The loan is subject to certain financial covenants which also
affect the interest rates charged. The final maturity date for the credit
facility is August 31, 2002.


             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE E--ACCRUED PAYROLL COSTS

    Accrued payroll costs consisted of the following (in thousands):



NOTE F--STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

    STOCK SPLIT--In June 2000, the Company effected a two-for-one stock split in
the form of a stock dividend. All shares and per share amounts have been
retroactively restated in the financial statements to reflect the stock split.

    STOCK REPURCHASE PROGRAM--As of December 31, 2000, the Company's Board of
Directors has authorized the repurchase, from time to time, of up to 18 million
shares of the Company's common stock on the open market or in privately
negotiated transactions, depending on market conditions. During the year ended
December 31, 2000, the Company repurchased approximately 3.9 million shares on
the open market for a total cost of $111 million. Since 1997, the Company has
repurchased approximately 15.7 million shares of common stock on the open market
pursuant to this program.

NOTE G--INCOME TAXES

    The provision for income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999
and 1998 consisted of the following (in thousands):




             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE G--INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED)
    The income taxes shown above varied from the statutory federal income tax
rates for these periods as follows:



    The deferred portion of the tax provisions consisted of the following (in
thousands):



    The deferred income tax amounts included on the balance sheet are comprised
of the following (in thousands):



    No valuation allowances against deferred tax assets were required for the
years ended December 31, 2000 and 1999.

    The components of the deferred income tax amounts at December 31, 2000 and
1999, were as follows (in thousands):




             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE H--COMMITMENTS

    Rental expense, primarily for office premises, amounted to $47.4 million,
$37.4 million and $30.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and
1998, respectively. The approximate minimum rental commitments for 2001 and
thereafter under non-cancelable leases in effect at December 31, 2000, were as
follows (in thousands):



NOTE I--STOCK PLANS

    Under various stock plans, officers, employees and outside directors may
receive grants of restricted stock or options to purchase common stock. Grants
are made at the discretion of the Stock Plan Committee of the Board of
Directors. Grants generally vest between two and seven years.

    Options granted under the plans have exercise prices ranging from 85% to
100% of the fair market value of the Company's common stock at the date of grant
and consist of both incentive stock options and nonstatutory stock options under
the Internal Revenue Code. The terms range from 27 months to 10 years.

    Recipients of restricted stock do not pay any cash consideration to the
Company for the shares, have the right to vote all shares subject to such grant,
and receive all dividends with respect to such shares, whether or not the shares
have vested. Compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over
the vesting period. Vesting is accelerated upon the death or disability of the
recipients.

    The Company accounts for these plans under APB Opinion 25. Therefore, no
compensation cost has been recognized for its stock option plans. Had
compensation cost for the stock options granted subsequent to January 1, 1995,
been based on the estimated fair value at the award dates, as prescribed by
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, the Company's pro forma net
income and net income per share would have been as follows (in thousands, except
per share amounts):




             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE I--STOCK PLANS (CONTINUED)
    The pro forma amounts do not include amounts for stock options granted
before January 1, 1995. Therefore, the pro forma amounts may not be
representative of the disclosed effects on pro forma net income and net income
per share for future years.

    The fair value of each option is estimated, as of the grant date, using the
Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following assumptions used for
grants in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively: no dividend yield for any year;
expected volatility of 48% to 60%; risk-free interest rates of 5.7% to 6.8%,
4.6% to 6.4% and 4.6% to 5.7%, respectively, and expected lives of 1.5 to 5.6
years for 2000, 1.5 to 5.5 years for 1999 and 4.5 to 7.3 years for 1998.

    The following table reflects activity under all stock plans from
December 31, 1997 through December 31, 2000, and the weighted average exercise
prices:



    The following table summarizes information about options outstanding as of
December 31, 2000:




             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE I--STOCK PLANS (CONTINUED)
    At December 31, 2000, the total number of available shares to grant under
the plans (consisting of either restricted stock or options) was 9,714,868.

NOTE J--NET INCOME PER SHARE

    The calculation of net income per share for the three years ended
December 31, 2000 is reflected in the following table (in thousands, except per
share amounts):



NOTE K--QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

   The following tabulation shows certain quarterly financial data for 2000 and
1999 (in thousands, except per share amounts):



NOTE L--BUSINESS SEGMENTS

    The Company has two reportable segments: temporary and consultant staffing;
and permanent placement staffing. The temporary and consultant staffing segment
provides specialized personnel in the accounting and finance, administrative and
office, information technology, legal, advertising, marketing,


             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE L--BUSINESS SEGMENTS (CONTINUED)
and web design fields. The permanent placement staffing segment provides
full-time personnel in the accounting, finance, and information technology
fields.

    The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in
Note A: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. The Company evaluates
performance based on profit or loss from operations before interest expense,
intangible amortization expense, and income taxes.

    The following table provides a reconciliation of revenue and operating
profit by reportable segment to consolidated results (in thousands):



    The Company does not report total assets by segment. The following table
represents identifiable assets by business segment (in thousands):



    The Company operates internationally, with operations in the United States,
Canada, Europe, and Australia. The following tables represent revenues and
long-lived assets by geographic location (in thousands):




             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE L--BUSINESS SEGMENTS (CONTINUED)




                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors
of Robert Half International Inc.:

    We have audited the accompanying consolidated statements of financial
position of Robert Half International Inc. (a Delaware corporation) as of
December 31, 2000 and 1999, and the related consolidated statements of income,
stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 2000. These financial statements are the responsibility of
the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits.

    We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

    In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of Robert Half International
Inc. as of December 31, 2000 and 1999, and the results of their operations and
their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2000, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States.

                                          ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

San Francisco, California
January 19, 2001


ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
  FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

    None.

                                    PART III

    The information required by Items 10 through 13 of Part III is incorporated
by reference from the registrant's Proxy Statement, under the captions
"NOMINATION AND ELECTION OF DIRECTORS," "BENEFICIAL STOCK OWNERSHIP,"
"COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS," "COMPENSATION OF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS" AND
"COMPENSATION COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS AND INSIDER PARTICIPATION AND CERTAIN
TRANSACTIONS," which Proxy Statement will be mailed to stockholders in
connection with the registrant's annual meeting of stockholders which is
scheduled to be held in May 2001.

                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a) 1.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

    The following consolidated financial statements of the Company and its
    subsidiaries are included in Item 8 of this report:

       Consolidated statements of financial position at December 31, 2000 and
       1999.

       Consolidated statements of income for the years ended December 31, 2000,
       1999 and 1998.

       Consolidated statements of stockholders' equity for the years ended
       December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998.

       Consolidated statements of cash flows for the years ended December 31,
       2000, 1999 and 1998.

       Notes to consolidated financial statements.

    Report of independent public accountants.

    Selected quarterly financial data for the years ended December 31, 2000 and
    1999 are set forth in Note K--Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) included
    in Item 8 of this report.

2.  FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

        Schedules I through V have been omitted as they are not applicable.

3.  EXHIBITS











- ------------------------

*   Management contract or compensatory plan required to be filed as an exhibit
    pursuant to Item 14(c) of Form 10-K.

(b) REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

        The Registrant filed no reports on Form 8-K during the fiscal quarter
ending December 31, 2000.


                                   SIGNATURES

    Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.




    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.




