
10-K



SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
Washington, D.C.  20549 
 
FORM 10-K 
 
[X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)  
OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
 
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996 
Commission File Number 0-19406 
  
ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION 
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 
 
Delaware 
(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or 
organization) 
 
36-2675536 
(IRS Employer Identification No.) 
 
333 Corporate Woods Parkway, Vernon Hills, Illinois  60061 
(Address of principal executive offices)          (zip code) 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: 
(847)634-6700 
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
None 
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 
Class A Common Stock, par value $.01 per share 
(Title of Class) 
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed 
all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of 
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 
months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was 
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to 
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes X  No 
 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers 
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained 
herein, and will not be contained, to the best of 
registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information 
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this 
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [ ] 
 
As of March 21, 1997, the aggregate market value of each of 
the registrant's Class A Common Stock and Class B Common 
Stock held by non-affiliates was approximately $393,965,656 
and $900,238, respectively.  The closing price of the Class 
A Common Stock on March 21, 1997, as reported on the Nasdaq 
National Market, was $23.50.  Because no market exists for 
the Class B Common Stock and the shares of Class B Common 
Stock are convertible on a one-for-one basis into shares of 
Class A Common Stock, the registrant has assumed for 
purposes hereof that each share of Class B Common Stock has 
a market value equal to one share of Class A Common Stock. 
 
As of March 21, 1997, the number of shares outstanding of 
the registrant's Class A Common Stock, par value $.01 per 
share, and of the registrant's Class B Common Stock, par 
value $.01 per share, was 16,924,973, and 7,315,404, 
respectively. 
 
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 
Certain sections of the registrant's Annual Report to 
Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1996, and of 
the registrant's Notice of Annual Meeting of Stockholders 
and Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders 
to be held on May 20, 1997, as described in the Cross-
Reference Sheet and Table of Contents included herewith, are 
incorporated by reference into Parts II and III of this 
report.
 
 

CROSS REFERENCE SHEET AND TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
                                           						  Page Number 
						                                           or Reference (1) 
 
PART I 
 
Item 1.  Business                                         1 
 
Item 2.  Properties                                       6 
 
Item 3.  Legal Proceedings                                6 
 
Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of  
	          Security Holders                               7 
 
PART II 
 
Item 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity 
	          and Related Stockholder Matters                8 
 
Item 6.  Selected Financial Data                          8 
 
Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of  
	          Financial Condition and Results of Operations  9 
 
Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data      11 
 
Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants 
	          on Accounting and Financial Disclosure         11 
 
PART III 
 
Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of  
	          the Registrant                                 12 (2) 
 
Item 11. Executive Compensation                           12 (3) 
 
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial  
	          Owners and Management                          12 (4) 
 
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions   12 (3) 
 
PART IV 
 
Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules,  
       	   and Reports on Form 8-K                        13 
_________ 
 
(1)  Certain information is incorporated by reference, as 
indicated below, from the registrant's Notice of Annual 
Meeting of Stockholders and Proxy Statement for its Annual 
Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 20, 1997 (the 
"Proxy Statement") and from the registrant's 1996 Annual 
Report to Stockholders (the "1996 Annual Report"). 
 
(2)  Proxy Statement sections entitled "Election of 
Directors" and "Executive Officers." 
 
(3)  Proxy Statement section entitled "Executive 
Compensation and Certain Transactions." 
 
(4)  Proxy Statement section entitled "Security Ownership of 
Management and Certain Beneficial Owners." 
 
 
 
ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION 
333 Corporate Woods Parkway 
Vernon Hills, Illinois 60061 
(847)634-6700 
 
 
PART I 
 
 
ITEM 1.  BUSINESS 
 
The Company 
Zebra Technologies Corporation (the "Company" or "Zebra") 
provides bar code solutions, principally to manufacturing 
and service entities worldwide, for use in automatic 
identification and data collection systems.  The Company 
designs, manufactures, sells and supports a broad line of 
computerized label/ticket printing systems, related 
specialty supplies and PC-based bar code software.  The 
Company's equipment is designed to operate at the user's 
location to produce and dispense high quality bar coded 
labels in extremely time-sensitive and physically demanding 
environments.  Zebra's solutions approach integrates its 
applications expertise, computerized printing systems, 
specialty supplies and software.  Applications for the 
Company's systems include inventory control, automated 
warehousing, JIT (Just-In-Time) manufacturing, CIM (Computer 
Integrated Manufacturing), employee time and attendance 
records, weighing systems, tool room control, shop floor 
control, library systems, prescription labeling and 
scientific experimentation.  As of March 1, 1997, management 
estimates that over 225,000 Zebra bar code printing systems 
are installed at approximately 22,000 user sites around the 
world. 
 
The Company anticipates that its future growth will be 
enhanced by two continuing trends: bar code label 
standardization programs and the focus of businesses 
worldwide on improving quality and productivity.  Industry 
mandated standardization has been a major catalyst in the 
rapid development of bar coding, and Zebra believes that the 
mandate of standards will continue to proliferate.  Zebra 
also believes that increasing demands for improvements in 
productivity and quality in commercial and service 
organizations will lead to increased use of automatic 
identification systems. 
 
The Company completed its initial public offering in August 
1991 and a secondary public offering in March 1993.  The 
Company is organized under the laws of the State of 
Delaware.  The Company's principal offices are located at 
333 Corporate Woods Parkway, Vernon Hills, Illinois 60061, 
and its telephone number is (847)634-6700. 
 
The Company's Products 
The Company's products consist of a broad line of 
computerized demand bar code label printers and print 
engines, specialty bar code labeling/ticketing materials, 
ink ribbons and PC-based bar code software.  These products 
are integrated to provide automatic identification labeling 
solutions for manufacturing, business and industrial 
applications.  The Company's equipment and supplies are 
designed for operating at the user's location to produce bar 
coded labels in extremely time-sensitive and physically 
demanding environments.  The Company works closely with its 
distributors, other resellers and the end users of its 
products to fashion labeling solutions which meet the 
technical demands of the end user.  To achieve this, the 
Company provides its customers with the ability to configure 
printing systems with various options available on the 
Company's systems.  Additionally, the Company will select 
and, if necessary, create appropriate labeling stock, ink 
ribbons and adhesives to suit the particular intended use.  
In-house engineering personnel with years of experience in 
the disciplines of software, mechanical, electronic and 
chemical engineering all participate in the creation and 
realization of bar code solutions for particular 
applications. 
 
Examples of specialty bar code solutions include: process 
control labels for U.S.  Steel which are affixed to coils of 
steel with a temperature of 400 degrees Fahrenheit; 
identification labels for a unique library of DNA samples at 
Los Alamos National Laboratory which are stored at minus 100 
degrees Fahrenheit and are then repeatedly thawed and 
restored; and identification labels for plutonium samples at 
Los Alamos National Laboratory in conditions where the 
labels and printers are exposed to radioactive materials.  
Other examples include high security black-on-black bar 
codes which are only machine (and not human) readable and 
labels which automatically read "VOID" if they are removed 
from their original application. 
 
 
Label Printing Systems.  The Company produces a broad range 
of "on demand" thermal transfer and direct thermal bar code 
label printers with, the Company believes, more models, 
options and features than any of its competitors.  Zebra 
manufactures eight thermal transfer label printing systems, 
which range in list price from $1,395 to $7,495, two direct 
thermal printers which range in list price from $595 to 
$795, and a high performance print engine for label 
applicator systems.  The Company's products include hundreds 
of optional configurations which can be selected as 
necessary to meet particular customer needs.  Zebra's 
printing systems, and their prices, vary based upon 
performance criteria including label width, speed, image 
density and optional features.  Zebra's thermal transfer 
product line is split into two parts: the Performance 
Line(TM) and the Value-Line(TM).  The Performance Line(TM) 
consists of four basic models targeted at applications that 
require continuous operation in high output, mission 
critical operations.  These units provide a wide variety of 
option configurations, features, print widths, dot densities 
and speeds.  The four units comprising the Value-Line(TM) 
are targeted at distributed printing applications where 
heavy duty cycles are less important.  These units have 
fewer option configurations and features, but are offered at 
a significantly lower price.  The A-100(TM) and A-300(TM) 
direct thermal Personal Printers, the Company's new 
offerings in the sub-$1,000 market, are targeted at 
applications where convenience, ease of use, small size and 
price are important to the user.  The Company's 170PAX print 
engine is targeted at manufacturers of high speed automatic 
label applicator systems.  This product contains options and 
performance characteristics not available on competitive 
products. 
 
In addition to use in demand printing situations, the 
Company's products can also be used to meet customers' needs 
for continuous duty production of small or large quantities 
of custom bar code labels and other graphics, permitting on-
site label production with less lead time and more efficient 
use of supplies than off-site printing can provide.  
Management believes that of the major on-site printing 
technologies, thermal transfer is best suited for most 
industrial applications.  Thermal transfer printing produces 
dark and solid blacks and sharply defined lines which are 
important for printing readily scannable bar codes.  In 
addition, thermal transfer printing creates the image very 
near the edge of the printer so that no blank areas must be 
fed out before the label exits the printer.  Finally, this 
technology permits the use of many different label 
materials, adhesives and inks and produces durable images. 
 
Thermal transfer printing creates an image by applying an 
electrically heated printhead onto a ribbon that releases 
ink onto labeling stock.  It is a relatively low cost way to 
address the special needs of the Company's target customers 
because it results in excellent image quality, can be used 
with a wide variety of materials so long as they are smooth-
surfaced, requires no specially coated or otherwise 
specially formulated labeling/ticketing stock and permits 
the use of certain inks which are not viable with alternate 
printing technologies.  Direct thermal printing creates an 
image by applying the heated printhead directly to specially 
treated paper that changes color when heated.  Direct 
thermal technology is preferable where image durability is 
less critical, and where the application does not require 
specialty labeling materials such as plastics or metal 
foils.  The Company's Performance Line and Value Line 
printers are optimized for thermal transfer printing, 
although they can operate in direct thermal mode as well.  
Both Personal Printer products operate only in direct 
thermal mode. 
 
The Company's printing systems incorporate Company-designed 
computer hardware, electro-mechanisms and software, which 
operate the printing functions of the system and communicate 
with the host computer.  All Zebra printing systems, except 
the A-100 personal printer, operate using Zebra Programming 
Language ("ZPL(R)") and Zebra Programming Language II ("ZPL 
II(R)"), proprietary printer driver languages which were 
designed by the Company and are compatible with virtually 
all computer operating systems, including UNIX, MS/DOS and 
Windows.  ZPL(R) and ZPL II(R) allow users of the Company's 
systems to replace older Zebra printers with newer 
equipment, which is plug and software compatible and 
therefore requires no reprogramming, to operate different 
Zebra equipment for different applications using 
standardized programs and to integrate printers into a 
network using additional software available from the 
Company.  Management believes ZPL(R) and ZPL II(R) give the 
Company a competitive strength by ensuring compatibility 
across the full family of the Company's present and future 
printer products and by facilitating system upgrades and 
customer loyalty to Zebra products.  Certain independent 
software vendors have written label preparation programs 
with ZPL(R) and ZPL II(R) drivers specifically for Zebra 
printers.  ZPL(R) and ZPL II(R) label format programs can be run 
on a personal computer with ordinary word processing 
programs, making ZPL(R) and ZPL II(R) particularly adaptable to 
PC-based systems. 
 
In 1996, the Company upgraded the Zebra 105S printer to 
include 300 dpi capability.  The Zebra 105S and 160S 
printers both feature a rugged metal case and full roll 
internal rewind at a Value-Line(TM) price.  The Company's 
STRIPE(R) printer product line rounds out the Value-Line(TM) 
family of products.  The Model S-500 at a list price of 
$1,795 and S-300 at a list price of $1,395 are the lowest 
priced printers in the Value-Line(TM).  These units employ 
design concepts that have allowed the Company to offer these 
products at a lower price point in the market but with 
performance, quality, reliability and durability equal to 
more expensive models. 
 
 
Also in 1996, the Company began shipping the 220XiII(TM) and 
the 170PAX print and apply engine from its Performance 
Line(TM) products.  The Zebra 220XiII(TM) printer is a wide-
web printer that rounds out the Performance Line(TM) family 
of printers which includes the 170XiII(TM), 140XiII(TM), and 
90XiII(TM).  These printers are based on an advanced 
electronics package that includes dual microprocessors based 
on RISC technology.  As a result, these printers offer 
greatly increased print speed, dramatically reduced 
formatting time, improved throughput and image resolution.  
The 170PAX print and apply engine, also based on XiII 
electronics, is the Company's first product offering in the 
component sector of the automatic identification market.  
The print and apply engine is designed to increase print 
speeds, reduce formatting times, and improve image 
resolution in comparison to competitive products. 
 
Sales of the Company's printer line accounted for 
$122,127,000 of the Company's net sales in 1996, 
$106,781,000 in 1995, and $74,685,000 in 1994.  These sales 
amounted to 72.0%, 71.9%, and 69.7% of the Company's total 
net sales in each of the last three years, respectively. 
 
Supplies.  The Company sells label/ticketing stock, custom 
labels and tags, and thermal transfer ribbons worldwide, to 
support its printing systems and systems users.  Zebra 
supplies are selected for a particular user's needs based on 
the specific application and environment in which the 
labeling system must operate.  Critical criteria include 
levels of abrasion, possible exposure to chemicals and 
liquids, variations in both the environment (such as 
temperature or humidity) in which the labels will be used 
and the surfaces to which the labels will be affixed.  These 
factors are all taken into account in selecting the type of 
ribbon, the type of labeling material and the adhesive to be 
used.  Zebra supplies include proprietary ribbon 
formulations developed according to Company specifications.  
Zebra develops its printers and supplies contemporaneously, 
as if they were a single unit, to optimize performance of 
Zebra printers and genuine Zebra supplies.  Performance is 
typically measured as a function of both print speed and 
print quality and both of these factors can be adversely 
affected by the use of supplies that are not suited to 
particular printers.  Because of the close relationship 
between the printing system, the supplies and the specific 
applications, the Company sells supplies together with 
printing systems.  In addition, the Company sells supplies 
to existing users of its printing systems.  Zebra promotes 
the use of Zebra supplies with Zebra equipment.  Management 
believes that owners of Zebra's printing systems purchase 
Zebra supplies to attain peak performance and optimum print 
quality and to minimize costly downtime and malfunctions in 
their automatic identification systems.  Supplies sales in 
1996, 1995, and 1994 were $39,561,000, $36,033,000, and 
$30,140,000, respectively, comprising 23.3%, 24.2%, and 
28.1% of total net sales, respectively. 
 
Software.  In July 1995, the Company acquired Vertical 
Technologies, Inc., a software development company that 
provides PC-based bar code labeling, scanning, and tracking 
software targeted principally to small-and medium-sized 
businesses.  In February 1996, the Company acquired the 
intellectual property of a UK-based partnership, Fenestra 
Computer Services, which provides a high-end label design 
software package specifically designed to optimize the 
performance of Zebra printers.  In combination, these 
software products provide users with powerful PC-based, easy 
to use bar code label design and printing systems.  The low-
end Barcode AnythingTM Suite is distributed through PC 
software catalogs, PC distributors, and retailers and is 
intended to broaden the market for bar code systems to 
small-and medium-sized businesses, providing the opportunity 
for Zebra to sell additional products to these customers as 
their bar code requirements develop.  The high-end Bar OneTM 
software is targeted at experienced bar code users and 
provides the capability to optimize the performance of Zebra 
printers through a powerful, easy to use Windows interface. 
 
Maintenance Services.  The Company provides service for its 
printing systems with depot repair at its Vernon Hills, 
Illinois facility and its distributors' locations, in 
addition to on-site service, which is provided by 
distributors and Wang Laboratories, Inc. ("Wang").  Under a 
service support agreement, Wang and the Company share the 
revenue for on-site service contracts sold by Wang for Zebra 
printing systems installed in the United States.  The 
Company in turn provides maintenance parts as needed to 
repair units under contract.  IBM also provides service for 
the Company's products.  This technical support is available 
to end users and to the Company's distributors and 
resellers.  International maintenance service is handled by 
the Company's distributors in each country, either directly 
or through service agents.  Zebra provides service and 
technical support assistance from in-house support personnel 
located both in the United States and the United Kingdom who 
are available by telephone hotline five days a week during 
regular business hours. 
 
 
Warranties.  All Zebra printing equipment is warranted 
against defects in material and workmanship for six months.  
Zebra supplies are warranted against defects in material and 
workmanship for the stated shelf life or six months, 
whichever occurs first. Defective equipment and supplies may 
be returned to the Company for repair, replacement or refund 
during the applicable warranty periods. 
 
Sales and Marketing 
Sales.  The Company sells its products in the United States 
and internationally through a multi-channel distribution 
system including distributors, value-added resellers 
("VAR's"), original equipment manufacturers ("OEM's") and 
international accounts.  Software is sold principally 
through the PC-retail channel and PC software catalogs, in 
addition to the Company's traditional channels.  This multi-
channel distribution system purchases, warehouses, and sells 
a variety of automatic identification components including 
printers, supplies, scanners, and application software, and 
brings system integration expertise to the end users.  Two 
of the Company's distributors are classified as National 
Distributors because of their broad territorial 
representation within the United States.  Other distributors 
have qualified for Zebra Solution Center (ZSC) status.  
ZSC's carry the full range of Zebra printers and supplies, 
and focus on providing a Zebra bar code solution to their 
customers.  VAR's, OEMs and systems integrators provide 
customers with a variety of automatic identification 
components including scanners, accessories, applications 
software and systems integration expertise, and, in the case 
of some OEM's, then resell the products under their own 
logos. 
 
The Company utilizes 72 U.S.  and approximately 100 
international resellers.  The resellers typically cover 
specific geographic areas of the United States and 70 other 
countries around the world.  The Company has a subsidiary in 
the United Kingdom that serves as a sales office, product 
distribution warehouse and service center.  For 1996, 1995, 
and 1994, sales to international customers comprised 44.2%, 
44.2%, and 39.8%, respectively, of the Company's total net 
sales. 
 
Because of the wide variety of end users and applications 
for the Company's products and because the Company's 
products are frequently integrated with products from other 
manufacturers to form a complete automatic identification 
system, management believes that it is more effective to 
sell printing systems principally through multiple 
distributors and resellers with defined market niche 
expertise and presence rather than directly to end users.  
By forming relationships with distributors who serve various 
submarkets and types of end users and who have existing 
customers and in-place sales and distribution networks which 
identify new customers and sales opportunities, the Company 
is able to reach end users throughout the world in a variety 
of industries.  The Company may designate a customer as a 
key account when purchases of Company products reach certain 
levels.  Zebra sales personnel, together with the Company's 
distribution partners, manage these accounts to ensure their 
complete needs are met, including consistent support for 
projects and applications around the world. 
 
Marketing.  The Company's marketing operations include 
product management, marketing communications, technical 
services, training, market research and market development 
functions.  The product management group specifies new 
products and product enhancements that create customer 
value, and manages product positioning and introductions. 
 
The marketing services group operates as an internal 
advertising and public relations resource.  This group, 
working with advertising agencies and contractors, creates 
advertising, brochures and documentation, manages trade show 
exhibits and places articles highlighting applications of 
Zebra products in trade and industry publications. 
 
The technical services group offers technical support to the 
Company's distribution channels and end users of the 
Company's products.  These services include, among other 
things, a hotline staffed by experienced technical personnel 
and, when necessary, trips to customer sites. 
 
The Company's market research group is a strategic planning, 
research oriented group, which focuses on market definition 
and analysis of Company and competitor strengths.  This 
group identifies and analyzes market opportunities for 
current, planned and potential products, and gathers and 
analyzes competitive and market intelligence. 
 
The market development group is responsible for the 
development of new market opportunities and relationships 
with key customers, vendors and government regulatory and 
industry standards committees.  This group also prepares 
speeches, application training programs and seminars which 
are presented around the world to industry and customer 
groups. 
 
 
Customers 
The Company estimates that it presently has over 225,000 bar 
code printing systems installed at approximately 22,000 user 
sites around the world.  Sales to the Peak Technologies 
Group, Inc., one of the Company's National Distributors, 
accounted for more than 20% of the Company's total net sales 
in the year ended December 31, 1996. 
 
Production and Manufacturing 
The Company's strategy is to create and produce production 
designs which optimize product performance, quality, 
reliability, durability and versatility.  These designs 
facilitate cost-efficient materials sourcing and assembly 
methods with high standards of workmanship.  The Company has 
aggressively pursued a manufacturing strategy of increasing 
control over the manufacture of its hardware products by 
developing in-house capability to produce all mechanical and 
electronic assemblies, and it has designed many of its own 
tools, fixtures and test equipment.  The Company's 
manufacturing engineering staff is dedicated to co-
engineering new products with Zebra's new products engineers 
and with vendors, thereby creating products that are highly 
manufacturable, and to specifying and designing 
manufacturing processes and facilities simultaneously with 
product design.  In addition to its' strategy of in-house 
production, the Company has implemented a manufacturing 
outsourcing program for its sub-$1,000 printers in an effort 
to expand its' manufacturing options. 
 
Research and Development 
The Company devotes significant resources to developing new 
products to serve the needs of targeted markets, providing 
bar code solutions to users of the Company's printing 
systems and developing new and reliable products that have a 
high degree of manufacturability.  The Company's research 
and development expenditures were $10,452,000, $8,185,000, 
and $5,835,000, in 1996, 1995, and 1994, respectively. 
 
Competition 
The Company considers its direct competition to be the 
providers of thermal transfer and direct thermal printing 
systems and supplies to the "demand printing" environment 
rather than the larger group of companies engaged in the 
design, manufacture and marketing of standard computer and 
label printers and/or other equipment for automated data 
collection systems, such as scanners or data collection 
devices.  Competition in the thermal transfer and direct 
thermal market depends on a number of factors, including 
reliability, quality and reputation of the manufacturer and 
its products, hardware innovations and specifications, 
information systems connectivity, price, level of technical 
support, supplies and applications support offered by the 
manufacturer, and available distribution channels. 
 
The Company's principal competitors in the thermal transfer 
and direct thermal bar code printing systems and supplies 
markets, many of which have substantially greater resources 
than the Company, include: Intermec Corporation, a 
subsidiary of Western Atlas Corporation, which manufactures 
bar code readers, scanning wands, laser scanners, labels and 
label printers; Sato, a manufacturer of thermal transfer bar 
code printers and printer supplies; TEC, which manufactures 
a broad range of electronic products including bar code 
printers; Datamax Corporation, a manufacturer of mid-range 
thermal transfer printers; United Barcodes International 
(UBI), who competes with the Company principally in Europe; 
and Eltron International, a manufacturer of low cost thermal 
and thermal transfer printers. 
 
Various other methods of bar code printing exist, but the 
Company believes that thermal transfer printing will be the 
technology of choice in Zebra's target markets for the 
foreseeable future.  Among the many advantages of thermal 
transfer printing is its ability to print high resolution 
images on a wide variety of label materials at a relatively 
low cost compared to alternative printing technologies.  
Although there is no assurance that a new technology will 
not supplant thermal transfer printing, the Company is not 
aware of any developing technology which offers the 
advantages of thermal transfer printing for the Company's 
target markets. 
 
 
Intellectual Property Rights 
The Company, through its subsidiary Zebra Domestic 
Intangibles, Inc., currently holds U.S.  trademarks on the 
words "STRETCH", "Value-Line", "Performance Line", 
"220XiII", "170XiII", "140XiII", and "90XiII" and holds U.S.  
registered trademarks on the Company's Zebra head logo and 
the words or marks "Zebra", "ZPL", "ZPL II", "STRIPE", 
"Element Energy Equalizer", "E2", and "Z- Ultimate".  The 
Company, through its subsidiary Zebra International 
Intangibles, Inc., holds trademarks on the word "Zebra" and 
the Company's Zebra head logo in France, Canada, Germany, 
the United Kingdom, Sweden and China.  The Company actively 
protects these trademarks.  Zebra relies on a combination of 
trade secrets, copyright laws and contractual rights to 
establish and protect its proprietary rights in its 
products.  For example, the firmware in Zebra's printing 
systems is copyrighted and the Company's specifications for 
certain inks and supplies are treated by the Company as 
trade secrets and disclosed subject to confidentiality 
agreements.  The Company does not believe that the legal 
protections afforded to its intellectual property rights are 
fundamental to its success. 
 
Other trademarks mentioned in this report include IBM, which 
is a registered trademark of International Business Machines 
Corporation; UNIX, which is a registered trademark of UNIX 
Systems Laboratories, Inc.; and MS/DOS and Windows, which 
are registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation. 
 
Employees 
As of March 1, 1997, the Company employed 627 persons.  None 
of these employees are unionized.  The Company considers its 
relationship with its employees to be excellent. 
 
 
ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES 
 
The Company conducts its operations from a custom-designed 
facility in Vernon Hills, Illinois (north suburban Chicago), 
which provides approximately 167,628 square feet of space.  
Approximately 61,428 square feet have been allocated to 
office and laboratory functions with 106,200 square feet 
allocated to manufacturing and warehouse functions.  This 
facility was constructed for the Company in 1989, expanded 
in 1993, 1994, and 1995, and is owned and leased to the 
Company, under a lease terminating on March 31, 2003, by 
Unique Building Corporation, a corporation owned in part by 
Edward Kaplan and Gerhard Cless, both executive officers and 
directors of the Company. 
 
An additional 2.4 acre parcel of land adjacent to the 
Company's facility is also owned by Unique Building 
Corporation and available to the Company for expansion. 
 
The Company leases 6,092 square feet of office space in 
Vernon Hills, Illinois that is occupied by the Company's 
Personal Printer Division.  The lease extends through June 
of 1998. 
 
The Company established a branch in the United Kingdom in 
late 1990, which was incorporated as a subsidiary in 1993.  
This subsidiary, Zebra Technologies Europe Limited, moved in 
1994 to a new facility at High Wycombe outside London in the 
United Kingdom.  This facility, which consists of 17,100 
square feet leased by the Company, serves as a sales office, 
product distribution point and service center for sales in 
the United Kingdom and as headquarters for all European 
operations. 
 
In September 1993, the Company purchased the assets of a 
label conversion company in Preston, England, incorporating 
it as a subsidiary under the name Zebra Technologies Preston 
Limited.  This subsidiary is intended to improve the 
Company's ability to service its European customers with 
custom and Zip-Ship labeling materials.  In 1994, Zebra 
Technologies Preston moved to a larger facility in Preston, 
occupying 19,400 square feet of leased manufacturing and 
office space. 
 
In July 1995, the Company purchased all of the outstanding 
stock of a PC-based bar code software company in Sandy, 
Utah, incorporating it as a subsidiary under the name Zebra 
Technologies VTI, Inc. (Zebra VTI).  This subsidiary is 
intended to open new markets to the Company by expanding the 
use of bar code technology in the small- and medium-sized 
business market.  Zebra VTI leases a 4,221 square foot 
facility in Sandy, Utah, consisting of both manufacturing 
and office space. 
 
 
ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 
 
On March 6, 1996, the Company and Zebra VTI filed a 
complaint against David Carter and William Flury, former 
officers of Zebra VTI, in the Circuit Court of the 
Nineteenth Judicial Circuit, Lake County, Illinois.  The 
complaint (i) alleges breach by Messrs. Carter and Flury of 
various representations and warranties contained in the 
Agreement and Plan of Reorganization dated July 5, 1995 (the 
"Agreement"), for which damages in excess of $4.0 million 
are sought, and (ii) alleges that with respect to matters 
represented in the Agreement, Mr. Carter knew that his 
representations were false, for which compensatory and 
punitive damages in an unspecified amount are sought. 
 
On March 15, 1996, Messrs. Carter and Flury filed suit 
against the Company and Zebra VTI in the Third Judicial 
District Court in Salt Lake County, Utah, alleging, inter 
alia, that the Company and Zebra VTI wrongfully terminated 
their employment agreements thereby breaching such 
agreements and an incentive compensation pool agreement 
dated July 5, 1995.  The complaint seeks aggregate 
compensatory damages in excess of $8.0 million, punitive 
damages, rescission of the Agreement and payment of the 
plaintiffs' costs and fees.  In addition, on March 25, 1996, 
Messrs. Carter and Flury filed a motion for a preliminary 
injunction enjoining Zebra VTI from terminating their 
employment agreements.  The Company and Zebra VTI deny the 
allegations and intend to vigorously defend the action and 
to oppose the motion for preliminary injunction. 
 
On April 4, 1996, the Company and Zebra VTI filed Motions to 
Strike the Preliminary Injunction motion and, in addition, a 
Motion to Stay the Utah litigation, pending resolution of 
the prior pending Illinois action.  On June 24, 1996 the 
Utah court granted Zebra's Motion to Stay and has stayed the 
Utah case pending conclusion of the Illinois action. 
 
On September 24, 1996, the Company and Zebra VTI filed an 
Amended Complaint which expanded upon the allegations and 
theories of the prior complaint, including seeking 
additional damages.  On Novemebr 24, 1996 Messrs. Carter and 
Flury filed an answer denying the material allegations of 
the Amended Complaint, asserting affirmative defenses 
thereto and asserting counter claims against both the 
Company and Zebra VTI, similar in nature to the claims they 
had previously asserted in the Utah case.  The Company and 
Zebra VTI have denied the allegations of those 
counterclaims. 
 
Discovery is currently proceeding and is scheduled to close 
on June 30, 1997.  A trial date is scheduled for August 18, 
1997.  Zebra intends to vigorously prosecute its claim and 
defend against the counterclaim. 
 
In addition to the matters described above, the Company 
presently is involved in various lawsuits which are 
incidental to the ordinary conduct of its business.  The 
Company does not believe that any such matters will have a 
material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial 
condition, or results of operations. 
 
 
ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS 
 
No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders 
during the fourth quarter of 1996. 
 
 
 
PART II 
 
 
ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED 
STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 
 
Stock Information 
 
Price Range of Common Stock 
The Company's Class A Common Stock is traded on the Nasdaq 
National Market under the symbol ZBRA.  The following table 
shows the high and low closing prices as reported by Nasdaq 
for each quarter during the last two years. 
 

 
At March 21, 1997, the last reported sale price for the 
Class A Common Stock was $23.50 and there were 575 and 14 
holders of record of the Company's Class A Common Stock and 
Class B Common Stock, respectively. 
 
Since the Company's initial public offering in 1991 the 
Company has not declared any cash dividends or distributions 
on its capital stock.  The Company currently intends to 
retain its earnings to finance future growth and therefore 
does not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the 
foreseeable future. 
 
 
ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 
 
(Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

 
(1)     Reflects a pre-tax charge for acquired in-process 
technology of $1,117 relating to the Company's acquisition 
of Fenestra Computer Services. 
(2)     Reflects a pre-tax charge for acquired in-process 
technology of $6,028 relating to the Company's acquisition 
of VTI. 
 
 
 
ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL 
CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  
 
Results of Operations 
Revenues.  During 1996, Zebra's net sales were $169,715,000, 
increasing by 14.2% from net sales of $148,593,000 in 1995.  
Net sales in 1994 were $107,103,000.  Net sales growth in 
both 1995 and 1996 is attributed to unit growth, as the 
average unit price of the Company's printer products 
declined due to product mix changes and price reductions on 
certain products. 
 
Printers vs.  supplies.  Zebra sells printer products, 
software and related supplies, which consist of self-
adhesive labels and thermal transfer ribbons.  In 1996, 
printer sales were $122,127,000 (72.0% of net sales), 
supplies sales were $39,561,000 (23.3% of net sales), and 
software and service revenues accounted for $8,027,000 (4.7% 
of net sales).  In 1995, printer sales were $106,782,000 
(71.9% of net sales) and supplies sales were $36,033,000 
(24.2% of net sales), and software and service revenues were 
$5,778,000 (3.9% of net sales).  In 1994, printer sales were 
$74,686,000 (69.7% of net sales), supplies sales were 
$30,140,000 (28.1% of net sales).  The remaining 1994 sales 
consist of service and other revenue sources. 
 
International sales.  Zebra products are sold through an 
international network of resellers in over 70 countries.  
International sales in 1996 were $75,055,000, an increase of 
14.2% over 1995 international sales of $65,720,000.  
International sales comprised 44.2% of net sales in both 
years.  In 1994, international sales were 39.8% of net 
sales, or $42,631,000.  Management believes that 
international sales will continue to grow faster than 
domestic sales due to the lower penetration of bar code 
systems outside the United States.   
 
Gross margins.  Gross margins increased slightly in 1996 to 
48.3% of net sales, compared to 47.8% of net sales in 1995. 
Margins were 48.6% in 1994.  The increase in gross margins 
in 1996 is attributed to the Company's increased sales in 
higher margin printers and software.  Supplies sales, which 
is a lower portion of total sales in 1996, provide a lower 
gross margin than the other product lines.   
 
Sales and marketing expenses.  Total sales and marketing 
expenses increased by $3,901,000 in 1996, to reach 
$18,428,000 or 10.8% of net sales, compared to 1995 expenses 
of $14,527,000 or 9.8% of net sales.  In 1994, the Company 
incurred $9,011,000 of sales and marketing costs, or 8.4% of 
net sales.  The increasing trend in sales and marketing 
expenses as a percentage of net sales over the past three 
years is principally the result of expenses related to 
development of the PC retail channel and expansion of the 
Company's sales infrastructure needed to support 
international sales, particularly with respect to Europe.  
The Company's acquisition of Vertical Technologies, Inc. in 
July of 1995, resulted in a significant expansion of sales 
and marketing expenses directly related to establishing and 
maintaining a position in the PC retail channel. Market 
development expenses and product promotion costs will 
continue to be a key element of the success of these 
products in the market.  In addition, the Company expanded 
its High Wycombe-based sales and marketing organization in 
order to support the growth of its distribution channels in 
Europe.  These expenses include additional funds to promote 
the Zebra brand in specific national markets within Europe. 
 
Research and development.  Research and development expenses 
increased by 27.7% in 1996, to $10,452,000, from $8,185,000 
in 1995, and $5,835,000 in 1994.  As a percentage of net 
sales, these expenses increased to 6.2% in 1996 compared to 
5.5% in 1995, and 5.4% in 1994.  The increase in research 
and development expenses as a percentage of sales was 
primarily the result of increased staffing to support new 
product development as the Company introduced a significant 
number of new products in 1996.  The Company will continue 
to invest significant amounts in new product development as 
management believes that a steady stream of new products is 
vitally important to the Company's future sales growth. 
 
General and administrative expenses.  General and 
administrative expenses increased by 37.7% to $13,388,000 or 
7.9% of net sales in 1996, compared to $9,722,000, or 6.5% 
of net sales in 1995.  Included among the 1996 expenses are 
$739,000 of amortization of intangible assets and goodwill 
resulting from the acquisitions of Vertical Technologies, 
Inc. and Fenestra Computer Services.  In 1994, general and 
administrative expenses were $6,834,000, or 6.4% of net 
sales.  The increased level of general and administrative 
expenses in 1996 and 1995 was caused principally by higher 
staffing levels plus increased usage of professional 
services.  In addition, 1996 expenses include increased 
information systems costs related to the Company's 
enterprise-wide software implementation project. 
 
 
Acquired in-process technology.  The charge for acquired in-
process technology in 1996 relates to the Company's 
acquisition of software technologies as part of the 
acquisition of Fenestra Computer Services in the first 
quarter of 1996.  This acquisition was accounted for under 
the purchase method, which requires that the purchase price 
be allocated to the fair market value of the assets 
acquired.  Among these assets was in-process technology 
(projects that had not reached technological feasibility and 
had no alternative future use) that was valued at 
$1,117,000.  Accounting rules require that this asset be 
immediately expensed.  Intangible assets and goodwill 
resulting from the acquisition are being amortized over 
periods of between three and ten years. 
 
Other income.  Other income, which consists of investment 
income and gains on the sales of securities (net of interest 
expense), increased by 17.8% in 1996 to $6,418,000, from 
$5,448,000 in 1995.  The substantial increase in investment 
income is the result of larger investment balances as well 
as the recognition of gains resulting from the liquidation 
of certain security positions in 1996.  Other income in 1995 
was up 115.1% from $2,533,000 in 1994, again, principally 
due to gains on the Company's investment portfolio. 
 
Income before income taxes.  Income before income taxes for 
1996 was $44,636,000, or 26.3% of net sales, an increase of 
17.5% from $37,973,000, or 25.6% of net sales, in the 
previous year.  In 1994, income before income taxes was 
$32,876,000, or 30.7% of net sales. 
 
Provision for income taxes.  The provision for income taxes 
in 1996 was $15,721,000, or 35.2% of income before income 
taxes.  The provision for income taxes in 1995 was 
$15,409,000, or 40.6% of income before income taxes.  In 
1994, the provision for income taxes was $11,803,000, 
representing 35.9% of income before income taxes.  The 
decrease in the effective tax rate in 1996 from 1995 was due 
to the 1995 non-deductibility for tax purposes of the 
acquired in-process technology charge and goodwill 
amortization related to the acquisition of Vertical 
Technologies, Inc. Excluding these amounts, the Company's 
provision for taxes in 1995, would have been 34.8% of pre-
tax income. 
 
Net income.  Net income in 1996 was $28,915,000, or $1.19 
per share, based on 24,203,000 average shares outstanding. 
In 1995, net income was $22,564,000, or $0.94 per share, 
based on 24,113,000 average shares outstanding during the 
year.  In 1994, net income was $21,073,000, or $0.88 per 
share, based on 24,034,000 average shares outstanding.  
Outstanding shares have all been adjusted for the two-for-
one stock split effective December 28, 1995.  As a 
percentage of net sales, net income increased for 1996 to 
17.0% of net sales compared to 15.2% in 1995, and 19.7% in 
1994.  The decrease in net income as a percentage of sales 
in 1995 compared to 1994 was due to the increased operating 
expenses and write-off of acquired in-process technology 
related to the acquisition of Vertical Technologies, Inc., 
as previously described.  Similar expenses and write-offs 
incurred in 1996 related to the acquisition of Fenestra 
Computer Services were considerably lower, and consequently, 
had less of an impact on net income. 
 
Liquidity and Capital Resources 
Internally generated funds from operations are the primary 
source of liquidity for the Company.  The Company has long-
term obligations of $2,326,000 as of December 31, 1996, 
which consist of $1,999,000 and $212,000 of deferred payouts 
owed to the former shareholders of Vertical Technologies, 
Inc. and Fenestra Computer Services, respectively, and 
$115,000 of deferred rent and capitalized lease obligations.  
As of December 31, 1996, the Company had $94,540,000 in cash 
and marketable securities compared to $71,858,000 at the end 
of 1995.  The Company has a $6,000,000 unsecured line of 
credit plus an additional $4,000,000 unsecured revocable 
line of credit with its bank.  These credit facilities are 
priced at either the prime rate or 150 basis points over the 
London Inter-bank Offer Rate (LIBOR), at the Company's 
discretion.  As of December 31, 1996, the Company had no 
outstanding borrowings under its lines of credit.  Capital 
expenditures in 1996 were $5,994,000, compared to $4,333,000 
in 1995, and $2,116,000 in 1994.  Management believes that 
existing capital resources and funds generated from 
operations are sufficient to finance anticipated capital 
requirements. 
 
 
 
ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA  
 
The financial statements and schedule of the Company are 
annexed to this Report as pages F-1 through F-14.  An index 
to such materials appears on page F-1. 
 
 
ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON 
ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 
 
Not applicable. 
 
 
 
PART III 
 
 
ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT  
 
The information in response to this item is incorporated by 
reference from the Proxy Statement sections entitled 
"Election of Directors" and "Executive Officers." 
 
 
ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION  
 
The information in response to this item is incorporated by 
reference from the Proxy Statement section entitled 
"Executive Compensation and Certain Transactions." 
 
 
ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS 
AND MANAGEMENT  
 
The information in response to this item is incorporated by 
reference from the Proxy Statement section entitled 
"Security Ownership of Management and Certain Beneficial 
Owners." 
 
 
ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS  
 
The information in response to this item is incorporated by 
reference from the Proxy Statement section entitled 
"Executive Compensation and Certain Transactions." 
 
 
 
PART IV 
 
 
ITEM 14.        EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND 
REPORTS ON FORM 8-K 
 
The financial statements and schedule filed as part of this 
report are listed in the accompanying Index to Financial 
Statements and Schedule.  The exhibits filed as a part of 
this report are listed in the accompanying Index to 
Exhibits.  No reports on Form 8-K were filed by the Company 
during the last quarter of the period covered by this 
report. 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly 
caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the 
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 26th day of 
March, 1997. 
 
				                       ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION 
 
	                 		       By:    /s/ EDWARD L.  KAPLAN         
					                             Edward L.  Kaplan 
					                             Chief Executive Officer 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act 
of 1934, this Report has been signed below by the following 
persons in the capacities and on the dates indicated. 
 
Signature                     Title                 Date 
 
/s/EDWARD L.  KAPLAN          C.E.O. and            Mar. 26, 1997 
   Edward L.  Kaplan          Chairman (Principal 
			                           Executive Officer) 
 
/s/GERHARD CLESS              Executive Vice Pres.  Mar. 26, 1997 
   Gerhard Cless              and Director 
 
/s/CHARLES R. WHITCHURCH      C.F.O. and            Mar. 26, 1997 
   Charles R. Whitchurch      Treasurer (Principal 
			                           Financial and Accounting Officer) 
 
/s/CHRISTOPHER G. KNOWLES     Director              Mar. 26, 1997 
   Christopher G.  Knowles 
 
/s/DAVID P. RILEY             Director              Mar. 26, 1997 
   David P. Riley 
 
/s/MICHAEL A. SMITH           Director              Mar. 26, 1997 
   Michael A. Smith  
 
 
 
ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION 
 
INDEX TO EXHIBITS 
 
3.1   *         Certificate of Incorporation of the 
Registrant. 
3.2   *         Bylaws of the Registrant. 
3.3   ****      Amendment to Bylaws of the Registrant. 
4.0   *         Specimen stock certificate representing Class A 
	              	Common Stock. 
10.1  *         Stock Option Plan.  + 
10.2  **        Stock Purchase Plan (as Amended and Restated).  + 
10.3  *         Form of Indemnification Agreement between the  
		              Registrant and each of its directors. 
10.4  *         Lease between the Registrant and Unique Building 
	              	Corporation for the Registrant's facility in 
              		Vernon Hills, Illinois, as amended. 
10.5  *         Employment Agreement between the Registrant and  
              		John H. Kindsvater, Jr.  + 
10.7  *         Employment Agreement between the Registrant and  
              		Clive P. Hohberger.  + 
10.8  *         Guaranty by the Registrant of certain obligations. 
10.9  *         Forms of Distributor Agreement. 
10.10 ***       Directors' Stock Option Plan.  + 
10.11 ****      Employment Agreement between the Registrant and  
                		Charles R. Whitchurch.  + 
10.13 ****      Form of Authorized Zebra Solution Center Agreement. 
10.14 ****      Credit Agreement with American National Bank and  
              		Trust Company of Chicago. 
10.15 ****      Description of Executive Officer Bonus Plan. + 
10.16 *****     Amendment to the lease between the Registrant and  
		              Unique Building Corporation for the Registrant's  
		              facility in Vernon Hills, Illinois, dated April  
		              1, 1993. 
10.17 ******    Amendment to the lease between the Registrant and  
		              Unique Building Corporation for the Registrant's  
		              facility in Vernon Hills, Illinois, dated
                December 1, 1994. 
10.18           Amendment to the lease between the Registrant and  
		              Unique Building Corporation for the Registrant's  
		              facility in Vernon Hills, Illinois, dated 
                June 1,	1996.  
10.19           Amendment to the lease between the Registrant and  
		              Unique Building Corporation or the Registrant's  
		              facility in Vernon Hills, Illinois, dated June 2,  
	              	1996. 
10.20 *******   Employment Agreement between the Registrant and  
		              Thomas C. Beusch.+ 
10.21 *******   Employment Agreement between the Registrant and  
		              Jeffrey K. Clements.+ 
10.22 *******   Employment Agreement between the Registrant and  
		              Jack A. LeVan.+ 
21.0            Subsidiaries of the Registrant. 
23.0            Report and Consent of KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, 
	              	independent auditors (included on page S-1 of  
              		this Annual Report on Form 10-K). 
27.1            Financial Data Schedule 
- - ---------------------------------- 
*       Previously filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission as an Exhibit to the Company's Registration 
Statement on Form S-1, as amended, File No.  33-41576, and 
incorporated herein by reference. 
 
**      Previously filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission as an Exhibit to the Company's Registration 
Statement on Form S-8, as amended, File No.  33-44706, and 
incorporated herein by reference. 
 
***     Previously filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission as an Exhibit to the Company's Annual  
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 
1991, and incorporated herein by reference. 
 
****    Previously filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission as an Exhibit to the Company's Annual  
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 
1992, and incorporated herein by reference. 
 
*****   Previously filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission as an Exhibit to the Company's Annual  
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 
1993, and incorporated herein by reference. 
 
******  Previously filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission as an Exhibit to the Company's Annual Report  
on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994, 
and incorporated herein by reference. 
 
******* Previously filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission as an Exhibit to the Company's Annual Report on 
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995, and 
incorporated herein by reference. 
 
+       Management contract or compensatory plan or 
arrangement required to be filed as an exhibit to this 
Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
 
 
(b)     Reports on Form 8-K 
 
The Company did not file any reports on Form 8-K during the 
last quarter of the period covered by this Annual Report on 
Form 10-K. 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT 10.18 
 
AMENDMENT TO INDUSTRIAL BUILDING LEASE 
 
THIS AMENDMENT TO INDUSTRIAL BUILDING LEASE is dated as of 
June 1, 1996, by and between ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION, 
as Lessee, and UNIQUE BUILDING CORPORATION, as Lessor for 
the Property commonly known as 333 Corporate Woods Parkway, 
Vernon Hills, Illinois (the "Property"). 
 
WHEREAS, on May 15, 1989, Lessor and Lessee executed an 
Industrial Building Lease (the "Lease") for the Property for 
a term commencing September 1, 1989 and expiring August 31, 
1999; 
 
WHEREAS, on July 1, 1991, April 1, 1993, December 1, 1994, 
and October 1, 1995, Lessor and Lessee entered into several 
amendments to the Lease (collectively, the "Amendments") 
whereby additional premises were added to the Property and 
leased by Lessee for the term and the rent set forth in the 
Amendments. 
 
WHEREAS, Lessee desires to lease additional premises at the 
Property in the mezzanine level and Lessor desires to lease 
said premises to Lessee on the terms and conditions set 
forth herein; 
 
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of Ten and NO/100 Dollars, 
and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and 
sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged by the parties, 
Lessor and Lessee hereby agree as follows: 
 
1.  Lessee hereby leases from Lessor the premises commonly 
known as the area above the second floor mezzanine as set 
out on Exhibit A attached hereto (the "Mezzanine Premises"). 
 
2.  The term for the Mezzanine Premises will commence June 
1, 1996, and expire March 31, 2008.  Base Rent for the 
Mezzanine Premises will be a s follows: 
 
   (i)   June 1, 1996 through March 31, 2003 - $8,554 per 
month; 
 
   (ii)  April 1, 2003 through March 31, 2008 - $10,812 per 
	 month. 
 
3.  The effective date of this Amendment is June 1, 1996. 
 
4.  Except as they may have been modified by anything set 
forth in this Amendment, all of the terms and provisions of 
the Lease and Amendments are hereby ratified and confirmed 
by the parties hereto as being in full force and effect. 
 
5.  In the event of a conflict between the terms and 
conditions of the Lease and Amendments and this Amendment to 
Lease, the provisions of this Amendment to Lease shall 
prevail. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have set their hands 
and seals as of this 1st day of June, 1996. 
 
 
LESSEE:                              LESSOR: 
 
ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION       UNIQUE BUILDING CORPORATION 
 
BY:  /s/ Edward L. Kaplan             BY:  /s/ Edward L. Kaplan 
TITLE:  CEO                          TITLE:  President 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT 10.19 
 
AMENDMENT TO INDUSTRIAL BUILDING LEASE 
 
THIS AMENDMENT TO INDUSTRIAL BUILDING LEASE is dated as of 
June 1, 1996, by and between ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION, 
as Lessee, and UNIQUE BUILDING CORPORATION, as Lessor for 
the Property commonly known as 333 Corporate Woods Parkway, 
Vernon Hills, Illinois (the "Property"). 
 
WHEREAS, on May 15, 1989, Lessor and Lessee executed an 
Industrial Building Lease (the "Lease") for the Property for 
a term commencing September 1, 1989 and expiring August 31, 
1999; 
 
WHEREAS, on July 1, 1991, April 1, 1993, December 1, 1994, 
October 1, 1995, and June 1, 1996, Lessor and Lessee entered 
into several amendments to the Lease (collectively, the 
"Amendments") whereby additional premises were added to the 
Property and leased by Lessee for the term and the rent set 
forth in the Amendments. 
 
WHEREAS, Lessee and Lessor desire to summarize all the 
Premises leased at the Property by Lessee; 
 
WHEREAS, Lessee and Lessor desire to amend the Base Rent 
paid by Lessee for the Premises under the Lease and  
Amendments. 
 
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of Ten and NO/100 Dollars, 
and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and 
sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged by the parties, 
Lessor and Lessee hereby agree as follows: 
 
1.  Lessor and Lessee agree that all premises and parking 
areas leased at the Property by Lessee pursuant to the 
Lease, the Amendments and this Amendment to Industrial 
Building Lease are described as follows: 
 
The real estate, including parking areas and all 
improvements thereon containing approximately 167,625 square 
feet (including Mezzanine Premises) located at 333 Corporate 
Woods Parkway, Vernon Hills, Illinois and legally described 
as follows: 
 
Lots 113 through 121 in the Corporate Woods, being a 
Subdivision of portions of Section 9, 10, 15, and 16, 
Township 43 North, Range 11, East of the Third Principal 
Meridian according to the Plat thereof recorded August 5, 
1986 as Document 2468419 and recorded October 22, 1986 as 
Document 2496355 and amended by Letter of Amendments 
recorded as Document 2561505 and 2585702, in Lake County, 
Illinois (collectively, the "Premises"). 
 
2.  The Lease as hereto amended is hereby further amended to 
provide that the term of the Lease for the entire Premises 
(to the extent not already provided) is extended to March 
31, 2008. 
 
3.  The parties acknowledge and agree that the Base Rent for 
the entire Premises is currently as follows: 
 
   (i)   As of the date hereof and for the period through 
March 31, 1998:  $105,053.00 per month; 
 
   (ii)  For the period of April 1, 1998 through August 31, 
1999:  $111,997.00 per month. 
 
The parties further agree that the lease is hereby further 
amended to provide that the Base Rent for the entire 
premises for the remainder of the term subsequent to August 
31, 1999 shall be as follows: 
 
   (i)   For the period of September 1, 1999 through March 
31, 2003:  $115,355.00 per month; 
 
   (ii)  For the period of April 1, 2003 through March 31, 
2008:  $127,570.00 per month. 
 
4.  Except as they may have been modified by anything set 
forth in this Amendment, all of the terms and provisions of 
the Lease and Amendments are hereby ratified and confirmed 
by the parties hereto as being in full force and effect. 
 
5.  In the event of a conflict between the terms and 
conditions of the Lease and Amendments and this Amendment to 
Lease, the provisions of this Amendment to Lease shall 
prevail. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have set their hands 
and seals as of this 2nd day of June, 1996. 
 
 
LESSEE:                              LESSOR: 
 
ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION       UNIQUE BUILDING CORPORATION 
 
BY:  /s/ Edward L. Kaplan             BY:  /s/ Edward L. Kaplan 
TITLE:  CEO                          TITLE:  President 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT 21 
 
SUBSIDIARIES OF REGISTRANT 
 
Zebra Technologies Corporation, V.I.  Ltd., a U.S.  Virgin 
Islands corporation 
 
ZIH Corp., a Delaware corporation 
 
Zebra Technologies Europe Limited, a U.K.  limited liability 
company 
 
Zebra Technologies Preston Limited, a U.K.  limited 
liability company 
 
Zebra International Intangibles, Inc., a Delaware 
corporation 
 
Zebra Domestic Intangibles, Inc., a Delaware corporation 
 
Zebra Technologies VTI, Inc., a Utah corporation 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT 27.1 
 
ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION  
Appendix A to Item 601(c) of Regulation S-K  
Commercial and Industrial Companies  
Article 5 of Regulation S-X  
 
The schedule contains summary financial information 
extracted from Zebra Technologies Corporation and 
subsidiaries consolidated balance sheets for September 28, 
1996 and consolidated statements of earnings for September 
28, 1996 and is qualified in its entirety by reference to 
such financial statements. 

 
 
ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION 
 
INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULE 
 
							   
Page 
 
(1) Financial Statements: 
 
Independent Auditors' Report                               F-2 
 
Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1996 
  and 1995                                                 F-3 
 
Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the years  
  ended December 31, 1996 , 1995, and 1994                 F-4 
 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years 
  ended December 31, 1996, 1995, and 1994                  F-5 
 
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for  
the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995, and 1994          F-6 
 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                 F-7 
 
(2) Financial Statement Schedule: 
 
The following financial statement schedule is  
included herein: 
 
Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts            F-14 
 
All other financial statement schedules are omitted because 
they are not applicable or the required information is shown 
in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto. 
 
 
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT 
 
 
The Board of Directors and Stockholders  
Zebra Technologies Corporation: 
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets 
of Zebra Technologies Corporation and Subsidiaries as of 
December 31, 1996 and 1995, and the related consolidated 
statements of earnings, stockholders' equity and cash flows 
for each of the years in the three-year period ended 
December 31, 1996.  These consolidated financial statements 
are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our 
responsibility is to express an opinion on these 
consolidated financial statements based on our audits. 
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with generally 
accepted auditing standards.  Those standards require that 
we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether the financial statements are free of material 
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, 
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the 
financial statements.  An audit also includes assessing the 
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by 
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial 
statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide 
a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
 
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements 
referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, 
the financial position of Zebra Technologies Corporation and 
Subsidiaries as of December 31, 1996 and 1995, and the 
results of their operations and their cash flows for each of 
the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 1996, 
in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. 
 
 
	                            				    KPMG Peat Marwick LLP 
Chicago, Illinois 
February 7, 1997 
 
 
 
ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION 
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
 
In thousands, except share data 

 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 
 
 
 
ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS 
 
In thousands, except per share data 

 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 
 
 
 
ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
 
Dollars in thousands 
 

 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 
 
 
 
ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY 
 
Dollars in thousands 

 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 
 
 
 
ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION 
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 
 
Note 1 Description of Business 
Zebra Technologies Corporation and its wholly-owned 
subsidiaries (the "Company") design, manufacture, sell, and  
support a broad line of computerized on-demand bar code 
label printers, specialty bar code labeling materials, 
thermal transfer  ribbons, and PC-based bar code software, 
which provides bar code labeling solutions targeted 
primarily at industrial and  service organizations 
worldwide. 
 
Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
Principles of Consolidation.  The accompanying financial 
statements have been prepared on a consolidated basis to  
include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned 
subsidiaries.  All significant intercompany accounts, 
transactions,  and unrealized profit have been eliminated in 
consolidation. 
 
Research and Development Costs.  Research and development 
costs are expensed as incurred. 
 
Cash Equivalents.  Cash equivalents consist primarily of 
short-term treasury securities.  For purposes of the 
consolidated  statements of cash flows, the Company 
considers all highly liquid instruments with original 
maturities of three months or less  to be cash equivalents. 
 
Investments and Marketable Securities.  Investments and 
marketable securities at December 31, 1996 consisted of U.S.   
Treasury, mortgaged-backed, and corporate debt and equity 
securities.  The Company adopted the provisions of Statement 
of  Financial Accounting Standards No.  115, "Accounting for 
Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities" (FASB 
115)  on January 1, 1994.  Under FASB 115, the Company 
classifies its debt and marketable equity securities in one 
of three  categories: trading, available-for-sale, or held-
to-maturity.  Trading securities are bought and held 
principally for the purpose  of selling them in the near 
term.  Held-to-maturity securities are those securities 
which the Company has the ability and intent  to hold until 
maturity.  All securities not included in trading or held-
to-maturity are classified as available-for-sale. 
 
Trading and available-for-sale securities are recorded at 
fair value.  Held-to-maturity securities are recorded at 
amortized  cost, adjusted for the amortization or accretion 
of discounts or premiums.  Unrealized holding gains and 
losses on trading  securities are included in earnings.  
Unrealized holding gains and losses, net of the related tax 
effect, on available-for-sale  securities are excluded from 
earnings and are reported as a separate component of 
stockholders' equity until realized.  Transfers of 
securities between categories are recorded at fair value at 
the date of transfer.  Unrealized holding gains and losses  
are recognized in earnings for transfers into trading 
securities. 
 
Inventories.  Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or 
market, and cost is determined by the first-in, first-out 
(FIFO) method.   
 
Machinery and Equipment.  Machinery and equipment is stated 
at cost.  Depreciation and amortization is computed 
primarily using the straight-line method over the estimated 
useful lives of the various classes of machinery and 
equipment, which range from 3 to 10 years.  Machinery and 
equipment held under a capital lease is amortized using the 
straight-line method over the shorter of the lease term or 
estimated useful life of the asset. 
 
Income Taxes.  The Company accounts for income taxes in 
accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 
No.  109, "Accounting for Income Taxes" (FASB 109).  Under 
the asset and liability method of FASB 109, deferred tax 
assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax 
consequences attributable to differences between the 
financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and 
liabilities and their respective tax bases.  Deferred tax 
assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates 
expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which 
those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or 
settled.  Under FASB 109, the effect on deferred tax assets 
and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in 
income in the period that includes the enactment date. 
 
Use of Estimates.  The preparation of financial statements 
in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles 
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that 
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and 
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date 
of the financial statements and the reported amounts of 
revenues and expenses during the reporting period.  Actual 
results could differ from those estimates. 
 
 
Stock-based Compensation.  The Company utilizes the 
intrinsic value-based method of accounting for its stock-
based compensation arrangements. 
 
Net Income Per Share.  For the years ended December 31, 
1996, 1995, and 1994, net income per share was computed 
based on weighted average shares of 24,203,000, 24,113,000, 
and 24,034,000, respectively. 
 
Foreign Currency Translation.  The balance sheets of the 
Company's foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S.  
dollars using the year-end exchange rate, and sales and 
expenses are translated using the average exchange rate for 
the year.  The resulting translation gains or losses are 
recorded as a separate component of stockholders' equity as 
a cumulative translation adjustment. 
 
Note 3 Investments and Marketable Securities 
Investments and marketable securities consist of (in 
thousands): 
 

 
The amortized cost, gross unrealized holding gains, gross 
unrealized holding losses, and fair value for available-for-
sale investments and marketable securities were as follows 
(in thousands): 
 

 
Note 4 Related-Party Transactions 
Unique Building Corporation (Unique), an entity controlled 
by certain officers and stockholders of the Company, leases 
a facility and equipment to the Company under a lease 
described in note 9.  Management believes that the lease 
payments are substantially consistent with amounts which 
could be negotiated with third parties on an arm's-length 
basis. 
 
Interest expense and lease payments related to the leases 
were included in the consolidated financial statements as 
follows (in thousands): 
 

 
Note 5 Inventories 
The components of inventories are as follows (in thousands): 
 

 
 
Note 6 Machinery And Equipment 
Machinery and equipment, which includes assets under capital 
leases, is comprised of the following (in thousands): 
 

 
Note 7 Income Taxes 
The provision for income taxes consists of the following (in 
thousands): 
 

 
The provision for income taxes differs from the amount 
computed by applying the U.S.  statutory Federal income tax 
rate of 35%.  The reconciliation of statutory and effective 
income taxes is presented below (in thousands): 
 

 
Deferred income taxes reflect the impact of temporary 
differences between the amounts of assets and liabilities 
for financial reporting purposes and such amounts as 
measured by tax laws.  Based on management's assessment, it 
is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be 
realized through future taxable earnings. 
 
 
Temporary differences which give rise to deferred tax assets 
and liabilities are as follows (in thousands): 
 

 
The valuation allowance was zero as of December 31, 1996 and 
1995, and decreased by $384,000 in 1995. 
 
Note 8 401(k) Savings and Profit Sharing Plans 
The Company has a Retirement Savings and Investment Plan 
(the "401(k) Plan") that is intended to qualify under 
Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code.  Qualified 
employees may participate in the Company's 401(k) Plan by 
contributing up to 15% of their gross earnings to the plan 
subject to certain Internal Revenue Service restrictions.  
The Company matches each participant's contribution of up to 
6% of gross earnings at the rate of 50%.  The Company may 
contribute additional amounts to the 401(k) Plan at the 
discretion of the Board of Directors, subject to certain 
legal limits. 
 
The Company has a discretionary profit-sharing plan for 
qualified employees, to which it contributed 2.925% of 
eligible earnings for 1996, and 3.4% for 1995 and 1994.  
Participants are not permitted to make contributions under 
the profit-sharing plan.   
 
Company contributions to these plans which were charged to 
operations approximated the following (in thousands): 
 

 
Note 9 Commitments and Contingencies 
(a) Leases 
In September 1989, the Company entered into a lease 
agreement for its Vernon Hills facility and certain 
machinery, equipment, furniture and fixtures with Unique 
Building Corporation.  The facility portion of the lease is 
treated as an operating lease.  An amendment to the lease 
dated June 1996, extended the term of the lease through 
March 31, 2008.  The lease agreement includes a modification 
to the base monthly rental which goes into effect if the 
prescribed rent payment is less than the aggregate principal 
and interest payments required to be made by Unique under an 
Industrial Revenue Bond (IRB).  Under the portion of the 
lease agreement with Unique which is accounted for as a 
capital lease, the Company leases machinery, equipment, 
furniture and fixtures at a monthly rental of $5,725 for a 
ten-year period.  Assets under these leases are as follows 
(in thousands): 
 
 

 
Minimum future obligations under the Vernon Hills non-
cancelable operating lease and future minimum capital lease 
payments as of December 31, 1996 are as follows (in 
thousands): 
 


 
The following table summarizes information about fixed stock 
options outstanding at December 31, 1996: 
 
 

 
 
 
Note 14 Quarterly Results of Operations (unaudited) 
(Dollars in thousands, except per share data)    
 

 
(1) Reflects a pre-tax charge for acquired-in-process 
technology of $1,117 relating to the Company's acquisition 
of Fenestra Computer Services. 
(2) Reflects a pre-tax charge for acquired-in-process 
technology of $6,028 relating to the Company's acquisition 
of VTI. 
 
The unaudited quarterly consolidated statements of earnings 
included in this report are an integral part of the 
consolidated financial statements.   
 
Note 15 Major Customers 
One customer represents revenues of approximately 21% during 
the year ended December 31, 1996, and 12.2 % of the accounts 
receivable at December 31, 1996.  Consolidated sales to Peak 
Technologies Group amounted to $36,310,000 in 1996.  No 
other customer accounted for 10% or more of consolidated 
sales.   
 
 
 
ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION 
DECEMBER 31, 1996 
Schedule II 
Valuation And Qualifying Accounts 
 

 
 
 
REPORT AND CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS 
 
The Board of Directors and Stockholders 
Zebra Technologies Corporation: 
 
Under date of February 7, 1997, we reported on the 
consolidated balance sheets of Zebra Technologies 
Corporation and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 1996 and 
1995, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, 
stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the years in 
the three-year period ended December 31, 1996, as contained 
in the Form 10-K for the year 1996.  In connection with our 
audits of the aforementioned consolidated financial 
statements, we also audited the related financial statement 
schedule listed under Item 14.  The financial statement 
schedule is the responsibility of the Company's management.  
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial 
statement schedule based on our audits. 
 
In our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when 
considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial 
statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all 
material respects, the information set forth therein. 
 
We consent to incorporation by reference in the registration 
statements (No.  334706 and No.  33-72774) on Form S-8 of 
Zebra Technologies Corporation of our reports relating to 
the consolidated balance sheets of Zebra Technologies 
Corporation and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 1996 and 
1995, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, 
stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the years in 
the three-year period ended December 31, 1996, and related 
to the financial statement schedule, as contained herein.  
These consolidated financial statements and the financial 
statement schedule and our reports thereon are included 
herein. 
 
 
                          						      KPMG Peat Marwick LLP 
Chicago, Illinois 
March 26, 1997 
 


