10-K


a05-1760_110k.htm

10-K

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D. C. 20549

FORM 10-K

FOR ANNUAL AND TRANSITION REPORTS

PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 13 OR 15(d) OF THE

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Zebra Technologies Corporation

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file
such reports) and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days. Yes

ý

No

o

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
of the registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K.

o

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as defined in
Exchange Act Rule 12b-2). Yes

ý

No

o

As of February 25, 2005, the
aggregate market value of each of the registrant’s Class A Common held by
non-affiliates was approximately $3,598,923,000. The closing price of the Class
A Common Stock on February 25, 2005, as reported on the Nasdaq Stock Market,
was $50.07 per share.

As of February 25, 2005, the
registrant had outstanding 71,877,827 shares of Class A Common Stock, par value
$.01 per share

Documents Incorporated by Reference

Certain sections of the
registrant’s Notice of Annual Meeting of Stockholders and Proxy Statement for
its Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 17, 2005 are incorporated
by reference into Part III of this report.

ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

INDEX


PART I

References in this
document to “Zebra,” “we,” “us,” or “our” refer to Zebra Technologies
Corporation and its subsidiaries, unless the context specifically states
otherwise.

Safe Harbor

Forward-looking
statements contained in this filing are subject to the safe harbor created by
the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and are highly dependent
upon a variety of important factors which could cause actual results to differ
materially from those reflected in such forward looking statements. These
factors include market acceptance of Zebra’s printer and software products and
competitors’ product offerings. They also include the effect of market
conditions in North America and other geographic regions on our financial
results. Profits will be affected by our ability to control manufacturing and
operating costs. Because of a large investment portfolio, interest rate and
financial market conditions will also have an impact on results. Foreign
exchange rates will have an effect on financial results due to the large
percentage of our international sales. When used in this document and documents
referenced, the words “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “will” and “expect”
and similar expressions as they relate to Zebra or its management are intended
to identify such forward-looking statements. We encourage readers of this
report to review the Risk Factors portion of Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which discusses
additional risks. Zebra undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise
any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future
events, changed circumstances or any other reason after the date of this annual
report.

Item 1.

Business

The
Company

Zebra
Technologies is in the business of making products that enable companies and
organizations to improve productivity, deliver better customer service and provide
more effective security. We design, manufacture and support a broad range of
direct thermal and thermal transfer label and receipt printers, radio frequency
identification (RFID) printer/encoders, dye sublimation card printers, and
digital photo printers. We also sell related accessories and support software.
Manufacturers, service organizations, and governments worldwide use our
products in automatic identification, data collection and personal
identification applications.

We
design our products to operate at the user’s location or on a mobile basis to
produce and dispense high-quality labels, plastic cards, and photographs at the
point of issuance on demand. The exceptional diversity of applications using
our printer products for barcoding and personal identification is comprised of
routing and tracking, transactions processing, and identification and
authentication. They include applications that require high levels of data
accuracy and where speed and reliability are critical. They also include specialty
printing for receipts and tickets where improved customer service and
productivity gains may be the primary reason for printing, rather than a
barcoding application. Plastic cards are used for secure, reliable personal
identification or access control. Digital photo printers are sold on an OEM
basis to professional photographers.

Applications
for our technology span most industries and geographies. They include inventory
control, small package delivery, baggage handling, automated warehousing, JIT
(Just-In-Time) manufacturing, employee time and attendance records, file
management systems, hospital information systems, medical specimen labeling,
shop floor control, in-store product labeling, employee ID cards, driver’s
licenses, and access control systems. As of December 31, 2004, management
estimates that Zebra has sold more than 4,000,000 printers to users in
approximately 100 countries.

We
believe competitive forces on businesses worldwide to strengthen security,
reduce costs, improve quality, deliver better customer service, and increase
productivity support the growth of bar code labeling solutions and specialty
printing. Industry-mandated standardization for compliance labeling is an
important catalyst in the deployment of bar code systems. We also believe that
companies are adopting automatic identification systems that incorporate
barcoding for business improvement applications. Many of these applications
make increasing use of enterprise-wide resource planning (ERP) and other
process improvement systems in manufacturing and service organizations. Greater
emphasis on supply chain management, the drive to reduce errors in health care,
and heightened concern over safety and security will lead to increased use of
automatic identification systems. Still other applications are taking advantage
of recent advances in wireless and hand-held computing technologies.


Concern
for safety and security and personal identification contribute to demand for
our card printer products. This concern has heightened interest in systems that
provide personal identification and access control, including secure ID systems
for driver’s licenses, employee and visitor badges, national identification
cards, event passes, club membership cards, and keyless entry systems.

Acquisitions
are an important part of Zebra’s growth strategy. Since 1998, we have made
three acquisitions. On October 28, 1998, Zebra merged with Eltron
International, Inc., which manufactured and marketed low-cost direct thermal
and thermal transfer label and receipt printers, card printers, and related
accessories. On April 3, 2000, Zebra acquired Comtec Information Systems, Inc.
Comtec was a privately held company that produced a complete line of mobile wireless
thermal printing solutions. On November 17, 2003, we acquired all of the
outstanding stock of Atlantek, Inc. Located in Wakefield, RI, Atlantek produced
a variety of thermal digital printers, including digital photo and card
printers.

Zebra
completed its initial public offering in August 1991. We are organized under
the laws of the State of Delaware, and our principal offices are located at 333
Corporate Woods Parkway, Vernon Hills, Illinois 60061. Our main telephone
number is (847) 634-6700 and our primary Internet Web site address is www.zebra.com.
You can find all of Zebra’s filings with the SEC free of charge through the
investor page on this Web site, immediately upon filing.

Products

Our
broad line of computerized printers is used to produce bar code labels, RFID “smart”
labels, receipts and tags, plastic cards, and photographs. We also sell related
specialty labeling materials, ink ribbons, and bar code label design software.
These products are used to provide bar code labeling, personal identification,
and specialty printing solutions principally in the manufacturing, retail,
service, and government sectors of the economy. We work closely with
distributors, resellers and end users of our products to design and implement
labeling solutions that meet their technical demands. To achieve this
flexibility, we provide our customers with a broad selection of printer models,
each of which can be configured for a specific application. Additionally, we
will select and, if necessary, create appropriate labeling stock, ink ribbons
and adhesives to suit a particular application. In-house engineering personnel
in software, mechanical, electronic and chemical engineering participate in the
creation and development of bar code labeling solutions for particular applications.

Sales
of hardware (printers and replacement parts) and supplies were as follows (in
thousands):

Label
and Receipt Printers

We
produce the industry’s broadest range of on-demand thermal transfer and direct
thermal label printers. Our printing systems include hundreds of optional
configurations that can be selected to meet particular customer needs. We
believe this breadth of product is a unique and significant competitive
strength, because it allows Zebra to satisfy the widest variety of thermal
printing applications.

Management
believes that of the major printing technologies, which include ink jet, laser
and impact dot matrix, direct thermal and thermal transfer are best suited for
most bar code labeling applications. Thermal transfer printing produces dark,
solid blacks and sharply defined lines that are important for printing readily
scannable bar codes. These images can be printed on a wide variety of labeling
materials, which enable users to affix bar code labels to virtually any object.
This capability is very important in the industrial and service sectors Zebra
serves. Direct thermal printing is best suited where simplicity, light weight
and cost are important factors in the application. Accordingly, this technology
is found principally in Zebra’s wireless and desktop units.

We
offer 36 bar code printer models with numerous variations, including:

Performance
Tabletop Printers.

Zebra
produces high-end printers targeted at applications requiring continuous
operation in high output, mission-critical settings. These units provide a wide
variety of optional configurations, features, print widths, speeds and dot
densities. We offer four models under the XiIII Plus Series line. List prices
range from $2,995 to $7,495.


RFID Printer/Encoders.

Zebra also manufactures and markets a growing
line of printer/encoders used for radio frequency identification (RFID) in the
retail supply chain, for defense logistics, and other applications. These units
are used to print and encode “smart labels” in a single pass. Smart labels are
printable labels embedded with an ultra-thin radio frequency transponder.
Information encoded in these transponders can then be read and modified by a
radio frequency reader. As of December 31, 2004, we offered six RFID and one
RFID-ready printer/encoders, which have list prices from $1,695 to $6,995.
Products in this category consist of the R110Xi, R170Xi, R402, R2844-Z, R-140,
R4Mplus, and R110XiIII Plus.

Mid-Range
Tabletop Printers.

We
offer five printer models designed for less demanding applications. These units
have fewer option configurations and features for a lower price. Products in
this category consist of the Zebra Stripe

â

, S and Z Series as well as the TLP 2746e
printers. List prices range from $1,395 to $3,490.

Desktop
Printers.

Applications
with low volume suit Zebra’s desktop printers. We currently offer six desktop
models consisting of the Ht-146, LP/TLP 2844, LP/TLP 2844-Z, TLP 3842, TLP
3844-Z, and LP/TLP 2824 printers. List prices range from $395 to $995.

Mobile
Printing Solutions.

Zebra makes 12 mobile printer models, which provide durability, light weight and
wireless connectivity interfaces. These printers print in 2-, 3- and 4-inch
widths and are marketed under the Cameo, QL, TR, PS, PA/PT and RW lines. List
prices range from $550 to $4,795.

Print
Engines.

Zebra’s
170PAX3 and 110PAX3 print engines are sold to manufacturers of high-speed
automatic label applicator systems. We also offer the R110PAX3 RFID print
engine targeted at emerging packaged goods RFID labeling applications.

In
addition to their use in on-demand automatic identification applications, our
thermal printers can also be used for on-site batch production of custom bar
code labels and other graphics. This capability results in shorter lead times,
reduced inventory and more flexibility than can be provided with traditional
off-site printing.

Card
Printers

Zebra
makes 11 card printer models for printing national identity cards, driver’s
licenses, employee identification badges, smart cards, on-demand access control
cards, and customer loyalty cards. These cards can typically be created in
seconds for under one dollar each. Users can select from a number of printer
options, including monochrome and color printing, single- and two-sided
printing, lamination, and magnetic stripe and smart card encoding. Bar codes,
smart chips and magnetic stripe encoding can be used to record such personal
data as health records, financial transactions, security access codes and vital
statistics. We offer five “P” series and six “i” series card printers. Printers
in the “i” series incorporate features that automatically optimize printer
settings for a given ribbon. The list prices for all of Zebra’s card printers
range from $1,795 to $9,995.

Photo
Printers

With
the November 2003 acquisition of Atlantek, we began producing digital photo
printers. We currently manufacture a high-speed thermal printer jointly
developed with and marketed by Eastman Kodak as the Kodak ML500 Professional
Photo Printer. The ML500 can print 8x10 photographs in about 13 seconds and can
produce up to 270 8x10 prints per hour. It is designed for professional
photographers for event and in-studio printing. Digital photo printing is an
extension of our core thermal printing technology.

Supplies

Supplies
products consist of stock and customized thermal labels, wristbands, smart
labels and tags, plastic cards, card laminates, and thermal transfer ribbons.
Zebra promotes the use of genuine Zebra brand supplies with its equipment.

Zebra
fully supports its printers, resellers and end users with an extensive line of
superior quality, high performance supplies optimized to a particular user’s
needs. Supplies are chosen in consultation with the reseller and end user based
on the specific application, printer and environment in which the labeling
system must perform. In the case of bar code labeling solutions, supplies also
include proprietary ribbon and label formulations that are designed to maximize
printer performance and meet the most demanding end user performance criteria.
Factors such as adhesion, resistance to scratches, smudges and abrasion and
chemical and environmental exposures are all taken into account when selecting
the type of ribbon and labeling materials. The use of supplies that are not
carefully matched to specific printers can degrade print speed and print
quality.


Software

Zebra
offers software packages to its customers to ease integration of Zebra printers
into specialty printing systems.

Label
design and integration software is specifically designed to optimize the
performance of Zebra bar code label printers. Known as BAR-ONE

â

, this software provides the capability to
design and integrate sophisticated labels from standalone or legacy
applications through a powerful, easy-to-use Windows

â

interface. Our goal is to provide software
that enables high levels of connectivity to all major computer network and
software systems. Network systems include Ethernet, 802.11 and Bluetooth™
wireless systems. Operating systems include Windows, Unix

â

, Linux

â

and various IBM

â

systems. Zebra also offers BAR-ONE for mySAP

â

Business Suite for users of the SAP

â

ERP system and a version of BAR-ONE that
supports XML-enabled printing directly with Zebra printers through Oracle’s
warehouse management system (WMS), Oracle’s SensorEdge Server for RFID printing
and SAP’s Auto ID Infrastructure without the need for middleware. In order to
facilitate using Zebra printers with a broad range of software applications,
Zebra also offers Windows printer drivers designed to optimize the printer
experience. To expand the global applications for its software and printers, we
are developing multi-lingual capabilities in our software and user interfaces.

ZebraLink,
introduced in 2000, gives users the ability to set up and control Zebra
printers remotely using Web-enabled devices. It also enables Zebra printers to
provide real-time printer error and status notification via e-mail to a wired
or wireless device. In addition, ZebraLink’s programming language, ZBI, can be
used to control and interpret incoming text and data streams. ZBI gives users
the ability to configure Zebra printers to interpret various non-Zebra printer
based languages. In January 2005, ZebraNet Bridge printer management
application was introduced as a first step toward enterprise printer management
of all Zebra printers. Leveraging the power of ZebraLink, ZebraNet Bridge
merges printer and print server management capabilities with automatic printer
discovery “heartbeat” and critical alert monitoring.

Maintenance
Services

For bar code label and receipt printers, we currently
provide service at depot repair centers at our Vernon Hills, Illinois, Preston,
U.K., and Singapore facilities. Zebra Authorized Service Providers (ZASP) also
provide repair services for most Zebra products at their locations. In
addition, IBM, Optimal Systems Services and National Service Center (NSC)
provide on-site repair services in the United States. We share the revenue for
on-site service contracts sold by IBM, Optimal and NSC for Zebra printing
systems installed in the United States, and with IBM in Europe. Outside of the
United States, Zebra’s resellers in each country may provide maintenance
service, either directly as ZASPs or through independent service agents. Zebra
also provides service and technical support assistance from in-house support
personnel located in the United States, the United Kingdom and Singapore, who
are available by telephone hotline five days a week during regular local
business hours. Also, for most Zebra products, Zebra provides interactive
technical support via the Internet, which can be accessed through Zebra’s Web
site, www.zebra.com, 24 hours a day, seven days a week. We perform our North
American depot repair services for thermal printers in Vernon Hills, Illinois.

The card printer depot repair facilities are located in
Camarillo, California, Preston, U.K., and Wakefield, Rhode Island. Card printer
resellers can receive technical support assistance from in-house support
personnel located in the United States, the United Kingdom and Singapore, who
are available by telephone during regular business hours. In addition, on-line
support for card printers can be accessed through the Web site, www.eltroncards.com,
24 hours a day, seven days a week.

Warranties

All
Zebra printing equipment is warranted against defects in material and
workmanship for up to one year. Printheads are warranted for six months. Zebra
supplies are warranted against defects in material and workmanship for their
stated shelf life or twelve months, whichever ends first. Defective equipment
and supplies may be returned for repair, replacement or refund during the
applicable warranty periods.

Zebra’s
Technology

Our
products use thermal transfer, direct thermal and thermal dye sublimation
technologies. Each technology has characteristics that provide specific
benefits to the end user.

Thermal
transfer printing is used in all performance and some mid-range, desktop and
portable bar code label printers, as well as high-speed print engines. This
technology creates an image by applying an electrically heated printhead to a
ribbon that releases ink onto labeling/ticketing media. The benefits of thermal
transfer printing include superior image quality, the ability


to
print on a wide variety of smooth-surfaced materials, no requirement for
specially coated or formulated labeling/ticketing media and the ability to use
inks that are not viable with alternative printing technologies.

Direct
thermal printing is used in some mid-range, desktop and portable printer
products. Direct thermal printing creates an image by applying the heated
printhead directly to specially treated paper, which changes color when heated.
Direct thermal technology is preferable where image durability is less critical
and where the application does not require specialty-labeling materials such as
plastics or metal foils.

Our
card printers and digital photo printers incorporate thermal dye sublimation
for color printing. This capability allows for the creation of personalized
full color, photographic quality plastic cards and high-quality photographs.
Traditional photographic processes are both more expensive and time consuming.
We believe that personalized card applications such as driver’s licenses,
loyalty cards, school and work identification cards, security access cards and
financial transaction cards are well suited to this technology. The growing
acceptance of digital photography, over traditional halide-based technology,
offers growth opportunities for Zebra in certain areas of photo printing.

Zebra’s
printing systems incorporate Company-designed computer hardware, electrical
mechanisms and software, which operate the printing functions of the system and
communicate with the host computer. Zebra’s bar code label printers operate
using Zebra Programming Language (ZPL

â

), Zebra Programming Language II (ZPL II

â

), Eltron Programming Language (EPL) or
Comtec Printer Control Language (CPCL), each of which is a proprietary printer
driver language. These languages are compatible with virtually all computer
operating systems, including UNIX, MS/DOS

â

and Windows.

Zebra
guarantees backward compatibility in ZPL and ZPL II to allow users to replace
older Zebra printers with newer equipment without costly reprogramming of label
design programs. This compatibility also allows users to operate multiple Zebra
printers in different applications using standardized programs and to integrate
these printers into a local area network. We believe that ZPL and ZPL II give
us a competitive advantage by ensuring compatibility across a broad range of
present and future printer products and by facilitating system upgrades and
customer loyalty to Zebra products. Some independent software vendors have
written label preparation programs with ZPL and ZPL II drivers specifically for
Zebra printers. ZPL and ZPL II label format programs can be run on a personal
computer with ordinary word processing programs, making ZPL and ZPL II
particularly adaptable to PC-based systems.

Users
of Zebra’s instant-issuance card printers typically operate these printers with
software programs designed and sold by independent vendors.

Sales
and Marketing

Sales.

We sell our products primarily through
distributors, value-added resellers (VARs), and original equipment
manufacturers (OEMs). We also sell our products directly to a select number of
designated accounts. For media and consumables, we also have a limited amount
of sales directly to end users through the Internet and telesales operations.
Distributors and VARs purchase, stock and sell a variety of automatic
identification components from different manufacturers and customize systems
for end-user applications using their systems and application integration
expertise. Because these sales channels provide specific software,
configuration, installation, integration and support services required by end
users within various market segments, these relationships allow Zebra to reach
end users throughout the world in a wide variety of industries. Zebra
experiences a minor amount of seasonality in sales, depending on the geographic
region and/or vertical market.

We functionally classify our
direct VARs as Premier Partners, Advanced Partners, or Associate Partners,
depending on their business competencies, depth and breadth of their sales
teams, customer support capabilities, contribution to Zebra’s strategic goals,
and sales commitment to Zebra. In addition, we offer VARs the opportunity to
earn certifications for mobile/wireless printers, supplies, service and radio
frequency identification (RFID) expertise. We also sell through distributors,
which in turn sell to an extended VAR community. All VARs, as well as OEMs and systems
integrators, provide customers with a variety of automatic identification
components including scanners, accessories, applications software and systems
integration expertise, and, in the case of some OEMs, resell the
Zebra-manufactured products under their own brands as part of their own product
offering. We believe that the breadth of this indirect channel network, both in
terms of variety and geographic scope, enhances our ability to compete.

In some instances, we have
designated a customer as a Strategic Account when purchases of Zebra products
reach specified levels and support requirements for the account become highly
customized. Zebra sales personnel, either alone or together


with our partners, manage
these Strategic Accounts to ensure their needs, including consistent support
for projects and applications, are being met.

Sales
to international customers as a percent of net sales were as follows:

Year Ended December 31,




Percent of sales

45.8

45.5

43.1

We
believe that international sales have the long-term potential to grow faster
than domestic sales because of the lower penetration of automatic
identification applications outside North America. As a result, Zebra has
invested resources to support our international growth and currently operates
facilities and sales offices, or has representation, in 24 different countries.

Marketing.

Marketing operations
encompass marketing communications, product marketing, vertical marketing,
solutions marketing, market research, alliance management and channel marketing
functions. The product marketing group identifies, evaluates and recommends new
product opportunities and manages product introductions, positioning and demand
creation. Product marketing also focuses on strategic planning and market
definition and analyzes Zebra’s competitive strengths and weaknesses.

The
vertical marketing group works with reselling and non-reselling partners to
develop and promote high-potential application solutions that have significant
Zebra content. The vertical marketing group also focuses on industry trends,
participates in business development activities at the technical and
applications standards levels and provides subject matter expertise.

Alliance
management directs a limited number of third party relationships that are
strategic to new demand creation for specific vertical markets and/or specific
applications.

Solutions
marketing seeks to identify business solutions that incorporate Zebra products
and which are repeatable over a range of like customers. Solutions marketing
develops and executes go-to-market and demand creation programs for those
applications that are selected.

The
marketing communications group operates as an internal advertising, event
marketing, promotion, internet marketing and public relations resource. This
group, working with advertising agencies and contractors, creates
advertisements, and brochures, manages trade show exhibits, maintains Zebra’s
Web sites, and places articles highlighting Zebra and applications of its
products in the trade, industry, business and consumer media.

The
market research group is a strategic planning, research-oriented group that
focuses on market definition and analysis of our relative competitive strengths
and weaknesses. This group identifies and analyzes market opportunities for
current, planned and potential products and gathers and analyzes competitive
and market information.

The
channel marketing group is responsible for developing programs to push and pull
Zebra products through its network of distributors and Value Added Resellers.
This group also prepares application and product training programs and on-line
information resources, which are available to certified channel partners around
the world.

Customers

Zebra
has sold more than 4,000,000 bar code label and card printers to customers in
about 100 countries as of December 31, 2004.

Sales
to ScanSource, Inc. as a percent of net sales were as follows:

Year Ended December 31,




Percent of sales

14.1

13.8

13.6

No
other customer accounted for 10% or more of total net sales during these years.


Production
and Manufacturing

We
design our products to optimize product performance, quality, reliability,
durability and versatility. These designs combine cost-efficient materials,
sourcing and assembly methods with high standards of workmanship. We assemble
our products in-house largely on a configure-to-order basis using components
that have been sourced from around the world. We have the in-house capability
to produce mechanical and electronic assemblies and design many of our own
tools, fixtures and test equipment. Often, our manufacturing engineers
coordinate the development of new products with our new product engineers and
vendors. This collaboration increases manufacturing efficiency by specifying
and designing manufacturing processes and facilities simultaneously with
product design.

We
buy prefabricated component parts and subassemblies for use in the manufacture
of our products. Critical subassemblies include printheads, power supplies,
integrated circuits, and stepper motors, which are obtained from domestic and
foreign suppliers at competitive prices. Purchase contracts provide for price
increases in the event of certain increases in the costs of raw materials. We
typically maintain several sources for our component parts and subassemblies to
reduce the risk of parts shortages or unavailability. We do not currently
believe that we face difficulties in obtaining an adequate supply of these
materials.

Research
and Development

Zebra
had research and development expenditures as follows (in thousands):

We
devote significant resources to developing new printing solutions for our
target markets and ensuring that our efficiently manufactured products maintain
high levels of reliability.

Competition

Many
companies are engaged in the design, manufacture and marketing of bar code
label printers and card personalization solutions. We consider our direct
competition in bar code label and receipt printing to be producers of on-demand
thermal transfer and direct thermal label printing systems and supplies. We
also compete, however, with companies engaged in the design, manufacture and
marketing of printing systems that use alternative technologies, such as impact
dot matrix, ink-jet and laser printing. Similarly, we consider manufacturers of
card personalization systems that are based on a broad range of alternative
technologies as competition.

Our
ability to compete effectively depends on a number of factors. These factors
include the reliability, quality and reputation of the manufacturer and its
products; hardware and software innovations and specifications; breadth of
product offerings; information systems connectivity; price; level of technical
support; supplies and applications support offered by the manufacturer;
available distribution channels; and financial resources to support new product
design and innovation. We believe that Zebra presently competes favorably with
respect to these factors.

No
single competitor competes across the entire breadth of our product line.
Significant competition, however, is faced in each product segment. For
low-cost desktop label printer products, our principal competitors are Argox;
Godex; Cognitive Solutions, a subsidiary of Axiohm Transaction Solutions; Tokyo
Electric Company (TEC); Taiwan Semiconductor; Microcom; Woosim; and Datamax, a
unit of Dover Corporation. In the mid-range printer market, our principal
competitors are Datamax; UBI and Intermec, subsidiaries of Unova; Monarch
Marking Systems, a subsidiary of Paxar; Sato; and TEC. Principal competition in
the high end of the market derives from Sato, TEC, Printronix, and Intermec.
For print engines, the principal competitor is Sato. For mobile printers, the
principal competitors are Monarch Marking
Systems and O’Neil Product Development. The potential for greater competition
is increasing, we believe, as companies view mobile printing applications to be
an attractive market. Many of the same companies with whom we compete in
thermal printing also compete with us in RFID. The notable companies in this
area are Printronix, Intermec, Sato and Monarch.

Several
competitors manufacture card personalization equipment using dye sublimation
technology. These competitors include Nisca, Datacard, Fargo Electronics,
ColorX, Polaroid, MagiCard, Evolis, LogickaComp, Printherm, CIM, NBS, Matica,
Song Woo Electronics, and Victor Data Systems.


Dye
sublimation, the technology incorporated in our card printers, is only one of
several commercially available types of equipment used to personalize cards. We
also compete with companies that produce identification cards using alternative
technologies, which include ink-jet, thermal transfer, embossing, film-based
systems, encoders, laser engraving and large-scale dye sublimation printers.
These card personalization technologies offer viable alternatives to Zebra’s
card printers and provide effective competition from a variety of companies,
many of which are substantially larger than Zebra, including Canon,
Hewlett-Packard, Hitachi, and Lexmark International. In addition, service
bureaus compete for end user business and provide an alternative to the
purchase of our card printing equipment and supplies.

Manufacturers
also use dye sublimation technology in their digital photo printers. Companies
participating in this area include Sony, Mitsubishi, Copal, Shinko, Altech,
Olmec, and Olympus. In addition, there are several other companies that
participate in producing photo printers using other technologies. These
companies include Hewlett-Packard, Xerox, Polaroid, and Fuji.

The
supplies business is highly fragmented and competition is comprised of numerous
competitors of various sizes depending on the geographic area.

Alternative
Technologies

We
believe that direct thermal and thermal transfer printing will be the label and
receipt printer technology of choice in Zebra’s target applications for the
foreseeable future. Among the many advantages of direct thermal and thermal
transfer printing is the ability to print high-resolution, durable images on a
wide variety of label materials at relatively low costs and very high speeds
compared with alternative printing technologies. We continually assess
competitive and complementary methods of bar code printing and automatic
identification. These technologies include ink jet, laser, impact dot matrix,
laser etching, and RFID.

We
cannot be sure that new technology will not supplant direct thermal and thermal
transfer printing for bar code labels and receipts, but we are not aware of any
developing technology that offers the advantages of direct thermal and thermal
transfer printing for our targeted label and receipt printer applications. To
complement thermal printing technology, we produce the printer/encoders for
printing and encoding “smart labels,” which are printable labels embedded with
an ultra-thin radio frequency transponder. Information encoded in these
transponders can then be read and modified by a radio frequency reader. Our
printer/encoders are targeted at emerging RFID applications, where
line-of-sight reading or scanning a label may not be possible. We view RFID as
a complementary technology to barcoding, offering growth opportunities to Zebra
as the technology becomes more widely adopted.

If
other technologies were to evolve or become available to Zebra, it is possible
that those technologies would be incorporated into our products. Alternatively,
if such technologies were to evolve or become available to our competitors,
Zebra’s products may become obsolete. This obsolescence would have a
significant negative effect on Zebra’s business, financial position, results of
operations and cash flows.

Intellectual
Property Rights

Zebra
relies on a combination of trade secrets, patents, employee and third party
nondisclosure agreements, copyright laws and contractual rights to establish
and protect its proprietary rights in its products. We have and actively
protect several domestic and international trademarks. We hold 192 United
States and foreign patents and have 174 United States and foreign patent
applications pending pertaining to products. The duration of these patents
ranges from 14 to 20 years. The expiration of any individual patent would not
have a significant negative impact on our business.

Despite
our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, it may be possible for
unauthorized third parties to copy portions of our products or to reverse
engineer or otherwise obtain and use some technology and information that we
regard as proprietary. Moreover, the laws of some countries do not afford Zebra
the same protection to proprietary rights, as do United States laws. There can
be no assurance that legal protections relied upon by Zebra to protect its
proprietary position will be adequate. While Zebra’s intellectual property is
valuable and provides certain competitive advantages, we do not believe that
the legal protections afforded to our intellectual property are fundamental to
our success.

Other
trademarks mentioned in this report are the property of their respective
holders and include IBM, a registered trademark of International Business
Machines; Kodak, a registered trademark of the Eastman Kodak; UNIX, a
registered trademark of UNIX Systems Laboratories; MS/DOS and Windows,
registered trademarks of Microsoft; SAP, a registered trademark of SAP AG;
Linux, a registered trademark of Linus Torvalds; and Accelio Present Central, a
registered trademark of Accelio. Bluetooth is a trademark owned by Bluetooth
SIG and used by Zebra under license.


Employees

As
of February 25, 2005, Zebra employed approximately 2,300 persons. None of these
employees is a member of a union. We consider our employee relations to be very
good.


Item 2.

Properties

Zebra’s
corporate headquarters are located in Vernon Hills, Illinois, a northern suburb
of Chicago. Zebra conducts its operations from a custom-designed facility at
this location, which provides approximately 225,000 square feet of space.
Approximately 113,000 square feet have been allocated to office and laboratory
functions and 112,000 square feet to manufacturing and warehousing. This facility
was constructed in 1989 and expanded in 1993, 1995, 1996 and 1999. It is owned
and leased to Zebra, under a lease terminating on June 30, 2014, by Unique
Building Corporation, a corporation owned in part by Edward Kaplan and Gerhard
Cless, both executive officers and directors of Zebra.

Zebra’s
major facilities as of December 31, 2004, are listed below:

Zebra
leases various other facilities around the world, which are dedicated to
administrative, research and sales functions. The amounts related to these
leases, solely or in aggregate, are not material to the consolidated financial
statements.

During 1999, Zebra
consolidated United Kingdom facilities, moving distribution of its Wokingham
and High Wycombe facilities to the Preston location, and transferring Wokingham
associates to the renovated High Wycombe location. The vacant Wokingham
facility totals 27,000 square feet and has a lease that expires in October
2010. Zebra is actively marketing the property, seeking to sublease it through
October 2010.  We believe that the
current rent is approximately equal to the amount we will receive from a
sublease. We have accrued for rent during an estimated 18-month marketing
period.

Zebra announced plans to
close its Varades, France facility in early 2004. See Note 19 to our
consolidated financial statements, which are part of this report, for further
details related to the closing. Zebra France previously leased the Varades
building under a series of capital leases. During 2004, we exercised our option
to purchase the building under those capital leases and sold the building. The
resale value was slightly less than the book value of the building.

We
also announced plans to consolidate our Warwick, Rhode Island and Wakefield,
Rhode Island printer manufacturing and repair service business into our
Camarillo, California, and Vernon Hills, Illinois locations. Supplies
manufacturing and some administrative functions will remain in Rhode Island. We
have a series of four additional two-year option periods to continue the use of
the Warwick facility. We have evaluated our space requirements in Rhode Island
and intend to extend this lease and consolidate the two Rhode Island facilities
into the Warwick location during 2005.

Since
December 31, 2004, we committed to lease three additional properties. In Vernon
Hills, Illinois, we committed to lease an additional 34,000 square feet of
office space for three years beginning March 1, 2005. In Heerenveen,
Netherlands, we committed to lease approximately 95,000 square feet of office
and warehousing space for 20 years beginning February 15, 2005 with an option
to terminate the lease at each five-year anniversary date. In Chula Vista,
California, we committed to a lease of approximately 14,000 square feet of
manufacturing and warehouse space for two years beginning February 11, 2005.
See Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements, which are part of this
report, for additional information regarding our leases.


Item 3.

Legal
Proceedings

On April 23, 2003, Paxar
Americas, Inc. (Paxar Americas) filed a patent infringement lawsuit in the
United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio against Zebra
and certain of its subsidiaries. Paxar Americas’ Complaint alleges that certain
of Zebra’s printer products infringe one or more of eight identified Paxar
Americas patents, although not each product is accused of infringing each
patent. Zebra has filed an Answer to Paxar Americas’ Complaint, denying Paxar
Americas’ allegations of infringement and asserting several affirmative
defenses, including the invalidity of Paxar Americas’ asserted patent claims.
Paxar has sought to amend its original complaint to add two additional patents
to the lawsuit and to expand the scope of accused products. Zebra has opposed
Paxar’s motions in this regard and the court has the issue under advisement.

On November 21, 2003,
Zebra’s subsidiary, ZIH Corp. (ZIH), filed a Complaint in the United States
District Court for the District of Massachusetts against Paxar Corporation,
alleging that Paxar Corporation printers infringe ZIH’s U.S. Patent Nos.
5,813,343 and 5,860,753. Paxar Corporation answered ZIH’s Complaint, denying
infringement and seeking a declaratory judgment that ZIH’s patents-in-suit are
not infringed and are invalid and/or unenforceable. Paxar Corporation filed a
motion to transfer ZIH’s Massachusetts suit to Ohio federal court, and the
court denied Paxar’s motion.

On November 25, 2003,
Paxar Americas filed a Complaint against ZIH in the United States District
Court for the Southern District of Ohio, seeking a declaratory judgment that
the patents asserted by ZIH in its Massachusetts Complaint are not infringed
and are invalid and unenforceable. On December 17, 2003, Paxar Americas amended
its complaint to add Zebra Technologies Corporation as a defendant. In view of
the Massachusetts’ District Court’s denial of Paxar Corporation’s motion to
transfer to Ohio ZIH’s corresponding patent infringement suit against Paxar
Corporation, the parties to Paxar America’s Ohio declaratory judgment action
have agreed to transfer this case to Massachusetts.

The outcome of litigation
is inherently uncertain, particularly in cases such as these where
sophisticated factual issues must be assessed and complex technical issues must
be decided. As a result, we cannot accurately predict the outcome of these
lawsuits. In the event we are unsuccessful in our defense of Paxar Americas’
infringement claims, we could be liable for economic and other damages, which
could be material, and we may be forced to incur ongoing licensing expenses or
to change how we design, manufacture and market our products. The patents that
ZIH has asserted against Paxar Corporation could be found invalid. We have and
will continue to incur substantial fees to prosecute and defend these lawsuits.
We are unable at this time to estimate the range of the potential liability
that would result from an unsuccessful defense, and consistent with the
requirements of SFAS No. 5,

Accounting for
Contingencies,

no liability has been recorded in Zebra’s
consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2004.

Item 4.

Submission
of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

Not applicable.


PART II

Item 5.

Market
for Registrant’s Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters

Stock Information: Price Range
and Common Stock

Our Class A Common Stock
is traded on the NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol ZBRA. The following table
shows the high and low trade prices for each quarter in 2004 and 2003, as
reported by the NASDAQ Stock Market. We adjusted all share prices for a 50%
stock dividend that was distributed on August 25, 2004.

Source: The NASDAQ Stock Market

At
February 25, 2005, the last reported price for the Class A Common Stock was
$50.07 per share, and there were 389 registered stockholders of record for the
Company’s Class A Common Stock.

Dividend
Policy

Since
our initial public offering in 1991, we have not declared any cash dividends or
distributions on our capital stock. Zebra intends to retain its earnings to
finance future growth and therefore does not anticipate paying any cash
dividends in the foreseeable future.


Item 6.

Selected
Consolidated Financial Data

CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS DATA

(In
thousands, except per share amounts)

CONSOLIDATED
BALANCE SHEET DATA

(In thousands)

(1)

Includes the following pretax charges related
to the closure/consolidation of the Varades, France, the Warwick, Rhode Island
and the Wakefield, Rhode Island facilities and the integration and in-process
research and development costs related to the acquisition of Atlantek, Inc. in
2003, the acquisition of Comtec Information Systems, Inc. in 2000, and the
merger with Eltron International, Inc. in 1998:

(2)

Restated for 3-for-2 stock splits in 2003 and
2004 that were paid in the form of 50% stock dividends.

(3)

Includes $3,300 in operating expenses related
to the terminated acquisition of Fargo Electronics, Inc.

(4)

Includes a pre-tax realized gain of $1,953
related to the sale of 585,000 shares of common stock of Fargo Electronics.


Item 7.

Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Results of Operations: Fourth Quarter of 2004
versus Fourth Quarter of 2003, Year ended December 31, 2004 versus Year ended
December 31, 2003

Sales

Sales by product
category, percent change, and percent of total sales for the three months and
year ended December 31, 2004, and December 31, 2003, were (in thousands, except
percentages):

Sales to customers by
geographic region, percent changes and percent of total sales for the three
months and year ended December 31, 2004, and December 31, 2003, were (in
thousands, except percentages):

We believe that our sales
growth for the fourth quarter and the full year of 2004 reflects the increasing
success of sales and marketing programs to improve demand for Zebra products,
strengthen distribution channel relationships and increase the awareness of
Zebra products and the Zebra brand in targeted markets, within a favorable
environment for the adoption of barcoding and specialty printing applications.
The growth in Zebra’s business was well balanced across geographies, products,
and channels. We experienced notable sales growth in mobile printers, as the
mainstream adoption of wireless technology has expanded the uses of mobile
printing in applications across an increasing number of vertical markets. In


addition, we believe that
channel programs implemented in North America supported higher sales in the
region with strengthened and expanded channel partner relationships. More Zebra
sales representatives in international territories helped increase the number
of channel relationships in overseas regions and support sales growth.

New printer products
(defined as printers released within 18 months prior to the end of the
applicable fiscal period) as a percent of total printer product sales were as
follows:

Our international sales
are denominated in multiple currencies, primarily the dollar, pound and euro.
This directly causes our reported sales to be subject to fluctuations based on
changes in currency rates. When significant currency rate fluctuations occur,
we review our product pricing and make appropriate changes to maintain our
competitive position. We estimate that favorable foreign exchange movements of
the euro and the pound versus the dollar had a net positive effect of
$4,258,000 on sales during the fourth quarter and $17,626,000 for the full
year.

We currently hedge a
portion of anticipated euro-denominated sales to partially protect Zebra
against exchange rate movements. For the fourth quarter, this program resulted
in a loss of $1,077,000 and a full-year loss of $1,639,000. See Note 15 to the
financial statements for a more detailed discussion of this hedging program.

Printer unit volumes and
average selling price information is summarized below:

For all of 2004, unit volumes
increased in nearly all product lines and all regions, with notable strength in
mobile printers. For the full year, a favorable product mix toward higher
priced products and a richer feature set within product segments, on balance,
supported a 3.0% increase in the average selling price of printers shipped.
Average unit prices were comparable between the fourth quarter of 2004 and
2003.

Gross
Profit

Gross profit information
is summarized below (in thousands, except percentages):

The major contributors to
the margin improvement were:

•

Higher capacity utilization

related to the higher sales
volume, representing $6,518,000 of the total gross profit increase for the
fourth quarter of 2004 and $34,010,000 for the full year.

•

Foreign exchange rate movements,

which we estimate increased
gross profit by $4,178,000 for the fourth quarter of 2004. For the full year,
gross profit is estimated to have been $16,239,000 higher due to foreign
exchange rate movements.

•

Changes in product mix cost reductions and other items

accounted for $5,802,000 of the margin
improvement during the fourth quarter and $19,833,000 for the full year.


Selling
and Marketing Expenses

Selling and marketing
expenses are summarized below (in thousands, except percentages):

We continue to invest
heavily in demand-generating activities to build brand equity in our core
product lines as well as in the emerging area of radio frequency identification
(RFID). During the fourth quarter of 2004, selling and marketing expenses
increased due to higher payroll costs of $608,000 from increased staffing as
well as higher advertising and market development funding of $906,000. For the
full year, the payroll costs increased $4,052,000 and advertising and market
development funding increased $2,475,000. In addition to increases in the items
mentioned above, we increased outside commission, consulting and legal
expenses. Much of the additional headcount related to placing more Zebra
representatives in high-growth international regions as part of our geographic
expansion activities. We also increased staff for better coverage of strategic
accounts.

Research
and Development Costs

The development of new
products and enhancement of existing products are important to Zebra’s business
and growth prospects. To maintain and build our product pipeline, we made
investments in research and development, summarized below (in thousands, except
percentages):

Quarterly product
development expenses fluctuate widely depending on the status of ongoing
projects. We are committed to a long-term strategy of significant investment in
product development. For the fourth quarter of 2004, research and development
expenses increased because of an increase in payroll costs of $587,000. For the
full year, payroll costs increased $3,253,000. Project expenses and consulting
expenses also increased as a result of additional expenditures for new products
including radio frequency identification (RFID). We expect to invest a larger
portion of our research and development expenditures in the future on the
development of RFID printer/encoders.

General
and Administrative Expenses

General and administrative expenses are summarized in
the table below (in thousands, except percentages):

For the fourth quarter of 2004, general and
administrative expenses increased primarily as a result of increased legal expenses.
For the full year of 2004, general and administrative expenses include
$4,111,000 of increased legal expenses related to:

•

Litigation with
Paxar,

•

Increased
intellectual property work, and

•

International
expansion activity.

In addition to legal expenses in 2004, we saw an
increase in payroll costs and information system expenses.

Exit
Costs

Since the fourth quarter
of 2003, we announced several facility consolidation and closure activities.
During the fourth quarter of 2003, we announced plans to close our engineering
site in Varades, France. During January 2004, we announced plans to


consolidate our Warwick,
Rhode Island, printer manufacturing and repair service business into our
Camarillo, California and Vernon Hills, Illinois locations. During December
2004, we announced plans to close and consolidate our Wakefield, Rhode Island
facility into our other North American facilities, primarily into the Warwick,
Rhode Island facility. These plans are accounted for under SFAS No. 146,

Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal
Activities.

Exit costs related to
these consolidation and closure activities were as follows (in thousands):

Operating Income

Operating income is
summarized in the following table (in thousands, except percentages):

The increase in operating
income is attributable to the following factors:

•

Accelerated
sales growth compared to 2003,

•

Improved
gross margins resulting from better overhead utilization, and

•

Favorable
changes in foreign exchange rates for Zebra’s non-dollar denominated
businesses.

As a result of these
factors, operating income increased by 24.3 percentage points more than the
rate of sales growth during the fourth quarter, and 12.0 percentage points more
than the rate of sales growth for the full year.

Non-operating
Income and Expenses

Zebra’s non-operating
income and expense items are summarized in the following table (in thousands):

During
the fourth quarter of 2004, Zebra earned $2,949,000 on average cash and
marketable securities balances of $540,517,000, which equates to an annualized
2.2% rate of return. For the full year, investment income was $10,628,000, or
2.1%, of average cash and marketable securities balances of $502,921,000.

Income Taxes

The effective income tax rate for the fourth quarter
was 34.3% compared with 31.2% for the same quarter last year. The 2003 rate is lower,
because of the resolution of our long-standing dispute with the Illinois
Department of Revenue and the related decrease to income tax expense of
$1,342,000 during that quarter. For 2004, the effective income tax rate was
34.6% versus 32.6% for 2003 for the reason noted above.


Net Income

Zebra’s net income is summarized below (in thousands,
except per share amounts):


Comparison of Years Ended
December 31, 2003 and 2002

Sales

Sales
by product category, related percent changes and percent of total sales for
2003 and 2002 were as follows:

Sales to customers by
geographic region, related percent changes, and percent of total sales for 2003
and 2002 were as follows:

Higher
sales growth in 2003 was a result of additional geographic expansion in Asia,
Latin America and Europe. In addition, we placed a greater emphasis on
high-growth vertical markets and added marketing resources to support emerging
radio frequency identification (RFID) opportunities. New printer products
accounted for 23.3% of printer sales in 2003, compared with 22.2% in 2002.

Our
international sales were benefited in 2003 by favorable exchange rates. For the
full year of 2003, sales translated into dollars increased by $24,783,000 or
5.2 percentage points compared to translating the same sales using exchange
rates that prevailed in 2002. To remain competitive in markets experiencing
currency strength against the dollar, we adjusted our pricing resulting in a
$12,610,000 reduction in sales. The net sales increase related to exchange rate
fluctuations and offsetting pricing adjustments was $12,173,000 for 2003.

Printer
unit volumes and average selling price information is summarized below:

For
2003, the increase in printer volume was due to high sales of desktop and
mobile printers as a result of more companies adopting technology for wireless
networks. Average unit selling price increases were related to increases in the
average unit selling prices of mid-range desktop printers, portable printers
and print engines and is offset by higher volumes of the lower priced mobile
printers.


Gross
Profit

Gross
profit information is summarized below (in thousands except percentages)

Gross
profit increased due to:

•

Higher capacity utilization

related to the higher sales
volume, representing $17,417,000 of the total gross profit increase for 2003.

•

Foreign exchange rate movements and related pricing adjustments,

which we estimate increased gross profit by $10,900,000 for 2003 due to foreign
exchange movements, net of related pricing adjustments.

•

Cost reductions

,
which contributed $9,371,000 to the margin improvement during 2003.

Selling
and Marketing Expenses

Selling and marketing
expenses are summarized below (in thousands, except percentages):

The
increase in selling and marketing expenses for 2003 resulted from our
investments in demand-generating activities with higher advertising,
publications and market research, travel, demonstration units and market development
fund expenses.

Research
and Development Costs

Research and development
costs are summarized below (in thousands, except percentages):

For
2003, research and development expenses increased primarily due to increases in
project expenses, which were higher because of reductions related to
third-party funded engineering costs that had occurred in 2002 but did not
reoccur in 2003. In addition, payroll and benefits were up $1,752,000 over
2002, but consulting expenses were down $945,000.

General
and Administrative Expenses

General
and administrative expenses are summarized below (in thousands, except
percentages):


For
2003, general and administrative expenses include $596,000 of increased legal
expenses related to:

•

Litigation with Paxar,

•

Increased intellectual property work,

•

International activity, and

•

General contract review.

In
addition to legal expenses in 2003, we saw an increase in director and officer
liability insurance and administrative personnel costs. A portion of these
costs resulted from new compliance requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002 and related regulations. Offsetting these increases was a decline in
consulting expenses.

Costs Related to Terminated
Acquisitions and Merger Costs

During 2002, we terminated the acquisition agreement
and tender offer in which Zebra would acquire all outstanding shares of common
stock (including associated rights to purchase preferred stock) of Fargo
Electronics, Inc. for $7.25 per share in cash. During the time that the tender
offer was active, we incurred legal, accounting and other expenses related to
the proposed acquisition that would have been treated as part of the purchase
price had the tender offer been completed. We expensed $3,300,000 of these
costs at the cancellation of the tender offer.

Exit Costs

During
the fourth quarter of 2003, we announced a plan to close our engineering site
in Varades, France. This plan is being accounted for under SFAS No. 146,

Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal
Activities.

Included in operating expenses for 2003 are exit costs,
consisting of primarily severance, in the amount of $1,232,000.

Operating Income

Operating income is
summarized in the following table (in thousands, except percentages):

The increase in operating
income is attributable to the following factors:

•

Accelerated
sales growth compared to 2002,

•

Improved
gross margins resulting from increased overhead utilization,

•

Favorable
changes in foreign exchange rates for Zebra’s non-dollar denominated business,
and

•

Cost
controls that held operating expense growth slightly below the rate of sales
growth.

As a result of these
actions, operating income increased by 14.1 percentage points more than the rate
of sales growth during 2002.

Non-operating
Income and Expenses

Zebra’s non-operating
income and expense items are summarized in the following table (in thousands):

For
2003, investment income decreased because 2002 results included a $1,953,000
pre-tax realized gain on the sale of 585,000 shares of common stock of Fargo
Electronics.


Income Taxes

The effective income tax rate for 2003 was 32.6%
versus 35.4% in 2002. The rate for 2003 is less than the 35% Zebra had
previously recorded because of the following nonrecurring tax items during the
year:

•

During the
fourth quarter of 2003, we settled our long-standing dispute with the Illinois
Department of Revenue and recorded a decrease to income tax expense for $1,342,000
since our reserves for this tax dispute exceeded the amount of the settlement.

•

During the third
quarter of 2003, we eliminated a reserve related to research and
experimentation tax credits that were claimed and recorded a reduction to
income tax expense of $1,947,000.

Excluding these two tax adjustments, our effective tax
rate would have been 35% for 2003.

Net Income

Zebra’s net income is summarized below (in thousands,
except per share amounts):

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

Management prepared the consolidated
financial statements of Zebra Technologies Corporation under accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These principles
require the use of estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the
estimates, judgments and assumptions we used are reasonable, based upon the
information available.

Our estimates and assumptions affect the
reported amounts in our financial statements. The following accounting policies
comprise those that we believe are the most critical in understanding and
evaluating Zebra’s reported financial results.

Revenue Recognition

Zebra recognizes sales from product sales
at the time of shipment and passage of title, which are generally the same.
Other items that affect our revenue recognition include:

Customer returns

Customers
have the right to return products that do not function properly within a
limited time after delivery. We monitor and track product returns and record a
provision for the estimated future returns based on historical experience and
any notification received of pending returns. Returns have historically been
within expectations and the provisions established, but Zebra cannot guarantee
that it will continue to experience return rates consistent with historical
patterns. Historically, our product returns have not been significant. However,
if a significant issue should arise, it could have a material impact on our
financial statements.

Volume Rebates

Some
of our customers are offered incentive rebates based on the volume of product
they purchase from us over a quarter or year. These rebates are recorded as a
reduction to revenue. Each quarter, we estimate the amount of outstanding
volume rebates and establish a reserve for them based on shipment history.
Historically, actual volume rebates have been in line with our estimates.

Price Protection

Some
of our customers are offered price protection by Zebra as an incentive to carry
inventory of our product. These price protection plans provide that if we lower
prices, we will credit them for the price decrease on inventory they hold. We
estimate future payments under price protection programs quarterly and
establish a reserve, which is charged against revenue. Our customers typically
carry limited amounts of inventory, and Zebra infrequently lowers prices on
current products. As a result, the amounts paid under theses plans have been
minimal. We cannot guarantee that this minimal level will continue.

Software Revenue

We
sell three types of software and record revenue as follows:


•

Our
printers contain

embedded firmware,

which is part
of the hardware purchase. We consider the sale of this firmware to be
incidental to the sale of the printer and do not attribute any revenue to it.

•

We sell a
limited amount of

prepackaged,

or

off-the-shelf, software

for the creation of bar code labels using our printers. There is no
customization required to use this software, and we have no post-shipment
obligations on the software. Revenue is recognized at the time this prepackaged
software is shipped.

•

We
sometimes provide

custom software

as part of a
printer installation project. We bill custom software development services
separate from the related hardware. Revenue related to custom software is
recognized once the custom software development services have been completed
and accepted by the customer.

Shipping and
Handling

We
charge our customers for shipping and handling services based upon our internal
price list for these items. The amounts billed to customers are recorded as
revenue when the product ships. Any costs incurred related to these services
are included in cost of sales.

From time to time, Zebra
will enter into sales transactions that include more than one product type.
This bundle of products might include printers, current or future supplies, and
services. When this type of transaction occurs, we allocate the purchase price
to each product type based on the fair value of the individual products.  The revenue for each individual product is then
recognized when the earning process for that product is complete.

Investments and Marketable
Securities

Investments and
marketable securities at December 31, 2004, consisted of U.S. government
securities (21.5%), state and municipal bonds (65.0%), corporate bonds (7.8%),
and partnership interests (5.7%). We classify our debt and marketable equity
securities in one of three categories: trading, available-for-sale or
held-to-maturity. Trading securities are bought and held principally for the
purpose of selling them in the near term. Held-to-maturity securities are those
securities that Zebra has the ability and intent to hold until maturity. All
securities not included in trading or held-to-maturity are classified as
available-for-sale.

Trading and
available-for-sale securities are recorded at fair value. Held-to-maturity
securities are recorded at amortized cost, adjusted for the amortization or
accretion of discounts or premiums. Unrealized holding gains and losses on
trading securities are included in earnings. Unrealized holding gains and losses,
net of the related tax effect, on available-for-sale securities are excluded
from earnings and are reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity
until realized.

Accounts Receivable

We have standardized credit granting and
review policies and procedures for all customer accounts, including:

•

Credit
reviews of all new customer accounts,

•

Ongoing
credit evaluations of current customers,

•

Credit
limits and payment terms based on available credit information,

•

Adjustments
to credit limits based upon payment history and the customer’s current credit
worthiness, and

•

An active
collection effort by regional credit functions, reporting directly to the
corporate financial officers.

We reserve for estimated credit losses
based upon historical experience and specific customer collection issues. Over
the last three years, accounts receivable reserves varied from 1.6% to 2.8% of
total accounts receivable. Accounts receivable reserves as of December 31,
2004, were $1,561,000, or 1.6% of the balance due. We feel this reserve level
is appropriate considering the quality of the portfolio as of December 31,
2004. While credit losses have historically been within expectations and the
provisions established, we cannot guarantee that our credit loss experience
will continue to be consistent with historical experience.

Inventories

We value our inventories at the lower of
the actual cost to purchase or manufacture using the first-in, first-out (FIFO)
method, or the current estimated market value. We review inventory quantities
on hand and record a provision for excess and obsolete inventory based on
forecasts of product demand and production requirements for the subsequent
twelve months.

A significant increase in the demand for
Zebra’s products could result in a short-term increase in the cost of inventory
purchases; however, this would be offset by improved overhead utilization
resulting from the additional demand. A significant decrease in demand could
result in an increase in excess inventory quantities on hand.


Our forecasted product demand may prove to
be inaccurate, in which case the provision required for excess and obsolete
inventory may be understated or overstated. If inventories were determined to
be overvalued, we would recognize such costs in cost of goods sold at the time
of such determination. We make every effort to ensure the accuracy of our
forecasts of product demand; however, any significant unanticipated changes in
demand or technological developments could have a significant impact on the
value of inventories and reported operating results.

Over the last three years, our reserves for excess and obsolete
inventories have ranged from 10.4% to 13.1% of gross inventory. As of December
31, 2004, reserves for excess and obsolete inventories were $7,338,000, or
10.9% of gross inventory. We feel this reserve level is appropriate considering
the quantities and quality of the inventories as of December 31, 2004.

Valuation of Long-Lived and Intangible Assets and Goodwill

We
test the impairment of goodwill each year or whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We
completed our last assessment during June 2004.

We
evaluate the impairment of other long-lived assets whenever events or changes
in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.

Factors
considered that may trigger an impairment review consist of:

•

Significant underperformance relative to
expected historical or projected future operating results,

•

Significant changes in the manner of use of
the acquired assets or the strategy for the overall business,

•

Significant negative industry or economic
trends,

•

Significant decline in Zebra’s stock price
for a sustained period, and

•

Significant decline in market capitalization
relative to net book value.

If
we believe that one or more of the above indicators of impairment have
occurred, we measure impairment based on projected discounted cash flows using
a discount rate that incorporates the risk inherent in the cash flows. Net
intangible assets, long-lived assets and goodwill amounted to $114,593,000 as
of December 31, 2004.

Contingencies

We
record estimated liabilities related to contingencies based on our estimates of
the probable outcomes. Quarterly, we assess the potential liability related to
pending litigation, tax audits and other contingencies and confirm or revise
estimates and reserves as appropriate.

On April 23, 2003, Paxar
Americas, Inc. (Paxar Americas) filed a patent infringement lawsuit in the
United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio against Zebra
and certain of its subsidiaries. Paxar Americas’ Complaint alleges that certain
of Zebra’s printer products infringe one or more of eight identified Paxar
Americas patents, although not each product is accused of infringing each
patent. Zebra has filed an Answer to Paxar Americas’ Complaint, denying Paxar
Americas’ allegations of infringement and asserting several affirmative defenses,
including the invalidity of Paxar Americas’ asserted patent claims. Paxar has
sought to amend its original complaint to add two additional patents to the
lawsuit and to expand the scope of accused products. Zebra has opposed Paxar’s
motions in this regard and the court has the issue under advisement.

On November 21, 2003,
Zebra’s subsidiary, ZIH Corp. (ZIH), filed a Complaint in the United States
District Court for the District of Massachusetts against Paxar Corporation,
alleging that Paxar Corporation printers infringe ZIH’s U.S. Patent Nos.
5,813,343 and 5,860,753. Paxar Corporation answered ZIH’s Complaint, denying
infringement and seeking a declaratory judgment that ZIH’s patents-in-suit are
not infringed and are invalid and/or unenforceable. Paxar Corporation filed a
motion to transfer ZIH’s Massachusetts suit to Ohio federal court, and the
court denied Paxar’s motion.

On November 25, 2003,
Paxar Americas filed a Complaint against ZIH in the United States District
Court for the Southern District of Ohio, seeking a declaratory judgment that
the patents asserted by ZIH in its Massachusetts Complaint are not infringed
and are invalid and unenforceable. On December 17, 2003, Paxar Americas amended
its complaint to add Zebra Technologies Corporation as a defendant. In view of
the Massachusetts’ District Court’s denial of Paxar Corporation’s motion to
transfer to Ohio ZIH’s corresponding patent infringement suit against Paxar
Corporation, the parties to Paxar America’s Ohio declaratory judgment action
have agreed to transfer this case to Massachusetts.


The outcome of litigation
is inherently uncertain, particularly in cases such as these where
sophisticated factual issues must be assessed and complex technical issues must
be decided. As a result, we cannot accurately predict the outcome of these
lawsuits. In the event we are unsuccessful in our defense of Paxar Americas’
infringement claims, we could be liable for economic and other damages, which
could be material, and we may be forced to incur ongoing licensing expenses or
to change how we design, manufacture and market our products. The patents that
ZIH has asserted against Paxar Corporation could be found invalid. We have and
will continue to incur substantial fees to prosecute and defend these lawsuits.
We are unable at this time to estimate the range of the potential liability
that would result from an unsuccessful defense, and consistent with the
requirements of SFAS No. 5,

Accounting for
Contingencies,

no liability has been recorded in Zebra’s
consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2004.

Stock-Based
Compensation

As of December 31, 2004, Zebra had three stock-based
compensation

plans available for future grants. We account for those plans under
the recognition and measurement principles of APB Opinion No. 25,

Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees,

and related Interpretations. No stock-based compensation cost is
reflected in net income, as all options granted under those plans had an exercise
price equal to the market value of the underlying common stock on the date of
grant. The following table illustrates the effect on net income and earnings
per share if we had applied the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No.
123,

Accounting for Stock-based
Compensation,

to stock-based compensation (in thousands, except per share amounts):

Expectations

During our
quarterly conference call on February 9, 2005, we provided net sales and
earnings guidance for the first quarter of 2005 as follows (amounts in
thousands, except per share data):

The
effective tax rate is expected to be 34.75% of income before income taxes.

Liquidity and Capital
Resources

Zebra continued to generate cash well in excess of its
operating requirements. As a result, Zebra’s cash and investment balances have
continually grown over time. As of December 31, 2004, Zebra had $557,993,000 in
cash, cash equivalents, investments and marketable securities, compared with
$447,848,000 at December 31, 2003. Factors affecting cash and investment
balances during 2004 include (note that changes discussed below include the
impact of foreign currency):

•

Operations
provided a net cash increase of $111,256,000 primarily from net income.


•

Accounts
receivable increased $11,491,000 because of higher sales.

•

Inventories
increased $15,456,000. Compared to the same period a year ago, inventory turns
decreased to 5.7 from 6.8.

•

Other assets
increased $11,492,000, primarily due to the purchase of life insurance policies
on key executives with guaranteed returns, which due to the nature of these
investments are classified as long-term.

•

Accounts payable
increased by $6,420,000, in relation to the increase in inventory.

•

Accrued expenses
increased $1,974,000.

•

Taxes payable
increased $3,720,000 due to increased profits.

•

Purchases of
property and equipment totaled $16,243,000.

•

Net purchases of
investments and marketable securities totaled $106,428,000.

•

Stock option
exercises and purchases under the stock purchase plan contributed $15,531,000.

Zebra’s contractual obligations as of December 31,
2004 were:

Purchase obligations are for purchases made in the
normal course of business to meet operational requirements, primarily raw
materials.

Management believes that existing capital resources
and funds generated from operations are sufficient to finance anticipated
capital requirements. It is our intention to actively pursue opportunities to
acquire other businesses.

Recently Issued
Accounting Pronouncements

In March 2004, the FASB
issued Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 03-1 (EITF 03-1),

The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and
its Application to Certain Investments

, which provides new guidance
for assessing impairment losses on investments. Additionally, EITF 03-1
includes new disclosure requirements for investments that are deemed to be
temporarily impaired. In September 2004, the FASB delayed the accounting
provisions of EITF 03-1; however, the disclosure requirements remain effective
for annual periods ending after June 15, 2004. We will evaluate the impact of
EITF 03-1 once final guidance is issued. See Note 7 to our consolidated
financial statements for added disclosures.

In November 2004, the FASB
issued SFAS No. 151,

Inventory Costs – an
amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4.

SFAS No. 151 amends the guidance
in ARB No. 43, Chapter 4, “Inventory Pricing”, to clarify the accounting for
abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted
material (spoilage). Paragraph 5 of ARB 43, Chapter 4, previously stated that
these costs may be “so abnormal” that they would require treatment as current
period charges. This statement requires that those items be recognized as
current-period charges regardless of whether they meet the criterion of “so
abnormal”. This statement also requires that allocation of fixed production
overheads to the costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the
production facilities. This statement describes our current process; therefore,
it will not have any impact on our financial position or results of operations.

In December 2004, the
FASB issued SFAS No. 123(R) (revised 2004),

Share Based Payment

, which is a revision
of SFAS 123,

Accounting for Stock-Based

Compensation,
and supercedes APB Opinion No. 25,

Accounting
for Stock Issued to Employees,

and its related implementation
guidance. SFAS No. 123 (R) focuses primarily on accounting for transactions in
which an entity obtains employee services through share-based payment
transactions. It requires a public entity to measure the cost of employee
services received in exchange for the award of equity instruments based on the
fair value of the award at the date of grant. The cost will be recognized over
the period during which an employee is required to provide services in exchange
for the award. The provisions of this statement become effective for Zebra
during the third quarter of 2005. We expect the impact on Zebra’s consolidated
financial statements to be consistent with the fair value disclosures included
in our critical accounting policies and Note 2 to the consolidated financial
statements.


In December 2004, the
FASB issued FSP FAS 109-1,

Application of
FASB No. 109, Accounting forIincome Taxe, to the Tax Deduction on Qualified
Production Activities Provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004.

FSP
FAS No. 109-1 clarifies SFAS No. 109’s guidance that applies to the new tax
deduction for qualified domestic production activities. FSP No. 109-1 became
effective upon issuance and we believe that this pronouncement will have an
insignificant impact on our effective tax rate in 2005.

In December 2004, the
FASB issued FSP FAS 109-2,

Accounting and
Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Repatriation Provision within the American
Jobs Creation Act of 2004.

FSP FAS 109-2 provides implementation
guidance related to the repatriation provision of the American Jobs Creation
Act of 2004. We have completed our assessment of earnings of foreign
subsidiaries that might be repatriated. At this time we do not expect to
repatriate the earnings of our foreign subsidiaries as dividends to take
advantage of this tax credit.

Risk Factors

Investors should carefully consider the risks,
uncertainties and other factors described below, as well as other disclosures
in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations, because they could have a material adverse effect on Zebra’s
business, financial condition, operating results, and growth prospects.

Zebra
could encounter difficulties in any acquisition it undertakes, including
unanticipated integration problems and business disruption. Acquisitions could
also dilute stockholder value and adversely affect operating results. Proposed
acquisitions that are not consummated may result in the write-off of certain
acquisition costs.

Zebra may acquire or make investments in other
businesses, technologies, services or products. The process of integrating any
acquired business, technology, service or product into operations may result in
unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Integration of an acquired
company also may consume considerable management time and attention, which
could otherwise be available for ongoing development of the business. The
expected benefits of any acquisition may not be realized. Moreover, Zebra may
be unable to identify, negotiate or finance future acquisitions successfully.
Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity
securities or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization
expenses. To the extent that a proposed acquisition is not consummated, Zebra
may be required to write off certain costs associated with the acquisition,
which could be significant.

Zebra may
not be able to continue to develop products to address user needs effectively
in an industry characterized by rapid technological change.

To be successful, Zebra must adapt to rapidly changing
technological and application needs by continually improving its products as
well as introducing new products and services to address user demands.

Zebra’s industry is characterized by:

•

Rapidly changing technology

•

Evolving industry standards

•

Frequent new product and service
introductions

•

Evolving distribution channels

•

Changing customer demands

Future success will depend on Zebra’s ability to adapt
in this rapidly evolving environment. Zebra could incur substantial costs if it
has to modify its business to adapt to these changes, and may even be unable to
adapt to these changes.

Zebra
competes in a highly competitive market, which is likely to become more
competitive. Competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging
technology and changes in customer requirements.

Zebra faces significant competition in developing and
selling its systems. Principal competitors have substantial marketing,
financial, development and personnel resources. To remain competitive, Zebra
believes it must continue to provide:

•

Technologically advanced systems that
satisfy the user demands,

•

Superior customer service,

•

High levels of quality and reliability,
and

•

Dependable and efficient distribution
networks.

Zebra cannot assure it will be able to compete
successfully against current or future competitors. Increased competition in
printers or supplies may result in price reductions, lower gross profit margins
and loss of market share, and could require increased spending on research and
development, sales and marketing and customer support. Some competitors may
make


strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative
relationships with suppliers or companies that produce complementary products.
Any of these factors could reduce Zebra’s earnings.

Zebra may
incur liabilities as a result of Zebra installed product failures due to design
or manufacturing defects.

Zebra generally has
insurance for such risks and also seeks to limit such risk though product
design, manufacturing quality control processes, product testing and
contractual limitations. However, due to the large and growing size of Zebra’s
installed printer base, a design or manufacturing defect attributable to this
large installed printer base could result in product recalls or customer
service costs that could have material adverse effects on Zebra’s financial
results.

The
inability to protect intellectual property could harm Zebra’s reputation, and
its competitive position may be materially damaged.

Zebra’s intellectual property is valuable and provides
Zebra with certain competitive advantages. Copyrights, patents, trade secrets
and contracts are used to protect these proprietary rights. Despite these
precautions, it may be possible for third parties to copy aspects of Zebra’s
products or, without authorization, to obtain and use information which Zebra
regards as trade secrets.

Infringement
on the proprietary rights of others could put Zebra at a competitive
disadvantage, and any related litigation could be time consuming and costly.

Third parties may claim that Zebra violated their
intellectual property rights. To the extent of a violation of a third party’s
patent or other intellectual property right, Zebra may be prevented from
operating its business as planned, and may be required to pay damages, to
obtain a license, if available, or to use a non-infringing method, if possible,
to accomplish its objectives. Any of these claims, with or without merit, could
result in costly litigation and divert the attention of key personnel. If such
claims are successful, they could result in costly judgments or settlements.

Zebra
sells a significant portion of its products internationally and purchases
important components from foreign suppliers. These circumstances create a
number of risks.

Zebra sells a significant amount of its products to
customers outside the United States. Shipments to international customers are
expected to continue to account for a material portion of net sales. Risks
associated with sales and purchases outside the United States include:

•

Fluctuating foreign currency rates could
restrict sales, or increase costs of purchasing, in foreign countries.

•

Foreign governments may impose burdensome
tariffs, quotas, taxes, trade barriers or capital flow restrictions.

•

Political and economic instability may
reduce demand for our products, or put our foreign assets at risk.

•

Restrictions on the export or import of
technology may reduce or eliminate the ability to sell in or purchase from
certain markets.

•

Potentially limited intellectual property
protection in certain countries, such as China, may limit recourse against
infringing products or cause Zebra to refrain from selling in certain
geographic territories.

•

Staffing and managing international
operations may be unusually difficult.

•

Zebra may not be able to control
international distributors working on its behalf.

Economic
factors, which are outside Zebra’s control, could lead to deterioration in the
quality of Zebra’s accounts receivables.

Zebra sells its products to customers in the United
States and several other countries around the world. Sales are typically made
on unsecured credit terms, which are generally consistent with the prevailing
business practices in a given country. A deterioration of economic or political
conditions in a country could impair Zebra’s ability to collect on receivables
in the affected country.

Zebra
depends on the ongoing service of its senior management and ability to attract
and retain other key personnel.

Future success of Zebra is substantially dependent on
the continued service and continuing contributions of senior management and
other key personnel. The loss of the service of any executive officer or other
key employees could adversely affect business. Zebra has no long-term
employment agreements with key personnel and maintains minimal key man life
insurance policies on its key employees.

The ability to attract, retain and motivate highly
skilled employees is important to Zebra’s long-term success. Competition for
personnel in Zebra’s industry is intense, and Zebra may be unable to retain key
employees or attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified employees in
the future.


Terrorist
attacks or war could lead to further economic instability and adversely affect
Zebra’s stock price, operations, and profitability.

The terrorist attacks that occurred in the United
States on September 11, 2001 caused major instability in the U.S. and other
financial markets. Possible further acts of terrorism and current and future
war risks could have a similar impact. The United States continues to take
military action against terrorism and is currently engaged in a costly
occupation of Iraq. These events may lead to additional armed hostilities or to
further acts of terrorism and civil disturbance in the United States or
elsewhere, which may further contribute to economic instability. Any such attacks
could, among other things, cause further instability in financial markets and
could directly, or indirectly through reduced demand, negatively affect Zebra’s
facilities and operations or those of its customers or suppliers.

Taxing
authority challenges may lead to tax payments exceeding current reserves.

Zebra operates in multiple tax jurisdictions in the
United States and worldwide. Local tax authorities may challenge Zebra’s tax
positions from time to time. Adverse outcomes in these situations may exceed
Zebra’s reserves for tax payments and may increase Zebra’s effective tax rate.


Item 7A.

Quantitative
and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Interest
Rate Risk

Zebra
is exposed to the impact of changes in interest rates because of our large
investment portfolio. As stated in our written investment policy, the
investment portfolio is viewed as a strategic resource that will be managed to
achieve above market rates of return in exchange for accepting a prudent amount
of incremental risk, which includes the risk of interest rate movements. Risk
tolerance is constrained by an overriding objective to preserve capital across
each quarterly reporting cycle.

Zebra
mitigates interest rate risk with an investment policy that requires the use of
outside professional investment managers, investment liquidity and broad
diversification across investment strategies, and which limits the types of
investments that may be made. Moreover, the policy requires due diligence of
each investment manager both before employment and on an ongoing basis.

The
following table sets forth the impact of a one-percentage point movement in
interest rates on the value of Zebra’s investment portfolio as of December 31,
2004 (in thousands, except per share data).

Interest rate sensitive
  instruments

Effect on

Pretax

Income

Effect on

Diluted EPS

(after tax)

+1 percentage point movement

$

(6,174

)

$

(0.06

)

-1 percentage point movement

$

6,174

$

0.06

Because
these securities are classified as available-for-sale under SFAS No. 115,

Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity
Securities,

the impact of a one-percentage point movement in
interest rates occurs over an extended period of time as investments are sold
and the funds are subsequently reinvested.

Foreign
Exchange Risk

We conduct business in
approximately 100 countries throughout the world and, therefore, are exposed to
risk based on movements in foreign exchange rates. We generally invoice
customers in their local currency and have a resulting foreign currency
denominated revenue transaction and accounts receivable. We also purchase
certain raw materials and other items in foreign currencies.  We manage these risks using derivative
financial instruments.

Hedging
of Net Assets

We use forward contracts
and options to manage exposure related to our pound and euro denominated net
assets. We record gains and losses on these contracts and options in income
each quarter along with the translation gains and losses related to our net
euro asset position, which would ordinarily offset each other. Summary
financial information related to these activities follows (in thousands):


Hedging
of Anticipated Sales

During the second quarter
of 2003, we began a program to manage the exchange rate risk of anticipated
euro denominated sales using forward contracts and designated these contracts
as cash flow hedges. Gains and losses on these contracts are deferred in other
comprehensive income until the contracts are settled and the hedged sales are
realized, at which time the deferred gains or losses will be reported as an
increase or decrease to sales. Summary financial information related to the
cash flow hedges of future revenues follows (in thousands, except percentages):

The
following table sets forth the impact of a one-percentage point movement in the
dollar/pound and dollar/euro rates measured as if Zebra did

not

engage
in the selective hedging practices described above. It is based on the
dollar/euro and dollar/pound exchange rates and euro and pound denominated
assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2004 (in thousands, except per share
data).

Foreign exchange

Effect on

Pretax

Income

Effect on

Diluted EPS

(after tax)

Dollar/pound

$


$

0.00

Dollar/euro

$


$

0.00

Equity
Price Risk

From
time to time, Zebra has taken direct equity positions in companies. These
investments relate to potential acquisitions and other strategic business
opportunities. To the extent that it has a direct investment in the equity
securities of another company, Zebra is exposed to the risks associated with
such investments.

Zebra
currently employs four investment managers, two of which manage portfolios of
investment funds (i.e., fund of funds). These investment funds use a variety of
investment strategies, some of which involve the use of equity securities. Each
investment manager’s portfolio is designed to be market neutral, although an
individual fund within a portfolio may be exposed to market risk. By policy, management
limits the amount of Zebra’s investments in alternative investment strategies
to a maximum of 15% of the total investment portfolio, with no single
investment exceeding $15,000,000.

Zebra
utilizes a Value-at-Risk (VaR) model to determine the maximum potential one-day
loss in the fair value of its interest rate, foreign exchange and equity price
sensitive instruments.


The
following table sets forth the impact of a one-percentage point change in the
value of all equity positions held by Zebra’s investment managers (in
thousands, per share data).

Equity price sensitive
  instruments

Effect on

Pretax

Income

Effect on

Diluted EPS

(after tax)

+1 percentage point movement

$


$

0.00

-1 percentage point movement

$

(400

)

$

(0.00

)


Item 8.

Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data

The financial statements
and schedule of the Company are annexed to this Report as pages F-2 through
F-23. An index to such materials appears on page F-1.

Item 9.

Changes
in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosures

Not applicable.


Item 9A.

Controls
and Procedures

Evaluation
of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

We conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of
the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended (the “Exchange Act”)) as of the end of the period covered by this Form
10-K. The controls evaluation was conducted under the supervision of our
Disclosure Committee, and with the participation of management, including our
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Based on that evaluation,
our Chief Executive Office and Chief Financial Officer, have concluded that our
disclosure controls and procedures were effective to provide reasonable
assurance that (i) the information required to be disclosed by us in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K was recorded, processed, summarized and reported
within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and (ii)
information required to be disclosed by us in our reports that we file or
submit under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to our
management, including our principal executive and principal financial officers,
or persons performing similar functions, as appropriate to allow timely
decisions regarding required disclosure.

Management’s
Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

Our management is responsible for establishing and
maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in
Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the
preparation of the financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles. Our management assessed the
effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December
31, 2004. In making this assessment, our management used the criteria set forth
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”)
in Internal Control-Integrated Framework. Based on this assessment and those
criteria, our management believes that, as of December 31, 2004, our internal
control over financial reporting is effective. Our independent registered
public accounting firm, KPMG LLP, has issued an attestation report on management’s
assessment of Zebra’s internal control over financial reporting. That report is
included on page 38 of this Report on Form 10-K.

Changes
in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

During 2004, we made numerous changes to our
controls and procedures as part of our ongoing monitoring of our controls.
However, none of these changes has materially affected, or are reasonably
likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

Inherent
Limitations on the Effectiveness of Controls

Our management, including our Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our disclosure
controls and procedures or our internal controls will prevent or detect all
errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and
operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the
objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control
system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the
benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the
inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can
provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not
occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within Zebra
have been detected.

These inherent limitations include the realities
that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur
because of simple error or mistake. Controls can also be circumvented by the
individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by
management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is
based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and
there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated
goals under all potential future conditions. Projections of any evaluation of
controls effectiveness to future periods are subject to risks. Over time,
controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or
deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures.


Report of Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors and Stockholders

of Zebra Technologies Corporation:

We have audited management’s assessment, included in
the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting, that Zebra Technologies Corporation (the Company) maintained
effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004,
based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal
control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on management’s assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating
management’s assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating
effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company’s internal control over financial
reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes
those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records
that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance
that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and
that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance
with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitation, internal control
over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to
the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate.

In our opinion, management’s assessment that the
Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2004, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on
criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Also,
in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, based on
criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).

We also have audited, in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
consolidated balance sheets of Zebra Technologies Corporation and subsidiaries
as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the related consolidated statements of
earnings, comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each
of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2004, and our report
dated March 2, 2005 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated
financial statements.

/s/KPMG LLP

Chicago, Illinois

March 2, 2005


PART III

Item 10.

Directors
and Executive Officers of the Registrant

We have adopted a Code of
Ethics that applies to Zebra’s Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer
and the Vice President and Controller. The Code of Ethics is posted on the
investor page of Zebra’s Internet Web site,
www.zebra.com

,

and is available for download.

All other information in
response to this item is incorporated by reference from the Proxy Statement
sections entitled “Election of Directors” and “Executive Officers.”

Item 11.

Executive
Compensation

The information in
response to this item is incorporated by reference from the Proxy Statement
section entitled “Executive Compensation and Certain Transactions.”

Item 12.

Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters

The information in response
to this item is incorporated by reference from the Proxy Statement section
entitled “Security Ownership of Management and Certain Beneficial Owners” and “Equity
Compensation Plan Information.”

Item 13.

Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions

The information in
response to this item is incorporated by reference from the Proxy Statement
section entitled “Executive Compensation and Certain Transactions.”

Item 14.

Principal
Accounting Fees and Services

The
information in response to this item is incorporated by reference from the
Proxy Statement section entitled “Fees of Independent Auditors.”


PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits,
Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

The
financial statements and schedule filed as part of this report are listed in
the accompanying Index to Financial Statements and Schedule. The exhibits filed
as a part of this report are listed in the accompanying Index to Exhibits.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 28th day of February 2005.

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the Report has
been signed below by the following persons in the capacities and on the dates
indicated.


Index
to Exhibits



ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULE

All other financial statement
schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or the required
information is shown in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.

F-1

Report of Independent

Registered Public Accounting
Firm

The Board of Directors and Stockholders

of Zebra Technologies
Corporation:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance
sheets of Zebra Technologies Corporation and subsidiaries (the Company) as of
December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the related consolidated statements of
earnings, comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each
of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2004. In connection
with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we also have audited
the consolidated financial statement schedule of valuation and qualifying
accounts. These consolidated financial statements and the consolidated
financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated
financial statements and the consolidated financial statement schedule based on
our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements
referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of the Company as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the results of
their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended December 31, 2004, in conformity with U. S. generally accepted
accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related consolidated financial
statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated
financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material
respects, the information set forth therein.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards
of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2004, based on the criteria established in Internal Control –
Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated March 2, 2005 expressed an unqualified opinion on management’s
assessment of, and the effective operation of, internal control over financial
reporting.

/s/KPMG LLP

Chicago, Illinois

March 2

, 2005

F-2

ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(Amounts in thousands, except share and per share data)

See
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-3

ZEBRA
TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS

(Amounts in thousands, except per share data)

See
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-4

ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

(Amounts in thousands)

See
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-5

ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

(Dollars in thousands)

See
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-6

ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(Amounts in thousands)

See
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-7

ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Note 1 Description of Business

Zebra Technologies Corporation and its
wholly-owned subsidiaries (Zebra) design, manufacture, sell and support a broad
range of direct thermal and thermal transfer label printers, radio frequency
identification printer/encoders, dye sublimation card printers, digital photo
printers and related accessories and support software. These products are used
principally in automatic identification (auto ID), data collection and personal
identification applications and are distributed world-wide through a network of
resellers, distributors and end users representing a wide cross-section of
industrial, service and government organizations.

Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Principles of Consolidation.

These
consolidated financial statements were prepared on a consolidated basis to
include the accounts of Zebra and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All
significant intercompany accounts, transactions and unrealized profit were
eliminated in consolidation.

Use of Estimates.

These consolidated financial
statements were prepared using estimates and assumptions that affect the
reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements and the
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual
results could differ from those estimates.

Cash and Cash Equivalents.

Cash
consists primarily of deposits with banks. In addition, Zebra considers highly
liquid short-term investments with original maturities of less than seven days
to be cash equivalents.

Investments and Marketable Securities.

Investments
and marketable securities at December 31, 2004, consisted of U.S. government
securities, state and municipal bonds, partnership interests and equity
securities, which are held indirectly in diversified funds actively managed by
investment professionals. Zebra classifies its debt and marketable equity
securities in one of three categories: trading, available-for-sale or
held-to-maturity. Trading securities are bought and held principally for the
purpose of selling them in the near term. Held-to-maturity securities are those
securities that Zebra has the ability and intent to hold until maturity. All
securities not included in trading or held-to-maturity are classified as
available-for-sale.

Trading and available-for-sale securities are recorded at fair value.
Held-to-maturity securities are recorded at amortized cost, adjusted for the
amortization or accretion of discounts or premiums. Unrealized holding gains
and losses on trading securities are included in earnings. Unrealized holding
gains and losses, net of the related tax effect, on available-for-sale
securities are excluded from earnings and are reported as a separate component
of stockholders’ equity until realized.

Inventories.

Inventories are stated at the
lower of cost or market, and cost is determined by the first-in, first-out
(FIFO) method.

Property and Equipment.

Property and equipment
is stated at cost. Depreciation and amortization is computed primarily using
the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the various classes
of property and equipment, which are 30 years for buildings and range from 3 to
10 years for other property. Property and equipment held under capital leases
is amortized using the straight-line method over the shorter of the lease term
or estimated useful life of the asset.

Income Taxes.

Zebra accounts for income taxes
under the asset and liability method. Accordingly, deferred tax assets and
liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to
differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets
and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and
liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable
income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be
recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a
change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the
enactment date.

F-8

Intangible Assets.

Goodwill represents the
unamortized excess of the cost of acquiring a business over the fair values of
the net assets received at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is no longer being
amortized as required by SFAS No. 142,

Goodwill
and Other Intangible Assets

.

We test the impairment of goodwill each year or whenever events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be
recoverable. We completed our last assessment during June 2004.

We evaluate the impairment of long-lived assets whenever events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be
recoverable.

Factors considered that might trigger an impairment review consist of:

•

Significant
underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating
results

•

Significant
changes in the manner of use of the acquired assets or the strategy for the
overall business

•

Significant
negative industry or economic trends

•

Significant
decline in Zebra’s stock price for a sustained period

•

Significant
decline in market capitalization relative to net book value

If we believe that one or more of the above indicators of impairment
have occurred, we measure impairment based on a projected discounted cash flow
using a discount rate that incorporates the risk inherent in the cash flows.

Other intangible assets consist primarily of current technology and
customer relationships. These assets are recorded at cost and amortized on a
straight-line basis over 5 to 8 years. Accumulated amortization for these other
intangible assets was $8,074,000 and $5,505,000 at December 31, 2004 and 2003,
respectively.

Revenue Recognition

. Revenue includes sales of
hardware, supplies, software and services (including repair services, extended
service contracts, and professional services). Product revenue is recognized
when product has been shipped, risk of loss has passed to the purchaser, and
Zebra has fulfilled all of its obligations. We provide for an estimate of
product returns based on historical experience. Revenue related to extended
warranty and service contracts is recorded as deferred income and recognized
over the life of the contract. Professional services revenue is recorded when
performed. From time to time, Zebra will enter into sales transactions that
include more than one product type. This bundle of products might include
printers, current or future supplies, and services. When this type of
transaction occurs, we allocate the purchase price to each product type based
on the fair value of the individual products. 
The revenue for each individual product is then recognized when the
earning process for that product is complete.

Zebra records payments to resellers of its product as reductions to
revenue unless these payments meet the requirements for operating expense
treatment under EITF 01-09

Accounting for Consideration
Given by a Vendor to a Customer (Including a Reseller of the Vendor’s
Products).

See the market development funds accounting policy for
further details.

Revenue includes all customer billings for shipping and handling
charges. The related costs of shipping and handling revenue are recorded as
cost of goods sold.

Research and Development Costs.

Research and
development costs are expensed as incurred. These costs include:

•

Salaries,
benefits, and other R&D personnel related costs

•

Consulting and other
outside services used in the R&D process

•

Engineering
supplies

•

Engineering
related information systems costs

•

Allocation of
building and related costs

From time to time, Zebra will provide engineering and development
services to third parties on a contract basis. Zebra does not guarantee the
outcome of this research and does not retain any obligation to repay
third-party funding received for these contract services. Since these services
are not part of our standard product offering, we treat payments received under
these arrangements as reductions to research and development costs.

F-9

Advertising.

Advertising costs are expensed as
incurred. Advertising expenses for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and
2002 totaled $5,117,000, $3,721,000 and $3,965,000, respectively.

Market Development Funds.

Zebra makes market
development funds available to its resellers to support demand generation
activity by the resellers. These funds require the reseller to provide specific
services or benefits to Zebra and substantiate the fair value of such. Zebra
reimburses resellers for agreed activities up to the fair value of the benefit
received by Zebra. These payments are treated as marketing costs consistent
with the requirements of EITF 01-9

, Accounting for
Consideration Given by a Vendor to a Customer (Including a Reseller of the
Vendor’s Products).

Any payments to resellers that do not meet these
requirements are recorded as reductions to revenue.

Warranty.

Zebra provides warranty coverage of
up to one year on printers against defects in material and workmanship. A
provision for warranty expense is recorded at the time of shipment and adjusted
quarterly based on historical warranty experience. The following is a summary
of Zebra’s accrued warranty obligation during the years ended December 31, 2004
and 2003.

Fair Value of Financial instruments.

Zebra
estimates the fair value of its financial instruments as follows:

In accordance with SFAS No. 133,

Accounting
for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities

, we recognize
derivative instruments and hedging activities as either assets or liabilities
on the balance sheet and measure them at fair value. Gains and losses resulting
from changes in fair value are accounted for depending on the use of the
derivative and whether it is designated and qualifies for hedge accounting. See
Note 15 for additional information on our derivatives and hedging activities.

F-10

Stock-based Compensation.

At December 31, 2004, Zebra has three
stock-based compensation plans, which are described more fully in Note 3. Zebra
accounts for those plans using the intrinsic method in accordance with the
recognition and measurement principles of APB Opinion No. 25,

Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,

and related Interpretations. No stock-based
compensation cost is reflected in net income, as all options granted under
those plans had an exercise price equal to the market value of the underlying
common stock on the date of grant. The following table illustrates the effect
on net income and earnings per share if Zebra had applied the fair value
recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123,

Accounting
for Stock-based Compensation,

to stock-based compensation.

Deferred Compensation Plan.

Zebra

has a deferred compensation plan that
permits management and highly compensated employees to defer portions of their
compensation. Zebra immediately pays deferred amounts into a Rabbi Trust, and
plan participants select a method of investing these funds into hypothetical
investments. Zebra tracks the performance of these hypothetical investments in
order to determine the value of each participant’s deferral. Zebra accrues the
deferred compensation liability in other long-term liabilities as the amount
that is actually owed to the participants. Our deferred compensation liability
was $3,894,000 as of December 31, 2004, and $2,401,000 as of December 31, 2003.
Zebra actually invests the funds in company owned life insurance policies, in
which Zebra is the beneficiary, to fund the ultimate payment of the deferred
compensation. These polices are valued at the cash surrender value and are
included other assets.

Foreign Currency Translations.

The
consolidated balance sheets of Zebra’s foreign subsidiaries are translated into
U.S. dollars using the year-end exchange rate, and statement of earnings items
are translated using the average exchange rate for the year. The resulting
translation gains or losses are recorded in stockholders’ equity as a cumulative
translation adjustment, which is a component of accumulated other comprehensive
income.

Capitalized Software.

Zebra’s investment in
software development consists primarily of enhancements to its existing
E-commerce web-based application, which will include the automation of current
business activities. Specifically, the activities include the processing of
customer orders; the acknowledgement of customer orders and delivery; and the
financial invoicing for all of Zebra’s products and will aid in enabling Zebra
to create new business efficiencies.

Costs associated with the planning and design phases
of web-based development, including coding and testing activities necessary to
establish technological feasibility of the functionality of the website, are
charged to research and development as incurred. Once technological feasibility
has been determined, costs incurred in the construction phase of software
development including coding, testing, and product quality assurance are
capitalized and are amortized over their estimated useful lives.

Acquisition Costs.

Zebra
periodically has expenditures related to potential acquisitions. These
expenditures are recorded as prepaid expenses until such time as Zebra either
completes the transaction or abandons the transaction. If the transaction is
completed, the costs are treated as part of the cost of the acquisition. If the
transaction is abandoned, the costs are expensed

F-11

during the period in which it is abandoned. During 2002, operating
expenses included $3,300,000 of costs related to such an abandonment.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed of

.
Zebra accounts for long-lived assets in accordance with the provisions of SFAS
No. 144,

Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of
Long-Lived Assets

. The statement requires that long-lived assets and
certain identifiable intangibles be reviewed for impairment whenever events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not
be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a
comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to the sum of the undiscounted
cash flows expected to result from the use and the eventual disposition of the asset.
If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized
is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds
the fair value of the assets. Assets to be disposed of are reported at the
lower of the carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell.

Recently
Issued Accounting Pronouncements.

In March 2004, the FASB
issued Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 03-1 (EITF 03-1),

The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and
its Application to Certain Investments

, which provides new guidance
for assessing impairment losses on investments. Additionally, EITF 03-1
includes new disclosure requirements for investments that are deemed to be
temporarily impaired. In September 2004, the FASB delayed the accounting provisions
of EITF 03-1; however, the disclosure requirements remain effective for annual
periods ending after June 15, 2004. We will evaluate the impact of EITF 03-1
once final guidance is issued. See Note 7 for added disclosures.

In November
2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151,

Inventory
Costs — an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4.

SFAS No. 151 amends
the guidance in ARB No. 43, Chapter 4, “Inventory Pricing”, to clarify the
accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling
costs, and wasted material (spoilage). Paragraph 5 of ARB 43, Chapter 4,
previously stated that these costs may be “so abnormal” that they would require
treatment as current period charges. This statement requires that those items
be recognized as current-period charges regardless of whether they meet the
criterion of “so abnormal”. This statement also requires that allocation of
fixed production overheads to the costs of conversion be based on the normal
capacity of the production facilities. This statement describes our current
process; therefore, it will not have any impact on our financial position or
results of operations.

In December 2004, the
FASB issued SFAS No. 123(R) (revised 2004),

Share Based Payment

, which is a revision
of SFAS 123,

Accounting for Stock-Based

Compensation,
and supercedes APB Opinion No. 25,

Accounting
for Stock Issued to Employees

and its related implementation
guidance. SFAS No. 123 (R) focuses primarily on accounting for transactions in
which an entity obtains employee services through share-based payment
transactions. It requires a public entity to measure the cost of employee
services received in exchange for the award of equity instruments based on the
fair value of the award at the date of grant. The cost will be recognized over
the period during which an employee is required to provide services in exchange
for the award. The provisions of this statement become effective for Zebra
during the third quarter of 2005. We expect the impact on Zebra’s consolidated
financial statements to be consistent with the fair value disclosures included
in our critical accounting policies and Note 2 to the consolidated financial
statements.

In December 2004, the
FASB issued FSP FAS 109-1,

Application of
FASB No. 109, Accounting forIincome Taxe, to the Tax Deduction on Qualified
Production Activities Provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004.

FSP
FAS No. 109-1 clarifies SFAS No. 109’s guidance that applies to the new tax
deduction for qualified domestic production activities. FSP No. 109-1 became
effective upon issuance and we believe that this pronouncement will have an
insignificant impact on our effective tax rate in 2005.

In December 2004, the
FASB issues FSP FAS 109-2,

Accounting and
Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Repatriation Provision within the American
Jobs Creation Act of 2004.

FSP FAS 109-2 provides implementation
guidance related to the repatriation provision of the American Jobs Creation
Act of 2004. We have completed our assessment of earning of foreign
subsidiaries that might be repatriated. At this time we do not expect to
repatriate the earnings of our foreign subsidiaries as dividends to take
advantage of this tax credit.

Reclassifications

.
Certain amounts in the prior years’ financial statements have been reclassified
to conform to the current year’s presentation.

F-12

Note 3 Stock Based Compensation

As of December 31, 2004, Zebra has three active stock option and stock
purchase plans, which are described below.

The Board of Directors adopted
the 1997 Stock Option Plan, effective February 11, 1997, and 9,562,500 shares

of
Class A Common Stock were reserved for issuance under the plan

. The 1997 Stock Option Plan is a flexible plan
that provides the committee that administers the Plan broad discretion to
fashion the terms of the awards to provide eligible participants with
stock-based incentives, including: (i) nonqualified and incentive stock options
for the purchase of Zebra’s Class A Common Stock and (ii) dividend equivalents.
The persons eligible to participate in the 1997 Stock Option Plan are
directors, officers, and employees of Zebra or any subsidiary of Zebra who, in
the opinion of the committee administering the plan, are in a position to make
contributions to the growth, management, protection and success of Zebra or its
subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2004, 2,735,718 shares were available under
the plan.

The options granted under the 1997 Stock Option Plan
have an exercise price equal to the closing market price of Zebra’s stock on
the date of grant. The options generally vest over two- to five-year periods
and have a legal life of ten years from the date of grant. The Compensation
Committee of the Board of Directors administers the plan.

Zebra’s Board of Directors adopted the 1997
Director Plan, effective February 11, 1997. The 1997 Director Plan provides for
the issuance of options to purchase up to 173,250 shares of Class A Common
Stock, which shares are reserved and available for purchase upon the exercise
of options granted under the 1997 Director Plan. Only directors who are not
employees or officers of Zebra are eligible to participate in the 1997 Director
Plan. Under the 1997 Director Plan, each non-employee director was granted, on
the effective date of the plan, an option to purchase 33,750 shares of Class A
Common Stock, and each non-employee director subsequently elected to the Board
will be granted an option to purchase shares of Class A Common Stock on the
date of his or her election. Options granted under the 1997 Director Plan
provide for the purchase of Class A Common Stock at a price equal to the fair
market value on the date of grant. If there are not sufficient shares remaining
and available to all non-employee directors eligible for an automatic grant at
the time at which an automatic grant would otherwise be made, then each
eligible non-employee director shall receive an option to purchase a pro rata
number of shares. Unless otherwise provided in an option agreement, options
granted under the 1997 Director Plan shall become exercisable in five equal
increments beginning on the date of the grant and on each of the first four
anniversaries thereof. All options expire on the earlier of (a) ten years
following the grant date or (b) the second anniversary of the termination of
the non-employee director’s directorship for any reason other than due to death
or disability (as defined in the 1997 Director Plan). A total of 118,125 shares
were issued under this plan, which was terminated February 1, 2002. At December
31, 2004, 11,250 options issued under the 1997 Director Plan remained
outstanding and unexercised.

The Board of Directors and stockholders adopted the
2001 Stock Purchase Plan and reserved 1,125,000 shares of Class A Common Stock
for issuance under the plan. Under this plan, employees who work a minimum of
20 hours per week may elect to withhold up to 10% of their cash compensation
through regular payroll deductions to purchase shares of Class A Common Stock
from Zebra over a period not to exceed 12 months at a purchase price per share
equal to the lesser of: (1) 85% of the fair market value of the shares as of
the date of the grant, or (2) 85% of the fair market value of the shares as of
the date of purchase. As of December 31, 2004, 298,763 shares have been
purchased under the plan.

Zebra’s Board of Directors adopted the 2002 Director
Plan, effective February 1, 2002. The 2002 Director Plan provides for the
issuance of options to purchase up to 360,000 shares of Class A Common Stock,
which shares are reserved and available for purchase upon the exercise of
options granted under the 2002 Director Plan.

Only
directors who are not employees or officers of Zebra are eligible to
participate in the 2002 Director Plan. Under the 2002 Director Plan, each
non-employee director was granted, on the effective date of the plan, an option
to purchase 45,000 shares of Class A Common Stock, and each non-employee
director subsequently elected to the Board will be granted an option to
purchase shares of Class A Common Stock on the date of his or her election or
appointment. Options granted under the 2002 Director Plan provide for the
purchase of Class A Common Stock at a price equal to the fair market value on
the date of grant. If there are not sufficient shares remaining and available
to all non-employee directors eligible for an automatic grant at the time at
which an automatic grant would otherwise be made, then each eligible
non-employee director shall receive an option to purchase a pro rata number of
shares. As of December 31, 2004, 187,932 shares were available under the plan.
Unless otherwise provided in an option agreement, options granted under the
2002 Director Plan shall become exercisable in five equal increments beginning
on the date of the grant and on each of the first four anniversaries thereof.
All options expire on the earlier of (a) ten years following the grant date,
(b) the first anniversary of the termination date of the non-employee director’s
directorship for any reason other than those listed in clause (c) below, or

F-13

(c) the termination of the
non-employee director’s directorship by Zebra’s stockholders for cause, or
resignation for cause, in each case as defined in the option agreement.

For purposes of calculating the compensation cost consistent with SFAS
No. 123, the fair value of each stock option grant is estimated on the date of
grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The following table shows
the weighted-average assumptions used for stock option grants as well as the
fair value of the options granted based on those assumptions:

The fair value of
the employees’ purchase rights issued under the Stock Purchase Plan are
estimated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following
weighted-average assumptions used for purchase rights granted. Expected lives
of three months to one year have been used along with these assumptions.

Stock option activity for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003, and
2002 was as follows:

F-14

The following table summarizes information about fixed
stock options outstanding at December 31, 2004:

Note 4 Business Combinations

Atlantek, Inc.

On November 17, 2003,
Zebra acquired Atlantek, Inc. (Atlantek), by acquiring all of the outstanding
stock of Atlantek for approximately $13,680,000 in cash. Located in Wakefield,
Rhode Island, Atlantek had been a privately held company. Atlantek designs and
manufactures thermal digital printers. The consolidated statements of earnings
reflect the results of operations of Atlantek since the effective date of the
acquisition. The pro forma impact of this acquisition was not significant.

The following table (in
thousands) summarizes the adjusted fair values of the assets acquired and
liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition.

The purchase price was allocated
to identifiable tangible assets and intangible assets acquired and liabilities
assumed based on their estimated fair values. Of the $7,884,000 of acquired
intangible assets, $714,000 was assigned to in-process technology assets that
were written-off at the date of the acquisition in accordance with FASB
Interpretation No. 4,

Applicability
of FASB Statement No. 2 to Business Combinations Accounted for by the Purchase
Method

.
The write-off of in-process technology is stated separately in the operating
expense section of the consolidated statements of earnings. The remaining
$7,170,000 of acquired intangible assets consists of current technology of
$4,837,000 with useful lives from 5 to 6 years and customer relationships of
$2,333,000 with a useful life of 8 years. The goodwill is not deductible for
tax purposes.

The transaction called for two
payments in addition to the original payment, which are contingent upon revenue
related to specific products for the first two years after the acquisition.
These payments were not assured beyond a reasonable doubt at the time of the
acquisition. During the fourth quarter of 2004, the first of these payments was
made for $632,000 and added to goodwill. One additional and final payment may
be made in the fourth quarter of 2005 and would be added to goodwill at that
time.

Acquisition Termination Costs and Sale of
Investment

.

In the first quarter of 2002, Zebra terminated the acquisition agreement
and tender offer in which Zebra would acquire all outstanding shares of common
stock (including associated rights to purchase preferred stock) of Fargo
Electronics, Inc. for $7.25 per share in cash. In connection with the
termination, Zebra recorded $3,300,000 in expenses for capitalized acquisition
costs and other acquisition costs that would otherwise have been

F-15

capitalized.
Also during the quarter ended March 30, 2002, Zebra sold its investment in
common stock of Fargo and realized a pre-tax gain of $1,953,000, which is
included in investment income.

Note 5 Stockholders’ Equity

Share
count and par value data related to stockholders’ equity are as follows:

On July 15, 2004, the
Board of Directors authorized a fifty percent (50%) stock dividend on each
issued share of Class A common stock payable before the close of business on
August 25, 2004, to holders of all such shares at the close of business on July
29, 2004. All share counts and per-share amounts have been restated to reflect
this stock dividend.

During 2004, Zebra sold
put options indexed in our own stock that would, if exercised, require us to
repurchase 100 shares for each option exercised at a specified strike price.  As of December 31, 2004, 800 options were
outstanding and have an expiration of February 2005. Of the outstanding
options, 400 options have a strike price of $45 per share, and 400 options have
a strike price of $50 per share. If all of the options were to be exercised,
Zebra would be required to repurchase 80,000 shares of Class A Common Stock at
a total price of $3,800,000.

Stockholder Rights Agreement.

Zebra’s
Board of Directors adopted a Stockholder Rights Agreement under which stock
purchase rights were paid by dividend to stockholders of record on March 15,
2002 at the rate of one Class A Right for each outstanding share of Class A
Common Stock. Each Class A Right, other than those held by the acquiring
person, entitles the registered holder to purchase one ten-thousandth of a
share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per
share, at a price of $300 per one ten-thousandth of Class A Preferred Share
after the distribution date. The distribution date is 10 days after the date on
which any person or group announces that it has acquired 15% or more of Zebra’s
outstanding common stock or 10 days (or a later date as determined by the Board
of Directors) after the date on which any person or group announces or
commences a tender offer that would result in the person or group becoming an
owner of 15% or more of the outstanding common stock.

The Rights will expire on March 14, 2012 unless that date has been
extended by the Board of Directors or unless the Rights are redeemed or
terminated earlier. A committee of Zebra’s independent directors will review
the Rights Plan at least every three years and decide whether it should
continue or be revoked. Zebra generally may amend the Rights Plan or redeem the
Rights at $0.001 per Right at any time prior to the time a person or group has
acquired at least 15% of the outstanding common stock.

F-16

Note 6
Earnings Per Share

For the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002, earnings per
share were computed as follows (in thousands, except per-share amounts):

The potentially dilutive securities, which were excluded from the earnings
per share calculation, consisted of stock options for which the exercise price
was greater than the average market price of the Class A Common Stock. For the
years ended December 31, the shares amounted to 13,800 in 2004, 79,068 in 2003,
and 438,469 in 2002.

No

te 7 Investments and Marketable Securities

We classify the majority of our investments and marketable securities
as available-for-sale in accordance with the classifications defined in SFAS
No. 115,

Accounting for Certain Investments
in Debt and Equity Securities.

SFAS No. 115 requires that

changes
in the market value of available-for-sale securities are reflected in the
accumulated other comprehensive income caption of stockholders’ equity in the
balance sheet, until we dispose of the securities. Once these securities are
disposed of, either by sale or maturity, the accumulated changes in market
value are transferred to investment income. On the cash flow statements,
changes in the balances of

available-for-sale

securities are shown as purchases, sales and maturities of investments and
marketable securities under investing activities.

Changes in market value of

trading

securities are recorded in investment income as they occur, and the related
cash flow statement includes changes in the balances of trading securities as
operating cash flows.

The amortized cost, gross unrealized holding
gains, gross unrealized holding losses and aggregate fair value of investment
securities at December 31, 2004, were as follows (in thousands):

F-17

The amortized
cost, gross unrealized holding gains, gross unrealized holding losses and
aggregate fair value of investment securities at December 31, 2003, were as
follows (in thousands):

Unrealized gains and losses on investment securities are included in
these financial statements as follows (in thousands):

The following table shows the number,
aggregate market value and unrealized losses (in thousands) of investments with
market values that were less than amortized cost as of December 31, 2004. These
lower market values are caused by short-term fluctuations in interest rates and
are not a reflection of the credit worthiness of the issuer.  Market values are expected to recover to the
amortized cost prior to maturity.

As of December 31, 2003, the number,
aggregate market value and unrealized losses (in thousands) of investments with
market values that were less than amortized cost were:

F-18

Zebra is a limited partner in two
non-registered partnerships. The partnerships seek to provide returns to its
partners by making strategic investments in a diversified portfolio of
investment funds. Zebra’s investment as a limited partner allows it to have
liability protection limited to the amount of its investments in the funds.

The contractual maturities of debt securities
at December 31, 2004, were as follows (in thousands):

Using the specific identification method, the
proceeds and realized gains on the sales of available-for-sale securities were
as follows (in thousands):

Note 8 Related-Party Transactions

Unique Building Corporation (Unique), an entity controlled by certain
officers and stockholders of Zebra, leases a facility to Zebra under a lease
described in Note 16. Management believes that the lease payments are
substantially consistent with amounts that could have been negotiated with
third parties on an arm’s-length basis and represent market conditions at the
time of the negotiations.

Lease payments related to the lease, and recorded as a component of all
functional areas, were included in the consolidated financial statements as
follows (in thousands):

Future minimum lease payments related to the lease as of December 31,
2004, are as follows (in thousands):

F-19

Note 9 Inventories

The components of inventories, net of allowances, are as follows (in
thousands):

Note 10 Property and Equipment

Property and equipment, which includes assets under capital leases, is
comprised of the following (in thousands):

Other items related to property and equipment
are as follows:

Year Ended December 31,




Amortization of capitalized software

$

2,125

$

2,132

$

2,042

Note 11 Income Taxes

The geographical sources of income before income taxes were as follows
(in thousands):

Zebra does not provide for deferred income taxes on undistributed
earnings of foreign subsidiaries, which totaled approximately $34,000,000 at
December 31, 2004 and $22,500,000 at December 31, 2003. Should such earnings be
remitted to Zebra, foreign tax credits would be available to substantially
offset the U.S. income taxes due upon repatriation.

F-20

The provision for income taxes consists of the following (in
thousands):

The provision for income taxes differs from the amount computed by
applying the U.S. statutory Federal income tax rate of 35% to income before
income taxes. The reconciliation of statutory and effective income taxes is
presented below (in thousands):

Deferred income taxes reflect the impact of temporary differences
between the amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes
and such amounts as measured by tax laws. Based on management’s assessment, it
is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized through
future taxable earnings.

F-21

Tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to deferred tax
assets and liabilities are as follows (in thousands):

Note 12 Goodwill and Other Intangible Asset Data

During the first quarter
of 2002, we implemented SFAS No. 142,

Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets

, which replaces the requirements to amortize
intangible assets with indefinite lives and goodwill with a requirement for an
annual impairment test. SFAS No. 142 also set requirements for identifiable
intangible assets.

Intangible asset data are as follows (in thousands):

F-22

During the fourth quarter of 2004, a contingent payment related to the
Atlantek acquisition was made for $632,000 and added to goodwill. See Note 4 for
further details.

Note 13 Other Assets

Other assets consists of the following (in
thousands):

Zebra invested $10,027,000 in life insurance policies on 48 key
executives during 2004, which currently has a cash surrender value of
$10,367,000 and a guaranteed rate of return of 8% through July 28, 2005.

Note 14 401(k) Savings and Profit Sharing Plans

Zebra has a Retirement Savings and Investment Plan (the 401(k) Plan),
which is intended to qualify under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code.
Qualified employees may participate in Zebra’s 401(k) Plan by contributing up
to 15% of their gross earnings to the plan subject to certain Internal Revenue
Service restrictions. Zebra matches each participant’s contribution of up to 6%
of gross eligible earnings at the rate of 50%. Zebra may contribute additional
amounts to the 401(k) Plan at the discretion of the Board of Directors, subject
to certain legal limits.

Zebra has a discretionary profit-sharing plan for qualified employees,
to which it contributes a percentage of eligible payroll each year.
Participants are not permitted to make contributions under the profit-sharing
plan.

Company contributions to these plans, which were charged to operations,
approximated the following (in thousands):

Note 15 Derivative Instruments

In the normal course of
business, portions of Zebra’s operations are subject to fluctuations in
currency values. We manage these risks using derivative financial instruments.

F-23

Hedging
of Net Assets

We use forward contracts
and options to manage exposure related to our pound and euro denominated net
assets. We record gains and losses on these contracts and options in income
each quarter along with the translation gains and losses related to our net
euro asset position, which would ordinarily offset each other. Summary
financial information related to these activities follows (in thousands):

Hedging
of Anticipated Sales

During 2003, we began
managing the exchange rate risk of anticipated euro denominated sales using
forward contracts and designate these contracts as cash flow hedges. Unrealized
gains and losses on these contracts are deferred in other comprehensive income
until the contracts are settled and the hedged sales are realized, at which
time the deferred gains or losses will be reported as an increase or decrease
to sales. Summary financial information related to the cash flow hedges of
future revenues follows (in thousands, except percentages):

We recorded no gain or
loss for 2002.

The above year-to-date
gains and losses are the net pretax gains and losses released from other
comprehensive income into earnings during 2004 and 2003. We expect to release
pretax losses in the amount of $2,231,000 from other comprehensive income into
earnings during 2005 along with gains and losses on similar contracts entered
into early in 2005. Currently, the initial duration of our forecasted sales
hedge contracts is six months. Effectiveness testing is performed on each
contract monthly. We have not experienced any gains or losses due to
ineffectiveness. If we were to experience such gains or losses, we would record
them as a foreign exchange gain or loss. If we were to cancel or net settle a
hedge designated as a cash flow

F-24

hedge prior to the
scheduled settlement date, we would recognize the gain or loss on that
settlement immediately as a foreign exchange gain or loss.

Note 16 Commitments and Contingencies

Leases.

In September 1989, Zebra entered into
a lease agreement for its Vernon Hills facility and certain machinery,
equipment, furniture and fixtures with Unique Building Corporation, a related
party. The facility portion of the lease is the only remaining portion in
existence as of December 31, 2004, and is treated as an operating lease. An
amendment to the lease dated July 1997 added 59,150 square feet and extended
the term of the existing lease through June 30, 2014. The lease agreement
includes a modification to the base monthly rental, which goes into effect if
the prescribed rent payment is less than the aggregate principal and interest
payments required to be made by Unique under an Industrial Revenue Bond (IRB).

Minimum future obligations under non-cancelable operating leases and
future minimum capital lease payments as of December 31, 2004 are as follows (in
thousands):

Rent expense for operating leases charged to operations was as follows
(in thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




Rent expense

$

6,404

$

5,591

$

5,699

In addition to the related party lease noted above, the operating lease
information includes a variety of other properties around the world. These
properties are used as manufacturing facilities, distribution centers and sales
offices. Lease terms range from six months to 25 years with breaking periods
specified in the lease agreements.

Since December 31, 2004, Zebra signed three additional operating lease
agreements, which are not included in the schedule above. In Vernon Hills,
Illinois, we leased an additional 34,000 square feet of office space for 3
years beginning March 1, 2005 with annual payments of $612,000. In Heervenveen,
the Netherlands, we leased approximately 95,000 square feet of office and
warehouse space for 20 years beginning February 15, 2005 with an option to
terminate the lease at each five-year anniversary date. The annual payments on
this lease will be €350,000, or approximately $440,000. In Chula Vista, California, we leased approximately 14,000 square feet
of manufacturing and warehouse space for two years beginning February 11, 2005
with annual payments of $135,000.

Letter of credit.

In connection with the lease
agreements described above, Zebra has guaranteed Unique’s full and prompt
payment under Unique’s letter of credit agreement with a bank. The contingent
liability of Zebra under this guaranty as of December 31, 2004 is $700,000,
which is the limit of Zebra’s guaranty throughout the term of the IRB.

Legal
proceedings.

On April 23, 2003, Paxar Americas, Inc. (Paxar
Americas) filed a patent infringement lawsuit in the United States District
Court for the Southern District of Ohio against Zebra and certain of its
subsidiaries. Paxar Americas’ Complaint alleges that certain of Zebra’s printer
products infringe one or more of eight identified Paxar Americas patents,
although not each product is accused of infringing each patent. Zebra has filed
an Answer to Paxar Americas’ Complaint,

F-25

denying Paxar
Americas’ allegations of infringement and asserting several affirmative
defenses, including the invalidity of Paxar Americas’ asserted patent claims.
Paxar has sought to amend its original complaint to add two additional patents
to the lawsuit and to expand the scope of accused products. Zebra has opposed
Paxar’s motions in this regard and the court has the issue under advisement.

On November 21,
2003, Zebra’s subsidiary, ZIH Corp. (ZIH), filed a Complaint in the United
States District Court for the District of Massachusetts against Paxar
Corporation, alleging that Paxar Corporation printers infringe ZIH’s U.S.
Patent Nos. 5,813,343 and 5,860,753. Paxar Corporation answered ZIH’s
Complaint, denying infringement and seeking a declaratory judgment that ZIH’s
patents-in-suit are not infringed and are invalid and/or unenforceable. Paxar
Corporation filed a motion to transfer ZIH’s Massachusetts suit to Ohio federal
court, and the court denied Paxar’s motion.

On November 25,
2003, Paxar Americas filed a Complaint against ZIH in the United States
District Court for the Southern District of Ohio, seeking a declaratory
judgment that the patents asserted by ZIH in its Massachusetts Complaint are
not infringed and are invalid and unenforceable. On December 17, 2003, Paxar
Americas amended its complaint to add Zebra Technologies Corporation as a
defendant. In view of the Massachusetts’ District Court’s denial of Paxar
Corporation’s motion to transfer to Ohio ZIH’s corresponding patent
infringement suit against Paxar Corporation, the parties to Paxar America’s
Ohio declaratory judgment action have agreed to transfer this case to
Massachusetts.

The outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain, particularly in
cases such as these where sophisticated factual issues must be assessed and
complex technical issues must be decided. As a result, we cannot accurately
predict the outcome of these lawsuits. In the event we are unsuccessful in our
defense of Paxar Americas’ infringement claims, we could be liable for economic
and other damages, which could be material, and we may be forced to incur
ongoing licensing expenses or to change how we design, manufacture and market
our products. The patents that ZIH has asserted against Paxar Corporation could
be found invalid. We have and will continue to incur substantial fees to
prosecute and defend these lawsuits. We are unable at this time to estimate the
range of the potential liability that would result from an unsuccessful
defense, and consistent with the requirements of SFAS No. 5,

Accounting for Contingencies,

no liability
has been recorded in Zebra’s consolidated financial statements as of December
31, 2004.

Note 17 Segment Data and Export Sales

Zebra is organized with two internal business
units, bar code and card printers. These business units have similar economic
characteristics, products and services, production processes, types of
customers, distribution methods, and regulatory environments. Additionally,
there are significant shared services supporting both business units. Because
of these similarities, we have aggregated our internal business units and have
treated them as one reportable segment as permitted by SFAS No. 131,

Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and
Related Information.

Information regarding Zebra’s operations by geographic area is
contained in the following table. These amounts (in thousands) are reported in
the geographic area of the destination of the final sale.

We manage our business based on these regions
rather than by individual countries.

F-26

Net sales by major product category are as
follows (in thousands):

Note 18 Deferred Compensation Plan

Beginning January 1, 2002, Zebra offered a
deferred compensation plan that permits management and highly compensated employees
to defer portions of their compensation and to select a method of investing
these funds. The salaries that have been deferred since the plan’s inception
have been accrued and the only expense, other than salaries, related to this
plan is the gain/loss from the changes to the deferred compensation liability,
which is charged to compensation expense. To fund this plan, Zebra purchases
corporate-owned whole-life insurance contracts on the related employees, of
which Zebra is the beneficiary. The following table shows the income, asset and
liability amounts related to this plan (in thousands):

Year ended December 31,




Gain (loss) on
  cash surrender value of life insurance policies included in investment income

$


$


$

(16

)

December 31,


December 31,


Deferred
  compensation liability included in other long-term liability

$

3,894

$

2,401

Cash surrender
  value included in other assets

$

3,401

$

2,116

During February 2005, we adopted the 2005 Executive Deferred
Compensation Plan, a new nonqualified deferred compensation plan. The plan is
virtually the same as the plan noted above except that it now complies with the
requirements of the new Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, enacted
under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. Section 409A imposes a number of
requirements on nonqualified deferred compensation plans, primarily relating to
the timing of elections and distributions and is effective for deferrals made
after December 31, 2004.

Note 19
Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities

During the
third quarter of 2003, we initiated a plan to close our engineering site in
Varades, France. This plan was announced in October 2003 and is accounted for
under SFAS No. 146,

Accounting for Costs
Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities

. All exit costs
associated with this activity are identified on a separate line of our income
statement, as part of operating expenses. Our consolidation plan is intended to
reduce costs and improve manufacturing efficiency.

F-27

Currently, our
Varades facility conducts the product development for our line of card printers
and includes the European service center for these printers. We transferred the
product development activities to Camarillo, California, where we have
manufactured these printers since 2001. We transferred the European card
printer service operation to our Preston, United Kingdom, facility where the
Europe, Middle East and African distribution of these printers already occurs.
To date, we have closed substantially all of this facility with only minor
administrative functions remaining. As of December 31, 2004, we incurred the
following exit costs (in thousands):

We expect to
incur no further costs for this project.

During January
2004, we announced plans to consolidate our Warwick, Rhode Island, printer
manufacturing and repair service into our Camarillo, California and Vernon
Hills, Illinois locations. This transition was expected to take 12 to 18 months
to complete. The Warwick facility will continue to manufacture and distribute
bar code label printer supplies, as well as house engineering, product
management, and the key account sales functions for mobile products. As of
December 31, 2004, we expect the following exit costs (in thousands):

During December
2004, we announced plans to close and consolidate our Wakefield, Rhode Island
facility into our other North American facilities primarily into the Warwick,
Rhode Island facility. This transition is expected to take 6 months to
complete. As of December 31, 2004, we expect the following exit costs (in
thousands):

F-28

Liabilities
and expenses related to exit activities for the year ended December 31, 2004
were as follows (in thousands):

Note 20 Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)

Stockholders’ equity contains certain items classified as other
comprehensive income, including:

•

Foreign currency translation adjustments

related to our non-U.S. subsidiary companies that have designated a functional
currency other than the dollar. We are required to translate the subsidiary functional
currency financial statements to dollars using a combination of historical,
month-end, and average foreign exchange rates. This combination of rates
creates the foreign currency translation adjustments component of other
comprehensive income.

•

Unrealized holding gains (losses) on foreign
currency hedging activities

relate to derivative instruments used to
hedge the currency exchange rates for forecasted euro sales. These hedges are
designated as cash flow hedges, and we have deferred income statement
recognition of gains and losses until the hedged transaction occurs. See Note
15 for more details.

•

Unrealized gains (losses) on investments
classified as available-for-sale

are deferred from income statement
recognition. See Note 7 for more details.

The components of other comprehensive income included in the
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income are as follows (in thousands):

F-29

The components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets are as follows (in thousands):

F-30

Note 21 Quarterly Results of Operations (unaudited)

(Amounts in thousands, except per share data)

F-31

(1)   Restated for a 3-for-2 stock split in August
2004 paid in the form of a 50% stock dividend.

(2)   Includes the following pretax charges related
to the closure/consolidation of the Varades, France, the Warwick, Rhode Island
and the Wakefield, Rhode Island facilities and the integration and in-process
research and development costs related to the acquisition of Atlantek, Inc.:

Note 22 Major Customers

ScanSource, Inc., is our most significant customer and our net sales to
them as a percent of total net sales were as follows:

Year ended December 31,




ScanSource

14.1

13.8

13.6

No other customer accounted for 10% or more of total net sales during
these years.

F-32

ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES
CORPORATION

Schedule
II

Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

(Amounts in thousands)

See accompanying report of independent
registered public accounting firm.

F-33