ITEM
1. BUSINESS



DUKE
ENERGY

General.Duke
Energy Corporation (collectively with its subsidiaries, Duke Energy) is an
energy company headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina. Duke Energy operates
in the U.S. primarily through its direct and indirect wholly owned
subsidiaries, Duke Energy Carolinas, LLC (Duke Energy Carolinas), Carolina
Power & Light Company d/b/a Progress Energy Carolinas, Inc. (Progress
Energy Carolinas), Florida Power Corporation d/b/a Progress Energy Florida,
Inc. (Progress Energy Florida), Duke Energy Ohio, Inc. (Duke Energy Ohio), and
Duke Energy Indiana, Inc. (Duke Energy Indiana), as well as in Latin America
through Duke Energy International, LLC (DEI). When discussing Duke Energy’s
consolidated financial information, it necessarily includes the results of its
six separate subsidiary registrants, Duke Energy Carolinas, Progress Energy,
Inc. (Progress Energy), Progress Energy Carolinas, Progress Energy Florida,
Duke Energy Ohio, and Duke Energy Indiana (collectively referred to as the
Subsidiary Registrants), which, along with Duke Energy, are collectively
referred to as the Duke Energy Registrants. The financial information for
Progress Energy, Progress Energy Carolinas and Progress Energy Florida includes
results after July 2, 2012.

Duke
Energy is a Delaware corporation. Its principal executive offices are located
at 550 South Tryon Street, Charlotte, North Carolina 28202-1803. Duke Energy
Carolinas is a North Carolina limited liability company. Its principal
executive offices are located at 526 South Church Street, Charlotte, North
Carolina 28202-1803. Progress Energy and Progress Energy Carolinas are North
Carolina corporations. Their principal executive offices are located at 410
South Wilmington Street, Raleigh, North Carolina 27601-1748. Progress Energy
Florida is a Florida corporation. Its principal executive offices are located
at 299 First Avenue North, St. Petersburg, Florida 33701. Duke Energy Ohio is
an Ohio corporation. Its principal executive offices are located at 139 East
Fourth Street, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202. Duke Energy Indiana is an Indiana
corporation. Its principal executive offices are located at 1000 East Main
Street, Plainfield, Indiana 46168.

The
telephone number for the Duke Energy Registrants is 704-382-3853. The Duke
Energy Registrants electronically file reports with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC), including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxies and amendments to such reports.

The
public may read and copy any materials that the Duke Energy Registrants file
with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E.,
Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of
the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also
maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information
statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically
with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. Additionally, information about the Duke
Energy Registrants, including its reports filed with the SEC, is available
through Duke Energy’s website at http://www.duke-energy.com. Such reports are
accessible at no charge through Duke Energy’s website and are made available as
soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with or furnished
to the SEC.

Merger
with Progress Energy.On July 2, 2012, Duke Energy completed the merger contemplated by the Agreement
and Plan of Merger (Merger Agreement), among Duke Energy, Diamond Acquisition
Corporation, a North Carolina corporation and Duke Energy’s wholly owned
subsidiary (Merger Sub) and Progress Energy, Inc. (Progress Energy), a North
Carolina corporation engaged in the regulated utility business of generation,
transmission and distribution and sale of electricity in portions of North
Carolina, South Carolina and Florida. As a result of the merger, Merger Sub was
merged into Progress Energy and Progress Energy became a wholly owned
subsidiary of Duke Energy.

The
merger between Duke Energy and Progress Energy provides increased scale and
diversity with potentially enhanced access to capital over the long term and a
greater ability to undertake the significant construction programs necessary to
respond to increasing environmental regulation, plant retirements and customer
demand growth. Duke Energy’s business risk profile is expected to improve over time
due to the increased proportion of the business that is regulated.
Additionally, cost savings, efficiencies and other benefits are expected from
the combined operations.

Immediately
preceding the merger, Duke Energy completed a one-for-three reverse stock split
with respect to the issued and outstanding shares of Duke Energy common stock.
The shareholders of Duke Energy approved the reverse stock split at Duke
Energy’s special meeting of shareholders held on August 23, 2011. All share and
per share amounts presented within the Form 10-K reflect the impact of the
one-for-three reverse stock split.

Progress
Energy’s shareholders received 0.87083 shares of Duke Energy common stock in exchange
for each share of Progress Energy common stock outstanding as of July 2, 2012.
Generally, all outstanding Progress Energy equity-based compensation awards
were converted into Duke Energy equity-based compensation awards using the same
ratio. The merger was structured as a tax-free exchange of shares.

For
additional information on the details of this transaction including regulatory
conditions and accounting implications, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 2 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Acquisitions and Dispositions of
Businesses and Sales of Other Assets.”

Duke
Energy Business Segments.Duke Energy conducts its operations in the following
business segments, all of which are considered reportable segments under the
applicable accounting rules: U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas (USFE&G),
Commercial Power and International Energy. The remainder of Duke Energy’s
operations are presented as Other. Duke Energy’s chief operating decision maker
regularly reviews financial information about each of these business segments
in deciding how to allocate resources and evaluate performance. For additional
information on each of these business segments, including financial and geographic
information about each reportable business segment, see Note 3 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments.”

The
following sections describe the business and operations of each of Duke
Energy’s reportable business segments, as well as Other. (For more information
on the operating outlook of Duke Energy and its reportable segments, see
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations, Introduction — Executive Overview and Economic Factors for Duke
Energy’s Business.”

U.S. FRANCHISED ELECTRIC AND GAS

U.S.
Franchised Electric and Gas (USFE&G) generates, transmits, distributes and
sells electricity in most portions of North Carolina, northern South Carolina,
central, north central and southern Indiana, west central Florida, and northern
Kentucky. USFE&G also transmits, distributes and sells electricity in
southwestern Ohio. Additionally, USFE&G transports and sells natural gas in
southwestern Ohio and northern Kentucky. It conducts operations primarily
through Duke Energy Carolinas, Progress Energy Carolinas, Progress Energy
Florida, Duke Energy Indiana, and the regulated transmission and distribution
operations of Duke Energy Ohio (Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Ohio are
collectively referred to as Duke Energy Midwest). These electric and gas
operations are subject to the rules and regulations of the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission (FERC), the North Carolina Utilities Commission (NCUC),
the Public Service Commission of South Carolina (PSCSC), the Florida Public
Service Commission (FPSC), the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO), the
Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission (IURC), and the Kentucky Public Service
Commission (KPSC). The substantial majority of USFE&G’s operations are regulated
and, accordingly, these operations qualify for regulatory accounting treatment.









PART I

USFE&G
supplies electric service to 7.2 million residential, general service and
industrial customers. Its service area covers approximately 104,000 square
miles with an estimated population of 22 million. USFE&G provides regulated
transmission and distribution services for natural gas to 500,000 customers in
southwestern Ohio and northern Kentucky. Electricity is also sold wholesale to
incorporated municipalities, electric cooperative utilities and other load
serving entities.

Duke Energy Carolinas’
and Progress Energy Carolinas’ service areas share a diversified economy that is driven
by service, manufacturing and government related output and jobs. Sales to
general service customers, which include both service and government sectors,
represent approximately one third of total retail sales and the main segments
include health care, education, financial services, information technology and
military buildings. Sales to industrial customers represent a little less than
one third of total retail sales and key sectors are textiles, chemicals, rubber
and plastics, paper, food & beverage and auto manufacturing.

Progress Energy
Florida’s
service area has a strong base of residential customers and lower percentages
of general service and industrial customers relative to the other Duke Energy
utilities’ states. Sales to general service customers, which include both
service and government sectors, represent approximately 40% of total retail
sales; the largest service segments include tourism, heath care and
agriculture. Sales to industrial customers represent only around 10% of total
retail sales and main sectors include phosphate rock mining and processing,
electronics design and manufacturing, and citrus and other food processing.

Duke Energy Indiana’s service area is
characterized by a strong presence of manufacturing activity. Sales to
industrial customers represent around 40% of total retail volumes; the larger
segments within the industrial class include primary metals, transportation
equipment, building materials, food & beverage and chemicals. Sales to
general service customers represent approximately 30% of total retail and the
largest contributors to general service sales include retail, financial, health
care and education services.

Duke Energy Ohio’s service area has a
diversified economy that is driven by primarily by the services sector. The
contribution of manufacturing to the regional economy is lower relative to
Indiana and the Carolinas’ service territories. Sales to general service
customers, which include both service and government sectors, represent
approximately 40% of total retail sales and the main segments include
healthcare, education, real estate and rental leasing, financial &
insurance services and wholesale trade services. Sales to industrial customers
represent approximately one fourth of total retail sales and key industries are
aerospace, primary metals, chemicals and food.

The number of
residential, general service and industrial customers within the USFE&G
service territory, as well as sales to these customers, is expected to increase
over time. However, growth in the near-term is being hampered by the current
economic conditions. While total industrial sales increased in 2012 when
compared to 2011, the growth rate was modest when compared to historical
periods.

Seasonality
and the Impact of Weather

USFE&G’s
costs and revenues are influenced by seasonal patterns. Peak sales of
electricity occur during the summer and winter months, resulting in higher
revenue and cash flows during those periods. By contrast, fewer sales of
electricity occur during the spring and fall, allowing for scheduled plant
maintenance during those periods. Peak gas sales occur during the winter
months. Residential and general service customers are most impacted by weather.
Industrial customers are less weather sensitive. Estimated weather impacts are
based on actual current period weather compared to normal weather conditions,
with normal weather conditions defined as the long-term average of actual
historical weather conditions.

The
estimated impact of weather on earnings is based on the number of customers,
temperature variances from a normal condition and customers’ historic usage levels
and patterns. The methodology used to estimate the impact of weather does not
and cannot consider all variables that may impact customer response to weather
conditions such as humidity and relative temperature changes. The precision of
this estimate may also be impacted by applying long-term weather trends to
shorter term periods.

Degree-day
data are used to estimate the energy required to maintain comfortable indoor
temperatures based on each day’s average temperature. Heating-degree days
measure the variation in the weather based on the extent to which the average
daily temperature falls below a base temperature, and cooling-degree days
measure the variation in weather based on the extent to which the average daily
temperature rises above the base temperature. Each degree of temperature below
the base temperature counts as one heating-degree day and each degree of
temperature above the base temperature counts as one cooling-degree day.

Competition

Retail.USFE&G’s
regulated utility businesses operate as the sole supplier of electricity within
their service territories. USFE&G owns and operates all of the businesses
and facilities necessary to generate, transmit and distribute electricity.
Services are priced by state commission approved rates designed to include the
costs of providing these services and a reasonable return on invested capital.
This regulatory policy is intended to provide safe and reliable electricity at
fair prices. USFE&G’s competition in the regulated electric distribution
business is primarily from the on-site generation of industrial customers.

USFE&G
is not aware of any enacted or proposed legislation in North Carolina, South
Carolina, Florida, Kentucky or Indiana that would give its retail customers the
right to choose their electricity provider or otherwise restructure or
deregulate the electric industry. However, USFE&G competes with suppliers
of other forms of energy in connection with their retail customers.

Although
there is no pending legislation at this time, if the retail jurisdictions
served by USFE&G become subject to deregulation, the recovery of “stranded
costs” could become a significant consideration. Stranded costs primarily
include the generation assets of USFE&G’s regulated utilities whose value
in a competitive marketplace would be less than their current book value, as
well as above-market purchased power commitments to qualified facilities (QFs).
QFs are
typically small power production facilities that generate power within a
utility company’s service territory for which the utility companies are legally
obligated to purchase the energy of these facilities at an avoided cost rate. Thus far, all states
that have passed restructuring legislation have provided for the opportunity to
recover a substantial portion of stranded costs.

USFE&G’s
largest stranded cost exposure is primarily related to Progress Energy
Florida’s purchased power commitments with QFs, under which it has future
minimum expected capacity payments through 2025 of $3.8 billion. Progress
Energy Florida was obligated to enter into these contracts under provisions of
the Public Utilities Regulatory Policies Act of 1978. Progress Energy Florida
continues to seek ways to address the impact of escalating payments under these
contracts. However, the FPSC allows full recovery of the retail portion of the
cost of power purchased from QFs. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies” for additional information related
these purchased power commitments.

Wholesale.USFE&G
competes with other utilities and merchant generators for bulk power sales and
for sales to municipalities and cooperatives. USFE&G also competes with
other utilities and marketers in the wholesale electric business. The principal
factors in competing for wholesale sales are price (including fuel costs),
availability of capacity and power and reliability of service. Wholesale
electric prices are influenced primarily by market conditions and fuel costs.








PART I

Increased
competition in the wholesale electric utility industry and the availability of
transmission access could affect USFE&G’s load forecasts, plans for power
supply and wholesale energy sales and related revenues. Wholesale energy sales
will be impacted by the extent to which additional generation is available to
sell to the wholesale market and the ability of USFE&G to attract new
wholesale customers and to retain current wholesale customers.

Energy
Capacity and Resources

USFE&G
owns over 50,000 megawatts of generation capacity. For additional information on
USFE&G’s generation facilities, see “U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas” in
Item 2.“Properties.”

Energy
and capacity are also supplied through contracts with other generators and
purchased on the open market. Factors that could cause USFE&G to purchase
power for its customers include generating plant outages, extreme weather
conditions, generation reliability during the summer, growth, and price.
USFE&G has interconnections and arrangements with its neighboring utilities
to facilitate planning, emergency assistance, sale and purchase of capacity and
energy, and reliability of power supply.

USFE&G’s
generation portfolio is a balanced mix of energy resources having different
operating characteristics and fuel sources designed to provide energy at the
lowest possible cost to meet its obligation to serve native-load customers. All
options, including owned generation resources and purchased power
opportunities, are continually evaluated on a real-time basis to select and
dispatch the lowest-cost resources available to meet system load requirements.

The vast
majority of Duke Energy Carolinas, Progress Energy Carolinas, and Duke Energy
Indiana’s customer energy needs have historically been met by large,
low-energy-production-cost coal-fired and nuclear generating units that
operated almost continuously (or at baseload levels). However, recent commodity
pricing trends have resulted in more combined cycle gas-fired generation. The
vast majority of Progress Energy Florida’s customer energy needs have
historically been met by large, low-energy-production-cost nuclear, fossil
steam and combined cycle gas-fired generation. However, due to the extended
outage of the Crystal River Nuclear Station Unit 3 (Crystal River Unit 3)
nuclear plant a portion of customer needs have been served with purchased power
for the past 3 years.

CT’s and
CC’s are less expensive to build and maintain than either nuclear or coal, and
can be rapidly started or stopped as needed to meet changing customer loads or
operated as base load units depending on commodity prices. Hydroelectric units
produce low-cost energy, but their operations are limited by the availability
of water flow.

USFE&G’s
pumped-storage hydroelectric facilities in the Carolinas offer the added
flexibility of using low-cost off-peak energy to pump water that will be stored
for later generation use during times of higher-cost on-peak periods. These
facilities allow USFE&G to maximize the value spreads between different
high- and low-cost generation periods.

Recently
Completed Generation Projects.During 2012 and 2011, USFE&G completed
construction of and placed into service a total of 3,585 megawatts (MW) of new
generation capacity including Cliffside Unit 6 and the Buck, Dan River, Lee and
Smith combined cycle natural gas facilities. The total capital cost of this new
generation capacity was $4.8 billion.

Generation
Projects Currently Under Construction.The following information relates to
generation projects currently under construction by USFE&G.

Edwardsport
Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle (IGCC)Plant.Duke Energy Indiana has
completed the construction and is conducting testing of a 618 MW Integrated
Gasification Combined Cycle (IGCC) power plant at its existing Edwardsport
Generating Station in Knox County, Indiana.

On
December 27, 2012, the IURC approved the settlement agreement finalized in
April 2012  between Duke Energy Indiana, the Office of Utility Consumer
Counselor (OUCC), the Duke Energy Indiana Industrial Group and Nucor Steel
Indiana, on the cost increase for the construction of the Edwardsport IGCC
plant. The settlement agreement, as approved, caps costs to be reflected in
customer rates at $2.595 billion, including estimated allowance for funds used
during construction (AFUDC) through June 30, 2012. Duke Energy Indiana was
allowed to recover AFUDC after June 30, 2012 until customer rates are revised,
with such recovery decreasing to 85% on AFUDC accrued after November 30, 2012.

Duke Energy Indiana’s
current cost estimate for the Edwardsport IGCC plant is approximately $3.154
billion, excluding financing costs. Through December 31, 2012, Duke Energy
Indiana has recorded total pre-tax impairment and other charges of $897 million
related to the Edwardsport IGCC plant. If cost estimates for the plant
increase, additional charges to expense, which could be material, could occur.
The Edwardsport IGCC plant is expected to be in service by mid-2013. See Note 4
to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters” for further
information.

L.V. Sutton Combined
Cycle Facility.Progress
Energy Carolinas is in the process of constructing an approximately 625 MW
natural gas-fired generating facility at its existing L.V. Sutton Steam Station
(Sutton) in New Hanover County, North Carolina. The Sutton project has an
expected in-service date of December 2013. Based on updated cost estimates,
total costs (including AFUDC) for the Sutton project is estimated to be
approximately $600 million.

Potential New
Construction.The following information relates to major generation projects currently being
evaluated for construction by USFE&G.

Shearon Harris Nuclear
Station Expansion.In 2006, Progress
Energy Carolinas selected a site at its existing Shearon Harris Nuclear Station
(Harris) to evaluate for possible future nuclear expansion. On February 19,
2008, Progress Energy Carolinas filed its combined Construction and Operating
License (COL) application with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) for two
Westinghouse Electric Advanced Passive (AP) 1000 reactors at Harris, which the
NRC docketed on April 17, 2008. No petitions to intervene have been admitted in
the Harris COL application.

Levy
Nuclear Station.On July 30, 2008, Progress Energy Florida filed its COL application with the
NRC for two Westinghouse AP1000 reactors at its proposed Levy Nuclear Station
(Levy), which the NRC docketed on October 6, 2008. Various parties filed a
joint petition to intervene in the Levy COL application. On October 31, 2012
and November 1, 2012, the Atomic Safety and Licensing Board held an evidentiary
hearing on portions of the intervention petitions.  A decision is expected in
March 2013. In 2008, the FPSC granted Progress Energy Florida’s petition for an
affirmative Determination of Need and related orders requesting cost recovery
under Florida’s nuclear cost-recovery rule for Levy, together with the
associated facilities, including transmission lines and substation facilities.

On April
30, 2012, as part of its annual nuclear cost recovery filing, Progress Energy
Florida updated the Levy project schedule and cost. Due to lower-than-projected
customer demand, the lingering economic slowdown, uncertainty regarding
potential carbon regulation and current low natural gas prices, Progress Energy
Florida has shifted the in-service date for the first Levy unit to 2024, with
the second unit following 18 months later. The revised schedule is consistent
with the recovery approach included in the 2012 FPSC Settlement Agreement.
Although the scope and overnight cost for Levy, including land acquisition,
related transmission work and other required investments, remain essentially
unchanged, the shift in schedule will increase escalation and carrying costs
and raise the total estimated project cost to between $19 billion and $24
billion.








PART I

Along with the FPSC’s annual prudence
reviews, Progress Energy Florida will continue to evaluate the project on an
ongoing basis based on certain criteria, including, but not limited to, cost;
potential carbon regulation; fossil fuel prices; the benefits of fuel
diversification; public, regulatory and political support; adequate financial
cost-recovery mechanisms; appropriate levels of joint owner participation;
customer rate impacts; project feasibility; demand side management (DSM) and energy
efficiency (EE) programs; and availability and terms of capital financing. Taking
into account these criteria, Levy is considered to be Progress Energy Florida’s
preferred baseload generation option.

William States Lee III
Nuclear Station.In December 2007, Duke Energy Carolinas filed an
application with the NRC, which has been docketed for review, for a combined
COL for two Westinghouse AP1000 reactors for the proposed William States Lee
III Nuclear Station (Lee Nuclear Station) at a site in Cherokee County, South
Carolina. Each reactor is capable of producing 1,117 MW. Submitting the COL
application does not commit Duke Energy Carolinas to build nuclear units.
Through several separate orders, the NCUC and PSCSC have concurred with the
prudency of Duke Energy incurring project development and pre-construction
costs.

Potential Plant
Retirements.The
Subsidiary Registrants periodically file Integrated Resource Plans (IRP) with
their state regulatory commissions. The IRPs provide a view of forecasted
energy needs over a long term (15-20 years), and options being considered to
meet those needs. The IRP’s filed by the Subsidiary Registrants in 2012 and
2011 included planning assumptions to potentially retire by 2015, certain
coal-fired generating facilities in North Carolina, South Carolina, Indiana and
Ohio that do not have the requisite emission control equipment, primarily to
meet Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulations that are not yet
effective. Additionally, management is considering the impact pending
environmental regulations might have on certain coal-fired generating
facilities in Florida. These facilities total approximately 3,954 MW at eight
sites. Duke Energy continues to evaluate the potential need to retire these
coal-fired generating facilities earlier than the current estimated useful
lives, and plans to seek regulatory recovery for amounts that would not be
otherwise recovered when any assets are retired. For additional information
related to potential plant retirements see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements, “Regulatory Matters.”

Fuel
Supply

USFE&G relies
principally on coal, natural gas and nuclear fuel for its generation of
electric energy. The following table lists USFE&G’s sources of power and
fuel costs for the three years ended December 31, 2012.



Generation
  by Source(a)Cost of
  Delivered Fuel per NetKilowatt-hour
  Generated (Cents)(a)201220112010201220112010Coal(b)46.2%60.0%61.5%3.553.173.04Nuclear(c)36.437.636.30.620.550.52Oil and gas(d)16.61.40.94.035.896.77All fuels (cost-based on weighted average)(b)99.299.098.72.552.212.15Hydroelectric(e)0.81.01.3Total generation(f)100.0%100.0%100.0%(a)Statistics begin July 2, 2012 for Progress Energy Carolinas and
  Progress Energy Florida.(b)Statistics related to coal generation and all fuels reflect
  USFE&G’s ownership interest in jointly owned generation facilities.(c)Statistics related to nuclear generation and all fuels reflect
  USFE&G’s ownership interest in jointly owned generation facilities.
  (Crystal River Unit 3 has been in an outage since September 2009)(d)Statistics related to oil and gas generation and all fuels
  reflect USFE&G’s ownership interest in jointly owned generation
  facilities. Cost statistics include amounts for light-off fuel at
  USFE&G’s coal-fired stations and combined cycle (gas only).(e)Generating figures are net of output required to replenish
  pumped storage facilities during off-peak periods.(f)In addition, USFE&G produced approximately 10,500
  megawatt-hours (MWh) in solar generation for 2012, and 5,800 MWh in 2011 and
  2010; no fuel costs are attributed to this generation.



Coal.








PART I

The
current average sulfur content of coal purchased by USFE&G is between 1%
and 2% for the Carolinas; between 1% and 2% for Florida, and between 2% and 3%
for Indiana. USFE&G’s scrubbers, in combination with the use of sulfur
dioxide (SO2) emission allowances, enable USFE&G to satisfy
current SO2emission limitations for its existing facilities.

Nuclear.The
industrial processes for producing nuclear generating fuel generally involve
the mining and milling of uranium ore to produce uranium concentrates, the
services to convert uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride, the services
to enrich the uranium hexafluoride, and the services to fabricate the enriched
uranium hexafluoride into usable fuel assemblies.

USFE&G
has contracted for uranium materials and services to fuel its nuclear reactors
in the Carolinas and Florida. Uranium concentrates, conversion services and
enrichment services are primarily met through a diversified portfolio of
long-term supply contracts. The contracts are diversified by supplier, country
of origin and pricing. USFE&G staggers its contracting so that its
portfolio of long-term contracts covers the majority of its fuel requirements
in the near-term and decreasing portions of its fuel requirements over time
thereafter. Near-term requirements not met by long-term supply contracts have
been and are expected to be fulfilled with spot market purchases. Due to the
technical complexities of changing suppliers of fuel fabrication services,
USFE&G generally sources these services to a single domestic supplier on a
plant-by-plant basis using multi-year contracts.

USFE&G
has entered into fuel contracts that, based on its current need projections,
cover 100% of its uranium concentrates, conversion services, and enrichment
services requirements through at least 2013 and cover fabrication services
requirements for these plants through at least 2018. The cost of termination of
nuclear fuel procurement contracts that Progress Energy Florida has related to
Crystal River Unit 3 are not expected to be material. For subsequent years, a
portion of its fuel requirements are covered by long-term contracts. For future
requirements not already covered under long-term contracts, USFE&G believes
it will be able to renew contracts as they expire, or enter into similar
contractual arrangements with other suppliers of nuclear fuel materials and
services.

Gas.Oil and natural gas
supply for USFE&G’s generation fleet is purchased under term and spot
contracts from various suppliers. Duke Energy Carolinas and Progress Energy Carolina’s
use derivative instruments to limit their exposure to price fluctuations for
natural gas. Progress
Energy Florida uses derivative instruments to limit its exposure to price
fluctuations for natural gas, fuel oil and surcharges embedded in coal
transportation agreements. USFE&G has dual-fuel generating facilities that
can operate with both fuel oil and natural gas. The cost of USFE&G’s oil and
natural gas is either at a fixed price or determined by market prices as
reported in certain industry publications. USFE&G believes that it has
access to an adequate supply of oil and gas for the reasonably foreseeable
future. USFE&G’s natural gas transportation for its gas generation is
purchased under term firm transportation contracts with interstate and
intrastate pipelines. USFE&G may also purchase additional shorter-term
transportation for its load requirements during peak periods. Many of the
natural gas plants can be served by several supply zones and multiple
pipelines.

Purchased
Power.USFE&G purchased approximately 19.8 million MWh, 19.0 million MWh and 18.3
million MWh of its system energy requirements during 2012, 2011, and 2010,
respectively, under purchase obligations and leases and had 4,500 MW of firm
purchased capacity under contract during 2012. These amounts include MWh for
Progress Energy Carolinas and Progress Energy Florida for all periods
presented. These agreements include approximately 682 MW of firm capacity under
contract by Progress Energy Florida with certain QFs. USFE&G may need to
acquire additional purchased power capacity in the future to accommodate a
portion of its system load needs. USFE&G believes that it can obtain
adequate purchased power to meet these needs. However, during periods of high
demand, the price and availability of purchased power may be significantly
affected.

Gas
for Retail Distribution.USFE&G is responsible for the purchase and the subsequent
delivery of natural gas to native load customers in its Ohio and Kentucky
service territories. USFE&G’s natural gas procurement strategy is to
buy firm natural gas supplies (natural gas intended to be available at all
times) and firm interstate pipeline transportation capacity during the winter
season (November through March) and during the non-heating season (April
through October) through a combination of firm supply and transportation
capacity along with spot supply and interruptible transportation capacity. This
strategy allows USFE&G to assure reliable natural gas supply for its high
priority (non-curtailable) firm customers during peak winter conditions and
provides USFE&G the flexibility to reduce its contract commitments if firm
customers choose alternate gas suppliers under USFE&G customer choice/gas
transportation programs. In 2012, firm supply purchase commitment agreements
provided approximately 100% of the natural gas supply. These firm supply
agreements feature two levels of gas supply, specifically (i) base load, which
is a continuous supply to meet normal demand requirements, and (ii) swing load,
which is gas available on a daily basis to accommodate changes in demand due
primarily to changing weather conditions.

USFE&G
also owns two underground caverns with a total storage capacity of 16 million
gallons of liquid propane. In addition, USFE&G has access to 5.5 million
gallons of liquid propane storage and product loan through a commercial
services agreement with a third party. This liquid propane is used in the three
propane/air peak shaving plants located in Ohio and Kentucky. Propane/air peak
shaving plants vaporize the propane and mix it with natural gas to supplement
the natural gas supply during peak demand periods.

Duke
Energy Ohio maintains natural gas procurement-price volatility mitigation
programs. These programs pre-arrange percentages of Duke Energy Ohio’s seasonal
gas requirements. Duke Energy Ohio uses primarily fixed-price forward contracts
and contracts with a ceiling and floor on the price. As of December 31, 2012,
Duke Energy Ohio had locked in pricing for 22% of its remaining estimated winter
2012/2013 system load requirements.

Inventory

Generation
of electricity is capital-intensive. USFE&G must maintain an adequate stock
of fuel, materials and supplies in order to ensure continuous operation of
generating facilities and reliable delivery to customers. As of December 31,
2012, the inventory balance for USFE&G was $2,987 million. See Note 1 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies,” for additional information.

Nuclear
Insurance and Decommissioning

USFE&G
owns (wholly or partially) 12 nuclear reactors located at seven stations.
Nuclear insurance includes: nuclear liability coverage; property,
decontamination and premature decommissioning coverage; and replacement power expense
coverage. The other joint owners of the jointly owned nuclear reactors
reimburse USFE&G for certain expenses associated with nuclear insurance per
the joint owner agreements. The Price-Anderson Act requires nuclear plant
owners to provide for public nuclear liability claims resulting from nuclear
incidents to the maximum total financial protection liability, which currently
is $12.6 billion. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,
“Commitments and Contingencies — Nuclear Insurance,” for more information.

USFE&G
has a significant future financial commitment to dispose of spent nuclear fuel
and decommission and decontaminate each plant safely. The NCUC, FPSC and the
PSCSC require USFE&G regulated utilities to update their cost estimates for
decommissioning their nuclear plants every five years.

Duke
Energy Carolinas’ most recent site-specific nuclear decommissioning cost
studies were completed in 2009 and showed total estimated nuclear
decommissioning costs, including the cost to decommission plant components not
subject to radioactive contamination, of $3 billion in 2008








PART I

dollars.
This estimate includes Duke Energy Carolinas’ ownership interest in the jointly
owned nuclear reactors. The other joint owners of the jointly owned nuclear
reactors are responsible for decommissioning costs related to their ownership
interests in the station. The balance of Duke Energy Carolinas’ external
Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Funds (NDTF) was $2,354 million as of December
31, 2012 and $2,060 million as of December 31, 2011.

Progress
Energy Carolinas’ most recent site-specific nuclear decommissioning cost
studies were completed in 2009 and showed total estimated nuclear
decommissioning costs, including the cost to decommission plant components not
subject to radioactive contamination of $3.0 billion in 2009 dollars. This
estimate includes Progress Energy Carolinas’ ownership interest in the jointly
owned nuclear reactors. The other joint owners of the jointly owned nuclear
reactors are responsible for decommissioning costs related to their ownership
interests in the station. The balance of Progress Energy Carolinas’ external
NDTF was $1,259 million as of December 31, 2012 and $1,088 million as of
December 31, 2011.

The
NCUC, FPSC and the PSCSC have allowed USFE&G’s regulated utilities to
recover estimated decommissioning costs through retail rates over the expected
remaining service periods of their nuclear stations. USFE&G believes that
the decommissioning costs being recovered through rates, when coupled with the
existing fund balance and expected fund earnings, will be sufficient to provide
for the cost of future decommissioning. See Note 9 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements, “Asset Retirement Obligations,” for more information.

The
Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 (as amended) provides the framework for
development by the federal government of interim storage and permanent disposal
facilities for high-level radioactive waste materials. The Nuclear Waste Policy
Act of 1982 promotes increased usage of interim storage of spent nuclear fuel
at existing nuclear plants. USFE&G will continue to maximize the use of
spent fuel storage capability within its own facilities for as long as
feasible.

Under federal law, the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE)
is responsible for the selection and construction of a facility for the
permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste.
Progress Energy Carolinas and Progress Energy Florida have contracts with the
DOE for the future storage and disposal of our spent nuclear fuel. Delays have
occurred in the DOE’s proposed permanent repository to be located at Yucca
Mountain, Nevada. See Note 5to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments
and Contingencies,”for information about
complaints filed by Progress Energy Carolinas and Progress Energy Florida in
the United States Court of Federal Claims against the DOE for its failure to
fulfill its contractual obligation to receive spent fuel from nuclear plants.
Failure to open Yucca Mountain or another facility would leave the DOE open to
further claims by utilities.

Until the DOE begins to accept the spent nuclear fuel,
Progress Energy Carolinas and Progress Energy Florida will continue to safely
manage their spent nuclear fuel. With certain modifications and additional
approvals by the NRC, including the installation and/or expansion of on-site
dry cask storage facilities at Robinson Nuclear Station (Robinson), Brunswick
Nuclear Station (Brunswick) andCrystal River Unit 3,
the Progress Energy Carolinas and Progress Energy Florida’s spent nuclear fuel
storage facilities will be sufficient to provide storage space for spent fuel
generated by their respective systems through the expiration of the operating
licenses, including any license renewals, for their nuclear generating units.
Harris has sufficient storage capacity in its spent fuel pools through the
expiration of its renewed operating license.

Regulation

State

The NCUC, the PSCSC,
the FPSC, the PUCO, the IURC and the KPSC (collectively, the state utility
commissions) approve rates for retail electric service within their respective
states. In addition, the PUCO and the KPSC approve rates for retail gas
distribution service within their respective states. The state utility commissions,
except for the PUCO, also have authority over the construction and operation of
USFE&G’s generating facilities. Certificates of Public Convenience and
Necessity(CPCN)
issued by the state utility commissions, as applicable, authorize USFE&G to
construct and operate its electric facilities, and to sell electricity to
retail and wholesale customers. Prior approval from the relevant state utility
commission is required for USFE&G’s regulated operating companies to issue
securities. The underlying concept of utility ratemaking is to set rates at a
level that allows the utility to collect revenues equal to its cost of
providing service plus earn a reasonable rate of return on its invested
capital, including equity.

Each of the state
utility commissions allows recovery of certain costs through various
cost-recovery clauses, to the extent the respective commission determines in periodic
hearings that such costs, including any past over or under-recovered costs, are
prudent. The clauses are in addition to approved base rates. USFE&G’s
regulated utilities generally do not earn a return on the recovery of eligible
operating expenses under such clauses; however, in certain jurisdictions, they
may earn a return on under-recovered costs. Additionally, the commissions may
authorize a return for specified investments for energy efficiency and
conservation, capacity costs, environmental compliance and utility plant.

Fuel, fuel-related
costs and certain purchased power costs are eligible for recovery by
USFE&G’s regulated utilities. USFE&G uses coal, oil, hydroelectric,
natural gas and nuclear power to generate electricity, thereby maintaining a
diverse fuel mix that helps mitigate the impact of cost increases in any one
fuel. Due to the associated regulatory treatment and the method allowed for
recovery, changes in fuel costs from year to year have no material impact on
operating results of USFE&G, unless a commission finds a portion of such
costs to have been imprudent. However, delays between the expenditure for fuel costs
and recovery from ratepayers can adversely impact the timing of cash flow of
USFE&G. Progress Energy Florida is obligated to notify the FPSC and
permitted to file for a midcourse change to the fuel factor between annual fuel
hearings in the event its estimated over- or under-recovery of fuel costs meets
or exceeds a threshold of ten percent of estimated total retail fuel revenues
and, accordingly, has the ability to mitigate the cash flow impacts due to the
timing of recovery of fuel and purchased power costs.

The following is a
summary of pending retail base rate case proceedings for each of USFE&G’s
regulated utilities.








PART I

Duke
Energy Carolinas 2013 North Carolina Rate Case.On February 4, 2013,
Duke Energy Carolinas filed an application with the NCUC for an increase in
base rates of approximately $446 million, or an average 9.7% increase in
revenues. The request for increase is based upon an 11.25% return on equity and
a capital structure of 53% equity and 47% long-term debt. The rate increase is
designed primarily to recover the cost of plant modernization, environmental
compliance and the capital additions.

Duke Energy Carolinas
expects revised rates, if approved, to go into effect late third quarter of
2013.

Progress Energy
Carolinas 2012 North Carolina Rate Case.On October 12, 2012, Progress Energy
Carolinas filed an application with the NCUC for an increase in base rates of
approximately $387 million, or an average 12% increase in revenues. The request
for increase is based upon an 11.25% return on equity and a capital structure
of 55% equity and 45% long-term debt. The rate increase is designed primarily
to recover the cost of plant modernization and other capital investments in
generation, transmission and distribution systems, as well as increased
expenditures for nuclear plants and personnel, vegetation management and other
operating costs. The rate case includes a corresponding decrease in Progress
Energy Carolinas’ energy efficiency and demand side management rider, resulting
in a net requested increase of $359 million, or 11% increase in retail
revenues.

On February 25,
2013, the North Carolina Public Staff filed with the NCUC a Notice of
Settlement in Principle (Settlement Notice). Pursuant to the Settlement Notice between
Progress Energy Carolinas and the Public Staff, the parties have agreed to a
two year step-in to a total agreed upon net rate increase, with the first year
providing for a $151 million, or 4.7% average increase in rates, and the second
year providing for rates to be increased by an additional $31 million, or 1.0%
average increase in rates.  This second year increase is a result of
Progress Energy Carolinas agreeing to delay collection of financing costs on
the construction work in progress for the Sutton combined cycle natural gas
plant for one year.  The Settlement Notice is based upon a return on
equity of 10.2% and a 53% equity component of the capital structure.

Once filed, the actual
settlement agreement will be subject to approval by the NCUC. Progress Energy
Carolinas expects revised rates, if approved, to go into effect June 1, 2013.

Duke Energy Ohio 2012
Electric Rate Case.On
July 9, 2012, Duke Energy Ohio filed an application with the PUCO for an
increase in electric distribution rates of approximately $87 million. On
average, total electric rates would increase approximately 5.1% under the
filing. The rate increase is designed to recover the cost of investments in
projects to improve reliability for customers and upgrades to the distribution
system. Pursuant to a stipulation in another case, Duke Energy Ohio will
continue recovering its costs associated with grid modernization in a separate
rider.

Duke Energy Ohio
expects revised rates, if approved, to go into effect in the first half of
2013.

Duke Energy Ohio 2012
Natural Gas Rate Case.On July 9, 2012, Duke Energy Ohio filed an application
with the PUCO for an increase in natural gas distribution rates of
approximately $45 million. On average, total natural gas rates would increase
approximately 6.6% under the filing. The rate increase is designed to recover
the cost of upgrades to the distribution system, as well as environmental
cleanup of manufactured gas plant sites. In addition to the recovery of costs
associated with the manufactured gas plants, the rate request includes a
proposal for an accelerated service line replacement program and a new rider to
recover the associated incremental cost. The filing also requests that the PUCO
renew the rider recovery of Duke Energy Ohio’s accelerated main replacement program
and grid modernization program.

On January 4, 2013,
the PUCO Staff filed a staff report recommending that Duke Energy Ohio only be
allowed to recover costs related to manufactured gas plant (MGP) sites which
are currently used and useful in the provision of natural gas distribution
service. Duke Energy Ohio filed its objection to the staff report on February
4, 2013.

Duke Energy Ohio
expects revised rates, if approved, to go into effect in the first half of
2013.

The following is a
summary of recently resolved or settled retail base rate case proceedings for
each of USFE&G’s regulated utilities.

Progress Energy
Florida 2012 FPSC Settlement.On February 22, 2012, the FPSC approved a
comprehensive settlement agreement among Progress Energy Florida, the Florida
Office of Public Counsel and other consumer advocates. The 2012 FPSC Settlement
Agreement will continue through the last billing cycle of December 2016. The
agreement addresses three principal matters: (i) Progress Energy Florida’s
proposed Levy Nuclear Project cost recovery, (ii) the Crystal River Unit 3 delamination
prudence review then pending before the FPSC, and (iii) certain customer rate matters. See Note 4 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters – Rate Related
Information,” for additional provisions of the 2012 settlement agreement.

Duke Energy Carolinas
2011 North Carolina Rate Case.On January 27, 2012, the NCUC approved a
settlement agreement between Duke Energy Carolinas and the North Carolina
Utilities Public Staff (Public Staff). The terms of the agreement include an
average 7.2% increase in retail revenues, or approximately $309 million
annually beginning in February 2012. The agreement includes a 10.5% return on
equity and a capital structure of 53% equity and 47% long-term debt.

On March 28, 2012, the
North Carolina Attorney General filed a notice of appeal with the NCUC
challenging the rate of return approved in the agreement. On April 17, 2012,
the NCUC denied Duke Energy Carolinas’ request to dismiss the notice of appeal.
Briefs were filed on August 22, 2012 by the North Carolina Attorney General and
theAmerican Association of Retired
Persons(AARP) with the North Carolina Supreme Court, which is
hearing the appeal. Duke Energy Carolinas filed a motion to dismiss the appeal
on August 31, 2012 and the North Carolina Attorney General filed a response to
that motion on September 13, 2012. Briefs by the appellees, Duke Energy
Carolinas and the Public Staff, were filed on September 21, 2012. The North
Carolina Supreme Court denied Duke Energy Carolinas’ motion to dismiss on
procedural grounds and set the matter for oral arguments on November 13, 2012.
Duke Energy Carolinas is awaiting an order.

Duke Energy Carolinas
2011 South Carolina Rate Case.On January 25, 2012, the PSCSC approved a
settlement agreement between Duke Energy Carolinas and the ORS, Wal-Mart Stores
East, LP, and Sam’s East, Inc. The Commission of Public Works for the city of
Spartanburg, South Carolina and the Spartanburg Sanitary Sewer District were not
parties to the agreement; however, they did not object to the agreement. The
terms of the agreement include an average 5.98% increase in retail and
commercial revenues, or approximately $93 million annually beginning February 6,
2012. The agreement includes a 10.5% return on equity, a capital structure of
53% equity and 47% long-term debt.

Duke Energy Ohio
Standard Service Offer (SSO).The PUCO approved Duke Energy Ohio’s current
Electric Security Plan (ESP) on November 22, 2011. The ESP effectively separates
the generation of electricity from Duke Energy Ohio’s retail load obligation
and requires Duke Energy Ohio to transfer its generation assets to a
nonregulated affiliate on or before December 31, 2014. The ESP includes
competitive auctions for electricity supply whereby the energy price is
recovered from retail customers. As a result, Duke Energy Ohio now earns retail
margin on the transmission and distribution of electricity only and not on the
cost of the underlying energy. New rates for Duke Energy Ohio went into effect
for SSO customers on January 1, 2012. The ESP also includes a provision for a
non-bypassable stability charge of $110 million per year to be collected from
January 1, 2012 through December 31, 2014.








PART I

On
January 18, 2012, the PUCO denied a request for rehearing of its decision on
Duke Energy Ohio’s ESP filed by Columbus Southern Power and Ohio Power Company.

For more information
on rate matters, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,
“Regulatory Matters — Rate Related Information.”

Federal

The FERC approves
USFE&G’s cost-based rates for electric sales to certain wholesale
customers, as well as sales of transmission service. Regulations of FERC and
the state utility commissions govern access to regulated electric and gas customers
and other data by nonregulated entities and services provided between regulated
and nonregulated energy affiliates. These regulations affect the activities of
nonregulated affiliates with USFE&G.

Regional Transmission
Organizations (RTO).

PJM Interconnection, LLC (PJM) and

Midwest Independent
Transmission System Operator, Inc. (MISO)

Prior to January 1,
2012, Duke Energy Ohio was a member of MISO. See Note 4 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements, Regulatory Matters, for additional information related to
Duke Energy Ohio’s RTO realignment from MISO to PJM.

Other

Nuclear Matters.The nuclear power
industry faces uncertainties with respect to the cost and long-term
availability of disposal sites for spent nuclear fuel and other radioactive
waste, compliance with changing regulatory requirements, capital outlays for
modifications and new plant construction, the technological and financial
aspects of decommissioning plants at the end of their licensed lives, and
requirements relating to nuclear insurance. Nuclear units are periodically
removed from service to accommodate normal refueling and maintenance outages,
repairs, uprates and certain other modifications.

USFE&G is subject
to the jurisdiction of the NRC for the design, construction and operation of
its nuclear generating facilities. In 2000, the NRC renewed the operating
license for Duke Energy Carolinas’ three Oconee nuclear units through 2033 for
Units 1 and 2 and through 2034 for Unit 3. In 2003, the NRC renewed the
operating licenses for all units at Duke Energy Carolinas’ McGuire Nuclear
Station (McGuire) and Catawba Nuclear Station (Catawba). The two McGuire units
are licensed through 2041 and 2043, respectively, while the two Catawba units
are licensed through 2043. The NRC has renewed the operating licenses for all
of Progress Energy Carolinas’ nuclear plants. The renewed operating licenses
for Brunswick Unit 1 and Unit 2, Harris and Robinson expire in 2036, 2034, 2046
and 2030, respectively.

The
NRC issues orders with regard to security at nuclear plants in response to new
or emerging threats. The most recent orders include additional restrictions on
nuclear plant access, increased security measures at nuclear facilities and
closer coordination with our partners in intelligence, military, law
enforcement and emergency response at the federal, state and local levels.
USFE&G is in compliance with the requirements outlined in the orders
through the use of additional security measures until permanent construction
projects are completed in 2013. As the NRC, other governmental entities and the
industry continue to consider security issues, it is possible that more
extensive security plans could be required.

Crystal River Unit 3.In September 2009,
Crystal River Unit 3 began an outage for normal refueling and maintenance as
well as an uprate project to increase its generating capability and to replace
two steam generators. During preparations to replace the steam generators,
workers discovered a delamination (or separation) within the concrete at the
periphery of the containment building, which resulted in an extension of the
outage. After analysis, it was determined that the concrete delamination at
Crystal River Unit 3 was caused by redistribution of stresses in the
containment wall that occurred when an opening was created to accommodate the
replacement of the unit’s steam generators. In March 2011, the work to return
the plant to service was suspended after monitoring equipment identified a new
delamination that occurred in a different section of the outer wall after the
repair work was completed and during the late stages of retensioning the
containment building. Crystal River Unit 3 has remained out of service while
Progress Energy Florida conducted an engineering analysis and review of the new
delamination and evaluated possible repair options.

Subsequent to March
2011, monitoring equipment has detected additional changes and further damage
in the partially tensioned containment building and additional cracking or
delaminations could occur.

Progress
Energy Florida developed a repair plan, which would entail systematically
removing and replacing concrete in substantial portions of the containment
structure walls, which had a preliminary cost estimate of $900 million to $1.3
billion.








PART I

Progress
Energy Florida maintains insurance coverage against incremental costs of
replacement power resulting from prolonged accidental outages at Crystal River
Unit 3 through NEIL. NEIL provides insurance coverage for repair costs for
covered events, as well as the cost of replacement power of up to $490 million
per event when the unit is out of service as a result of these events. Actual replacement
power costs have exceeded the insurance coverage. Progress Energy Florida also
maintains insurance coverage through NEIL’s accidental property damage program,
which provides insurance coverage up to $2.25 billion with a $10 million
deductible per claim.

Throughout
the duration of the Crystal River Unit 3 outage, Progress Energy Florida worked
with NEIL for recovery of applicable repair costs and associated replacement
power costs. NEIL has made payments on the first delamination; however, NEIL
has withheld payment of approximately $70 million of replacement power cost
claims and repair cost claims related to the first delamination event. NEIL had
not provided a written coverage decision for either delamination and no
payments were made on the second delamination and no replacement power
reimbursements were made by NEIL since May 2011. These considerations led
Progress Energy Florida to conclude, in the second quarter of 2012, that it was
not probable that NEIL would voluntarily pay the full coverage amounts that
Progress Energy Florida believes them to owe under the applicable insurance
policies. Consistent with the terms and procedures under the insurance coverage
with NEIL, Progress Energy Florida agreed to non-binding mediation prior to
commencing any formal dispute resolution. On February 5, 2013, Progress Energy
Florida announced it and NEIL had accepted the mediator’s proposal whereby NEIL
will pay Progress Energy Florida an additional $530 million. Along with the
$305 million which NEIL previously paid, Progress Energy Florida will receive a
total of $835 million in insurance proceeds.

As a
result of the 2012 FPSC Settlement Agreement, Progress Energy Florida will be
permitted to recover prudently incurred fuel and purchased power costs through its
fuel clause without regard for the absence of Crystal River Unit 3 for the
period from the beginning of the Crystal River Unit 3 outage through December
31, 2016.

In
accordance with the terms of the 2012 FPSC Settlement Agreement, with consumer
representatives and approved by the FPSC, Progress Energy Florida retained the
sole discretion to retire Crystal River Unit 3. Progress Energy Florida expects
that the FPSC will review the prudence of the retirement decision in Phase 2 of
the Crystal River Unit 3 delamination regulatory docket. Progress Energy
Florida has also asked the FPSC to review the mediated resolution of insurance
claims with NEIL as part of Phase 3 of this regulatory docket.Phase 2 and Phase 3
hearings have been tentatively scheduled to begin on June 19, 2013.

Progress Energy
Florida did not begin the repair of Crystal River Unit 3 prior to December 31,
2012. Consistent with the 2012 FPSC Settlement Agreement regarding the timing
of commencement of repairs, Progress Energy Florida recorded a Regulatory
liability of $100 million in the third quarter of 2012 related to replacement
power obligations. This amount is included within fuel used in electric
generation and purchased power in Progress Energy Florida’s and Progress
Energy’s Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income for the year ended
December 31, 2012. Progress Energy Florida will refund this replacement power
liability on a pro rata basis based on the in-service date of up to $40 million
in 2015 and $60 million in 2016. This amount is reflected as part of the
purchase price allocation of the merger with Progress Energy in Duke Energy’s
Consolidated Financial Statements.

Progress
Energy Florida also retained sole discretion to retire the unit without
challenge from the parties to the agreement. As a result, Progress Energy
Florida will be allowed to recover all remaining Crystal River Unit 3
investments and to earn a return on the Crystal River Unit 3 investments set at
its current authorized overall cost of capital, adjusted to reflect a return on
equity set at 70 percent of the current FPSC authorized return on equity, no
earlier than the first billing cycle of January 2017.

In
conjunction with the decision to retire Crystal River Unit 3, Progress Energy
Florida reclassified all Crystal River Unit 3 investments, including property,
plant and equipment; nuclear fuel; inventory; and deferred assets to a
regulatory asset account. At December 31, 2012, Progress Energy Florida had
$1,637 million of net investment in Crystal River Unit 3 recorded in Regulatory
assets on its Consolidated Balance Sheets. Progress Energy Florida recorded
$192 million of impairment and other charges related to the wholesale portion
of Crystal River Unit 3 investments, which are not covered by the 2012 FSPC
Settlement Agreement, and other provisions. The significant majority of this
amount is recorded in Impairment charges on Progress Energy Florida’s and
Progress Energy’s Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive
Income for the year ended December 31, 2012. This amount is reflected as part
of the purchase price allocation of the merger with Progress Energy in Duke
Energy’s Consolidated Financial Statements.

In
accordance with the 2012 FPSC Settlement Agreement, NEIL proceeds received allocable
to retail customers will be applied first to replacement power costs incurred
after December 31, 2012 through December 31, 2016, with the remainder used to
write down the remaining Crystal River Unit 3 investments.

Progress
Energy Florida believes the decision to retire Crystal River Unit 3, the
actions taken and costs incurred in response to the Crystal River Unit 3
delamination have been prudent and, accordingly, considers replacement power
and capital costs not recoverable through insurance to be recoverable through
its fuel cost-recovery clause or base rates. Additional replacement power costs
and exit cost to wind down the operations at the plant and decommission Crystal
River Unit 3 could be material. Retirement of the plant could impact funding
obligations associated with Progress Energy Florida’s nuclear decommissioning
trust fund.

Progress Energy
Florida is a party to a master participation agreement and other related
agreements with the joint owners of Crystal River Unit 3 which convey certain
rights and obligations on Progress Energy Florida and the joint owners. In
December 2012, Progress Energy Florida reached an agreement with one group of
joint owners related to all Crystal River Unit 3 matters.

Progress Energy
Florida cannot predict the outcome of matters described above.








PART I

Hydroelectric
Generating Facilities.

Progress Energy
Carolinas has three hydroelectric generating plants licensed by the FERC:
Walters, Tillery and Blewett. Progress Energy Carolinas also owns the Marshall
Plant, which has a license exemption. The total summer generating capacity for
all four units is 225 MW. Progress Energy Carolinas submitted an application to
relicense its Tillery and Blewett plants for 50 years and anticipates a
decision by the FERC in 2013. The Walters Plant license will expire in 2034.

Other Matters.USFE&G is subject
to the jurisdiction of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and state
and local environmental agencies. For a discussion of environmental regulation,
see “Environmental Matters” in this section.

See “Other Issues”
section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations for a discussion about potential Global Climate Change
legislation and other EPA regulations under development and the potential
impacts such legislation and regulation could have on Duke Energy’s operations.

COMMERCIAL POWER

For information on
Commercial Power’s generation facilities, see “Commercial Power” in Item 2,
“Properties”

Commercial Power also
has a retail sales subsidiary, Duke Energy Retail Sales, LLC (Duke Energy
Retail), which is certified by the PUCO as a Competitive Retail Electric
Supplier (CRES) provider in Ohio. Duke Energy Retail serves retail electric and
gas customers in southwest, west central and northern Ohio with energy and other
energy services at competitive rates.

Through Duke Energy
Generation Services, Inc. (DEGS), Commercial Power engages in the development,
construction and operation of renewable energy projects. In addition, DEGS
develops commercial transmission projects. Currently, DEGS has approximately 1,269
net MW of renewable generating capacity in operation as of December 31, 2012.

Rates
and Regulation

Duke Energy Ohio
Capacity Rider Filing.On August 29, 2012, Duke Energy Ohio filed an application
with the PUCO for the establishment of a charge, pursuant to Ohio’s state
compensation mechanism, for capacity provided consistent with its obligations
as an FRR entity. The application included a request for deferral authority and
for a new tariff to implement the charge. The deferral being sought is the
difference between its costs and market-based prices for capacity. The
requested tariff would implement a charge to be collected via a rider through
which such deferred balances will subsequently be recovered. 24 parties moved
to intervene. Hearings have been set for April 2, 2013. Duke Energy Ohio
expects an order in 2013.

Other Matters.As discussed in the
USFE&G section above, the PUCO approved Duke Energy Ohio’s new ESP in
November 2011. In November 2011, as a result of changes resulting from the
PUCO’s approval of the new ESP, Commercial Power ceased applying regulatory
accounting treatment to its Ohio operations. Currently, no portion of
Commercial Power applies regulatory accounting.

Commercial Power’s
Ohio retail load operations’ rates were subject to approval by the PUCO through
December 2011, and thus these operations, through December 31, 2011, are
referred to herein as Commercial Power’s regulated operations.

For more information
on rate matters, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,
“Regulatory Matters — Rate Related Information.”

Commercial Power is
subject to regulation at the federal level, primarily from the FERC.
Regulations of the FERC govern access to regulated electric customer and other
data by nonregulated entities, and services provided between regulated and
non-regulated energy affiliates. These regulations affect the activities of
Commercial Power.

Commercial Power is
subject to the jurisdiction of the EPA and state and local environmental
agencies. (For a discussion of environmental regulation, see “Environmental
Matters” in this section.)

See “Other Issues”
section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations for a discussion about potential Global Climate Change
legislation and the potential impacts such legislation could have on Duke
Energy’s operations.

Market
Environment and Competition








PART I

Commercial
Power competes for wholesale contracts for the purchase and sale of
electricity, coal, natural gas and emission allowances. The market price of
commodities and services, along with the quality and reliability of services
provided, drive competition in the energy marketing business. Commercial
Power’s main competitors include other nonregulated generators in the
Midwestern U.S., wholesale power providers, coal and natural gas suppliers, and
renewable energy.

Fuel
Supply

Commercial Power
relies on coal and natural gas for its generation of electric energy.

Coal.Commercial Power meets
its coal demand through a portfolio of purchase supply contracts and spot
agreements. Large amounts of coal are purchased under supply contracts with
mining operators who mine both underground and at the surface. Commercial Power
uses spot-market purchases to meet coal requirements not met by supply
contracts. Expiration dates for its supply contracts, which have various price
adjustment provisions and market re-openers, range through 2018. Commercial
Power expects to renew these contracts or enter into similar contracts with
other suppliers for the quantities and quality of coal required as existing
contracts expire, though prices will fluctuate over time as coal markets
change. The majority of Commercial Power’s coal is sourced from mines in the
Northern Appalachian and Illinois basins. Commercial Power has an adequate
supply of coal to fuel its projected 2013 operations. The majority of
Commercial Power’s coal-fired generation is equipped with flue gas
desulfurization equipment. As a result, Commercial Power is able to satisfy the
current emission limitations for SO2for existing facilities.

Gas.Commercial Power is
responsible for the purchase and the subsequent delivery of natural gas to its
gas turbine generators. In general Commercial Power hedges its natural gas
requirements using financial contracts. Physical gas is purchased in the spot
market to meet generation needs.

INTERNATIONAL ENERGY

International Energy
principally operates and manages power generation facilities and engages in
sales and marketing of electric power, natural gas, and natural gas liquids
outside the U.S. It conducts operations through DEI and its affiliates and its
activities principally target power generation in Latin America. Additionally,
International Energy owns a 25% interest in National Methanol Company (NMC), a
large regional producer of methanol and methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE)
located in Saudi Arabia. The investment in NMC is accounted for under the
equity method of accounting. In the first quarter of 2012, Duke Energy
completedthe sale of International Energy’s indirect
25% ownership interest in Attiki Gas Supply, S.A (Attiki), a Greek corporation,
to an existing equity owner in a series of transactions that resulted in the
full discharge of the related debt obligation.See Note 13 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements, “Investments in Unconsolidated Affiliates”
for additional information. In 2012, International Energy acquired a 240 MW
thermal plant in southern Chile.  In addition, International acquired Iberoamericana
de Energía Ibener S.A., which owns and operates a 140 MW hydro complex. See
Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Acquisitions and Dispositions
of Businesses and Sales of Other Assets,” for additional information.

International Energy’s
customers include retail distributors, electric utilities, independent power
producers, marketers and industrial/commercial companies. International
Energy’s current strategy is focused on optimizing the value of its current
Latin American portfolio and expanding the portfolio through investment in
generation opportunities in Latin America.

International Energy
owns, operates or has substantial interests in approximately 4,900 gross MW of
generation facilities. For information on International Energy’s generation
facilities, see “International Energy” in Item 2, “Properties.”

Competition
and Regulation

International Energy’s
sales and marketing of electric power and natural gas competes directly with
other generators and marketers serving its market areas. Competitors are
country and region-specific but include government-owned electric generating
companies, local distribution companies with self-generation capability and
other privately owned electric generating and marketing companies. The
principal elements of competition are price and availability, terms of service,
flexibility and reliability of service.

A high percentage of
International Energy’s portfolio consists of baseload hydroelectric generation
facilities which compete with other forms of electric generation available to
International Energy’s customers and end-users, including natural gas and fuel
oils. Economic activity, conservation, legislation, governmental regulations,
weather, additional generation capacities and other factors affect the supply
and demand for electricity in the regions served by International Energy.

Recent legislation in
Brazil allowed the renewal of certain concessions that were granted prior to
1995 and due to expire in 2015 to 2017, if, among other things, the concession
holders dedicated their generation capacity to the regulated market.
International Energy’s concessions, which were granted after 1995, were not
affected by this legislation. The change in market prices, if any, from this
legislation is not expected to have a significant impact on International
Energy’s earnings and cash flows because its generation capacity is highly
contracted through 2016.

International Energy’s
operations are subject to both country-specific and international laws and
regulations. (See “Environmental Matters” in this section.)

OTHER

The remainder of Duke
Energy’s operations is presented as Other. While it is not an operating
segment, Other primarily includes unallocated corporate interest expense,
certain unallocated corporate costs, Bison Insurance Company Limited (Bison),
Duke Energy’s wholly owned, captive insurance subsidiary, contributions to the
Duke Energy Foundation, Duke Energy’s effective 50% interest in DukeNet
Communications, LLC (DukeNet) and related telecom businesses, and Duke Energy’s
effective 60% interest in Duke Energy Trading and Marketing, LLC (DETM), which
management is currently in the process of winding down.

Bison’s principal
activities as a captive insurance entity include the indemnification of various
business risks and losses, such as property, business interruption, workers’
compensation and general liability of subsidiaries and affiliates of Duke
Energy. DukeNet develops, owns and operates a fiber optic communications
network, primarily in the southeast U.S., serving wireless, local and long-distance
communications companies, Internet service providers and other businesses and
organizations.

Regulation

Certain entities
within Other are subject to the jurisdiction of state and local agencies.

GEOGRAPHIC REGIONS








PART I

For
a discussion of Duke Energy’s foreign operations see “Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Results of Operations” and Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements, “Business Segments.”

EMPLOYEES

On December 31, 2012,
Duke Energy had 27,885 employees. A total of 5,784 operating and maintenance
employees were represented by unions.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF DUKE ENERGY

Lynn J. Good53Executive Vice
  President and Chief Financial Officer.Ms. Good assumed her current position in
  July 2009. In November 2007, Ms. Good began serving as President, Commercial
  Businesses. Prior to that, she served as Senior Vice President and Treasurer
  since December 2006; prior to that she served as Treasurer and Vice
  President, Financial Planning since October 2006; and prior to that she
  served as Vice President and Treasurer since April 2006, upon the merger of
  Duke Energy and Cinergy. Until the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy, Ms.
  Good served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of
  Cinergy from August 2005 and Vice President, Finance and Controller of
  Cinergy from November 2003 to August 2005.

Dhiaa M. Jamil56Executive Vice
  President and Chief Nuclear Officer.Mr. Jamil assumed his position as Chief
  Nuclear Officer in February 2008. He also served as Chief Generation Officer
  for Duke Energy from July 2009 to June 2012. Prior to that he served as
  Senior Vice President, Nuclear Support, Duke Energy Carolinas, LLC since
  January 2007; and prior to that he served as Vice President, Catawba Nuclear
  Station, since July 2003.

Julia S. Janson48Executive Vice
  President, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary.Ms. Janson assumed
  her position as Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate
  Secretary in December 2012.  Prior to that she had held the position of
  President of Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Kentucky since 2008. She also
  held the position of Senior Vice President of Ethics and Compliance and
  Corporate Secretary for Duke Energy after its merger with Cinergy. Ms. Janson
  served as Chief Compliance Officer and Corporate Secretary for Cinergy since
  2000.

Marc E. Manly60Executive Vice
  President and President, Commercial Businesses.Mr. Manly assumed
  the position of Executive Vice President and President, Commercial Businesses
  in December 2012.  Prior to that he had held the positions of Chief Legal
  Officer since April 2006, upon the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy. He also
  held the position of Corporate Secretary from December 2008 until June 2012.
  Until the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy, Mr. Manly served as Executive
  Vice President and Chief Legal Officer of Cinergy since November 2002.

James E. Rogers65Chairman, President
  and Chief Executive Officer.Mr. Rogers assumed the role of Chief
  Executive Officer and President in April 2006, upon the merger of Duke Energy
  and Cinergy and assumed the role of Chairman on January 2, 2007. Until the
  merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy, Mr. Rogers served as Chairman of the
  Board of Cinergy since 2000 and as Chief Executive Officer of Cinergy since
  1995.

B. Keith Trent53Executive Vice
  President and Chief Operating Officer, Regulated Utilities.Mr. Trent assumed
  his current position in December 2012. He previously held the position of
  Executive Vice President, Regulated Utilities upon the merger with Progress
  Energy in July 2012 and prior to that, President, Commercial Businesses from
  July 2009 until July 2012. Prior to that he served as Group Executive and
  Chief Strategy, Policy and Regulatory Officer since May 2007. Prior to that he
  served as Group Executive and Chief Strategy and Policy Officer since October
  2006 and prior to that he served as Group Executive and Chief Development
  Officer since April 2006, upon the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy. Until
  the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy, Mr. Trent served as Executive Vice
  President, General Counsel and Secretary of Duke Energy since March 2005.
  Prior to that he served as General Counsel, Litigation of Duke Energy from
  May 2002 to March 2005.

Jennifer L. Weber46Executive Vice
  President and Chief Human Resources Officer.Ms. Weber assumed
  her current position in January 2011. Prior to that she served as Senior Vice
  President and Chief Human Resources Officer since November 2008. Prior to
  that she served as Senior Vice President of Human Resources at Scripps
  Networks Interactive from 2005 to 2008.

Lloyd M. Yates52Executive Vice
  President, Regulated Utilities.Mr. Yates assumed his position as Executive
  Vice President, Regulated Utilities in November 2012. Prior to that, he was
  named Executive Vice President, Customer Operations in July 2012, upon the
  merger of Duke Energy and Progress Energy. Mr. Yates served as Chief
  Executive Officer, Progress Energy Carolinas, Inc. from July 2007 until June
  2012.

Steven K. Young54Vice President,
  Chief Accounting Officer and Controller.Mr. Young assumed the role of Chief
  Accounting Officer in July 2012. He assumed the role of Controller in
  December 2006. Prior to that he served as Vice President and Controller since
  April 2006, upon the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy. Until the merger of
  Duke Energy and Cinergy, Mr. Young served as Vice President and Controller of
  Duke Energy since June 2005. Prior to that Mr. Young served as Senior Vice
  President and Chief Financial Officer of Duke Energy Carolinas from March
  2003 to June 2005.



Executive officers
serve until their successors are duly elected or appointed.








PART I

There
are no family relationships between any of the executive officers, nor any
arrangement or understanding between any executive officer and any other person
involved in officer selection.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

The Duke Energy
Registrants are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations with
regard to air and water quality, hazardous and solid waste disposal and other
environmental matters. Duke Energy is also subject to international laws and
regulations with regard to air and water quality, hazardous and solid waste
disposal and other environmental matters. Environmental laws and regulations
affecting the Duke Energy Registrants include, but are not limited to:

·The
Clean Air Act (CAA), as well as state laws and regulations impacting air
emissions, including State Implementation Plans related to existing and new
national ambient air quality standards for ozone and particulate matter. Owners
and/or operators of air emission sources are responsible for obtaining permits
and for annual compliance and reporting.

·The
Clean Water Act which requires permits for facilities that discharge
wastewaters into the environment.

·The
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, which can
require any individual or entity that currently owns or in the past may have
owned or operated a disposal site, as well as transporters or generators of
hazardous substances sent to a disposal site, to share in remediation costs.

·The
Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery
Act, which requires certain solid wastes, including hazardous wastes, to be
managed pursuant to a comprehensive regulatory regime.

·The
National Environmental Policy Act, which requires federal agencies to consider
potential environmental impacts in their decisions, including siting approvals.

See “Other Issues”
section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations for a discussion about potential Global Climate Change
legislation and the potential impacts such legislation could have on the Duke
Energy Registrants’ operations. Additionally, other recently passed and
potential future environmental laws and regulations could have a significant
impact on the Duke Energy Registrants’ results of operations, cash flows or
financial position. However, if and when such laws and regulations become
effective, the Duke Energy Registrants will seek appropriate regulatory
recovery of costs to comply within its regulated operations.

For more information
on environmental matters involving the Duke Energy Registrants, including
possible liability and capital costs, see Notes 4 and 5 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” and “Commitments and
Contingencies—Environmental,” respectively. Except to the extent discussed in
Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” and Note
5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies,”
compliance with current international, federal, state and local provisions
regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise
protecting the environment, is incorporated into the routine cost structure of
our various business segments and is not expected to have a material adverse
effect on the competitive position, consolidated results of operations, cash
flows or financial position of the Duke Energy Registrants.

Duke Energy Subsidiary Registrants



Duke Energy Carolinas

Duke Energy Carolinas
generates, transmits, distributes and sells electricity in central and western
North Carolina and western South Carolina. Duke Energy Carolinas is subject to
the regulatory provisions of the NCUC, the PSCSC, the NRC and FERC. Duke Energy
Carolinas operates one reportable business segment, Franchised Electric, which
generates, transmits, distributes and sells electricity. Substantially all of
Franchised Electric operations are regulated and qualify for regulatory
accounting treatment. For additional information regarding this business
segment, including financial information, see Note 3 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements, “Business Segments.”

Duke Energy Carolinas’
service area covers approximately 24,000 square miles and supplies electric
service to 2.4 million residential, commercial and industrial customers. See
Item 2. “Properties” for further discussion of Duke Energy Carolinas’
generating facilities, transmission and distribution.

The remainder of Duke
Energy Carolinas’ operations is presented as Other. Although it is not
considered a business segment, Other primarily includes certain governance
costs allocated by its parent, Duke Energy.

Progress Energy

Progress Energy, Inc.
is a public utility holding company primarily engaged in the regulated electric
utility business. Headquartered in Raleigh, North Carolina, it owns, directly
or indirectly, all of the outstanding common stock of its utility subsidiaries,
Progress Energy Carolinas and Progress Energy Florida. When discussing Progress
Energy’s financial information, it necessarily includes the results of Progress
Energy Carolinas and Progress Energy Florida.

Progress Energy is
subject to the regulatory provisions of the NCUC, the PSCSC, the FPSC, the NRC
and the FERC. Progress Energy operates in one reportable segment, Franchised
Electric, which generates, transmits, distributes and sells electricity in
portions of North Carolina, South Carolina and Florida. Substantially all of
Franchised Electric operations are regulated and qualify for regulatory
accounting treatment. For additional information regarding this business
segment, including financial information, see Note 3 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements, “Business Segments.”

The remainder of Progress
Energy’s operations is presented as Other. Although it is not considered a
business segment, Other primarily includes certain governance costs allocated
by its parent, Duke Energy.

Progress Energy Carolinas

Progress Energy
Carolinas is a regulated public utility founded in North Carolina in 1908 and
is primarily engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of
electricity in portions of North and South Carolina. For information about
Progress Energy Carolinas’ generating plants, see Item 2, “Properties.”
Progress Energy Carolinas is subject to the regulatory provisions of the NCUC,
the PSCSC, the NRC and FERC. Progress Energy Carolinas operates one reportable
business segment, Franchised Electric, which generates, transmits, distributes
and sells electricity. Substantially all of Franchised Electric operations are
regulated and qualify for regulatory accounting treatment. For additional
information regarding this business segment, including financial information, see
Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments.”








PART I

Progress
Energy Carolinas’ service area covers approximately 34,000 square miles,
including a substantial portion of the coastal plain of North Carolina
extending from the Piedmont to the Atlantic coast between the Pamlico River and
the South Carolina border, the lower Piedmont section of North Carolina, an
area in western North Carolina in and around the city of Asheville and an area
in the northeastern portion of South Carolina. At December 31, 2012, Progress
Energy Carolinas was providing electric services to approximately 1.5 million residential,
commercial and industrial customers.

The remainder of
Progress Energy Carolinas’ operations is presented as Other. Although it is not
considered a business segment, Other primarily includes certain governance
costs allocated by its ultimate parent, Duke Energy.

Progress Energy Florida

Progress
Energy Florida is a regulated public utility founded in Florida in 1899 and is
primarily engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of
electricity in portions of Florida. For information about Progress Energy
Florida’s generating plants, see Item 2, “Properties.” Progress Energy Florida
is subject to the regulatory provisions of the FPSC, the NRC and FERC. Progress
Energy Florida operates one reportable business segment, Franchised Electric,
which generates, transmits, distributes and sells electricity. Substantially
all of Franchised Electric operations are regulated and qualify for regulatory
accounting treatment. For additional information regarding this business
segment, including financial information, see Note 3 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements, “Business Segments.”

Progress Energy
Florida’s service area covers approximately 20,000 square miles in west-central
Florida, and includes the densely populated areas around Orlando, as well as
the cities of St. Petersburg and Clearwater. Progress Energy Florida is
interconnected with 22 municipal and 9 rural electric cooperative systems. At December
31, 2012, Progress Energy Florida was providing electric services to
approximately 1.7 million residential, commercial and industrial customers.

The remainder of
Progress Energy Florida’s operations is presented as Other. Although it is not
considered a business segment, Other primarily includes certain governance
costs allocated by its ultimate parent, Duke Energy.

Duke Energy Ohio

Duke Energy Ohio is a
wholly owned subsidiary of Cinergy, which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Duke
Energy. Duke Energy Ohio is a combination electric and gas public utility that
provides service in southwestern Ohio and northern Kentucky through its wholly owned
subsidiary Duke Energy Kentucky, as well as electric generation in parts of
Ohio, Illinois, and Pennsylvania. Duke Energy Ohio’s principal lines of
business include generation, transmission and distribution of electricity, the
sale of and/or transportation of natural gas, and energy marketing. Duke Energy
Kentucky’s principal lines of business include generation, transmission and
distribution of electricity, as well as the sale of and/or transportation of
natural gas. References herein to Duke Energy Ohio include Duke Energy Ohio and
its subsidiaries. Duke Energy Ohio is subject to the regulatory provisions of
the PUCO, the KPSC and FERC.

Duke Energy Ohio
Business Segments.At December 31, 2012, Duke Energy Ohio operated two business segments, both of
which are considered reportable segments under the applicable accounting rules:
Franchised Electric and Gas and Commercial Power. For additional
information on each of these business segments, including financial
information, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business
Segments.”

The following is a
brief description of the nature of operations of each of Duke Energy Ohio’s
reportable business segments, as well as Other.

Franchised
Electric and Gas

Franchised Electric
and Gas consists of Duke Energy Ohio’s regulated electric and gas transmission
and distribution systems located in Ohio and Kentucky, including its regulated
electric generation in Kentucky. Franchised Electric and Gas plans, constructs,
operates and maintains Duke Energy Ohio’s transmission and distribution
systems, which transmit and distribute electric energy to consumers in
southwestern Ohio. In addition, Franchised Electric and Gas plans, constructs,
operates and maintains Duke Energy Kentucky’s generation assets and
transmission and distribution systems, which generate, transmit and distribute
electric energy to consumers in and northern Kentucky. Franchised Electric and
Gas also transports and sells natural gas in southwestern Ohio and northern
Kentucky. Substantially all of Franchised Electric and Gas’ operations are
regulated and, accordingly, these operations qualify for regulatory accounting
treatment.

Duke Energy Ohio’s
Franchised Electric and Gas service area covers 3,000 square miles and supplies
electric service to 830,000 residential, commercial and industrial customers
and provides regulated transmission and distribution services for natural gas
to 500,000 customers. See Item 2. “Properties” for further discussion of Duke
Energy Ohio’s Franchised Electric and Gas generating facilities.

Commercial
Power

Commercial Power owns,
operates and manages power plants and engages in the wholesale marketing and
procurement of electric power, fuel and emission allowances related to these
plants, as well as other contractual positions. Commercial Power’s generation
operations consists primarily of coal-fired generation assets located in Ohio and
gas-fired nonregulated generation assets which are dispatched into wholesale
markets and receive capacity revenues at market rates. These assets are
comprised of 6,825 net MW of power generation primarily located in the
Midwestern U.S. The asset portfolio has a diversified fuel mix with baseload
and mid-merit coal-fired units as well as combined cycle and peaking natural
gas-fired units. The coal-fired generation assets were dedicated under the Duke
Energy Ohio ESP through December 31, 2011. Duke Energy Ohio’s Commercial Power
reportable operating segment does not include the operations of DEGS or Duke
Energy Retail, which is included in the Commercial Power reportable operating
segment at Duke Energy. See Item 2. “Properties”, for further discussion of
Duke Energy Ohio’s Commercial Power generating facilities.

The PUCO approved Duke
Energy Ohio’s new ESP in November 2011. The ESP includes competitive auctions
for electricity supply for a term of January 1, 2012 through May 31, 2015. The
ESP also includes a provision for a non-bypassable stability charge of $110
million per year to be collected from 2012-2014 and requires Duke Energy Ohio
to transfer its generation assets to a nonregulated affiliate on or before
December 31, 2014. As a result of the new ESP, the energy from Duke Energy
Ohio’s coal-fired generation assets no longer serve retail load customers or
receive negotiated pricing under the ESP.

Effective January 1,
2012, Duke Energy Ohio completed its RTO realignment to PJM, and operates as an
FRR entity through May 31, 2015. As an FRR entity, Duke Energy Ohio is required
to self supply capacity for the Duke Energy Ohio load zone.

See Note 4 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for further discussion
related to regulatory filings.

In 2012, 2011, and 2010
Duke Energy Ohio earned approximately 36%, 24%, and 13%, respectively, of its
consolidated operating revenues from PJM. These revenues relate to the sale of
capacity and electricity from all of Duke Energy Ohio’s nonregulated generation
assets in 2012 and its gas-fired nonregulated generation assets in 2011 and
2010.










PART I

Other

The remainder of Duke
Energy Ohio’s operations is presented as Other. Although it is not considered a
business segment, Other primarily consists of certain governance costs
allocated by its ultimate parent, Duke Energy.

Duke Energy Indiana

Duke Energy Indiana,
an Indiana corporation organized in 1942, is an indirect wholly owned
subsidiary of Duke Energy. Duke Energy Indiana generates, transmits and
distributes electricity in central, north central, and southern Indiana. Duke
Energy Indiana is subject to the regulatory provisions of the IURC and FERC.
Duke Energy Indiana operates one reportable business segment, Franchised
Electric, which generates, transmits, distributes and sells electricity. The
substantial majority of Duke Energy Indiana’s operations are regulated and
qualify for regulatory accounting treatment. For additional information
regarding this business segment, including financial information, see Note 3 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments.”

Duke Energy Indiana’s
service area covers 23,000 square miles. Duke Energy Indiana supplies electric
service to 790,000 residential, commercial and industrial customers. See Item
2. “Properties” for further discussion of Duke Energy Indiana’s generating
facilities, transmission and distribution.

The remainder of Duke
Energy Indiana’s operations is presented as Other. Although it is not
considered a business segment, Other primarily includes certain governance
costs allocated by its ultimate parent, Duke Energy.










PART I

