
10-K
WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC. - DATED 12/31/99




- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K

(MARK ONE)
[X]            ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999

                                       OR

[ ]          TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

             FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM           TO

                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-12154

                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)



       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (713) 512-6200

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:



          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                 5.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2005

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes [X]  No [ ]

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulations S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.  [ ]

     The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of
the registrant at March 15, 2000, was approximately $8,186,801,350. The
aggregate market value was computed by using the closing price of the common
stock as of that date on the New York Stock Exchange. (For purposes of
calculating this amount only, all directors and executive officers of the
registrant have been treated as affiliates.)

     The number of shares of Common Stock, $.01 par value, of the registrant
outstanding at March 15, 2000, was 619,941,387 (excluding 7,892,612 shares held
in the Waste Management, Inc. Employee Stock Benefit Trust and treasury shares
of 73,709).

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                               


                                        i


                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

GENERAL

     Waste Management, Inc. ("Waste Management" or the "Company") is one of the
largest publicly-owned companies providing integrated waste management services
in North America and internationally. In North America, the Company provides
solid waste management services throughout the United States and Puerto Rico, as
well as in Canada and Mexico, including collection, transfer, recycling and
resource recovery services, and disposal services. In addition, the Company is a
leading developer, operator and owner of waste-to-energy facilities in the
United States. The Company also engages in hazardous waste management services
throughout North America, as well as low-level and other radioactive waste
services.

     Internationally, the Company operates throughout Europe, the Pacific Rim
and in South America. Included in the Company's international operations is the
collection and transportation of solid, hazardous and medical wastes and
recyclable materials and the treatment and disposal of recyclable materials. The
Company also operates solid and hazardous waste landfills, municipal and
hazardous waste incinerators, water and waste water treatment facilities,
hazardous waste treatment facilities, waste-fuel powered independent power
facilities, and constructs treatment or disposal facilities for third parties
internationally.

     The Company's diversified customer base for its North American solid waste
("NASW") operations was approximately 27 million customers as of December 31,
1999. This customer base includes commercial, industrial, municipal and
residential customers, other waste management companies, governmental entities
and independent power markets, with no single customer accounting for more than
5% of the Company's operating revenues during 1999. The Company employed
approximately 75,000 people as of December 31, 1999 of which, approximately
55,000 related to its NASW operations.

     In August 1999, the Company's Board of Directors adopted a strategic plan
intended to enhance value for its shareholders, customers, and employees. The
plan's major elements are to:

     - Dispose of the Company's non-strategic and under-performing assets,
       including the Company's international assets, its non-core assets and up
       to 10% of its NASW operations.

     - Maintain or improve the Company's long-term investment grade
       characteristics while using disposition proceeds for debt repayment,
       repurchases of shares and selected tuck-in acquisitions.

     - Bring more discipline and accountability to the enterprise while
       continuing the Company's decentralized business model, which puts
       authority close to the customer.

     - Restore a disciplined capital allocation philosophy that focuses on
       profits as opposed to growth.

     - Give employees the tools they need to do their jobs, including updated
       and more efficient information systems.

     As part of the strategic plan, the Company announced in January 2000 that
one of its subsidiaries reached an agreement to sell its waste services
operations in Finland to Lassila & Tikanoja plc for approximately $100 million.
The transaction is subject to the approval of the Finnish Competition Authority.
Additionally, in February 2000, the Company announced that one of its
subsidiaries intends to sell the 60.5% interest in Waste Management New Zealand
Limited that it owns. The sale is to be by way of a public and institutional
offering in New Zealand and an institutional offering in selected overseas
markets. The shares will not be or have not been registered under the United
States Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and may not be offered and sold in
the United States without registration thereof. Also, in March 2000, the Company
announced that one of its subsidiaries has reached an agreement to sell its
waste services operations in The Netherlands to Shanks Group plc for
approximately $328 million. The sale is subject to the Shanks Group's raising
capital and obtaining financing. The Company expects each of these transactions
to be completed in the second quarter of 2000. See "Business -- WM
International."



     Additionally, in March 2000, the Company announced that one of its
subsidiaries reached an agreement to sell its nuclear services business to GTS
Duratek, Inc. for up to $65 million in cash, consisting of $55 million at
closing and up to $10 million in additional cash consideration upon the
satisfaction of certain post-closing conditions. The sale, which is subject to
regulatory approvals and other customary conditions, is expected to occur in the
second quarter of 2000.

     The Company's operations are subject to extensive governmental regulation
and legislative initiative, such as environmental regulation, mandatory
recycling laws, preclusion of certain waste from landfills and restrictions on
the flow of solid waste. Due to public awareness and influence regarding waste
and the environment, and uncertainty with respect to the enactment and
enforcement of future laws, the Company can not always accurately project the
impact any future regulation or legislative initiatives may have on its
operations. See "-- Regulation" and "Legal Proceedings" for additional
information.

     On July 16, 1998, the Company, then known as USA Waste Services, Inc.,
completed a merger with Waste Management Holdings, Inc. ("WM Holdings") (the "WM
Holdings Merger"). At the effective time of the WM Holdings Merger, the Company
changed its name to "Waste Management, Inc."

     The terms "Waste Management" and the "Company" refer to Waste Management,
Inc., a Delaware corporation incorporated on April 28, 1995, and include its
predecessors, subsidiaries, and affiliates, unless the context requires
otherwise. Waste Management's executive offices are located at 1001 Fannin
Street, Suite 4000, Houston, Texas 77002, and its telephone number is (713)
512-6200. The Company's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange
under the trading symbol "WMI."

OPERATIONS

  General

     The following table reflects the Company's operating revenues for each of
the three years in the period ended December 31, 1999 for each of the Company's
principal lines of business, which are as follows: (i) the Company's NASW
operations, which include integrated waste management services consisting of
collection, transfer, disposal (solid waste landfill, hazardous waste landfill
and waste-to-energy facilities), recycling, and other services in the United
States and Puerto Rico, Canada and Mexico, (ii) the Company's operations outside
of North America ("WM International") and (iii) the Company's hazardous waste
management, waste-to-energy facilities and other non-solid waste services
("non-solid waste"). Certain reclassifications have been made to prior year
amounts in the financial statements in order to conform to the current year
presentation. Additional information regarding the results of operations for the
Company's business lines is included in Note 14 to the Company's financial
statements included elsewhere herein (in millions).



  North American Solid Waste

     Management of the Company's NASW operations is primarily achieved through
an alignment that currently includes six geographic areas. Each area is directed
by a senior Company officer who is responsible



for oversight of the area's sales and marketing, administration and finance,
operations, and maintenance functions and who typically has staff that work
interactively with the corporate office to provide regulatory compliance and
reporting, legal, engineering, internal and external development, and strategic
planning services. Areas are organized into regions, each of which is managed by
a Company vice-president. Regions are further organized into divisions and
districts which are led by local managers. Geographically, an area encompasses
several states or provinces and may have up to nine regions, each of which is
responsible for the oversight of several divisions and districts. The division
or district manager is responsible for the day-to-day oversight of that local
operation, with direct responsibility for customer satisfaction, employee
motivation, labor and equipment productivity, internal growth, financial
budgets, and profit and loss activity.

     Collection. The Company provides different types of solid waste collection
services depending on the customer serviced. Commercial and industrial
collection services are generally performed under one to five-year service
agreements, and fees are determined by such factors as collection frequency,
type of collection equipment furnished by the Company, type and volume or weight
of the waste collected, the distance to the disposal facility, labor cost, and
cost of disposal. Most residential solid waste collection services are performed
under contracts with, or franchises granted by, municipalities or regional
authorities that have granted the Company exclusive rights to service all or a
portion of the homes in their respective jurisdictions. Such contracts or
franchises usually range in duration from one to five years, however, in certain
cases, they have significantly longer terms. Residential collection fees are
either paid by the municipalities from their tax revenues or service charges, or
are paid directly by the residents receiving the service.

     As part of its services, the Company provides steel containers to most of
its commercial and industrial customers to store solid waste. These containers,
ranging in size from one to 45 cubic yards, are designed to be lifted
mechanically and either emptied into a collection vehicle's compaction hopper or
directly into a disposal site in the case of industrial customers. The use of
containers enables the Company to service most of its commercial and industrial
customers with collection vehicles operated by a single employee.

     The Company often obtains waste collection accounts through acquisitions.
Once a collection operation is acquired, the Company implements programs
designed to improve equipment utilization, employee productivity, operating
efficiencies, and overall profitability. The Company also solicits commercial
and industrial customers in areas surrounding acquired residential collection
markets as a means of further improving operating efficiencies and increasing
solid waste collection volumes.

     The cost of transporting solid waste to a disposal location effectively
constrains where the Company chooses to operate its businesses. In addition, the
Company believes that it is generally preferable for its collection operations
to utilize disposal facilities owned or operated by affiliated parties so that
access can be assured on reasonable terms. In the remaining areas, waste is
collected and delivered to a municipal, county or privately-owned unaffiliated
landfill or transfer station.

     Disposal. Landfills are the primary depository for solid waste. A solid
waste landfill site must have geological and hydrological properties and design
features which limit the possibility of water pollution, directly or by
leaching. Solid waste landfill operations, which include carefully planned
excavation, construction of liners and final caps, continuous spreading,
compacting and covering of solid waste, are designed to maintain sanitary
conditions, insure optimum utilization of the airspace and prepare the site for
ultimate use for other purposes. Solid waste landfill operations are required to
be conducted in accordance with the terms of permits obtained from various
regulatory authorities, which typically incorporate the requirements of federal
environmental laws or applicable state requirements, whichever are more
stringent. These requirements address such matters as daily volume limitations,
placement of daily, interim and final site cover materials on waste disposed at
the site, construction and operation of methane gas and leachate management
systems, periodic groundwater monitoring activity and final closure requirements
and post-closure monitoring and maintenance activities.

     Solid waste landfill customers are charged disposal charges, known as
"tipping fees," based on market factors and the type and volume of solid waste
deposited and the type and size of vehicles used in the conveyance of solid
waste. The ownership or lease of a solid waste landfill enables the Company to
dispose of



waste without payment of tipping fees to unaffiliated parties. The Company's
solid waste landfills are also used by unaffiliated waste collection companies
and government agencies.

     The Company operates five secure hazardous waste land disposal facilities
in the United States, all of which have been issued permits under the Resource
Conservative and Recovery Act ("RCRA"). See "Regulation -- RCRA." In general,
the Company's hazardous waste land disposal facilities have received the
necessary permits and approvals to accept hazardous wastes, although some of
such sites may accept only certain hazardous wastes. Only hazardous waste in a
stable, solid form which meets applicable regulatory requirements may be
deposited in the Company's secure disposal cells. These land disposal facilities
are sited, constructed and operated in a manner designed to provide long-term
containment of such waste. Hazardous wastes may be treated prior to disposal.
Physical treatment methods include distillation, evaporation and separation, all
of which effectively result in the separation or removal of solid materials from
liquids. Chemical treatment methods include chemical oxidation and reduction,
chemical precipitation of heavy metals, hydrolysis and neutralization of acid
and alkaline wastes and essentially involve the transformation of wastes into
inert materials through one or more chemical reaction processes. At two
facilities, the Company isolates treated hazardous wastes in liquid form by
injection into deep wells. Deep well technology involves drilling wells in
suitable rock formations far below the base of fresh water to a point that is
separated by other substantial geological confining layers.

     Excluding landfills that the Company has held for sale as of December 31,
1999, the average landfill volume of the Company's North American active sites
for 1999 was approximately 421,000 tons per day. The average remaining life for
these landfills was approximately 18 years based on remaining permitted capacity
as of December 31, 1999 and projected annual disposal volumes. The average
remaining life for these sites was approximately 31 years based on remaining
permitted capacity and probable expansion capacity. The expected remaining
airspace capacity in cubic yards and the remaining landfill gate tons of the
Company's active sites, excluding sites that are held for sale as of
December 31, 1999, is as follows (in millions):



     In areas where additional airspace is required, the Company may attempt to
develop a new disposal facility or seek the required permits to expand an
existing site. An expansion of an existing site may include either a lateral
expansion onto property not previously permitted for landfill use or a vertical
expansion by increasing the height of the landfill beyond the current permitted
height.

     Suitable solid waste landfill facilities and permission to expand existing
facilities may be difficult to obtain in some areas because of land scarcity,
local resident opposition and governmental regulation. As its existing
facilities become filled in such areas, the Company's solid waste disposal
operations are and will continue to be materially dependent on its ability to
purchase, lease or otherwise obtain operating rights for additional sites or
expansion of existing sites and to obtain the necessary permits from regulatory
authorities to construct and operate them. In addition, there can be no
assurance that additional sites can be obtained or that existing facilities can
continue to be expanded or operated.

     To develop a new disposal facility or obtain approval for the expansion of
an existing site, the Company must expend significant time and capital resources
without any certainty that the necessary permits will ultimately be issued for
such facility or that the Company will be able to achieve and maintain the
desired disposal volume at such facility. If the inability to obtain and retain
necessary permits, the failure of a facility to achieve the desired disposal
volume or other factors cause the Company to abandon development efforts for a
facility, the capitalized development costs of the facility are charged to
expense.

     Transfer Stations. A transfer station is a facility located near
residential and commercial collection routes where solid waste is received from
collection vehicles and then transferred to and compacted in large,
specially-constructed trailers for transportation to disposal facilities. This
consolidation reduces costs by improving the utilization of collection personnel
and equipment. Fees are generally based on such factors as the type and volume
of the waste transferred and the transportation distance to disposal sites.
Transfer stations


can also be used to facilitate internalizing disposal costs by giving Company
collection operations more cost-effective access to disposal facilities owned or
operated by the Company.

     Recycling. The Company provides recycling services in the United States and
Canada through its Recycle America(R), Recycle Canada(R) and other programs.
Recycling involves the removal of reusable materials from the waste stream for
processing and sale or other disposition for use in various applications.
Participating commercial and industrial operations use containers to separate
recyclable paper, glass, plastic and metal wastes for collection, processing and
sale by the Company. Fees are determined by such considerations as competition,
frequency of collection, type and volume or weight of the recyclable material,
degree of processing required, distance the recyclable material must be
transported and value of the recyclable material.

     As part of its residential solid waste collection services, the Company
engages in curbside collection of recyclable materials from residences in the
United States and Canada. Curbside recycling services generally involve the
collection of recyclable paper, glass, plastic and metal waste materials, which
may be separated by residents into different waste containers or commingled with
other recyclable materials. The recyclable materials are then typically
deposited at a local materials recovery facility ("MRF") where they are sorted
and processed for sale. The Company operates over 170 MRFs for the receipt and
processing of recyclable materials. Such processing consists of separating
recyclable materials according to type and baling or otherwise preparing the
separated materials for sale.

     The prices received by the Company for recyclable materials fluctuate
substantially from quarter to quarter and year to year depending upon domestic
and foreign demand for such materials, the quality of such materials, prices for
new materials and other factors. In some instances, the Company enters into
agreements with customers or the local governments of municipalities in which it
provides recycling services whereby the customers or the governments share in
the gains and losses resulting from fluctuation in prices of recyclable
commodities. These agreements can reduce both the Company's gains and losses
from such fluctuations.

     Energy Recovery. The Company develops, operates, and owns waste-to-energy
facilities in the United States. The Company's waste-to-energy projects are
capable of processing up to 23,750 tons of solid waste per day. The heat from
this combustion process is converted into high-pressure steam, which typically
is used to generate electricity for sale to public utility companies under
long-term contracts.

     At 70 Company-owned or Company-operated solid waste landfill facilities,
the Company is engaged in methane gas recovery operations. These operations
involve the installation of a gas collection system into a solid waste landfill
facility. Through the gas collection system, gas generated by decomposing solid
waste is collected and transported to a gas-processing facility at the landfill
site. Through physical and chemical processes, methane gas is separated from
contaminants. The processed methane gas is then generally either sold directly
to industrial users or to an affiliate of the Company which uses it as a fuel to
power electricity generators. Electricity generated by these facilities is sold,
usually to public utilities under long-term sales contracts, often under terms
or conditions which are subject to approval by regulatory authorities.

     Portable Sanitation Services. The Company also provides portable sanitation
services to municipalities and commercial customers.

  WM International

     In August 1999, the Board of Directors of the Company announced its
strategic plan, one element of which is to sell its WM International operations.
In the first quarter of 2000, the Company announced that certain of its
subsidiaries had signed definitive agreements to sell its operations in Finland
and The Netherlands and intend to sell its interest in Waste Management New
Zealand Limited. The Company expects to complete the sales of its WM
International operations pursuant to the strategic plan in the year 2000.

     The Company's WM International operations, which include all of the
Company's operations outside of North America, may broadly be characterized into
two areas of activity, collection services and treatment and disposal services.


     While the Company has considerable experience in mobilizing operations
internationally and managing foreign projects, its operations continue to be
subject generally to such risks as currency fluctuations and exchange controls,
the need to recruit and retain suitable local labor forces and to control and
coordinate operations in different jurisdictions, changes in foreign laws or
governmental policies or attitudes concerning their enforcement, political
changes, local economic conditions and international tensions. In addition,
price adjustment provisions based on certain formulas or indices may not
accurately reflect the actual impact of inflation on the cost of performance.

     Collection. Internationally, collection services include collection and
transportation of solid, hazardous and medical wastes and recyclable material
from residential, commercial and industrial customers. The residential solid
waste collection process, as well as the commercial and industrial solid and
hazardous waste collection process, is similar to that utilized by the Company
in its North American operations. Business is obtained through public bids or
tenders, negotiated contracts, and, in the case of commercial and industrial
customers, direct contracts.

     Residential solid waste collection is typically performed internationally
pursuant to municipal contracts. The scope, specifications, services provided
and duration of such contracts vary substantially, with some contracts
encompassing landfill disposal of collected waste, street sweeping and other
related municipal services. Pricing for municipal contracts is generally based
on volume of waste, number and frequency of collection pick-ups, and disposal
arrangements. Longer-term contracts typically have formulas for periodic price
increases or adjustments. The Company's WM International operations also include
providing curbside recycling services similar to those provided by the Company's
North American operations.

     International commercial and industrial solid and hazardous waste
collection services are generally contracted for by individual establishments.
In addition to solid waste collection customers, the Company provides services
to small quantity waste generators, as well as larger petrochemical,
pharmaceutical and other industrial customers, including collection of
hazardous, chemical or medical wastes or residues. Contract terms and prices
vary substantially among jurisdictions and types of customers. Commercial and
industrial recycling services are also provided as part of the Company's WM
International operations.

     Treatment and Disposal. Treatment and disposal services include processing
of recyclable materials, operation of both solid and hazardous waste landfills,
operation of municipal and hazardous waste incinerators, operation of water and
wastewater treatment facilities, operation of hazardous waste treatment
facilities and construction of treatment or disposal facilities for third
parties. Treatment and disposal services are provided under contracts which may
be obtained through public bid or tender or by direct negotiation, and are also
provided directly to other waste service companies.

     Once collected, solid waste processed in a MRF may be sold, utilized or
disposed of in various applications. Unprocessed solid wastes, or the portion of
the waste stream remaining after recovery of recyclable materials, require
disposal, which may be accomplished through incineration (in which the energy
value may be recovered in a waste-to-energy facility) or through disposal in a
solid waste landfill. The relative use of landfills versus incinerators differs
from country to country and will depend on many factors, including the
availability of land, geological and hydrogeological conditions, the
availability and cost of technology and capital, and the regulatory environment.
The main determinants of the disposal method are the disposal costs at local
landfills, as incineration is generally more expensive, community preferences
and regulatory provisions.

     At present, in most countries in which the Company has WM International
operations, landfilling is the predominant disposal method employed. Through its
international subsidiaries, the Company owns or operates solid waste landfills
in Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Denmark, Germany, Hong Kong, Italy, New
Zealand, Sweden and the United Kingdom. Landfill disposal agreements may be
separate contracts or an integrated portion of collection or treatment
contracts.

     Through its international subsidiaries, the Company owns or operates
hazardous waste treatment facilities in Australia, Brazil, Brunei, Denmark,
Finland, Germany, Hong Kong, Indonesia, The Netherlands, Sweden, and the United
Kingdom.



     Other. Industrial premises, office, street and parking lot cleaning
services are also part of the Company's WM International operations, along with
portable sanitation services for occasions such as outdoor concerts and special
events.

  Non-Solid Waste Services

     Hazardous Waste Management Services. Hazardous wastes handled by the
Company include industrial by-products and residues that have been identified as
"hazardous" pursuant to RCRA, as well as other materials contaminated with a
wide variety of chemical substances. Hazardous waste may be collected from
customers and transported by the Company or contractors retained by the Company
or delivered by customers to the facilities. Hazardous waste is transported
primarily in specially constructed tankers and semi-trailers, including
stainless steel and rubber or epoxy-lined tankers and vacuum trucks, or in
containers or drums on trailers designed to comply with applicable regulations
and specifications of the United States Department of Transportation ("DOT")
relating to the transportation of hazardous materials. The Company also operates
several facilities at which waste collected from or delivered by customers may
be analyzed and consolidated prior to further shipment.

     In the United States, most hazardous wastes generated by industrial
processes are handled "on-site" at the generators' facilities. Since the
mid-1970's, public awareness of the harmful effects of unregulated disposal of
hazardous wastes on the environment and health has led to extensive and evolving
federal, state and local regulation of hazardous waste management activities.
The major federal statutes regulating the management of hazardous wastes or
substances include RCRA, the Toxic Substances Control Act ("TSCA") and the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liabilities Act of 1980,
as amended ("CERCLA" or "Superfund"), all primarily administered by the EPA. The
hazardous waste management business is heavily dependent upon the extent to
which regulations promulgated under these or similar state statutes and their
enforcement over time effectively require wastes to be specially handled or
managed and disposed of in facilities of the type owned and operated by the
Company. See "Regulation -- Hazardous Waste," "-- RCRA" and "-- Superfund." The
hazardous waste services industry currently has substantial excess capacity
caused by a number of factors, including a decline in environmental remediation
projects generating hazardous waste for off-site treatment and disposal,
continuing efforts by hazardous waste generators to reduce volume and to manage
the wastes on-site, and the uncertain regulatory environment regarding hazardous
waste management and remediation requirements. These factors have led to reduced
demand and increased pressure on pricing for hazardous waste management
services, conditions which the Company expects to continue for the foreseeable
future.

     Low-Level and Other Radioactive Waste Services. Radioactive wastes with
varying degrees of radioactivity are generated by nuclear reactors and by
medical, industrial, research and governmental users of radioactive material.
Radioactive wastes are generally classified as either high-level or low-level.
High-level radioactive waste, such as spent nuclear fuel and waste generated
during the reprocessing of spent fuel from nuclear reactors, contains
substantial quantities of long-lived radionuclides and is the ultimate
responsibility of the federal government. Low-level radioactive waste, which
decays more quickly than high-level waste, largely consists of dry compressible
wastes (such as contaminated gloves, paper, tools and clothing), resins and
filters which have removed radioactive contaminants from nuclear reactor cooling
water, and solidified wastes from power plants which have become contaminated
with radioactive substances and irradiated hardware.

     The Company announced in March 2000 that, pursuant to its strategic plan,
one of its subsidiaries has entered into an agreement to sell all of its
low-level and other radioactive waste service operations. The Company expects
that the sale of these operations, which are described below, will be completed
during the second quarter of 2000. See "Business -- General."

     The Company's Chem-Nuclear Systems LLC subsidiary ("Chem-Nuclear") provides
comprehensive low-level radioactive waste management services in the United
States, consisting of disposal, processing and various other special services.
To a lesser extent, it provides services with respect to radioactive waste that
has become mixed with regulated hazardous waste. Its Barnwell, South Carolina
facility, which has been in operation since 1971, is one of three licensed
commercial low-level radioactive waste disposal facilities in the



United States. A trust has been established and funded to pay the estimated cost
of decommissioning the Barnwell facility. A second trust, for the extended care
of the facility, is funded by a surcharge on each cubic foot of waste received.
Chem-Nuclear may be liable for additional costs if the extra charges collected
to restore and maintain the facility are insufficient to cover the cost of
restoring or maintaining the site during and after its closure. The Company does
not expect this to have a material adverse impact on future operating results.

     Under state legislation enacted in 1995, the Barnwell site is authorized to
operate until its current permitted disposal activity is fully utilized.
However, that legislation was attached to a state appropriations bill that
included a provision for a state tax of $235 to be imposed on every cubic foot
of waste disposed of at the Barnwell facility. As a result of decreased disposal
volume and a shortfall in anticipated tax revenue, in June 1997, the state of
South Carolina enacted new legislation requiring that Chem-Nuclear guarantee
certain portions of anticipated tax revenues from the facility. Such reduced
disposal volume and the requirement that Chem-Nuclear fund such tax payments
have caused Chem-Nuclear to review its alternatives with respect to the Barnwell
facility.

     Chem-Nuclear also processes low-level radioactive waste at its customers'
plants to enable such waste to be shipped in dry matter rather than liquid form
to meet the requirements for receipt at disposal facilities and to reduce the
volume of waste that must be transported. Processing operations include
solidification, demineralization, dewatering and filtration. Other services
offered by Chem-Nuclear include providing electro-chemical, abrasive and
chemical removal of radioactive contamination, providing management services for
spent nuclear fuel storage pools and storing and incinerating liquid radioactive
organic wastes.

     Through its Waste Management Federal Services, Inc. subsidiary, the Company
provides hazardous, radioactive and mixed waste program and facilities
management services, primarily to the United States Department of Energy and
other federal government agencies. Such services include waste treatment,
storage, characterization and disposal, and privatization services.

     Independent Power Projects. The Company also operates and, in some cases,
owns independent power projects which either cogenerate electricity and thermal
energy or generate electricity alone for sale to customers, including utilities
and private customers.

COMPETITION

     The North American solid waste industry, despite recent consolidation, is
still highly competitive. The Company encounters intense competition, primarily
in the pricing and rendering of services, from various sources in all phases of
its operations. The competition encountered by the Company in its North American
solid waste operations is primarily from numerous publicly-held companies,
locally-owned private solid waste services companies, municipalities and other
regional or multi-governmental authorities, and large commercial and industrial
companies handling their own waste collection or disposal operations. Local
governmental entities are at times able to offer lower direct charges to the
customer for the same service by subsidizing the cost of such services through
the use of tax revenues and tax-exempt financing. Generally, however,
municipalities do not provide significant commercial and industrial waste
collection or waste disposal.

     Operating costs, disposal costs, and collection fees vary widely throughout
the geographic areas in which the Company operates. The prices that the Company
charges are determined locally, and typically vary by the volume, type of waste
collected, treatment requirements, risks involved in the handling or disposing
of waste, frequency of collections, distance to final disposal sites, labor
costs and amount and type of equipment furnished to the customer. Long-term
solid waste collection contracts typically contain a formula, generally based on
published price indices, for automatic adjustment of fees.

     The Company competes for landfill business on the basis of tipping fees,
geographical location, and quality of operations. The Company's ability to
obtain landfill volume may be limited by the fact that some major collection
companies also own or operate landfills to which they internalize their waste.
The Company competes for collection accounts primarily based on price and the
quality of its services. Intense competition is encountered for both quality of
service and pricing. From time to time, competitors may reduce the price of



their services and accept lower profit margins in an effort to expand or
maintain market share or to successfully obtain competitively bid contracts.

     The Company provides residential collection services under a number of
municipal contracts. Such contracts are subject to periodic competitive bidding,
and there is no assurance that the Company will be the successful bidder and
will be able to retain such contracts. If the Company is unable to replace
certain contracts lost through the competitive bidding process with comparable
contracts within a reasonable time period, the earnings of the Company could be
adversely affected.

     Increased public environmental awareness and certain mandated state
regulations have resulted in increased recycling, composting and waste reduction
efforts in many different areas of North America. Such efforts tend to reduce
the amount of solid waste directed to landfills and waste-to-energy facilities.
Although the Company believes that landfills and waste-to-energy facilities will
continue to be the primary depository for solid waste well into the future,
there can be no assurance that recycling, composting, and waste reduction
efforts will not affect future disposal volumes. The effect, if any, on such
volumes could also vary between different geographic regions as well as within
individual market areas in each region.

     The Company also encounters intense competition in pricing and rendering of
services in its portable sanitation service business, from numerous large and
small competitors. In addition, the Company's program and facilities management
business encounters intense competition, primarily in pricing, quality and
reliability of services, from various sources in all aspects of its business.

     In its hazardous waste management operations, the Company encounters
competition from a number of sources, including several national or regional
firms specializing primarily in hazardous waste management, local waste
management concerns and, to a much greater extent, generators of hazardous
wastes which seek to reduce the volume of or otherwise process and dispose of
such wastes themselves. The basis of competition is primarily technical
expertise and the price, quality and reliability of service.

     Similarly, the Company encounters intense competition in its WM
International operations from local companies and governmental entities in
particular countries, as well as from major international companies. Pricing,
quality of service and type of equipment utilized are the primary methods of
competition for collection services, and proximity of suitable treatment or
disposal facilities, technical expertise, price, quality and reliability of
services are the primary methods of competition for treatment and disposal
services.

EMPLOYEES

     At December 31, 1999, the Company had approximately 75,000 full-time
employees, of which approximately 10,000 were employed in clerical,
administrative, and sales positions, 3,000 in management, and the balance in
collection, disposal, transfer station and other operations. Approximately
13,000 of the Company's employees are covered by collective bargaining
agreements. Of the Company's 75,000 full-time employees, there are approximately
55,000 related to its NASW operations at December 31, 1999. The Company has not
experienced a significant work stoppage, and management considers its employee
relations to be good.

INSURANCE AND FINANCIAL ASSURANCE OBLIGATIONS

     The Company carries a broad range of insurance coverages, which management
considers prudent for the protection of the Company's assets and operations,
including general liability, automobile liability, real and personal property,
workers' compensation, directors' and officers' liability, and such other
coverages as management deems necessary. Some of these coverages are subject to
varying retentions of risk by the Company. At December 31, 1999, the Company's
casualty policies provided for $2 million per occurrence coverage for primary
commercial general liability and $1 million per accident coverage for primary
automobile liability (including coverage for pollution exposure arising out of
trucking operations) supported by $500 million in umbrella insurance protection.
At December 31, 1999, the Company's property policy provided insurance coverage
for all of the Company's real and personal property on a replacement cost basis,
including California earthquake perils. At December 31, 1999, the Company also
carried $200 million in aircraft liability



protection. The Company believes these are appropriate levels for its operations
and that such levels meet applicable requirements of the various states and
countries in which it operates, however, various factors, including cost and
coverage availability, could cause the Company to change its levels of coverage.

     The Company maintains workers' compensation insurance in accordance with
laws of the various states and countries in which it has employees. At December
31, 1999, the Company's ongoing workers' compensation insurance program had a
deductible per incident of $250,000. Through the second quarter of 1999, the
Company estimated its insurance-related liabilities for the ongoing programs
mainly related to workers' compensation, based on an analysis of insurance
claims submitted for reimbursement, plus an estimate for liabilities incurred as
of the balance sheet date, but not yet reported to the Company. In the third
quarter of 1999, the Company began estimating these liabilities based on
actuarially determined estimates of ultimate losses. These estimates are
generally within a range of potential ultimate outcomes.

     The Company also currently has an environmental impairment liability
("EIL") insurance policy for certain of its landfills, transfer stations, and
recycling facilities that provides coverage for property damages and/or bodily
injuries to third parties caused by off-site pollution emanating from such
landfills, transfer stations, or recycling facilities. At December 31, 1999,
this policy provided $10 million of coverage per loss with a $20 million
aggregate limit.

     To date, the Company has not experienced any difficulty in obtaining
insurance. However, if the Company in the future is unable to obtain adequate
insurance, or decides to operate without insurance, a partially or completely
uninsured claim against the Company, if successful and of sufficient magnitude,
could have a material adverse effect upon the Company's financial condition,
results of operations or cash flows. Additionally, continued availability of
casualty and EIL insurance with sufficient limits at acceptable terms is an
important aspect of obtaining revenue-producing waste service contracts.

     Municipal and governmental waste management contracts typically require
performance bonds or bank letters of credit to secure performance. In addition,
the Company is required to provide financial assurance for final closure and
post-closure obligations with respect to its landfills. The Company uses
different mechanisms for establishing financial assurance depending on the
jurisdiction, including escrow-type accounts funded by revenues during the
operational life of a facility, letters of credit from third parties, corporate
guarantees, surety bonds and traditional insurance. However, the Company also
establishes financial assurance through "captive insurance" which is insurance
provided by the Company's wholly-owned, but independent, regulated insurance
company subsidiary, National Guaranty Insurance Company ("NGIC"). NGIC is
authorized to write up to $1.1 billion in insurance policies or surety bond
limits for the Company's final closure and post-closure requirements. In those
instances where the use of NGIC or captive insurance is not acceptable, the
Company has available alternative bonding mechanisms. The Company has not
experienced difficulty in obtaining performance bonds or letters of credit for
its current operations. As of December 31, 1999, the Company had provided
letters of credit of approximately $1.5 billion, and surety bonds of
approximately $3.0 billion to municipalities and other customers and other
regulatory authorities supporting tax-exempt bonds, performance of landfill
final closure and post-closure requirements, insurance contracts, and other
contracts. Continued availability of surety bonds and letters of credit in
sufficient amounts at acceptable rates is an important aspect of obtaining
additional municipal collection contracts and obtaining or retaining disposal
site operating permits.

REGULATION

  General -- Potential Adverse Effect of Government Regulations

     The Company's principal business activities are subject to extensive and
evolving federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health, safety, and
transportation laws and regulations. These regulations are administered by the
EPA in the United States, various other federal, state, and local environmental,
zoning, health, and safety agencies in the United States and elsewhere,
including the European Environmental Agency in Europe and various other national
agencies outside of Europe. Many of these agencies periodically examine the
Company's operations to monitor compliance with such laws and regulations.



     Generally, the regulatory process requires the Company, and other companies
in the industry, to obtain and retain numerous governmental permits to conduct
various aspects of its operations, any of which may be subject to revocation,
modification or denial. Particularly, the development, expansion, and operation
of landfills and transfer stations are subject to extensive regulations
governing siting, design, operations, monitoring, site maintenance, corrective
action, financial assurance, and final closure and post-closure obligations. In
order to construct, expand, and operate a landfill or transfer station, the
Company must obtain and maintain one or more construction or operating permits
and licenses and, in certain instances, applicable zoning approvals. Obtaining
the necessary permits and approvals in connection with the acquisition,
development, or expansion of a landfill or transfer station is difficult,
time-consuming (often taking two to three years or more), and expensive, and is
frequently opposed by local citizens as well as environmental groups. Many
agencies require public hearings prior to issuance of such permits giving such
opposition an opportunity to be heard. In addition, many agencies consider the
compliance history of the applicant as well as any parent, subsidiary or
affiliated company as a factor in the permit approval process. Once obtained,
operating permits are subject to modification and revocation by the issuing
agency. The Company is also subject to the licensing requirements of the Federal
Communications Commission ("FCC") with respect to two-way radio communications.
Compliance with current and future regulatory requirements may require the
Company, as well as others in the waste management industry, from time to time,
to make significant capital and operating expenditures.

     For collection operations, regulation takes such forms as licensing
collection vehicles, health and safety requirements, vehicular weight
limitations, and, in certain localities, limitations on weight, area, time, and
frequency of collection.

     Federal, state, local and foreign governments have, from time to time,
proposed or adopted other types of laws, regulations, or initiatives with
respect to the environmental services industry, including laws, regulations, and
initiatives to ban or restrict the international, interstate, or intrastate
shipment of wastes, impose higher taxes on out-of-state waste shipments than on
in-state shipments, limit the types of wastes that may be disposed of at
existing landfills, mandate waste minimization initiatives, require recycling
and yard waste composting, reclassify certain categories of nonhazardous waste
as hazardous, and regulate disposal facilities as public utilities. Congress
has, from time to time, considered legislation that would enable or facilitate
such bans, restrictions, taxes, and regulations, many of which could adversely
affect the demand for the Company's services. Similar types of laws,
regulations, and initiatives have also, from time to time, been proposed or
adjusted in other jurisdictions in which the Company operates. The effect of
these and similar laws could be a reduction of the volume of waste that would
otherwise be disposed of in the Company's landfills. The Company makes a
continuing effort to anticipate regulatory, political, and legal developments
that might affect its operations, but it is not always able to do so. The
Company cannot predict the extent to which any legislation or regulation that
may be enacted, amended, repealed, reinterpreted, or enforced in the future may
affect its operations. Such actions could adversely affect the Company's
operations or impact the Company's future financial condition or earnings.

     Also, in May 1994, the United States Supreme Court ruled that state and
local governments may not constitutionally restrict the free movement of waste
in interstate commerce through the use of flow control laws. Such laws typically
involve a local government specifying a jurisdictional disposal site for all
solid waste generated within its borders. Since the ruling, several decisions of
state or federal courts have invalidated regulatory flow control schemes in a
number of jurisdictions. Other judicial decisions have upheld non-regulatory
means by which municipalities may effectively control the flow of municipal
solid waste. In addition, federal legislation has been proposed, but not yet
enacted, to effectively grandfather existing flow control mandates. There can be
no assurance that such alternatives to regulatory flow control will in every
case be found lawful or that such legislation will be enacted into law. However,
the Supreme Court's 1994 ruling and subsequent court decisions have not to date
had a material adverse effect on any of the Company's operations. In the event
that such legislation is not adopted, the Company believes that affected
municipalities will endeavor to implement alternative lawful means to continue
controlling the flow of waste. In view of the uncertain state of the law at this
time, however, the Company is unable to predict whether such efforts would be
successful or what impact, if any, this matter might have on the Company's
operations.



     In 1997, the EPA released guidance interpreting the Civil Rights Act to
require federal, state, or local permitting authorities receiving money from the
EPA to consider the discriminatory effects that may result from permit
issuances, renewals or modifications. The EPA will entertain challenges to any
such permits on the grounds that the permitted activities, alone or in
conjunction with other permitted activities, subject minority communities to
disparate exposure to pollution. The lack of specific standards in the EPA's
guidance creates some uncertainty about the effects any such challenges could
have on the Company's ability to obtain or renew necessary permits.

     The demand for certain of the services provided by the Company,
particularly its hazardous waste management services, is dependent in part on
the existence and enforcement of federal, state, local and foreign laws and
regulations which govern the discharge of hazardous substances into the
environment and on the funding of agencies and programs under such laws and
regulations. Such businesses will be adversely affected to the extent that such
laws or regulations are amended or repealed, with the effect of reducing the
regulation of, or liability for, such activity, that the enforcement of such
laws and regulations is lessened or that funding of agencies and programs under
such laws and regulations is delayed or reduced. In particular, the EPA
continues to consider proposals under RCRA to redefine the term "hazardous
waste" for regulatory purposes. Under some such proposals, wastes containing
minimal concentrations of hazardous substances would no longer be subject to the
stringent record-keeping, handling, treatment and disposal rules applied to
hazardous wastes under RCRA. These proposals would, if adopted, reduce the
volume of wastes for which the Company's hazardous waste management services are
needed.

     In addition to environmental laws and regulations, federal government
contractors, including the Company, are subject to extensive regulation under
the United States Federal Acquisition Regulation and numerous statutes which
deal with the accuracy of cost and pricing information furnished to the United
States government, the allowability of costs charged to the United States
government, the conditions under which contracts may be modified or terminated,
and other similar matters. Various aspects of the Company's operations are
subject to audit by agencies of the United States government in connection with
its performance of work under such contracts as well as its submission of bids
or proposals to the United States government. Failure to comply with contract
provisions or other applicable requirements may result in termination of the
contract, the imposition of civil and criminal penalties against the Company, or
the suspension or debarment of all or a part of the Company from performing
services for the United States government, which could have a material adverse
impact upon the Company's financial condition or earnings for one or more fiscal
quarters or years. Among the reasons for debarment are violations of various
statutes, including those related to employment practices, the protection of the
environment, the accuracy of records and the recording of costs. Other
governmental authorities have similar suspension and debarment laws or
regulations which are applicable to their respective jurisdictions.

     Governmental authorities have the power to enforce compliance with
regulations and permit conditions and to obtain injunctions or impose fines in
case of violations. During the ordinary course of its operations, the Company
may, from time to time, receive citations or notices from such authorities that
a facility is not in full compliance with applicable environmental or health and
safety regulations. Upon receipt of such citations or notices, the Company will
work with the authorities to address their concerns. Failure to correct the
problems to the satisfaction of the authorities could lead to monetary
penalties, curtailed operations, jail terms, facility closure, or an inability
to obtain permits for additional sites.

     As a result of changing government and public attitudes in the area of
environmental regulation and enforcement, management anticipates that
continually changing requirements in health, safety, and environmental
protection laws will require the Company and others engaged in the waste
management industry to continually modify or replace various facilities and
alter methods of operation at costs that may be substantial. The Company's
significant expenditures incurred in the operation of its disposal facilities
relate to complying with the requirements of laws concerning the environment.
These expenditures relate to facility upgrades, corrective actions, and facility
final closure and post-closure care. The majority of these expenditures are made
in the normal course of the Company's business and neither materially adversely
affect the Company's earnings nor place the Company at any competitive
disadvantage. Although the Company, to its knowledge, is currently in compliance
in all material respects with all applicable federal, state, and local laws,
permits,


regulations, and orders affecting its operations where noncompliance would
result in a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition,
results of operations or cash flows, there is no assurance that the Company will
not have to expend substantial amounts for such actions in the future.

     The Company expects to grow in part by acquiring existing landfills,
transfer stations, and collection operations. Although the Company conducts
environmental due diligence investigations associated with the past waste
management practices of the businesses that it acquires, it can have no
assurance that, through its investigation, it will identify all potential
environmental problems or risks. As a result, the Company may have acquired, or
may in the future acquire, landfills or other properties or businesses that have
unknown environmental problems and related liabilities. The Company will be
subject to similar risks and uncertainties in connection with the acquisition of
closed facilities that had been previously operated by businesses acquired by
the Company. The Company seeks to mitigate the foregoing risks by obtaining
environmental representations and indemnities from the sellers of the businesses
that it acquires. However, there can be no assurance that the Company will be
able to rely on any such indemnities if an environmental liability exists.

  Solid Waste

     Operating permits are generally required at the state and local level for
landfills, transfer stations and collection vehicles. Operating permits need to
be renewed periodically and may be subject to revocation, modification, denial
or non-renewal for various reasons, including failure of the Company to satisfy
regulatory concerns. With respect to solid waste collection, regulation takes
such forms as licensing of collection vehicles, truck safety requirements, radio
communication licensing, vehicular weight limitations and, in certain
localities, limitations on rates, area, time and frequency of collection. With
respect to solid waste disposal, regulation covers various matters, including
landfill location and design, groundwater monitoring, gas control, liquid runoff
and rodent, pest, litter and traffic control. Zoning and land use requirements
and limitations are encountered in the solid waste collection, transfer,
recycling, energy recovery and disposal phases of the Company's business. In
almost all cases the Company is required to obtain conditional use permits or
zoning law changes in order to develop transfer station, resource recovery or
disposal facilities. In addition, the Company's disposal facilities are subject
to water and air pollution laws and regulations. Noise pollution laws and
regulations may also affect the Company's operations. Governmental authorities
have the power to enforce compliance with these various laws and regulations and
violators are subject to injunctions, fines and revocation of permits. Private
individuals may also have the right to sue to enforce compliance. Safety
standards under the Occupational Safety and Health Act ("OSHA") are also
applicable to the Company's solid waste and related services operations.

     The EPA and various states acting pursuant to EPA-delegated authority have
promulgated rules pursuant to RCRA which serve as minimum requirements for land
disposal of municipal wastes. The rules establish requirements applicable to the
siting, construction, operations, final closure and post-closure monitoring and
maintenance of all but the smallest municipal waste landfill facilities. The
Company does not believe that continued compliance with the more stringent
minimum requirements will have a material adverse effect on the Company's
operations. See also "-- RCRA" and "-- Superfund" below for additional
regulatory information.

     In March 1996, the EPA issued regulations that require large, municipal
solid waste landfills to install and monitor systems to collect and control
landfill gas. The regulations apply to landfills that are designed to
accommodate 2.5 million cubic meters or more of municipal solid waste and that
accepted waste for disposal after November 8, 1987, regardless of whether the
site is active or closed. The date by which each affected landfill must have
such a gas collection and control system depends on whether the landfill began
operation before or after May 30, 1991. In the United States, landfills
constructed, reconstructed, modified or first accepting waste after May 30,
1991, generally must have had systems in place by late 1998. Older landfills are
generally regulated by states and will be required to have landfill gas systems
in place within approximately 30 months of EPA's approval of the state program.
Many state solid waste regulations already require collection and control
systems. Compliance with the new regulations is not expected to have a material
adverse effect on the Company.



  Hazardous Waste

     The Company is required to obtain federal, state, local and foreign
governmental permits for its hazardous waste treatment, storage and disposal
facilities. Such permits are difficult to obtain, and in most instances
extensive geological studies, tests and public hearings are required before
permits may be issued. The Company's hazardous waste treatment, storage and
disposal facilities are also subject to siting, zoning and land use
restrictions, as well as to regulations (including certain requirements pursuant
to federal statutes) which may govern operating procedures and water and air
pollution, among other matters. In particular, the Company's operations in the
United States are subject to the Safe Drinking Water Act (which regulates deep
well injection), TSCA (pursuant to which the EPA has promulgated regulations
concerning the disposal of polychlorinated biphenyls ("PCBs")), the Clean Water
Act (which regulates the discharge of pollutants into surface waters and sewers
by municipal, industrial and other sources) and the Clean Air Act (which
regulates emissions into the air of certain potentially harmful substances). In
transportation operations, the Company is subject to the jurisdiction of the
Interstate Commerce Commission and regulated by the DOT and by regulatory
agencies in each state. Employee safety and health standards under OSHA are also
applicable. The Company is also subject to the licensing requirements of the FCC
with respect to two-way radio communications.

     All of the Company's hazardous waste treatment, storage or disposal
facilities in the United States have been issued permits under RCRA. The
regulations governing issuance of permits contain detailed standards for
hazardous waste facilities on matters such as construction, waste analysis,
security, inspections, training, preparedness and prevention, emergency
procedures, reporting and recordkeeping, final closure and post-closure
monitoring and maintenance. Once issued, a final permit has a maximum fixed term
of ten years, and such permits for land disposal facilities are required to be
reviewed five years from the date of issuance. The issuing agency (either the
EPA or an authorized state) may review or modify a permit at any time during its
term.

     The Company believes that it maintains each of its operating treatment,
storage or disposal facilities in substantial compliance with the applicable
requirements promulgated pursuant to RCRA. It is possible, however, that the
issuance or renewal of a permit could be made conditional upon the initiation or
completion of modifications or corrective actions at facilities, which might
involve substantial additional capital expenditures. Although the Company
anticipates the reauthorization of each permit at the end of its term if the
facility's operations are in compliance with applicable requirements, there can
be no assurance that such will be the case.

     The radioactive waste services of Chem-Nuclear are also subject to
extensive governmental regulation. Due to the extensive geological and
hydrogeological testing and environmental data required, and the complex
political environment, it is difficult to obtain permits for radioactive waste
disposal facilities. Various phases of Chem-Nuclear's low-level radioactive
waste management services are regulated by various state agencies, the United
States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the "NRC") and the DOT. Regulations
applicable to Chem-Nuclear's operations include those dealing with packaging,
handling, labeling and routing of radioactive materials, and prescribe detailed
safety and equipment standards and requirements for training, quality control
and insurance, among other matters. Employee safety and health standards under
OSHA are also applicable, as well as radio communication licensing by the FCC.

  Waste-to-Energy and Related Services

     The Company provides waste-to-energy and related services through its
wholly-owned subsidiary Wheelabrator Technologies Inc. ("WTI"), which is now
managed as part of the NASW operations. WTI's business activities are subject to
environmental regulation under federal, state and local laws and regulations.
These regulations include the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act and RCRA. The
Company believes that this business is conducted in material compliance with
applicable laws and regulations. There can be no assurance, however, that such
requirements will not change to the extent that it would materially affect the
Company's consolidated financial statements. The Company believes that the air
pollution control systems at certain waste-to-energy facilities owned or leased
for use in these operations most likely will be required to be



modified to comply with more stringent air pollution control standards adopted
by the EPA in December 1995 for large municipal waste combusters. The compliance
dates have varied by facility, but all affected facilities will be required to
be in compliance with the standards by the end of the year 2000. Currently
available technologies are adequate to meet the new standards. Although the
total expenditures required for such modifications are approximately $75.2
million, they are not expected to have a material adverse effect on the
Company's liquidity or results of operations because provisions in the impacted
facilities' long-term waste supply agreements generally allow the Company to
recover from customers the majority of incremental capital and operating costs.
The customer's share of capital and financing costs is typically recovered over
the remaining life of the waste supply agreements, and pro rata operating costs
are recovered in the period incurred. There can be no assurance, however, the
Company will be able to recover, for each project, all such increased costs from
its customers. Moreover, it is possible that future developments, such as
increasingly strict requirements of environmental laws, and enforcement policies
thereunder, could affect the manner in which the Company operates its
waste-to-energy projects and conducts its business, including the handling,
processing or disposal of the wastes, by-products and residues generated
thereby.

     The Company's Gloucester County, New Jersey waste-to-energy facility
historically relied on a disposal franchise for substantially all of its supply
of municipal solid waste. On May 1, 1997, the Third Circuit Court of Appeals
(the "Third Circuit") permanently enjoined the State of New Jersey from
enforcing its franchise system as a form of unconstitutional solid waste flow
control, but stayed the injunction for so long as any appeals were pending. On
November 10, 1997, the United States Supreme Court announced its decision not to
review the Third Circuit decision, thereby ending the stay and, effectively, the
facility's disposal franchise. In response, the Gloucester facility lowered its
prices. In early 1999, the Company entered into an agreement pursuant to which
the Company will operate the Gloucester facility and provide disposal services
under a new service agreement for the next ten years. As part of the agreement,
Gloucester County agreed to cooperate in a refinancing of the existing project
debt. The refinancing, which closed in the fourth quarter of 1999, settled all
disputes and released the existing letter of credit. As a result of the
agreement and refinancing, the Company expects the Gloucester project to operate
profitably, albeit at reduced levels, in the absence of regulatory control.

     The Company's energy facilities in the United States are also subject to
the provisions of various energy-related laws and regulations, including the
Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 ("PURPA"). The ability of the
Company's waste-to-energy and small power production facilities to sell power to
electric utilities on advantageous terms and conditions and to avoid burdensome
public utility regulation has historically depended, in part, upon the
applicability of certain provisions of PURPA, which generally exempts the
Company from state and federal regulatory control over electricity prices
charged by, and the finances of, the Company and its energy-producing
subsidiaries. As state legislatures and the United States Congress have
accelerated their consideration of the manner in which economic efficiencies can
be gained by deregulating the electric generation industry, utilities and others
have taken the position that power sales agreements entered into pursuant to
PURPA which provide for rates in excess of current market rates should be
voidable as "stranded assets." The Company's power production facilities are
qualifying facilities under PURPA and depend on the sanctity of their power
sales agreements for their economic viability. Although a repeal or modification
of PURPA is possible within the next two years, the Company believes that
federal law offers strong protection to the PURPA contracts and recent state and
federal agency and court decisions have unanimously upheld the inviolate nature
of these contracts. In addition, state legislative actions to date have not
attempted to abrogate these contracts. While there is some risk that future
utility restructurings, court decisions and/or legislative or administrative
action in this area could have an adverse effect on the business of the Company,
in light of recent developments, the Company currently believes such risk is
remote. In addition, the passage of the Energy Policy Act of 1992 created an
alternative ownership mechanism by which the Company's future independent power
projects would be able to participate in the electricity generation industry
without the burdens of traditional public utility regulation. For those reasons,
the operations of existing waste-to-energy and other small power production
facilities business are not currently expected to be materially and adversely
affected if the various benefits of PURPA are repealed or substantially reduced
on a prospective basis. However, the Company can give no assurances that future
utility restructurings, court



decisions or legislative or administrative action in this area will not have a
material adverse impact on its consolidated financial statements.

  RCRA

     Pursuant to RCRA, the EPA has established and administers a comprehensive
"cradle-to-grave" system for the management of a wide range of industrial
by-products and residues identified as "hazardous" wastes. States that have
adopted hazardous waste management programs with standards at least as stringent
as those promulgated by the EPA may be authorized by the EPA to administer their
programs in lieu of RCRA.

     Under RCRA and federal transportation laws, a transporter must deliver
hazardous waste in accordance with a manifest prepared by the generator of the
waste and only to a treatment, storage or disposal facility having a RCRA permit
or interim status under RCRA. Every facility that treats or disposes of
hazardous wastes must obtain a RCRA permit from the EPA or an authorized state
and must comply with certain operating standards. The RCRA permitting process
involves applying for interim status and also for a final permit. Under RCRA and
the implementing regulations, facilities which have obtained interim status are
allowed to continue operating by complying with certain minimum standards
pending issuance of a permit.

     RCRA also imposes restrictions on land disposal of certain hazardous wastes
and prescribes standards for hazardous waste land disposal facilities. Under
RCRA, land disposal of certain types of untreated hazardous wastes has been
banned, except where the EPA has determined that land disposal of such wastes
and treatment residuals should be permitted. The disposal of liquids in
hazardous waste land disposal facilities is also prohibited.

     The EPA, from time to time, considers fundamental changes to its
regulations under RCRA that could facilitate exemptions from hazardous waste
management requirements, including policies and regulations that could implement
the following changes: redefine the criteria for determining whether wastes are
hazardous; prescribe treatment levels which, if achieved, could render wastes
nonhazardous; encourage further recycling and waste immunization; and indirectly
encourage on-site remediation. To the extent such changes are adopted, they can
be expected to adversely affect the demand for the Company's hazardous waste
management disposal facilities. In this regard, the EPA has recently proposed
regulations which would have the effect of reducing the volume of waste
classified as hazardous for RCRA regulatory purposes.

     In addition to the foregoing provisions, RCRA regulations require the
Company to demonstrate financial responsibility for possible bodily injury and
property damage to third parties caused by both sudden and nonsudden accidental
occurrences. Also, RCRA regulations require the Company to provide financial
assurance that funds will be available when needed for final closure and
post-closure care at its waste treatment, storage and disposal facilities, the
costs of which could be substantial. See "Business -- Insurance and Financial
Assurance Obligations." Such regulations allow the financial assurance
requirements to be satisfied by various means, including letters of credit,
surety bonds, trust funds, a financial (net worth) test and a guarantee by a
parent corporation. Under RCRA regulations, a company must pay the closure costs
for a waste treatment, storage or disposal facility owned by it upon the closure
of the facility and thereafter pay post-closure care costs. If such a facility
is closed prior to its originally anticipated time, it is unlikely that
sufficient funds or reserves will have been accrued over the life of the
facility to provide for such costs, and the owner of the facility could suffer a
material adverse impact as a result. Consequently, it may be difficult to close
such facilities to reduce operating costs at times when, as is currently the
case in the hazardous waste services industry, excess treatment, storage or
disposal capacity exists.

  Superfund

     Among other things, Superfund generally provides for the remediation of
sites from which there has been a release or threatened release of a hazardous
substance into the environment. Superfund imposes joint and several liability
for the costs of remediation and for damages to natural resources upon the
present and former owners or operators of facilities or sites from which there
is a release or threatened release of hazardous substances. Waste generators and
waste transporters are also strictly liable. Under the authority of CERCLA,



detailed requirements apply to the manner and degree of remediation of
facilities and sites where hazardous substances have been or are threatened to
be released into the environment.

     Liability under CERCLA is not dependent upon the intentional disposal of
"hazardous wastes," as defined under RCRA. It can be founded upon a release or
threatened release, even as a result of lawful, unintentional, and non-negligent
action, of any one of more than 750 "hazardous substances," including very small
quantities of such substances. CERCLA requires the EPA to establish a National
Priorities List ("NPL") of sites at which hazardous substances have been or are
threatened to be released and which require investigation or remediation. The
EPA's primary way of determining whether a site is to be included on the NPL is
the Hazard Ranking System, which evaluates the relative potential for a release
of hazardous substances to pose a threat to human health or the environment
pursuant to a scoring system based on factors grouped into three categories: (1)
likelihood of release, (2) hazardous substance characteristics, and (3)
receptors. To date, approximately 31,000 sites have been reviewed. These sites
are compiled on the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and
Liability Information System ("CERCLIS") list. The identification of a site on
the CERCLIS list indicates only that the site has been brought to the attention
of the EPA and will undergo an assessment of environmental conditions thereon,
but it does not necessarily mean that an actual health or environmental threat
currently exists or has ever existed.

     Of the 1405 NPL sites, 250 of the sites are solid waste landfills. Thus,
even if the Company's landfills have never received "hazardous wastes" as such,
one or more hazardous substances may have come to be located at its landfills.
Because of the extremely broad definition of "hazardous substances," the same is
true of other industrial properties with which the Company or its predecessors
has been, or with which the Company may become, associated as an owner or
operator. Consequently, if there is a release or threatened release of such
substances into the environment from a site currently or previously owned or
operated by the Company, the Company could be liable under CERCLA for the cost
of removing such hazardous substances at the site, remediation of contaminated
soil or groundwater, and for damages to natural resources, even if those
substances were deposited at the Company's facilities before the Company
acquired or operated them. A finding of such liability could have a material
adverse impact on the Company's business and financial condition. See
"Business -- Insurance and Financial Assurance Obligations."

     Under CERCLA, the Company may not be liable for the remediation of a
disposal site that was never owned or operated by the Company ("third party
site") containing hazardous substances transported to such site by the Company
if the site was selected by the generator of the hazardous substance. However,
the Company would be responsible for any hazardous substances during actual
transportation. Also, the Company could be liable under CERCLA for environmental
contamination at a third party site caused by the release of hazardous
substances transported by the Company where the Company selected the disposal
site. CERCLA imposes liability for certain environmental response measures upon
transporters who selected the disposal site at which a release or threatened
release of hazardous substances occurs. It therefore is common in the solid
waste transport business to receive information requests from the EPA about
transporting activities to disposal sites. The Company has received information
requests regarding transporting activities to its own disposal sites as well as
third party sites. The environmental agencies or other potentially responsible
parties could assert that the Company is liable for environmental response
measures arising out of disposal at a third party site that was selected by the
Company, a waste transporter acquired by the Company, or a waste transporter
with whom the Company contracted.

     Traditionally, in most states, purchasers of assets have not acquired the
liabilities of the seller unless explicitly agreeing to do so. A trend
developing in federal courts is the expansion of the number of entities liable
under Superfund. Some Federal courts have ruled that because of the "broad
remedial purposes" of Superfund, asset purchasers should be liable for the
activities of the seller. Over the years, the Company has acquired assets from a
significant number of sellers whose liabilities were not considered at the time
of the transaction. This developing trend could materially increase the
Company's Superfund exposure. The Company is vigorously resisting this change
both judicially and legislatively.

     Several bills have been introduced in the United States Congress to
reauthorize and substantially amend CERCLA. In addition to possible changes in
the statute's funding mechanisms and provisions for allocating



cleanup responsibility, Congress may also fundamentally alter the statute's
provisions governing the selection of appropriate site remedial action. In this
regard, new approaches to cleanup, removal, treatment, and remediation of
hazardous substance releases may be adopted which rely on nationally or
site-specific risk based standards. These types of policy changes could
significantly affect the stringency and extent of site remediation, the types of
remediation techniques employed, and the types of waste management facilities
that may be used for the treatment and disposal of hazardous substances.
Congress may additionally consider revision of the liability imposed by CERCLA
on current owners of property for contamination caused prior to a party's
acquisition of a site. This consideration could potentially reduce
responsibility for remediation obligations under CERCLA that the Company could
otherwise incur.

  WM International

     The Company's WM International operations are subject to the general
business, liability, land-use planning and other environmental laws and
regulations of the countries where the services are performed and, in Europe, to
European Union ("EU") regulations and directives. The degree of local
enforcement of applicable laws and regulations varies substantially between, and
even within, the various countries where the Company has WM International
operations. The Company has WM International operations in many countries that
are members of the EU, which has issued and continues to issue environmental
directives and regulations covering a broad range of environmental matters and
has created a European Environmental Agency responsible for monitoring and
collating member state environmental data. The Single European Act, passed in
1987, established three fundamental principles to guide the development of
future EU environmental law: (i) the need for preventative action; (ii) the
correction of environmental problems at the source; and (iii) the polluter's
liability for environmental damage.

     The Treaty on European Union, signed in December 1991, came into force in
November 1993. Revised in Amsterdam in June 1997, the Treaty now regards
"sustainable development" as a key component of EU policy-making and requires
that environmental protection be integrated into the definition and application
of all EU laws.

     The impact of current and future EU legislation will vary from country to
country according to the degree to which existing national requirements already
meet or fall short of the new EU standards and, in some jurisdictions, may
require extensive public and private sector investment and the development and
provision of the necessary technology, expertise, administrative procedures and
regulatory structures. These extensive laws and regulations are continually
evolving in response to technological advances and heightened public and
political concern.

     Outside Europe, continuing industrialization, population expansion and
urbanization have caused increased levels of pollution with all of the resultant
social and economic implications. The desire to sustain economic growth and
address historical pollution problems is being accompanied by investments in
environmental infrastructure and the introduction of regulatory standards to
further control industrial activities.

     The Company believes that its WM International operations are conducted in
material compliance with applicable laws and regulations and does not anticipate
that maintaining such compliance will adversely affect the Company's
consolidated financial statements or operations. There can be no assurance,
however, that such requirements will not change so as to require significant
additional expenditures or operating costs.

  State and Local Regulation

     The states in which the Company operates have their own laws and
regulations that may be more strict than comparable federal laws and regulations
governing hazardous and nonhazardous solid waste disposal, water and air
pollution, releases and cleanup of hazardous substances and liability for such
matters. The states also have adopted regulations governing the siting, design,
operation, maintenance, final closure, and post-closure maintenance of landfills
and transfer stations. The Company's facilities and operations are likely to be
subject to many, if not all, of these types of requirements. In addition, the
Company's collection and landfill operations may be affected by the trend in
many states toward requiring the development of waste reduction and recycling
programs. For example, several states have enacted laws that require counties to
adopt


comprehensive plans to reduce, through waste planning, composting, recycling, or
other programs, the volume of solid waste deposited in landfills. Additionally,
the disposal of yard waste in solid waste landfills has been banned in several
states. Legislative and regulatory measures to mandate or encourage waste
reduction at the source and waste recycling have also been considered from time
to time by the United States Congress and the EPA.

     Various states have enacted, or are considering enacting, laws that
restrict the disposal within the state of hazardous and nonhazardous solid waste
generated outside the state. While laws that overtly discriminate against
out-of-state waste have been found to be unconstitutional, some laws that are
less overtly discriminatory have been upheld in court. Additionally, certain
state and local governments have enacted "flow control" regulations, which
attempt to require that all waste generated within the state or local
jurisdiction be deposited at specific disposal sites. In May 1994, the United
States Supreme Court ruled that a flow control ordinance was unconstitutional.
However, from time to time, the United States Congress has considered
legislation authorizing states to adopt regulations, restrictions, or taxes on
the importation of extraterritorial waste, and granting states and local
governments authority to enact partial flow control legislation. To date, such
congressional efforts have been unsuccessful. The United States Congress'
adoption of such legislation allowing for restrictions on importation of
extraterritorial waste or certain types of flow control, or the adoption of
legislation affecting interstate transportation of waste at the federal or state
level, could adversely affect the Company's solid waste management services,
including collection, transfer, disposal, and recycling operations, and in
particular the Company's ability to expand landfill operations acquired in
certain areas.

     Many states and local jurisdictions in which the Company operates have
enacted "fitness" laws that allow agencies having jurisdiction over waste
services contracts or permits to deny or revoke such contracts or permits on the
basis of an applicant's (or permit holder's) compliance history. Some states and
local jurisdictions go further and consider the compliance history of the
parent, subsidiaries or affiliated companies, in addition to the applicant.
These laws authorize the agencies to make determinations of an applicant's
fitness to be awarded a contract or to operate and to deny or revoke a contract
or permit because of unfitness absent a showing that the applicant has been
rehabilitated through the adoption of various operating policies and procedures
put in place to assure future compliance with applicable laws and regulations.

FACTORS INFLUENCING FUTURE RESULTS AND ACCURACY OF FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

     In the normal course of its business, the Company, in an effort to help
keep its stockholders and the public informed about the Company's operations,
may from time to time issue or make certain statements, either in writing or
orally, that are or contain forward-looking statements, as that term is defined
in the United States federal securities laws. Generally, these statements relate
to business plans or strategies, projected or anticipated benefits or other
consequences of such plans or strategies, projected or anticipated benefits from
acquisitions made by or to be made by the Company, or projections involving
anticipated revenues, earnings, or other aspects of operating results. The words
"may," "should," "expect," "believe," "anticipate," "project," "estimate," their
opposites and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking
statements. The Company cautions readers that such statements are not guarantees
of future performance or events and are subject to a number of factors that may
tend to influence the accuracy of the statements and the projections upon which
the statements are based, including but not limited to those discussed below. As
noted elsewhere in this report, all phases of the Company's operations are
subject to a number of uncertainties, risks, and other influences, many of which
are outside the control of the Company, and any one of which, or a combination
of which, could materially affect the Company's financial statements and
operations and whether forward-looking statements made by the Company ultimately
prove to be accurate.

     The following discussion outlines certain factors that could affect the
Company's financial statements for 2000 and beyond and cause them to differ
materially from those that may be set forth in forward-looking statements made
by or on behalf of the Company.



  Uncertainties Relating to Pending Litigation and Investigations

     The Company faces uncertainties relating to pending litigation and
investigations. See "Legal Proceedings." The Company is unable to predict the
outcome or impact of these matters and there can be no assurance that they will
not have a material adverse effect on the Company and its operations.

  Accounting Charges Have Negatively Impacted Reported Financial Results, Have
  Resulted in the Charges Related to the Impairment of the Value of Certain
  Assets and May Reflect Decreases in Future Cash Flows

     During 1999, the Company initiated a comprehensive internal review of its
accounting records, systems, processes and controls at the direction of the
Board of Directors. As a result of this review, the Company recorded certain
charges and adjustments in the third quarter of 1999 totaling $1.23 billion
after tax. Because of the size of the charges, generally accepted accounting
principles require the Company to attempt to determine whether portions of the
charges apply to prior periods. While the Company believes that certain of these
charges may have related to prior periods, it does not have sufficient
information to identify all specific charges attributable to prior periods.
Producing the information required to identify these charges would be cost
prohibitive and disruptive to the Company's operations. Additionally, the
Company concluded, based on its quantitative and qualitative analysis of
available information, after consultation with its independent public
accountants, that it did not have, nor was it able to obtain, sufficient
information to conclude what amount of the charges relate to any individual
prior year, although qualitative analysis indicates that these charges are
principally related to 1999. Accordingly, the Company has concluded that these
charges are appropriately reflected in the 1999 annual financial statements.

     Some of the charges and adjustments recorded in 1999, such as certain
increases in insurance reserves, environmental reserves, loss contract
provisions and adjustments resulting from completing account reconciliations,
are recurring in nature, and should therefore be expected to occur in future
periods. Additionally, certain of these charges and adjustments, including
receivables-related adjustments and insurance reserves, could have an impact on
future cash flows.

     Because some of the charges discussed above affect account balances
applicable to periods prior to the third quarter 1999, the Company concluded,
after consultation with its independent public accountants, that its internal
controls for the preparation of interim financial information did not provide an
adequate basis for its independent public accountants to complete reviews of the
quarterly financial data for the quarters in 1999.

     The Company has taken steps to stabilize its accounting systems and its
internal control environment. However, there can be no assurances that there
will not be any additional material adjustments based on future events or that
the Company will be able to successfully stabilize its accounting systems and
procedures; any such failure could result in additional material charges and
adjustments in the future. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis -- 1999
Accounting Charges and Adjustments."

  The Company May Encounter Difficulties in Implementing its Strategic Plan

     The Company's ability to successfully implement its strategic plan may be
affected by the willingness of prospective purchasers to purchase the assets the
Company identifies as divestiture candidates on terms the Company finds
acceptable, the timing and terms on which such assets may be sold, uncertainties
relating to regulatory approvals and other factors affecting the ability of
prospective purchasers to consummate such transactions. The success of the
strategic plan could also be affected by the availability of financing and
uncertainties relating to the impact of the proposed strategic plan on the
Company's credit ratings and, consequently, the availability and cost of debt
and equity financing to the Company.

  Potential Difficulties in Continuing to Manage Growth

     The Company has experienced rapid growth, primarily through acquisitions.
The Company's future financial results and prospects depend in large part on its
ability to successfully manage and improve the operating efficiencies and
productivity of these acquired operations. In particular, whether the
anticipated benefits of acquired operations are ultimately achieved will depend
on a number of factors, including the



ability of the Company to achieve administrative cost savings, rationalization
of collection routes, insurance and bonding cost reductions, general economies
of scale, and the ability of the Company, generally, to capitalize on its asset
base and strategic position. Moreover, the ability of the Company to operate
successfully will depend on a number of factors, including competition from
other waste management companies, availability of working capital, ability to
maintain margins on existing or acquired operations, and the management of costs
in a changing regulatory environment. There can be no assurance that the Company
will be able to successfully manage its growth or that the historic pace of its
growth will not adversely affect its existing or acquired operations.

  Potential Risks of Acquisition Strategy

     The Company has regularly pursued opportunities to expand through the
acquisition of additional waste management businesses and continues to pursue
operations that can be effectively integrated with the Company's existing
operations. In addition, the Company has historically pursued mergers and
acquisition transactions, several of which have been significant, in new areas
where the Company believes that it can successfully become a provider of
integrated waste management services.

     The Company's acquisition strategy involves certain potential risks, which
are continuing. These include the risk that the Company may not accurately
assess all of the pre-existing liabilities of acquired companies and that the
Company may encounter unexpected difficulties in successfully integrating the
operations of acquired companies with the Company's existing operations.

  International Operations

     Operations in foreign countries generally are subject to a number of risks
inherent in any business operating in foreign countries, including political,
social, economic instability and inflation, general strikes, nationalization of
assets, currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations, nullification,
modification or renegotiation of contracts, and governmental regulation, all of
which are beyond the control of the Company. No prediction can be made as to how
existing or future foreign governmental regulations in any jurisdiction may
affect the Company in particular or the waste management industry in general. As
part of its strategic plan, the Company is pursuing the divestiture of its WM
International operations. See "Business -- WM International."

  Capital Requirements; Indebtedness Under Credit Facilities

     The Company expects to generate sufficient cash flow from its operations in
2000 to cover its anticipated cash needs for capital expenditures and
acquisitions. If the Company's cash flow from operations during 2000 is less
than currently expected, or if the Company's capital requirements increase,
either due to strategic decisions or otherwise, the Company may elect to incur
future indebtedness to cover any additional capital needs. However, there can be
no assurance that the Company will be successful in obtaining additional capital
on acceptable terms through such debt incurrences.

     The Company's current credit facilities require the Company to maintain
compliance with certain financial ratios. If the Company's cash flows from
operations are less than expected or the Company's capital requirements
increase, the Company may not be in compliance with such ratios, resulting in a
default under the credit agreements. If any such default occurs, the Company may
not be able to obtain waivers or secure amendments to the facilities, and the
lenders could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding to be due and payable.
If the Company's indebtedness under its credit facilities were to be
accelerated, there can be no assurances that the Company could repay such
indebtedness in full. Since the Company is partially dependent on the credit
facilities to fund its borrowing needs, any such default would have a material
adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.

     There can also be no assurances that the Company will be successful in
renewing its existing credit facility, which must be renewed annually, or that
any such renewal will be on terms acceptable to the Company. Any failure by the
Company to successfully renew its existing credit facility, or to obtain other



financing sources, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's
operations and financial statements. See Note 6 to the financial statements
included elsewhere herein.

     The Company has historically used variable rate debt under revolving bank
credit arrangements as one method of financing. Although recent financings by
the Company have reduced the amount of variable rate debt as a percentage of
total indebtedness outstanding, the Company intends to continue to use variable
rate debt as a financing alternative. To the extent that variable interest rates
fluctuate as general interest rates change, an increase in interest rates could
have a material adverse effect on the Company's earnings in the future.

  Effect of Competition on Profitability

     The waste management industry is highly competitive. In North America, the
industry consists of several large national waste management companies, and
numerous local and regional companies of varying sizes and financial resources.
The Company competes with numerous waste management companies and with counties
and municipalities that maintain their own waste collection and disposal
operations. These counties and municipalities may have financial competitive
advantages because tax revenues and tax-exempt financing are available to them.
In addition, competitors may reduce their prices to expand sales volume or to
win competitively bid municipal contracts. Profitability may decline because of
the national emphasis on recycling, composting, and other waste reduction
programs that could reduce the volume of solid waste collected or deposited in
disposal facilities.

     Although the Company is a leading provider of waste management and related
services outside of North America, the Company does not believe that any
non-governmental entity accounts for a material portion of the very
decentralized, highly fragmented international business. In some areas, however,
the Company competes with substantial, well-capitalized companies which hold
significant market shares, particularly in Finland, Germany, The Netherlands,
Sweden and the United Kingdom. The international waste management and related
services industry is highly competitive and certain aspects require substantial
human and capital resources. The Company encounters intense competition from
governmental, quasi-governmental and private sources in all aspects of its
international operations. However, as part of its strategic plan, the Company
has determined to divest its international operations. See "Business -- WM
International."

  Capitalized Expenditures

     In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, the Company
capitalizes certain expenditures and advances relating to acquisitions, pending
acquisitions, and disposal site development and expansion projects. The Company
expenses indirect acquisition costs, such as executive salaries, general
corporate overhead, public affairs and other corporate services, as incurred.
The Company's policy is to charge against earnings any unamortized capitalized
expenditures and advances relating to any facility or operation that is
permanently shut down, any pending acquisition that is not consummated, and any
disposal site development or expansion project that is not completed. The charge
against earnings is reduced by any portion of the capitalized expenditure and
advances that the Company estimates will be recoverable, through sale or
otherwise. In future periods, the Company may be required to incur a charge
against earnings in accordance with such policy. Depending on the magnitude of
any such charge, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company's
financial statements.

  Restrictions and Costs Associated with Government Regulation

     The Company's operations are substantially affected by stringent government
regulations at the federal, state and local level in the United States and in
other countries. These laws, rules, orders and interpretations govern
environmental protection, health and safety, land use, zoning, and other
matters. They may impose restrictions on operations that could adversely affect
the Company's results of operations and financial condition, such as limitations
on the expansion of waste disposal, transfer or processing facilities,
limitations or bans on disposal of out-of-state waste or certain categories of
waste, or mandates regarding the disposal of solid waste. In order to develop,
expand or operate a landfill or other waste management facility, the Company



must obtain and maintain in effect various facility permits and other
governmental approvals, including those relating to zoning, environmental
protection and land use. These permits and approvals are difficult, time
consuming and costly to obtain, in part because of possible opposition by
governmental officials or citizens. In addition, these permits and approvals may
contain conditions that limit operations and the Company's ability to change the
facility.

     There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in obtaining
and maintaining in effect permits and approvals required for the successful
operation and growth of its business, including permits and approvals for the
development of additional disposal capacity needed to replace existing capacity
that is exhausted. The siting, design, operation and closure of landfills are
also subject to extensive regulations. These regulations could also require the
Company to undertake investigatory or remedial activities, to curtail operations
or to close a landfill temporarily or permanently. Future changes in these
regulations may require the Company to modify, supplement, or replace equipment
or facilities at costs which could be substantial.

     In the United States, court decisions have ruled that state and local
governments may not use regulatory flow control laws constitutionally to
restrict the free movement of waste in interstate commerce. The Company cannot
predict what impact, if any, these decisions will have on its disposal
facilities. See "Regulation."

  Potential Environmental Liability and Insurance

     The Company could be liable if its disposal facilities, transfer stations,
and collection operations cause environmental damage to the Company's properties
or to nearby landowners, particularly as a result of the contamination of
groundwater sources or soil, including damage resulting from conditions existing
prior to the acquisition of such assets or operations. Also, the Company could
be liable for any off-site environmental contamination caused by hazardous
substances, the transportation, disposal or treatment of which was arranged for
by the Company or predecessor owners where the Company is liable as a successor
to such prior owners. Any substantial liability for environmental damage could
materially adversely affect the operating results and financial condition of the
Company.

     In the ordinary course of its business, the Company may become involved in
a variety of legal and administrative proceedings relating to land use and
environmental laws and regulations. These may include proceedings by foreign,
federal, state or local agencies seeking to impose civil or criminal penalties
on the Company for violations of such laws and regulations, or to impose
liability on the Company under applicable statutes, or to revoke or deny renewal
of a permit; actions brought by citizens groups, adjacent landowners or
governmental agencies opposing the issuance of a permit or approval to the
Company or alleging violations of the permits pursuant to which the Company
operates or laws or regulations to which the Company is subject; and actions
seeking to impose liability on the Company for any environmental damage at its
owned or operated facilities (or at facilities formerly owned by the Company or
its predecessors or facilities at which the Company or its predecessors arranged
for the disposal of hazardous substances) or damage that those facilities or
other properties may have caused to adjacent landowners or others, including
groundwater or soil contamination. The adverse outcome of one or more of these
proceedings could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial
position, results of operations or cash flows.

     During the ordinary course of operations, the Company has from time to time
received, and expects that it may in the future receive, citations or notices
from governmental authorities that its operations are not in compliance with its
permits or certain applicable environmental or land use laws and regulations.
The Company generally seeks to work with the authorities to resolve the issues
raised by such citations or notices. There can be no assurance, however, that
the Company will always be successful in this regard or that such future
citations or notices will not have a materially adverse effect on the Company's
financial position, results of operations or cash flows. See "Regulation."

     The Company's insurance for environmental liability meets or exceeds
statutory requirements. However, because the Company believes that the cost for
such insurance is high relative to the coverage it would provide, such coverages
are generally maintained at statutorily required levels. Due to the limited
nature of such insurance coverage for environmental liability, if the Company
were to incur liability for environmental



damage, such liability could have a material adverse effect on the Company's
financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

  Alternatives to Landfill Disposal and Waste-to-Energy Facilities

     Alternatives to disposal, such as recycling and composting, are
increasingly being used. There also has been an increasing trend to mandate
recycling and waste reduction at the source and to prohibit the disposal of
certain types of wastes, such as yard wastes, at landfills or waste-to-energy
facilities. These developments could reduce the volume of waste going to
landfills and waste-to-energy facilities in certain areas, which may affect the
Company's ability to operate its landfills and waste-to-energy facilities at
full capacity, and the prices that can be charged for landfill disposal and
waste-to-energy services.

  Dependence on Key Personnel; Changes in Management

     The Company's business is partially dependent upon the performance of
certain of its executive officers. The Company has entered into employment
agreements with its executive officers. Notwithstanding such agreements, there
can be no assurance that the Company will be able to retain such officers or
that it will be able to enforce non-compete provisions that are contained in
such agreements in the event of their departure. The loss of the services of the
Company's management could have a material adverse effect upon the Company.
There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to attract and retain
qualified individuals to serve in senior management positions. The Company is in
the process of establishing a formalized management succession plan to prepare
itself in the event of an unexpected departure.

  Recyclable Materials Price Fluctuations

     Recyclable materials processed by the Company for sale include paper,
plastics, aluminum and other commodities which are subject to significant price
fluctuations. These fluctuations will affect the Company's future operating
revenues and income.

  Matters Related to WM Holdings Accounting Practices

     The United States Securities and Exchange Commission has commenced a formal
investigation with respect to WM Holdings' previously filed financial statements
(which were subsequently restated) and the related accounting policies,
procedures and system of internal controls. The Company is fully cooperating
with such investigations. Additionally, several lawsuits and claims have been
filed against WM Holdings and several of its former officers and directors in
connection with the restatement of WM Holdings' financial statements. The
Company is unable to predict the outcome or impact of the investigation, some
previously filed lawsuits or any future lawsuits or claims arising out of the
restatement at this time. Any such outcome or impact could have a material
adverse effect on the Company's financial position, results of operations or
cash flows. See "Legal Proceedings."

  Seasonality

     The Company's operating revenues are usually lower in the winter months
primarily because the volume of waste relating to construction and demolition
activities usually increases in the spring and summer months, and the volume of
industrial and residential waste in certain regions where the Company operates
usually decreases during the winter months. The Company's first and fourth
quarter results of operations typically reflect this seasonality.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.

     The principal property and equipment of the Company consists of land
(primarily disposal sites), buildings, waste treatment or processing facilities
(other than disposal sites) and vehicles and equipment. The Company owns or
leases real property in most locations in which it is doing business. Excluding
the landfills that the Company had held for sale at December 31, 1999, the
Company owned and operated through lease agreements 245 active disposal sites in
North America, which aggregated approximately 136,100 acres of land,


including approximately 29,400 permitted acres and 6,800 acres for which the
Company considers as probable expansion acreage for landfill use. Additionally,
the Company operates 49 disposal sites through agreements with municipalities.
At December 31, 1999, the Company had for sale an additional 62 disposal sites,
consisting of 28 sites in its NASW operations and 34 sites operated through its
WM International operations. The sites in North America which were held for sale
at December 31, 1999 aggregated approximately 5,400 total acres, of which
approximately 2,100 acres were permitted for landfill use. Furthermore, the
Company owned or operated through agreements 23 waste-to-energy facilities in
North America as of December 31, 1999.

     The Company leases approximately 207,000 square feet of office space in
Houston, Texas, for its executive offices under leasing arrangements expiring
through 2008. For the year ended December 31, 1999, aggregate annual rental
payments were approximately $137.7 million.

     The Company owns approximately 47,000 items of equipment, including waste
collection vehicles and related support vehicles, as well as bulldozers,
compactors, earth movers, and other related heavy equipment and vehicles used in
landfill operations. The Company has approximately 2.7 million steel containers
in use, ranging from one to 45 cubic yards, and a number of stationary
compactors and self-dumping hoppers.

     The Company believes that its vehicles, equipment, and operating properties
are well maintained and adequate for its current operations. However, the
Company expects to make substantial investments in additional equipment and
property for expansion, for replacement of assets, and in connection with future
acquisitions. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations."

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

     In November and December 1997, several alleged purchasers of WM Holdings
securities (including but not limited to common stock), who allegedly bought
their securities during 1996 and 1997, brought 14 purported class action
lawsuits against WM Holdings and several of its current and former officers and
directors in the United States District Court for the Northern District of
Illinois. Each of these lawsuits asserted that the defendants violated the
federal securities laws by issuing allegedly false and misleading statements in
1996 and 1997 about WM Holdings' financial condition and results of operations.
In January 1998, the 14 putative class actions were consolidated before one
judge and in February 1998, WM Holdings announced a restatement of prior-period
earnings for 1991 and earlier as well as for 1992 through 1996 and the first
three quarters of 1997. In July 1998, the class plaintiffs filed an amended
complaint against WM Holdings, its outside auditor, and five of WM Holdings'
former officers. The amended complaint sought recovery on behalf of a proposed
class of all purchasers of WM Holdings' securities between May 29, 1995, and
October 30, 1997. The amended complaint alleged, among other things, that WM
Holdings filed false and misleading financial statements beginning in 1991 and
continuing through October 1997 and sought recovery for alleged violations of
the federal securities laws between May 1995 and October 1997.

     In December 1998, the Company announced an agreement to settle the
consolidated action against all defendants and the establishment of a settlement
fund of $220 million for the class of open market purchasers of WM Holdings
securities between November 3, 1994, and February 24, 1998. On September 17,
1999, the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois
gave final approval to the settlement after a hearing. There were no objections
to the fairness or adequacy of the settlement fund.

     In January 2000, the Company settled two actions, one pending in Illinois
State court and the other in Florida Federal court, arising out of the same set
of facts as the above federal action brought by open market purchasers of WM
Holdings' securities.

     Additionally, there are several other actions and claims, which arise out
of the same set of facts, that have been brought by business owners who received
WM Holdings common stock in the sales of their businesses to WM Holdings. These
actions and claims allege, among other things, breach of warranty or breach of
contract based on WM Holdings' restatement of earnings in February 1998. In
April 1999, courts having jurisdiction over two such actions granted summary
judgment against WM Holdings and in favor of the individual plaintiffs who
brought the respective claims on the issue of breach of contract. Additionally,
in October 1999,



the court in one of these actions certified a class consisting of all sellers of
business assets to WM Holdings between January 1, 1990, and February 24, 1998,
whose purchase agreements with WM Holdings contained express warranties
regarding the accuracy of WM Holdings' financial statements. The Company has
appealed that decision and the appeal is pending. The extent of damages, if any,
in this class action has not yet been determined. The Company, however, has
settled or resolved four, separate stock-for-asset disputes that otherwise would
have been part of the above class, as currently defined, including the
individual action identified above in which summary judgment was entered against
WM Holdings.

     In February and March 2000, two asset sellers who otherwise would have been
included in the above class, as currently defined, brought separate actions
against the Company for breach of contract and fraud, among other things. One of
the suits arises out of a transaction valued at over $200 million at the time of
closing in 1996, while the other involves a transaction in excess of $11 million
at its closing in 1995. Both suits are in their early stages and the extent of
possible damages, if any, has not yet been determined.

     In December 1999, a sole plaintiff brought an action against the Company,
five former officers of WM Holdings, and WM Holdings' auditors in Illinois State
court on behalf of a proposed class of individuals who purchased WM Holdings
common stock before November 3, 1994, and who held that stock through February
24, 1998, for alleged acts of common law fraud, negligence, and breach of
fiduciary duty. The defendants have removed this action to federal court, where
plaintiff is seeking a remand back to the state forum. This action is in its
early stages and the extent of possible damages, if any, has not yet been
determined.

     Purported derivative actions have also been filed in Delaware Chancery
Court by alleged former shareholders of WM Holdings against certain former
officers and directors of WM Holdings and nominally against WM Holdings to
recover damages caused to WM Holdings as a result of the settled consolidated
federal securities class action described above. These actions have been
consolidated and plaintiffs have filed a consolidated amended complaint. The
plaintiffs seek to recover from the former officers and directors, on behalf of
WM Holdings, the amounts paid in the federal class action as well as additional
amounts based on alleged harms not at issue in the federal class action.

     The Company is also aware that the United States Securities and Exchange
Commission ("SEC") has commenced a formal investigation with respect to WM
Holdings' previously filed financial statements (which were subsequently
restated) and related accounting policies, procedures and system of internal
controls. The Company intends to cooperate with such investigation. The Company
is unable to predict the outcome or impact of this investigation at this time.

     In March and April 1999, two former officers of WM Holdings sued the
Company for retirement and other benefits. These actions are in their early
stages and the extent of possible damages, if any, has not yet been determined.
Additionally, a third former officer brought a similar claim, that was
subsequently dismissed, in March 2000. This newest action included claims
related to the decision by the board of WM Holdings to recommend the merger of
WM Holdings with the Company.

     On July 6, 1999, the Company announced that it had lowered its expected
earnings per share for the three months ended June 30, 1999. On July 29, 1999,
the Company announced a further reduction in its expected earnings for that
period. On August 3, 1999, the Company announced a further reduction in its
expected earnings for that period and that its reported operating income for the
three months ended March 31, 1999 may have included certain unusual pretax
income items. More than 20 lawsuits that purport to be based on one or more of
these announcements were filed against the Company and certain of its officers
and directors in the United States District Court for the Southern District of
Texas. These actions have been consolidated into a single action. On September
7, 1999, a lawsuit was filed against the Company and certain of its officers and
directors in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas.
Pursuant to a joint motion, this case was transferred to the United States
District Court for the Southern District of Texas, to be consolidated with the
consolidated action pending there. Taken together, the plaintiffs in these
lawsuits purport to assert claims on behalf of a class of purchasers of the
Company's common stock between June 10, 1998 and August 13, 1999. Among other
things, the plaintiffs allege that the Company and certain of its officers and
directors (i) made knowingly false earnings projections for the three months
ended June 30, 1999 and (ii) failed to adequately disclose facts relating to its
earnings projections that the plaintiffs allege would have


been material to purchasers of the Company's common stock. The plaintiffs also
claim that certain of the Company's officers and directors sold common stock
between March 31, 1999 and July 6, 1999 at prices known to be inflated by the
alleged material misstatements and omissions. The plaintiffs in these actions
seek damages with interest, costs and such other relief as the court deems
proper.

     In November 1999, an action was filed in Oregon state court by individuals
who received Company common stock in the sale of their business to the Company.
For reasons similar to those alleged in the class actions described in the
preceding paragraph, these individuals allege that the stock they received was
overvalued. The case is in an early stage and the extent of possible damages, if
any, has not yet been determined.

     In addition, three of the Company's shareholders have filed purported
derivative lawsuits against certain officers and directors of the Company in
connection with the events surrounding the Company's second quarter 1999
earnings projections and July 6, 1999 earnings announcement. Two of these
lawsuits were filed in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware on July
16, 1999 and August 18, 1999, respectively, and one was filed in the United
States District Court for the Southern District of Texas on July 27, 1999. The
Delaware cases have been consolidated and the plaintiffs have filed an amended
consolidated complaint. The plaintiffs in these actions purport to allege
derivative claims on behalf of the Company against these individuals for alleged
breaches of fiduciary duty resulting from their alleged common stock sales
during the three months ended June 30, 1999 and/or their oversight of the
Company's affairs. The lawsuits name Waste Management, Inc. as a nominal
defendant and seek compensatory and punitive damages with interest, equitable
and/or injunctive relief, costs and such other relief as the respective courts
deem proper. The defendants have not yet been required to respond to the
complaints.

     On December 29, 1999, the Company sued Louis D. Paolino, former President
and Chief Executive Officer of Eastern Environmental Services, Inc. ("Eastern"),
and others in federal court in Delaware in connection with the Company's merger
with Eastern in December 1998 (the "Eastern Merger"). The Company alleges, among
other things, that defendants artificially inflated the revenues of Eastern by
employing improper accounting practices and usurped Eastern corporate
opportunities for personal gain. The Company alleges that the inflated Eastern
financials caused the Company to pay substantially more than Eastern was worth.
The defendants in this case have not yet filed a response to the complaint.

     In a related matter, on December 31, 1999, Louis D. Paolino and others sued
the Company and unnamed defendants in Philadelphia for securities fraud in
connection with the Eastern Merger. Plaintiffs allege that the Company's stock
that they were issued in connection with the Eastern Merger was over-valued
because the Company failed to disclose that it was having problems integrating
the operations of WM Holdings and the Company after the WM Holdings Merger. As
none of the defendants has been served in this action, no responsive pleadings
have yet been filed.

     The Company is aware of a lawsuit filed in state court in Houston, Texas by
several related shareholders against the Company and three of its former
officers. The petition alleges that the plaintiffs are substantial shareholders
of the Company's common stock who intended to sell their stock in 1999, but that
the individual defendants made false and misleading statements regarding the
Company's prospects that induced the plaintiffs to retain their stock.
Plaintiffs assert that the value of their retained stock declined dramatically.
Plaintiffs asserted claims for fraud, negligent misrepresentation, and
conspiracy. As neither the Company nor the individual defendants have been
served in this action, the defendants have filed no responsive pleadings in the
action.

     The Company has also received a letter from participants in the Company's
Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "ESPP") who purchased the Company's common
stock on June 30, 1999. The letter demands that the Administrative Committee of
the ESPP bring an action against the Company and certain selling officers and
directors for losses allegedly sustained by the participants in their stock
purchases. These ESPP participants stated in the letter that, absent action by
the Administrative Committee of the ESPP, they intended to sue the Company and
the directors and officers on behalf of the ESPP and its participants. The
Administrative Committee of the ESPP has advised these participants that it
cannot file suit, as requested, because the committee is neither a
representative of the plan nor a Waste Management shareholder. The


Company has not received any further communication from these participants.
However, the Company does not believe that this claim, if pursued, would have a
material adverse effect on the Company's financial statements.

     In addition, the SEC has notified the Company of an informal inquiry into
the period ended June 30, 1999, as well as certain sales of the Company's common
stock that preceded the Company's July 6, 1999 earnings announcement.

     The New York Stock Exchange has notified the Company that its Market
Trading Analysis Department is reviewing transactions in the common stock of the
Company prior to the July 6, 1999 earnings forecast announcement.

     The Company is conducting a thorough investigation of each of the
allegations that have been made in connection with the Company's second quarter
1999 earnings communications. As part of this investigation, the Company's Board
of Directors has authorized a review of the allegations that have been made
against certain of the Company's officers and directors. Roderick M. Hills, a
former chairman of the SEC and chairman of the Company's Audit Committee, is
directing the review.

     The Company received a Civil Investigative Demand ("CID") from the
Antitrust Division of the United States Department of Justice in July 1999
inquiring into the Company's non-hazardous solid waste operations in the State
of Massachusetts. The CID purports to have been issued for the purpose of
determining whether the Company has engaged in monopolization, illegal contracts
in restraint of trade, or anticompetitive acquisitions of disposal and/or
hauling assets. The CID requires the Company to provide the United States
Department of Justice with certain documents to assist it in its inquiry with
which the Company is fully cooperating.

     On July 16, 1999, a lawsuit was filed against the Company in the Circuit
Court for Sumter County in the State of Alabama. The plaintiff in the lawsuit
purported to allege on behalf of a class of similarly situated persons that the
Company has deprived the class of lump sum payments of pension plan benefits
allegedly promised to be paid in connection with termination of the Plan. On
behalf of the purported class, the plaintiff sought compensatory and punitive
damages, costs, restitution with interest, and such relief as the Court deemed
proper. On July 29, 1999, the Company announced that it had determined to
proceed with the termination of the Plan, liquidating the Plan's assets and
settling its obligations to participants. The plaintiff voluntarily dismissed
her case on September 13, 1999. However, that same day, the same attorneys filed
another Plan-related putative class action against the Company and various
individual defendants in the United States District Court for the Middle
District of Alabama, Northern Division. This case, brought by a different
putative class representative, alleges that the defendants violated the federal
Employee Retirement Income Security Act ("ERISA") by failing to terminate the
Plan in accordance with its terms, by failing to manage Plan assets prudently
and in the interests of Plan participants, and by delaying the Plan's
termination date and the expected distribution of lump-sum pension benefits. On
behalf of the purported class, the plaintiff seeks declaratory and injunctive
relief, restitution of all losses and expenses allegedly incurred by the Plan,
payment of all benefits allegedly owed to Plan participants, attorney's fees and
costs, and other "appropriate" relief under the Internal Revenue Code, ERISA and
the Plan. Defendants' time to move, answer or otherwise respond to the complaint
has been extended, and no proceedings have yet occurred.

     The continuing business in which the Company is engaged is intrinsically
connected with the protection of the environment and the potential for the
unintended or unpermitted discharge of materials into the environment. In the
ordinary course of conducting its business activities, the Company becomes
involved in judicial and administrative proceedings involving governmental
authorities at the foreign, federal, state, and local level, including, in
certain instances, proceedings instituted by citizens or local governmental
authorities seeking to overturn governmental action where governmental officials
or agencies are named as defendants together with the Company or one or more of
its subsidiaries, or both. In the majority of the situations where proceedings
are commenced by governmental authorities, the matters involved related to
alleged technical violations of licenses or permits pursuant to which the
Company operates or is seeking to operate or laws or regulations to which its
operations are subject or are the result of different interpretations of
applicable requirements. From time to time, the Company pays fines or penalties
in environmental proceedings relating


primarily to waste treatment, storage or disposal facilities. As of December 31,
1999, there were six proceedings involving Company subsidiaries where the
sanctions involved could potentially exceed $100,000. The Company believes that
these matters will not have a material adverse effect on its results of
operations or financial condition. However, the outcome of any particular
proceeding cannot be predicted with certainty, and the possibility remains that
technological, regulatory or enforcement developments, the results of
environmental studies or other factors could materially alter this expectation
at any time.

     From time to time, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries are named as
defendants in personal injury and property damage lawsuits, including purported
class actions, on the basis of a Company's subsidiary having owned, operated or
transported waste to a disposal facility which is alleged to have contaminated
the environment or, in certain cases, conducted environmental remediation
activities at sites. Some of such lawsuits may seek to have the Company or its
subsidiaries pay the costs of groundwater monitoring and health care
examinations of allegedly affected persons for a substantial period of time even
where no actual damage is proven. While the Company believes it has meritorious
defenses to these lawsuits, their ultimate resolution is often substantially
uncertain due to the difficulty of determining the cause, extent and impact of
alleged contamination (which may have occurred over a long period of time), the
potential for successive groups of complainants to emerge, the diversity of the
individual plaintiffs' circumstances, and the potential contribution or
indemnification obligations of co-defendants or other third parties, among other
factors. Accordingly, it is possible such matters could have a material adverse
impact on the Company's financial statements.

     The Company or certain of its subsidiaries have been identified as
potentially responsible parties in a number of governmental investigations and
actions relating to waste disposal facilities which may be subject to remedial
action under CERCLA or Superfund, as amended. The majority of these proceedings
are based on allegations that certain subsidiaries of the Company (or their
predecessors) transported hazardous substances to the sites in question, often
prior to acquisition of such subsidiaries by the Company. CERCLA generally
provides for joint and several liability for those parties owning, operating,
transporting to or disposing at the sites. Such proceedings arising under
Superfund typically involve numerous waste generators and other waste
transportation and disposal companies and seek to allocate or recover costs
associated with site investigation and cleanup, which costs could be substantial
and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial statements.

     In June 1999, the Company was notified that the EPA is conducting a civil
investigation of alleged chlorofluorocarbons ("CFC") disposal violations by
Waste Management of Massachusetts, Inc. ("WMMA"), one of the Company's wholly
owned subsidiaries, to determine whether further enforcement measures are
warranted. The activities giving rise to the allegations of CFC disposal
violations appear to have occurred prior to July 30, 1998. On July 29, 1998, the
EPA inspected WMMA's operations, notified the Company of the alleged violations
and issued an Administrative Order in January 1999 requiring WMMA to comply with
the CFC regulations. WMMA is cooperating with the investigation and the Company
believes that the ultimate outcome of this matter will not have a material
adverse effect on the Company's financial statements.

     In August 1999, sludge materials from trucks entering the Company's
Woodland Meadows Landfill in Michigan were seized by the Federal Bureau of
Investigation ("FBI") pursuant to an investigation of the generator of the
sludge materials, a company that provides waste treatment services.
Subsequently, the Company received two Grand Jury subpoenas as well as requests
for information from the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality, seeking
information related to the landfill's waste acceptance practices and the
Company's business relationship with the generator. According to affidavits
attached to the subpoena, the generator's treatment plant was sold by the
Company to the generator in May 1998. The Company is cooperating with the
pending investigation and believes that the ultimate outcome of this matter will
not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial statements.

     As of December 31, 1999, the Company or its subsidiaries had been notified
that they are potentially responsible parties in connection with 84 locations
listed on the NPL. Of the 84 NPL sites at which claims have been made against
the Company, 17 are sites which the Company has come to own over time. All of
the NPL sites owned by the Company were initially developed by others as land
disposal facilities. At each of the



17 owned facilities, the Company is working in conjunction with the government
to characterize or remediate identified site problems. In addition, at these 17
facilities, the Company has either agreed with other legally liable parties on
an arrangement for sharing the costs of remediation or is pursuing resolution of
an allocation formula. The 67 NPL sites at which claims have been made against
the Company and which are not owned by the Company are at different procedural
stages under Superfund. At some of these sites, the Company's liability is well
defined as a consequence of a governmental decision as to the appropriate remedy
and an agreement among liable parties as to the share each will pay for
implementing that remedy. At others where no remedy has been selected or the
liable parties have been unable to agree on an appropriate allocation, the
Company's future costs are uncertain. Any of these matters could have a material
adverse impact on the Company's financial statements.

     In November 1998, the Company was sued by the estate of Shayne Conner, who
died on November 24, 1995 in Greenland, New Hampshire. Plaintiffs allege that
Mr. Conner's death was caused by biosolids that were applied to a nearby field
by Wheelabrator's BioGro business unit. The litigation is currently in the
discovery phase, and the Company is waiting for plaintiff's production of a
court-ordered expert on causation. The Company is vigorously defending itself in
the litigation.

     The Company has been advised by the United States Department of Justice
that Laurel Ridge Landfill, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company as a
result of the merger with United Waste Systems, Inc. ("United") in August 1997
(the "United Merger"), allegedly committed certain violations of the Clean Water
Act at the Laurel Ridge Landfill in Kentucky. The alleged activities occurred
prior to the United Merger. In May 1999, the Company pleaded guilty to a
criminal misdemeanor and was sentenced in November 1999 to pay a fine of
$100,000 and perform in kind services valued at $1.0 million.

     In February 1999, a San Bernardino County, California grand jury returned
an amended felony indictment against the Company, certain of its subsidiaries
and their current or former employees, and a County employee. The proceeding is
based on events that allegedly occurred prior to the WM Holdings Merger in
connection with a WM Holdings landfill development project. The indictment
includes allegations that certain of the defendants engaged in conduct involving
fraud, wiretapping, theft of a trade secret and manipulation of computer data,
and that they engaged in a conspiracy to do so. If convicted, the most serious
of the available sanctions against the corporate defendants would include
substantial fines and forfeitures. The Company believes that meritorious
defenses exist to each of the allegations, and the defendants are vigorously
contesting them. The Company believes that the ultimate outcome of this matter
will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial statements.

     The Company has brought suit against a substantial number of insurance
carriers in an action entitled Waste Management, Inc. et al. v. The Admiral
Insurance Company, et al. pending in the Superior Court in Hudson County, New
Jersey. In this action, the Company is seeking a declaratory judgment that
environmental liabilities asserted against the Company or its subsidiaries, or
that may be asserted in the future, are covered by insurance policies purchased
by the Company or its subsidiaries. The Company is also seeking to recover
defense costs and other damages incurred as a result of the assertion of
environmental liabilities against the Company or its subsidiaries for events
occurring over at least the last 25 years at approximately 140 sites and the
defendant insurance carriers' denial of coverage of such liabilities. While the
Company has reached settlements with some of the carriers, the remaining
defendants have denied liability to the Company and have asserted various
defenses, including that environmental liabilities of the type for which the
Company is seeking relief are not risks covered by the insurance policies in
question. The remaining defendants are contesting these claims vigorously.
Discovery is complete as to the 12 sites in the first phase of the case and
discovery is expected to continue for several years as to the remaining sites.
Currently, trial dates have not been set. The Company is unable at this time to
predict the outcome of this proceeding. No amounts have been recognized in the
Company's financial statements for potential recoveries.

     It is not possible at this time to predict the impact that the above
lawsuits, proceedings, investigations and inquiries may have on WM Holdings or
the Company, nor is it possible to predict whether any other suits or claims may
arise out of these matters in the future. However, it is reasonably possible
that the outcome of any present or future litigation, proceedings,
investigations or inquiries may have a material adverse impact on



their respective financial conditions or results of operations in one or more
future periods. The Company and WM Holdings intend to defend themselves
vigorously in all the above matters.

     The Company and certain of its subsidiaries are also currently involved in
other civil litigation and governmental proceedings relating to the conduct of
their business. The outcome of any particular lawsuit or governmental
investigation cannot be predicted with certainty and these matters could have a
material adverse impact on the Company's financial statements.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

     No matters were submitted to the stockholders of the Company during the
fourth quarter of 1999.

                                    PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

     The Company's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange
("NYSE") under the symbol "WMI." The following table sets forth the range of the
high and low per share sales prices for the common stock as reported on the NYSE
Composite Tape.



     On March 15, 2000, the closing sale price as reported on the NYSE was
$13.25 per share. The number of holders of record of common stock based on the
transfer records of the Company at March 15, 2000, was 30,543.

     As of December 31, 1999, the Company is limited in its ability to pay
dividends pursuant to its current credit agreements to amounts not to exceed
$25.0 million per year. The Company declared and paid cash dividends of $0.01
per share, or approximately $6.2 million during 1999. See Note 10 to the
financial statements included elsewhere herein.

     The Company effected the following unregistered sale of its securities
during the twelve months ended December 31, 1999 that was not previously
included in the Company's Quarterly Reports filed for such period. The
securities sold in the transaction referred to below were not registered under
the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, pursuant to the exemption provided under
Section 4(2) thereof for transactions not involving a public offering:

     On September 13, 1999, the Company granted to Roderick M. Hills, a member
of the Company's Board of Directors and Chairman of the Board of Directors'
Audit Committee, 35,000 shares of restricted stock for extraordinary services
performed by Mr. Hills in 1999.



ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

     The following selected financial information as of December 31, 1999 and
1998, and for each of the years in the three year period ended December 31,
1999, has been derived from the audited financial statements of the Company
included elsewhere herein. This information should be read in conjunction with
such financial statements and related notes thereto. The selected financial
information as of December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, and for each of the years in
the two year period ended December 31, 1996, has been derived from audited
financial statements, that have been previously included in the Company's
reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), restated
for certain pooling of interests transactions that are not included herein. See
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations."





ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS.

     The following discussion of the Company's operations for the three years
ended December 31, 1999 should be read in conjunction with the Company's
financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere herein.

     The discussion below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K includes statements
that are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the
Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. These include
statements that describe anticipated revenues, capital expenditures and other
financial items, statements that describe the Company's business plans and
objectives, and statements that describe the expected impact of competition,
government regulation, litigation and other factors on the Company's future
financial condition and results of operations. The words "may," "should,"
"expect," "believe," "anticipate," "project," "estimate," and similar
expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such risks and
uncertainties, any one of which may cause actual results to differ materially
from those described in the forward-looking statements, include or relate to,
among other things:

     - the impact of pending or threatened litigation and/or governmental
       inquiries and investigation involving the Company.

     - the Company's ability to stabilize its accounting systems and procedures
       and maintain stability.

     - the uncertainties relating to the Company's proposed strategic
       initiative, including the willingness of prospective purchasers to
       purchase the assets the Company identifies as divestiture candidates on
       terms the Company finds acceptable, the timing and terms on which such
       assets may be sold, uncertainties relating to regulatory approvals and
       other factors affecting the ability of prospective purchasers to
       consummate such transactions, including the availability of financing and
       uncertainties relating to the impact of the proposed strategic initiative
       on the Company's credit ratings and consequently the availability and
       cost of debt and equity financing to the Company.

     - the Company's ability to successfully integrate the operations of
       acquired companies with its existing operations, including risks and
       uncertainties relating to its ability to achieve projected earnings
       estimates, achieve administrative and operating cost savings and
       anticipated synergies, rationalize collection routes, and generally
       capitalize on its asset base and strategic position through its strategy
       of decentralized decision making; and the risks and uncertainties
       regarding government-forced divestitures.

     - the Company's ability to continue its expansion through the acquisition
       of other companies, including, without limitation, risks and
       uncertainties concerning the availability of desirable acquisition
       candidates, the availability of debt and equity capital to the Company to
       finance acquisitions, the ability of the Company to accurately assess the
       pre-existing liabilities and assets of acquisition candidates and the
       restraints imposed by federal and state statutes and agencies respecting
       market concentration and competitive behavior.

     - the effect of competition on the Company's ability to maintain margins on
       existing or acquired operations, including uncertainties relating to
       competition with government owned and operated landfills which enjoy
       certain competitive advantages from tax-exempt financing and tax revenue
       subsidies.

     - the potential impact of environmental and other regulation on the
       Company's business, including risks and uncertainties concerning the
       ultimate cost to the Company of complying with final closure requirements
       and post-closure liabilities associated with its landfills and other
       environmental liabilities associated with disposal at third party
       landfills and the ability to obtain and maintain permits necessary to
       operate its facilities, which may impact the life, operating capacity and
       profitability of its landfills and other facilities.

     - the Company's ability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations
       to cover its cash needs, the Company's ability to obtain additional
       capital if needed and the possible default under credit facilities if
       cash flows are lower than expected or capital expenditures are greater
       than expected.


     - the potential changes in estimates from ongoing analysis of site
       remediation requirements, final closure and post-closure issues,
       compliance and other audits and regulatory developments.

     - the effectiveness of changes in management and the ability of the Company
       to retain qualified individuals to serve in senior management positions.

     - the effect of price fluctuations of recyclable materials processed by the
       Company.

     - certain risks that are inherent in operating in foreign countries that
       are beyond the control of the Company, including but not limited to
       political, social, and economic instability and government regulations.

     - the potential impairment charges against earnings related to long-lived
       assets which may result from possible future business events.

     - the effect that recent trends regarding mandating recycling, waste
       reduction at the source and prohibiting the disposal of certain types of
       wastes could have on volumes of waste going to landfills and
       waste-to-energy facilities.

     - the potential impact of government regulation on the Company's ability to
       obtain and maintain necessary permits and approvals required for
       operations.

INTRODUCTION

  Strategic Plan

     In August 1999, the Company's Board of Directors adopted a strategic plan
that is intended to enhance value for its shareholders, customers, and
employees. The plan's major elements are to:

     - Dispose of the Company's non-strategic and under-performing assets,
       including the Company's WM International operations, its non-core assets
       and up to 10% of its NASW assets.

     - Maintain or improve the Company's long-term investment grade
       characteristics while using disposition proceeds for debt repayment,
       repurchases of shares and selected tuck-in acquisitions.

     - Bring more discipline and accountability to the enterprise while
       continuing the Company's decentralized business model, which puts
       authority close to the customer.

     - Restore a disciplined capital allocation philosophy that focuses on
       profits as opposed to growth.

     - Give employees the tools they need to do their jobs, including updated
       and more efficient information systems.

  General

     Waste Management is one of the largest publicly-owned companies providing
integrated waste management services in North America and internationally. In
North America, the Company provides solid waste management services throughout
the United States and Puerto Rico, as well as in Canada and Mexico, including
collection, transfer, recycling and resource recovery services, and disposal
services. In addition, the Company is a leading developer, operator and owner of
waste-to-energy facilities in the United States. The Company also engages in
hazardous waste management services throughout North America, as well as low-
level and other radioactive waste services.

     Internationally, the Company operates throughout Europe, the Pacific Rim,
and South America. Included in the Company's International operations is the
collection and transportation of solid, hazardous and medical wastes and
recyclable materials, and the treatment and disposal of recyclable materials.
The Company also operates solid and hazardous waste landfills, municipal and
hazardous waste incinerators, water and waste water treatment facilities,
hazardous waste treatment facilities, waste-fuel powered independent power
facilities, and constructs treatment or disposal facilities for third parties
internationally.



     The Company's diversified customer base for its NASW operations, was
approximately 27 million customers as of December 31, 1999. This customer base
includes commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers, other
waste management companies, governmental entities and independent power markets,
with no single customer accounting for more than 5% of the Company's operating
revenues during 1999. The Company employed approximately 75,000 people as of
December 31, 1999 of which approximately 55,000 related to its NASW operations.

     The Company's operating revenues from waste management operations consist
primarily of fees charged for its collection and disposal services. Operating
revenues for collection services include fees from residential, commercial,
industrial, and municipal collection customers. A portion of these fees are
billed in advance; a liability for future service is recorded upon receipt of
payment and operating revenues are recognized as services are actually provided.
Fees for residential and municipal collection services are normally based on the
type and frequency of service. Fees for commercial and industrial services are
normally based on the type and frequency of service and the volume of waste
collected. The Company's operating revenues from its disposal operations consist
of disposal fees (known as tipping fees) charged to third parties and are
normally billed monthly or semi-monthly. Tipping fees are based on the volume of
waste being disposed of at the Company's disposal facilities. Fees are charged
at transfer stations based on the volume of waste deposited, taking into account
the Company's cost of loading, transporting, and disposing of the solid waste at
a disposal site. Intercompany revenues between the Company's operations have
been eliminated in the consolidated financial statements presented elsewhere
herein.

     Operating expenses from waste management operations include direct and
indirect labor and the related taxes and benefits, fuel, maintenance and repairs
of equipment and facilities, tipping fees paid to third party disposal
facilities, and accruals for future landfill final closure and post-closure
costs. Certain direct development expenditures are capitalized and amortized
over the estimated useful life of a site as capacity is consumed, and include
acquisition, engineering, upgrading, construction, capitalized interest, and
permitting costs. All indirect expenses, such as administrative salaries and
general corporate overhead, are expensed in the period incurred. At times, the
Company receives reimbursements from insurance carriers relating to past and
future environmentally related remedial, defense and tort claim costs at a
number of the Company's sites. Such recoveries are included in operating costs
and expenses as an offset to environmental expenses.

     General and administrative costs include management salaries, clerical and
administrative costs, professional services, facility rentals, provision for
doubtful accounts, and related insurance costs, as well as costs related to the
Company's marketing and sales force.

     Depreciation and amortization include (i) amortization of the excess of
cost over net assets of acquired businesses on a straight-line basis over a
period not greater than 40 years commencing on the dates of the respective
acquisitions; (ii) amortization of other intangible assets on a straight-line
basis from 3 to 40 years; (iii) depreciation of property and equipment on a
straight-line basis from 3 to 40 years; and (iv) amortization of landfill costs
on a units-of-consumption method as landfill airspace is consumed over the
estimated remaining capacity of a site. The remaining capacity of a site is
determined by the unutilized permitted airspace and expansion airspace when the
success of obtaining such an expansion is considered probable. Effective as of
the third quarter of 1999, the Company applied a newly defined, more stringent
set of criteria for evaluating the probability of obtaining an expansion to
landfill airspace at existing sites, which are as follows:

     - Personnel are actively working to obtain land use, local and state
       approvals for an expansion of an existing landfill;

     - At the time the expansion is added to the permitted site life, it is
       probable that the approvals will be received within the normal
       application and processing time periods for approvals in the jurisdiction
       in which the landfill is located;

     - The respective landfill owners or the Company has a legal right to use or
       obtain land to be included in the expansion plan;



     - There are no significant known technical, legal, community, business, or
       political restrictions or issues that could impair the success of such
       expansion;

     - Financial analysis has been completed, and the results demonstrate that
       the expansion has a positive financial and operational impact; and

     - Airspace and related costs, including additional final closure and
       post-closure costs, have been estimated based on conceptual design.

     Additionally, to include airspace from an expansion effort, the expansion
permit application must generally be expected to be submitted within one year,
and the expansion permit must be expected to be received within two to five
years. Exceptions to these criteria must be approved through a landfill specific
approval process that includes an approval from the Company's Chief Financial
Officer and prompt review by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Such
exceptions at 34 landfill locations at December 31, 1999 were generally due to
permit application processes beyond the one-year limit, which in most cases,
were due to state-specific permitting procedures. Generally, the Company has
been successful in receiving approvals for expansions pursued; however, there
can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in obtaining landfill
expansions in the future.

     As disposal volumes are affected by seasonality and competitive factors,
airspace amortization varies from period to period due to changes in volumes of
waste disposed at the Company's landfills. Airspace amortization is also
affected by changes in engineering and cost estimates.

  1999 Accounting Charges and Adjustments

     During 1999, the Company initiated a comprehensive internal review of its
accounting records, systems, processes and controls at the direction of its
Board of Directors. As discussed below, and in Note 2 to the financial
statements, the Company experienced significant difficulty in the integration
and conversion of information and accounting systems subsequent to the WM
Holdings Merger, including certain financial systems and its billing systems. As
a result of these systems and process issues, and other issues raised during the
1999 accounting review, certain charges and adjustments were recorded, as
discussed below. The review was completed in time such that the Company was able
to record related adjustments in its financial statements for the quarter ended
September 30, 1999. The amounts recorded by the Company as a result of the
review had a material effect on its financial statements for the year ended
December 31, 1999. The following is a summary of charges attributable to this
review which were recorded for the quarter ended September 30, 1999 (in
thousands):





     The charges described above, which include both recurring and nonrecurring
items that have been aggregated for this presentation, are reflected in the
Company's financial statements for the year ended December 31, 1999, as follows
(in thousands):


     Subsequent to the completion of the accounting review, and in conjunction
with the process of preparing its monthly financial statements during the fourth
quarter of 1999 and on a final basis at December 31, 1999, additional
adjustments attributable to the reconciliation of intercompany accounts, cash,
accounts receivable, fixed assets, accounts payable and certain other accounts
were recorded.

     The Company recorded significant adjustments in the third and fourth
quarters of 1999, certain of which affect periods prior to these quarters.
Accordingly, the Company, after consultation with its independent public
accountants, has concluded that its internal controls for the preparation of
interim financial information did not provide an adequate basis for its
independent public accountants to complete reviews of the quarterly financial
data for the quarters during 1999. The Company believes that certain charges
that were recorded in the third and fourth quarters of 1999 may relate to
individual prior periods; however, the Company does not have sufficient
information to identify all specific charges attributable to prior periods. If
identification of all specific charges attributable to individual prior periods
were possible, the Company believes that the reported results of operations
presented in Note 20 to the financial statements for the third and fourth
quarters of 1999 would have been favorably impacted, and the reported results of
operations for the first and second quarters of 1999 would have been adversely
impacted. In connection with the preparation of its third quarter financial
statements, the Company concluded, based on its quantitative and qualitative
analysis of available information, after consultation with its independent
public accountants, that it did not have, nor was it able to obtain, sufficient
information to conclude what amount of the charges relate to any individual
prior year,



although qualitative analysis indicates that these charges are principally
related to 1999. Accordingly, the Company has concluded that these charges were
appropriately reflected in the 1999 annual financial statements.

     In connection with the comprehensive internal review, the Company
determined that it was necessary to stabilize its accounting systems and
procedures and the maintenance of its books and records, and to establish an
adequate control environment. As an initial step in this process, it contracted
with outside consulting accountants to provide accounting support to assist the
Company's corporate and field financial personnel with the analysis necessary to
prepare the Company's third quarter of 1999 financial statements. These
consulting accountants also provided such assistance in the fourth quarter of
1999 and will continue to do so until the Company has the corporate and field
financial resources needed to provide reasonable assurances that it can comply
with the recordkeeping and internal control requirements applicable to SEC
registrants. Since the third quarter of 1999, the Company has added
approximately 220 staff members to its corporate and field financial personnel,
including approximately 125 employees primarily engaged in receivables
collection and approximately 95 employees engaged in accounting. The Company
cannot estimate, at this time, how long it will take to complete the staffing
and training of its corporate and field financial personnel to perform its
recordkeeping responsibilities adequately without the support of outside
consultants.

     In addition, during this same period, the Company began taking systematic
and orderly steps to develop a comprehensive program to address the integrity
and reliability of the Company's reporting of financial information, including
development of a long-term plan that will establish an adequate system of
internal controls. As part of this initiative, the Company formulated, and is in
the process of implementing, policies that establish fundamental principles and
discipline respecting certain key areas, including, among other things,
accounting and control of fixed assets, intercompany balances, revenue
reporting, landfill accounting and account reconciliations. Consistent with its
long-term plan, the Company has begun drafting and adopting policies and
procedures that will establish a foundation for its financial and accounting
functions to support ongoing improvements, and develop and install mechanisms
for directing, controlling and monitoring its accounting and financial
organization. The Company is also evaluating its systems needs with respect to,
among other things, the general ledger, revenue management and payroll. The
Company cannot estimate, at this time, how long it will take to completely
develop and establish an adequate internal control environment.

     See Note 2 to the financial statements included elsewhere herein for
additional discussion.



RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     Certain reclassifications have been made to prior year amounts in the
financial statements in order to conform to current year presentation.

     The following table presents, for the periods indicated, the period to
period change in dollars (in thousands) and percentages for the various
statements of operations line items and for certain supplementary data.



- ---------------

(1) EBITDA represents income from operations plus depreciation and amortization
    expense. EBITDA, which is not a measure of financial performance under
    generally accepted accounting principles, is provided because the Company
    understands that such information is used by certain investors when
    analyzing the financial position and performance of the Company.

          See Management's Discussion and Analysis -- Introduction --
                    1999 Accounting Charges and Adjustments.



     The following table presents, for the periods indicated, the percentage
relationship that the various statements of operations line items and certain
supplementary data bear to operating revenues:



- ---------------

(1) EBITDA represents income from operations plus depreciation and amortization
    expense. EBITDA, which is not a measure of financial performance under
    generally accepted accounting principles, is provided because the Company
    understands that such information is used by certain investors when
    analyzing the financial position and performance of the Company.

          See Management's Discussion and Analysis -- Introduction --
                    1999 Accounting Charges and Adjustments.



RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999

     The Company's principal business is its NASW operations, which include all
solid waste activities, such as collection, transfer operations, recycling and
disposal. The NASW disposal operations encompass solid waste and hazardous waste
landfills, as well as waste-to-energy facilities. In addition, the Company
operates outside of North America in activities similar to its NASW operations
through its WM International operations. As discussed above, the Company's Board
of Directors adopted a plan in 1999 to divest its WM International operations.
Additionally, the Company performs certain non-solid waste services, primarily
in North America, such as low-level and other radioactive waste management, and
operates waste-fuel powered independent power facilities. A substantial portion
of these operations were marketed for sale in accordance with the Company's
strategic plan. See "Business -- Operations -- Low Level and Other Radioactive
Waste Services." Through June 30, 1999, the Company's non-solid waste services
also included non-land disposal hazardous waste operations and on-site
industrial cleaning services located in North America. However, on June 30,
1999, the Company sold a 51% interest in these operations to Vivendi S.A. The
Company's retained interest of 49% is being accounted for using the equity
method of accounting.

  Operating Revenues

     The Company's operating revenues increased $501.2 million, or 4.0% in 1999
and $653.3 million or 5.5% in 1998, as compared to the respective prior years.
The following presents the operating revenues by reportable segment for the
respective years (dollars in millions):



     The increase in the Company's operating revenues for 1997, 1998 and 1999 is
primarily due to acquisition related growth in the NASW operations. The
following table presents the Company's mix of operating revenues from NASW for
the respective years (dollars in millions):



     Acquisitions of NASW businesses during 1999 and the full year effect of
acquisitions which were completed in 1998 accounted for an increase in operating
revenues of approximately $615.7 million for 1999, as compared to 1998. NASW
operating revenues also increased from internal growth of comparable operations
of 2.6% for 1999, as compared to 1998. The Company believes that its internal
revenue growth in 1999 was detrimentally affected by certain inflexibilities in
its pricing strategy and the lack of responsiveness of that strategy to
localized competitive conditions, resulting in lost customers and volumes. The
Company intends to continue to review its pricing strategy to enhance its
competitiveness in future periods. Offsetting the increase in operating revenues
were divestitures of NASW businesses with revenues of approximately



$290.0 million, as well as other business factors that comprised the remaining
differences, including the foreign currency fluctuations with the Canadian
dollar.

     NASW operating revenues in 1999 were lower than expected due to substantial
difficulties in the integration of the operations of the Company after the WM
Holdings Merger and the Eastern Merger, including the Company's information
systems (including billing systems) and work flow related thereto. In 1999, the
Company experienced significant difficulty in the conversion from the WM
Holdings' information systems to the systems currently in use, resulting in
delays and errors, particularly with respect to the Company's billing systems,
including delays in submitting bills to customers and errors in both computing
and delivering bills. Staffing levels were insufficient to address customer
complaints and disputes and did not support timely follow-up with customers.
Billing system issues initially became evident in the second quarter of 1999 as
receivable aging levels rose. At that time, management believed that the
increase in receivables was a short-term issue, receivables would return to
historical levels once the billing system conversions were complete and there
was not a significant collectability issue with its recorded receivables. In
connection with the 1999 accounting review, the Company concluded that certain
of these accounts had deteriorated to the point that they may be uncollectable,
and therefore, recorded an increase in the allowance for doubtful accounts in
the third quarter of 1999. These events also contributed a higher than usual
provision for uncollectable accounts in the fourth quarter of 1999. Beginning in
the third quarter of 1999, the Company has increased its resources dedicated to
receivable collection efforts and continues to pursue collection of all
outstanding balances.

     The increase in operating revenues in 1998 for NASW, as compared to 1997,
is primarily attributable to the effects of acquisitions and the internal growth
of comparable operations. However, these increases were partially offset by the
divestiture of certain solid waste operations and the impact of the currency
translation fluctuations of the Canadian dollar. Acquisitions of solid waste
businesses in North America during 1998 and the full year effect of such
acquisitions completed during 1997 accounted for an increase in operating
revenues of approximately $1.16 billion. Internal growth for comparable NASW
services was 5.4%, which was comprised of 1.8% for pricing increases and 3.6%
for volume increases. For 1998, the NASW operating revenues were negatively
impacted by the lower prices received for recyclable materials, which can
fluctuate substantially from period to period. Had the pricing for recyclable
materials remained constant during 1998, internal growth for comparable NASW
operations would have been 5.9% for the period.

     The operating revenues from WM International increased approximately $117.2
million, or 7.6%, in 1999, but decreased approximately $256.4 million, or 14.3%,
during 1998, from the respective prior years. The increase in operating revenues
for WM International in 1999 is due to acquisitions of businesses, primarily in
Denmark and Australia, with 1999 operating revenues of $182.8 million and
internal growth of 1.6%. These increases in 1999 were offset by the disposition
of operations, primarily in Italy, with 1998 operating revenues of $43.3
million. Additionally offsetting the increases in operating revenues in 1999
were fluctuations in foreign currency of $51.2 million. The decrease in 1998, as
compared to 1997 is primarily due to the sale of certain assets, such as the
waste-to-energy facility in Hamm, Germany in January 1998, as well as the
expiration of the City of Buenos Aires, Argentina contract in February 1998. In
1998, internal growth from WM International operations reflected a modest
decline. Operating revenues in 1998 were also negatively affected by foreign
currency fluctuations of approximately $53.0 million as compared to 1997.

     Operating revenues for non-solid waste services decreased in 1999, as
compared to 1998, due to the sale of a 51% interest in certain non-solid waste
operations, as previously discussed herein. However, this decrease was partially
offset by the acquisition of a geosynthetic manufacturing and installation
service company in July 1999. Exclusive of acquisitions and dispositions, the
Company's non-solid waste operating revenues for 1999 were substantially
consistent with 1998. Operating revenues in 1998 for the Company's non-solid
waste operations were substantially consistent with 1997. The Company expects
decreasing operating revenues from its non-solid waste operations in future
periods because the Company is actively marketing certain of its non-solid waste
operations pursuant to its strategic plan.



  Operating Costs and Expenses (Exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization Shown
  Below)

     Operating costs and expenses increased $985.8 million or 13.5% for 1999, as
compared to 1998, and decreased $199.0 million, or 2.7%, for 1998, as compared
to 1997. As a percentage of operating revenues, operating costs and expenses
increased from 57.7% in 1998 to 63.0% in 1999 and were 62.5% in 1997.

     For the three years ended December 31, 1999, operating costs and expenses
increased primarily as a result of the Company's acquisition activities and
internal revenue growth net of dispositions. Over that three-year period,
operating costs and expenses as a percentage of revenues fluctuated, primarily
due to the effects of the Company's merger integration plan that was adopted in
connection with the WM Holdings Merger in July 1998. See "Operating Revenues"
above. The merger integration plan included significant employee headcount
reductions (particularly including supervisory operating personnel), the
elimination of excess operating capacity through the sale or abandonment of
certain assets and operations, and the reconfiguration of operations within
certain domestic markets in which the Company operates. The Company's employee
headcount reductions and the elimination of excess operating capacity were
largely effected in the third quarter of 1998, while the reconfiguration of
certain domestic markets began principally in the first quarter of 1999.

     In 1998, soon after the WM Holdings Merger, the Company experienced
reductions, both in absolute terms and as a percentage of operating revenues, in
its operating costs and expenses as a result of the reductions in employee
headcount and the elimination of excess operating assets that were either sold
or abandoned pursuant to the merger integration plan. The Company believes that
the reductions in employee headcount and the disposition of excess operating
assets resulted in short-term cost efficiencies in 1998.

     In 1999, the Company continued the implementation of its merger integration
plan. However, due to the breadth and comprehensive nature of the changes the
Company attempted to implement in 1999, the Company was unable to sustain the
effectiveness of its integration plan. Operating costs and expenses therefore
increased significantly as a percentage of revenues in 1999 because the
short-term cost reductions experienced in 1998 were not sustained in 1999 and
due to the operational difficulties encountered by the Company.

     As part of its ongoing operations, the Company reviews its reserve
requirements for remediation and other environmental matters based on an
analysis of, among other things, the regulatory context surrounding landfills,
site-specific environmental issues and remaining airspace capacity in light of
changes to operational efficiencies. Accordingly, revisions to remediation
reserve requirements may result in upward or downward adjustments to income from
operations in any given period. Adjustments for final closure and post-closure
estimates are accounted for prospectively over the remaining capacity of the
operating landfill. The impact of revisions to remedial environmental and other
similar liabilities resulted in reductions of operating costs and expenses as a
percentage of revenues in the amount of 0.5% and 0.9% in 1999 and 1998,
respectively. Similar revisions in 1997 resulted in an increase to operating
costs and expenses equivalent to 0.8% of revenues.

  General and Administrative Expenses

     General and administrative expenses increased $587.6 million or 44.1% from
1998 to 1999 and decreased $105.8 million or 7.4% from 1997 to 1998. As a
percentage of operating revenues, the Company's general and administrative
expense was 14.6% for 1999, 10.6% for 1998 and 12.0% for 1997. Over the
three-year period ended December 31, 1999, general and administrative expenses
increased primarily as a result of the Company's acquisition activity, partially
offset by divestitures.

     General and administrative expenses for 1999 include $326.6 million in
adjustments resulting from the 1999 accounting review, some of which are
recurring in nature and should be expected in future periods. These significant
adjustments include an increase of $167.3 million relative to the allowance for
doubtful accounts. In addition, general and administrative expenses for 1999
include $159.3 million in costs for accounting, legal and other professional
services. These costs are primarily related to litigation and investigations
conducted by the Company in 1999. See discussion, in "Operating Revenues" and
"Operating Costs and Expenses" above, of the Company's substantial difficulties
in integrating the operations of WM Holdings subsequent to the WM Holdings
Merger.


     As discussed above, the Company believes it experienced short-term cost
reductions related to the elimination of duplicate corporate administrative
functions from the WM Holdings Merger in 1998 and the first and second quarters
of 1999. Such cost reductions were substantially offset by the effect of
difficulties encountered by the Company in integrating the operations of WM
Holdings, including increased administrative costs in field operations,
particularly in the third and fourth quarters of 1999, attributable to increased
costs to perform billing, collection and other administrative functions.

  Depreciation and Amortization

     Depreciation and amortization expense increased $115.5 million or 7.7% in
1999 and $106.9 million, or 7.7% in 1998, as compared to the respective prior
year. As a percentage of operating revenues, depreciation and amortization
expense was 12.3% in 1999, 11.9% in 1998 and 11.6% in 1997.

     Over the three-year period ended December 31, 1999, depreciation and
amortization increased primarily as a result of the Company's acquisition
program, partially offset by divestitures. In addition to the increase
associated with acquisitions, depreciation and amortization expense for 1999
includes adjustments resulting from the 1999 accounting review, some of which
are recurring in nature and should be expected in future periods. These
adjustments primarily include adjustments to increases to landfill amortization
expense as a result of the comprehensive review of the NASW landfill expansion
projects. The increase in landfill amortization as a result of this review
aggregated $24.3 million, or 0.2% of annual revenues, for the third and fourth
quarters of 1999. The Company discontinued depreciation on fixed assets relative
to certain operations which are held for sale as of October 1, 1999. The
depreciation discontinued in the fourth quarter of 1999 for these operations
held for sale was $45.6 million, or 0.3% of annual revenues, which was primarily
related to the Company's WM International operations.

  Merger and Acquisition Related Costs, Asset Impairments and Unusual Items

     As further discussed in Notes 4 and 15 to the financial statements included
elsewhere herein, in connection with the WM Holdings Merger and the Eastern
Merger, the Company incurred significant merger and acquisition related costs,
asset impairments and unusual items in 1998 of approximately $2.7 billion. In
1999, the Company incurred approximately $44.6 million in merger costs and
$738.8 million in asset impairments and unusual items. The 1999 merger and
acquisition related costs were primarily related to these mergers and included
costs that were transitional in nature. The 1999 charge for asset impairments
and unusual items primarily consisted of held for sale asset adjustments, other
asset impairments and provisions for increases in certain legal reserves. In
1998 and 1997, the Company incurred merger and acquisition related costs of
approximately $17.2 million and $112.7 million, respectively, related to other
business combinations accounted for as poolings of interests that were completed
during those years. The 1997 financial statements include a charge to asset
impairments and unusual items of approximately $1.8 billion related primarily to
a significant accounting charge resulting from a comprehensive review performed
by the management of WM Holdings of its operations and investments. See Note 15
to the financial statements for further discussion.

  (Income) Loss from Continuing Operations Held for Sale, Net of Minority
  Interest

     In 1998 and 1997, the Company had operations that were previously
classified as discontinued operations for accounting and financial reporting
purposes that were subsequently reclassified to continuing operations as of
December 31, 1997, as the dispositions were not completed within one year from
the date of their classification as discontinued operations. The Company
divested of substantially all of such operations by September 30, 1998.

  Income (Loss) from Operations

     Income (loss) from operations was $540.0 million, $(160.4) million, and
$(233.9) million for 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively, for the reasons
discussed above.



  Other Income and Expenses

     Other income and expenses consists of interest expense, interest income,
other income (including gains and losses on sales of businesses) and minority
interest. The most significant of these is interest expense. Although the
Company has experienced lower borrowing rates during most of 1999, as compared
to 1998 and 1997, interest costs, which include amounts capitalized, increased
for each year from 1997 to 1999 due to increases in the Company's outstanding
indebtedness. During the last six months of 1999, the Company experienced a
decline in its public credit ratings. As a result, it is likely that the
borrowing rates in the foreseeable future will be higher than the rates
previously experienced by the Company. Capitalized interest was $34.3 million,
$41.5 million and $51.4 million, for 1999, 1998, and 1997, respectively. The
decline in the amount of interest capitalized by the Company over these periods
is primarily due to shortening of the cycles in which the Company performs
landfill construction activities and the success in obtaining permits at certain
significant landfill expansion projects.

     During 1998, the Company acquired the outstanding minority interest in WTI,
WM plc, as well as WM plc's operations in the United Kingdom, which were 49%
owned by Wessex Water Plc. As a result, the minority interest expense was less
significant to the Company in 1999 as compared to prior years.

     Other income in 1997 includes a gain of $129.0 million related to the sale
of the Company's investment in ServiceMaster Consumer Services L.P., which
occurred during the first quarter of 1997. Other income in 1998 includes the
sale of certain of the Company's investments and businesses. In January 1998 the
Company recognized a gain of $38.0 million from the sale of a waste-to-energy
facility in Hamm, Germany.

  Provision for Income Taxes

     The Company recorded a provision for income taxes of $232.3 million, $66.9
million, and $363.3 million for 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively, resulting in
an effective income tax rate of 142.8%, 9.6%, and 54.9% for each of these years,
respectively. The difference in federal income taxes computed at the federal
statutory rate and reported income taxes for these years is primarily due to
state and local income taxes, non-deductible costs related to acquired
intangibles, non-deductible costs associated with the impairment of certain
foreign businesses and other third quarter 1999 charges and adjustments as
discussed in Note 2 to the financial statements, and the cost associated with
remitting the earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries, which are no longer
permanently reinvested.

  Discontinued Operations

     The Company recorded $95.7 million in 1997 for the net results of
discontinued operations. See Note 19 of the financial statements included herein
for additional discussion of discontinued operations.

  Extraordinary Item

     During 1999, 1998 and 1997, the Company retired certain debt prior to their
scheduled maturities. As a result, the Company incurred prepayment penalties and
other fees, as well as charged to expense the unamortized discounts and debt
issuance costs. Total charges for these items, net of tax, were $2.5 million,
$3.9 million and $6.8 million for 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

  Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting Principle

     In the fourth quarter of 1997, the Company began expensing process
reengineering costs in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board
Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 97-13. Accordingly, the Company expensed
any amounts previously capitalized, which reduced net income by $1.9 million in
1997.

  Net Loss

     For the reasons discussed above, net loss was $397.6 million in 1999,
$770.7 million in 1998, and $938.9 million in 1997.


LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     The Company operates in an industry that requires a high level of capital
investment. The Company's capital requirements primarily stem from (i) its
working capital needs for its ongoing operations, (ii) capital expenditures for
construction and expansion of its landfill sites, as well as new trucks and
equipment for its collection operations, (iii) refurbishments and improvements
at its waste-to-energy facilities and (iv) business acquisitions. The Company's
strategy is to meet these capital needs first from internally generated funds.
Historically, the Company has also obtained financing from various financing
sources available to the Company at the time, including the incurrence of debt
and the issuance of its common stock. In August 1999, the Company announced a
strategic plan that included the sale of certain non-strategic and
under-performing assets, including its WM International operations, its non-core
assets and up to 10% of its NASW operations. The proceeds from these
dispositions, which are primarily expected to be realized in 2000, will be
utilized for debt repayment, repurchase of shares and selected tuck-in
acquisitions. Although the Company has unused and available credit capacity
under its domestic bank facilities of $1.5 billion at December 31, 1999 and $1.4
billion as of March 15, 2000, the Company expects reductions in bank line
availability as debt levels are decreased in connection with the strategic plan.
However, due to a projected decrease in acquisition activity in future periods
and the sale of certain of its international businesses, the Company's level of
capital expenditures is expected to decline along with its needs for large
amounts of credit capacity.

     As a result of the accounting charges and adjustments recorded in the third
quarter of 1999 (see Note 2), absent waivers, the Company would not have been in
compliance as of September 30, 1999 with certain financial covenants as required
by its four bank credit facilities. The Company received waivers from each of
its four bank groups for the period ended September 30, 1999, enabling the
Company to be in full compliance with and have full access to its existing bank
credit facilities. During the fourth quarter of 1999, the Company incurred
approximately $8.0 million (which is included in interest expense) to obtain
these waivers. In December 1999, the Company received unanimous approval for
amendments to its existing $2 billion, $3 billion and Eurocurrency bank credit
facilities. The approvals provide permanent amendments to the waivers previously
granted to the Company related to its operating results for the third quarter of
1999. Additionally, the amended terms and conditions of the facilities contain
the necessary provisions for the Company to proceed with its strategy of
divesting of its WM International operations and domestic non-core assets.

     Under the terms of the Syndicated Facility and Credit Facility, the Company
is obligated to repay its indebtedness under such facilities with the cash
proceeds to be received from the divestitures of its WM International
operations, domestic non-core assets and up to 10% of its NASW operations
pursuant to its strategic plan. Specifically, the Company must use all of the
first $1.5 billion of net proceeds it receives from the sales of any domestic
operations to repay indebtedness under the Syndicated Facility and Credit
Facility. Additionally, 50% of the net proceeds greater than $1.5 billion but
less than $2.5 billion from sales of domestic operations must be used to repay
indebtedness under such facilities. Finally, all net proceeds from the
divestiture of WM International operations must be used to repay indebtedness
under the Company's Eurocurrency facilities. The net proceeds remaining after
the repayment of the Eurocurrency facilities will be counted as, and therefore
subject to the same requirements to repay the Syndicated Facility and Credit
Facility as, net proceeds received from the sales of domestic operations.

     The Company was in compliance with all financial requirements under its
credit agreements as of December 31, 1999. However, the Company anticipates that
its cash flows from operations for the year 2000 will likely not be sufficient
for the Company to maintain compliance with certain of the financial ratios
contained in its Syndicated Facility, Credit Facility, and Eurocurrency credit
facilities. Therefore, it has classified the borrowings outstanding under the
Syndicated Facilities and the Credit Facility as short-term obligations as of
December 31, 1999. The Eurocurrency Credit Facility is included in operations
held for sale at December 31, 1999. As discussed in the preceding paragraph, the
Company expects to make a substantial principal reduction on these facilities
with the net proceeds of its anticipated divestitures. The Company intends to
pursue waivers or amendments of such agreements in advance of any potential
violation of the credit agreements. However, there can be no assurance that, in
the event the Company actually violates its



agreements, that such waivers or amendments will be obtained. Failure to obtain
such waivers or amendments would have an adverse effect on the Company's
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

     During the last six months of 1999, the Company experienced a decline in
its public credit ratings which curtailed its access to the commercial paper
market. All outstanding commercial paper was redeemed by March 1, 2000. The
Company does not expect that it will be in a position to reissue commercial
paper in the foreseeable future. Additionally, as a result of a decline in its
credit ratings, the Company expects to incur substantially higher costs of
financing for the foreseeable future as compared to prior years should it
attempt any capital market activity. The Company utilizes approximately $3
billion in bonding related to its operations. Should any of these bonding
sources become unavailable without replacement from other bonding sources, the
Company would have to utilize its bank lines, which are at significantly higher
rates, for replacement purposes.

     As of December 31, 1999, the Company had working capital deficit of $1.3
billion (a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of 0.8:1) and a cash
balance of $181.4 million, which compares to a working capital deficit of $412.3
million (a current ratio of 0.9:1) and a cash balance of $86.9 million as of
December 31, 1998. For 1999, net cash provided by operating activities was $1.7
billion, as compared to $1.5 billion in 1998 and $2.1 billion in 1997, and net
cash provided by (used in) financing activities was $426.2 million in 1999, as
compared to $3.0 billion in 1998 and $(445.0) million in 1997. In 1999, cash
generated from operating and financing activities was primarily used to acquire
business and outstanding minority interest positions for $1.3 billion and for
capital expenditures of $1.3 billion. In 1998, cash generated from operating and
financing activities was primarily used to acquire businesses and outstanding
minority interest positions for $3.6 billion and for capital expenditures of
$1.7 billion. In 1997, capital expenditures of $1.3 billion and acquisitions of
businesses and outstanding minority interests of $1.8 billion were primarily
financed through net cash from operations of $2.1 billion as well as proceeds
from divestitures of businesses and other sales of assets of $1.5 billion.
Additionally, in 1997 the Company acquired $1.0 billion of its stock and paid
cash dividends to its shareholders of $309.6 million.

     During 1999, the Company paid approximately $550 million for costs directly
or indirectly related to the WM Holdings Merger and the Eastern Merger.
Consequently, the Company's net cash provided by operating activities for 1999
was significantly impacted by its 1998 merger activity, and to a lesser extent,
other working capital issues. The Company contributed approximately $43.4
million during 1999, which is included in the above amounts, and expects
payments of approximately $185 million to be paid through 2000 relating to the
termination of the WM Holdings' defined benefit plan. Furthermore, the Company
expects to fund additional merger and legal obligations throughout 2000.

     From December 15, 1999 through March 16, 2000, the Company repurchased
$430.2 million of its 5.75% convertible subordinated notes due 2005 with funds
available from internally generated cash flows and its domestic credit
facilities. The Company has a scheduled maturity of $250 million of senior notes
on October 15, 2000. The Company expects to repay this senior note with funds
available from its domestic credit facilities.

     In the second quarter of 1999, the Company agreed to purchase all of the
Canadian solid waste operations of Allied Waste Industries, Inc. ("Allied")
other than its medical waste disposal assets (the "Canadian Operations") for a
purchase price of approximately $501 million in cash. That agreement was revised
and superseded on November 8, 1999. Under the revised agreements, the Company
agreed to acquire the Canadian Operations through the purchase of the stock of
Allied's Canadian subsidiary. The revised agreements also provide for the
purchase by Allied of certain of the Company's solid waste operations having
combined reported historical net revenue of approximately $120 million,
including nine landfill operations, 19 collection operations, five transfer
stations and a landfill operating contract. The prices of Canadian operations to
be acquired, and the domestic operations to be disposed of, by the Company were
all established based upon the same multiple of historical operating earnings,
although the transactions may proceed separately.

     The sale of the Canadian Operations is subject to final approval under the
Canadian Competition Act and Investment Canada Act. The Competition Bureau of
Canada has requested that the Company divest a substantial portion of the
Canadian Operations as a condition to recommending such approval. In response,


the Company and Allied are actively pursuing a restructured transaction, whereby
the Company would acquire only those portions of the Canadian Operations
approved by Canadian regulators. The scope of the United States assets to be
acquired by Allied from the Company also remains under governmental antitrust
review.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

     The Company has material financial commitments for the costs associated
with its future obligations for final closure, which is the closure of the
landfills and the capping of the final uncapped areas of the landfills, and for
post-closure of the landfills it operates or for which it is otherwise
responsible. The final closure and post-closure liabilities are charged to
expense as airspace is consumed such that the present value of total estimated
final closure and post-closure cost will be accrued for each landfill at the
time each site discontinues accepting waste and is closed. The Company has also
established procedures to evaluate its potential remedial liabilities at closed
sites which it owns or operated, or to which it transported waste, including 84
sites listed on the NPL. The majority of situations involving NPL sites relate
to allegations that subsidiaries of the Company (or their predecessors)
transported waste to the facilities in question, often prior to the acquisition
of such subsidiaries by the Company. In instances in which the Company has
concluded that it is probable that a liability has been incurred, an accrual has
been recorded in the financial statements.

     Estimates of the extent of the Company's degree of responsibility for
remediation of a particular site and the method and ultimate cost of remediation
require a number of assumptions and are inherently difficult, and the ultimate
outcome may differ from current estimates. However, the Company believes that
its extensive experience in the environmental services business, as well as its
involvement with a large number of sites, provides a reasonable basis for
estimating its aggregate liability. As additional information becomes available,
estimates are adjusted as necessary. While the Company does not anticipate that
any such adjustment would be material to its financial statements, it is
reasonably possible that technological, regulatory or enforcement developments,
the results of environmental studies, the nonexistence or inability of other
potentially responsible third parties to contribute to the settlements of such
liabilities, or other factors could necessitate the recording of additional
liabilities which could have a material adverse impact on the Company's
financial statements.

     While the precise amount of these future costs cannot be determined with
certainty, the Company has estimated that the aggregate cost of environmental
liabilities as of December 31, 1999 is approximately $2.6 billion. As of
December 31, 1999 and 1998, the Company had recorded liabilities of $977.5
million and $1.2 billion, respectively, for the present value of final closure,
post-closure, and remediation costs of disposal facilities. The difference
between the final closure and post-closure costs accrued at December 31, 1999,
and the total present value of estimated costs represents final closure and
post-closure costs which will be accrued and charged to expense as airspace is
consumed such that the total present value of estimated final closure and
post-closure costs to be incurred will be fully accrued for each landfill at the
time each site discontinues accepting waste and is closed. Average landfill
final closure and post-closure expense, on a per ton basis, for 1999 was $0.27
per ton.

     As of December 31, 1999, the Company also expects to incur approximately
$6.9 billion related to future construction activities during the remaining
operating lives of the disposal sites, which are capitalized as incurred and
expensed over the useful lives of the disposal sites as airspace is consumed.

SEASONALITY AND INFLATION

     The Company's operating revenues tend to be somewhat lower in the winter
months, which corresponds with the Company's first and fourth quarters. This is
primarily attributable to the facts that (i) the volume of waste relating to
construction and demolition activities tends to increase in the spring and
summer months and (ii) the volume of industrial and residential waste in certain
regions where the Company operates tends to decrease during the winter months.

     The Company believes that inflation has not had, and is not expected to
have, any material adverse effect on the results of operations in the near
future.



YEAR 2000 DATE CONVERSION

     The Company completed all preparation to assure its computerized
information systems, embedded technologies in its equipment, and to the extent
possible, its suppliers, were ready for Year 2000. As a result, the Company
suffered no material adverse business impact with the Year 2000 occurrence.

NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

     Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 133, Accounting
for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities was issued in 1998. SFAS No.
133 establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments,
including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, and
derivatives used for hedging purposes. SFAS No. 133 requires that entities
recognize all derivative financial instruments as either assets or liabilities
in the statement of financial position and measure those instruments at fair
value. SFAS No. 133, as amended by SFAS No. 137, is effective for the Company in
its first fiscal quarter of 2001. Management is currently assessing the impact
that the adoption of SFAS No. 133 will have on the Company's financial
statements.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK.

     In the normal course of business, the Company is exposed to market risk,
including changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates, certain commodity
prices and certain equity prices. From time to time, the Company and certain of
its subsidiaries use derivatives to manage some portion of these risks. The
derivatives used are simple agreements which provide for payments based on the
notional amount, with no multipliers or leverage. All derivatives are related to
actual or anticipated exposures of transactions of the Company. While the
Company is exposed to credit risk in the event of non-performance by
counterparties to derivatives, in all cases such counterparties are highly rated
financial institutions and the Company does not anticipate non-performance. The
Company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading
purposes. The Company monitors its derivative positions by regularly evaluating
the positions at market and by performing sensitivity analyses.

     The Company has performed sensitivity analyses to determine how market rate
changes will affect the fair value of the Company's market risk sensitive
derivatives and related positions. Such an analysis is inherently limited in
that it represents a singular, hypothetical set of assumptions. Actual market
movements may vary significantly from the Company's assumptions. The effects of
such market movements may also directly or indirectly affect the Company's
assumptions. The effects of such market movements may also directly or
indirectly affect Company rights and obligations not covered by sensitivity
analysis. Fair value sensitivity is not necessarily indicative of the ultimate
cash flow or earnings effect on the Company from the assumed market rate
movements.

     Interest Rate Exposure. The Company's exposure to market risk for changes
in interest rates relates primarily to the Company's debt obligations, which are
mainly denominated in U.S. dollars. In addition, interest rate swaps are
generally used to either lock-in or limit the variability in the interest
expense of certain floating rate debt obligations or to manage the mix of fixed
and floating rate debt obligations. An instantaneous, one percentage point
increase in interest rates across all maturities and applicable yield curves
would increase the fair value of the Company's combined debt and interest rate
swap positions at December 31, 1999 and 1998 by approximately $499.2 million and
$591.0 million, respectively. This analysis does not reflect the effect that
declining interest rates would have on other items such as pension liabilities,
nor the favorable impact they would have on interest expense and cash payments
for interest. Since a significant portion of the Company's debt is at fixed
rates, changes in market interest rates would not significantly impact operating
results until and unless such debt would need to be refinanced at maturity.

     Currency Rate Exposure. From time to time, the Company and certain of its
subsidiaries have used foreign currency derivatives to seek to mitigate the
impact of translation on foreign earnings and income from foreign investees.
Typically these derivatives have taken the form of purchased put options or
collars. There were no currency derivatives outstanding at December 31, 1999 or
1998 that relate to hedging the translation of foreign earnings.


     The Company occasionally incurs currency risk from cross border
transactions. When such transactions are anticipated or committed to, the
Company may enter into forward contracts or purchase options to reduce or
eliminate the related foreign exchange risk. The Company also incurs exchange
rate risk from borrowings denominated in foreign currencies. An instantaneous,
ten percent increase in foreign exchange rates would decrease the fair value of
the Company's foreign currency borrowings at December 31, 1999 and 1998, by
approximately $42.7 million and $13.1 million, respectively. This difference can
be attributed to a variety of factors, including a change in the composition of
the portfolio, a change in the correlations across different instruments
resulting from the WM Holdings Merger or other factors arising from changing
market conditions. The total effect on the Company from movements in exchange
rates will also be influenced by other factors. For example, an increase in the
fair value of foreign currency denominated debt caused by exchange rate
movements may be more than offset by an increase in the value of the Company's
net investment in foreign countries. At December 31, 1999, all debt of WM
International is classified in current assets as assets held for sale.

     Commodities Price Exposure. The Company markets recycled paper products
such as old newspaper ("ONP") and old corrugated containers ("OCC"). Beginning
in 1999, the Company entered into financial swaps in an effort to mitigate the
risk of recyclable paper price fluctuations. Under its financial swap
agreements, the Company transfers a floating market price for a fixed price for
a fixed period of time. The two parties agree to use a market index as an
indicator of the market price during the term of the swap. An instantaneous ten
percent increase in this commodity at December 31, 1999 creates an exposure risk
of approximately $50,000. All of the Company's waste paper hedges are cash
settled on a monthly basis with the counterparty.

     Equity Price Exposure. The Company is also subject to equity price exposure
from Company debt issues that are convertible into the Company's common stock.
These debt issues had an aggregate carrying value of $962.0 million and $1.25
billion as of December 1999 and 1998, respectively. An instantaneous, ten
percent decrease in the Company's stock price on December 31, 1999 and 1998,
would increase the fair value of the Company's convertible debt by approximately
$12.4 million and $121.0 million, respectively. The change in fair value is due
to the change in the Company's stock price from December 31, 1998 to December
31, 1999. The Company's share price fell from $46.63 on December 31, 1998 to
$17.19 at the close of trading on December 31, 1999. However, such changes in
stock prices did not impact net income.

     See Notes 3 and 9 to the financial statements included elsewhere herein for
further discussion of the use of and accounting for derivative instruments.



ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

                                    INDEX TO
                       CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS





                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To the Stockholders and Board of Directors of Waste Management, Inc.:

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Waste
Management, Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company"), a Delaware corporation, as of
December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the related consolidated statements of
operations, stockholders' equity, cash flows and comprehensive income (loss) for
each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 1999. These
financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial
statements based on our audits.

     As discussed in Note 4, the financial statements referred to above give
retroactive effect to the merger of the Company (then known as USA Waste
Services, Inc.) and Waste Management Holdings, Inc., (then known as Waste
Management, Inc.) on July 16, 1998, and the Company's merger with Eastern
Environmental Services, Inc. on December 31, 1998, which were accounted for as
poolings of interests.

     We did not audit the consolidated financial statements of the former USA
Waste Services, Inc. and subsidiaries for the year ended December 31, 1997. Such
statements are included in the consolidated financial statements of the Company
and reflect operating revenues constituting twenty-two percent of the related
consolidated total in 1997. These statements were audited by other auditors
whose report has been furnished to us, and our opinion, insofar as it relates to
the amounts included for the former USA Waste Services, Inc. and subsidiaries
for the year ended December 31, 1997 is based solely on the report of the other
auditors.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits and the report of the other
auditors provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

     The selected quarterly financial data included in Note 20 contains
information that we did not audit, and, accordingly, we do not express an
opinion on that data. We attempted, but were unable, to review the quarterly
financial data for the interim periods within 1999 in accordance with standards
established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants because we
believe that the Company's internal controls for the preparation of interim
financial information did not provide an adequate basis to enable us to complete
such a review.

     In our opinion, based upon our audits and the report of the other auditors,
the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Waste Management, Inc. and subsidiaries as
of December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the results of their operations and their
cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31,
1999, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States.

ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

Houston, Texas
March 27, 2000



                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

The Board of Directors and Stockholders of USA Waste Services, Inc.:

     We have audited the consolidated statements of operations, stockholders'
equity, and cash flows of USA Waste Services, Inc. for the year ended December
31, 1997. These financial statements (not presented separately herein) are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audit.

     We conducted our audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the consolidated results of operations and cash flows
of USA Waste Services, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 1997, in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles.

                                            COOPERS & LYBRAND L.L.P

Houston, Texas
March 16, 1998



                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
               (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PAR VALUE AMOUNTS)

                                     ASSETS



  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.



                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)



  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.



                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                      (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AMOUNTS)


  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.



                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY, CONTINUED
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)


  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.



                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY, CONTINUED
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)



  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.



                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)



  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.



                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

             CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)



  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.



                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     Business -- Waste Management, Inc. and Subsidiaries ("Waste Management" or
the "Company") provides integrated waste management services throughout North
America consisting of collection, transfer, disposal (including landfill
disposal of hazardous waste), recycling and resource recovery services, as well
as other hazardous waste services, and low-level and other radioactive waste
services to commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers.
Additionally, the Company is a developer, owner and operator of waste-to-energy
and waste-fuel powered independent power facilities. The Company also operates
throughout Europe, the Pacific Rim and South America. Internationally, the
Company collects and transports solid, hazardous and medical wastes and
recyclables from customers and operates solid and hazardous waste landfills and
municipal and hazardous waste incinerators, water and wastewater treatment
facilities, hazardous waste treatment facilities and constructs treatment or
disposal facilities for third parties. The Company plans to dispose of its
non-strategic and under-performing assets, including the Company's international
operations outside North America ("WM International"), its non-core assets and
up to 10% of its North American solid waste ("NASW") operations.

     Principles of consolidation -- The accompanying consolidated financial
statements include the accounts of the Company and its majority-owned
subsidiaries after elimination of all material intercompany balances and
transactions. Investments in affiliated companies in which the Company has a
controlling interest are consolidated for financial reporting purposes.
Investments in affiliated entities in which the Company does not have a
controlling interest are accounted for under either the equity method or cost
method of accounting, as appropriate.

     WM Holdings Merger -- On July 16, 1998, the Company, then known as USA
Waste Services, Inc., completed a merger with Waste Management Holdings, Inc.
("WM Holdings"), which was accounted for as a pooling of interests (the "WM
Holdings Merger"). WM Holdings was previously the largest publicly traded solid
waste company in the United States, providing integrated solid waste management
and hazardous waste management services in North America and comprehensive waste
management and related services, including solid and hazardous waste management
services, internationally. At the effective time of the WM Holdings Merger, the
Company changed its name to "Waste Management, Inc."

     Eastern Merger -- On December 31, 1998, the Company completed a merger with
Eastern Environmental Services, Inc. ("Eastern"), which was accounted for as a
pooling of interests (the "Eastern Merger").

     Use of estimates -- The preparation of the financial statements in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts for
certain revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Specifically with
regard to landfill accounting, the Company uses engineering and accounting
estimates when projecting future development and final closure and post-closure
costs, forecasting various engineering specifications (including the prediction
of waste settlement), and future operational plans and waste volumes. Actual
results could differ materially from those estimates.

     Reclassifications -- Certain reclassifications have been made to prior year
amounts in the financial statements in order to conform to the current year
presentation.

2. 1999 ACCOUNTING CHARGES AND ADJUSTMENTS

     During 1999, the Company initiated a comprehensive internal review of its
accounting records, systems, processes and controls at the direction of its
Board of Directors. As discussed below, the Company experienced significant
difficulty in the integration and conversion of information and accounting
systems subsequent to the WM Holdings Merger, including certain financial
systems and its billing systems. As a result of these systems and process
issues, and other issues raised during the 1999 accounting review, certain

                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

charges and adjustments were recorded, as discussed below. The review was
completed in time such that the Company was able to record related adjustments
in its financial statements for the quarter ended September 30, 1999. The
amounts recorded by the Company as a result of the review had a material effect
on its financial statements for the year ended December 31, 1999. The following
is a summary of charges attributable to this review which were recorded for the
quarter ended September 30, 1999 (in thousands):



     In August 1999, the Company's Board of Directors adopted a strategic plan
that includes the divestiture of its WM International operations and certain
other businesses. (See Note 14, "Segment and Related Information" and Note 19,
"Operations Held for Sale" for further discussion of the Company's WM
International operations). Based primarily on preliminary bids from interested
parties, these and certain other assets which were identified as held for sale
during the third quarter were written down to fair value less cost to sell in
accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 121,
Accounting for the Impairment of Long-lived Assets and Assets to be Disposed of,
resulting in a pre-tax charge of approximately $414.3 million at September 30,
1999. These assets were considered to be held for use for periods prior to the
third quarter of 1999 and did not meet the criteria for impairment recognition
as a "held for use" asset, and therefore, were not considered impaired for
periods prior to the third quarter of 1999. The assets which were identified as
held for sale and subject to adjustment include, among others, the Company's WM
International operations, the Company's nuclear services disposal site
operations and certain NASW operations that are not essential parts of the
Company's network. Revisions to the third quarter estimates were required due to
revisions in estimated proceeds and certain changes in business plans during the
fourth quarter of 1999, as further discussed in Note 15, "Asset Impairments and
Unusual Items".

     In 1999, subsequent to the WM Holdings Merger, the Company experienced
significant difficulty in the conversion from the WM Holdings' information
systems to the systems currently in use, resulting in delays and errors,
particularly with respect to the Company's billing systems, including delays in
submitting bills to customers and errors in both computing and delivering bills.
Staffing levels were insufficient to address customer complaints and disputes
and did not support timely follow-up with customers. Billing system issues
initially became evident in the second quarter of 1999 as receivable aging
levels continued to rise. At that time, management believed that the increase in
receivables was a short-term issue, receivables would return to historical
levels once the billing system conversions were complete and there was not a
significant collectability issue with its recorded receivables. In connection
with the 1999 accounting review, the Company concluded that certain of these
accounts had deteriorated to the point that they may be uncollectable, and
therefore, recorded an increase in the allowance for doubtful accounts in the
third quarter of 1999. Beginning in the third quarter of 1999, the Company has
increased its resources dedicated to receivable collection efforts and continues
to pursue collection of all outstanding balances. In addition, the Company
performed a review


                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

of notes and other receivable-related balances in connection with this review.
Taken together, the Company recorded receivable-related pre-tax charges of
$211.5 million in the third quarter of 1999.

     During the review, the Company recorded asset impairments of $178.3 million
related to several landfill sites and certain other operating assets in the
third quarter of 1999. Included in the amount is $75.7 million relating to the
abandonment or closure of facilities resulting from the Company's recent
business decisions regarding optimal operating strategies in specific markets in
which the Company operates, or consideration of other new facts and
circumstances during the review. Also included in the amount is $40.4 million,
which is primarily the result of permit denials and other regulatory problems in
the third quarter of 1999, which is one of the many types of facts and
circumstances that may from time to time trigger impairments, and which may
occasionally overlap with other triggering events or result in abandonment or
closure.

     The Company performs a comprehensive, centrally coordinated review of its
North American landfills on an annual basis. During the third quarter of 1999,
that review included an evaluation of potential landfill expansion projects,
with a newly refined and more stringent set of criteria for evaluating the
probability of obtaining expansions to existing sites, which had the effect of
excluding certain expansions that met the Company's previous criteria. For
further discussion on this criteria, refer to Note 3.

     The exclusion of these expansions, due to the more stringent criteria and
related business judgements regarding probable success of obtaining expansions,
increased depreciation and amortization and the provision for final closure and
post closure costs (included in operating expense). Impairments resulting from
the application of these new stringent criteria and resulting from other facts
and circumstances comprise the remaining $62.2 million impairments included in
the $178.3 million of impairments disclosed above.

     The Company historically estimated its insurance-related liabilities for
its ongoing programs based on an analysis of insurance claims submitted for
reimbursement, plus an estimate for liabilities incurred as of the balance sheet
date, but not yet reported to the Company. This is the estimation method that
had been used by WM Holdings prior to the WM Holdings Merger, and was continued
by the Company for that pool of pre-merger WM Holdings' claims. In connection
with this review, the Company evaluated the adequacy of its self-insurance
liabilities and changed the manner in which it estimates its insurance-related
liabilities for its ongoing property and casualty insurance programs. Both of
these approaches result in acceptable estimates, but during the review the
Company noted that the actuarially determined estimates using a fully-developed
method provided a better estimate of the ultimate costs of the claims than a
claims made plus incurred but not reported method. Accordingly, in the third
quarter of 1999, the Company began estimating all insurance-related liabilities
based on actuarially determined estimates of ultimate losses. This change in
estimate resulted in an increased pre-tax expense of $43.9 million for the third
quarter of 1999. In addition, the Company increased its insurance-related
liabilities based on its assessment of current and expected claims activities
and unfavorable claims experience, resulting in an additional pre-tax charge of
$104.0 million in the third quarter of 1999.

     The Company recorded pre-tax charges related to legal, severance and
consulting costs incurred in the third quarter of 1999, including increases in
legal reserves and related charges of $96.3 million, principally related to
increases in legal reserves in response to developments in various legal
proceedings brought against WM Holdings by former shareholders of that company
in connection with its restatement of earnings in February 1998. These legal
developments caused the Company to evaluate the numerous shareholder cases filed
against WM Holdings and to reassess their range of exposure. Additionally, the
charges included $25.0 million related to severance costs, principally for
executives who left the Company in the third quarter of 1999, and $20.7 million
of consulting costs related primarily to the accounting review and related
matters.

     The Company recorded $31.6 million of merger and acquisition related costs
during the third quarter of 1999, which consisted of $12.5 million related to a
third quarter purchase business combination and


                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

$19.1 million related to the costs incurred by the Company related to the WM
Holdings and the Eastern Mergers which are required to be expensed as incurred.

     The Company's results of operations for 1999 reflect pre-tax charges of
approximately $347.7 million recorded in the third quarter 1999 attributable to
the reconciliation of intercompany accounts, cash, accounts receivable, fixed
asset, accounts payable and certain other accounts at the Company's operating
districts and other locations resulting from the 1999 accounting review. The
Company's third quarter accounting review included a detailed review of
substantially all of the districts' and other locations' financial and
accounting records. That work necessitated a number of adjustments affecting
transactions related to the current period and to periods prior to the quarter
ended September 30, 1999 involving many different accounts. Although some
portion of the charges of $347.7 million may relate to a number of periods, the
Company does not have sufficient information to identify all specific charges
attributable to individual prior periods. Furthermore, producing the required
information to perform such an identification of these charges would be cost
prohibitive and disruptive to operations. In connection with the preparation of
its third quarter financial statements, the Company concluded that, based on its
quantitative and qualitative analysis of available information, and after
consultation with its independent public accountants, it did not have, nor was
it able to obtain, sufficient information to conclude what amount of charges
relate to any individual prior year, although qualitative analysis indicated
that these charges were principally related to 1999. Accordingly, the Company
has concluded that these charges are appropriately reflected in the 1999 annual
financial statements.

     The Company evaluated significant contracts under which it provides
services. As a result of that review, the Company recorded a pre-tax provision
of $49.3 million related to contracts which were determined to be in a loss
position, including revisions to previously established reserves based on new
facts and circumstances.

     The Company increased its estimate by $32.5 million of the ultimate costs
required for final closure and post-closure obligations at certain landfills
which are either closed or near final closure. That increase, and provisions
related to various other environmental matters, totaled $49.0 million as a
result of the 1999 accounting review.

     In addition to the charges described above, the Company recorded additional
pre-tax charges of $191.0 million as a result of the 1999 accounting review.
These additional charges involved many different issues at all levels of the
Company, including, for example, adjustments to reserves for specific business
disputes, adjustments of over- or under- accruals not described elsewhere
herein, and numerous other items.


                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The charges described above, which include both recurring and nonrecurring
items that have been aggregated for this presentation, are reflected in the
Company's financial statements for the year ended December 31, 1999, as follows
(in thousands):


     Subsequent to the completion of the accounting review, and in conjunction
with the process of preparing its monthly financial statements during the fourth
quarter of 1999 and on a final basis at December 31, 1999, additional
adjustments attributable to the reconciliation of intercompany accounts, cash,
accounts receivable, fixed assets, accounts payable and certain other accounts
were recorded.

     The Company recorded significant adjustments in the third and fourth
quarters of 1999, certain of which affect periods prior to these quarters.
Accordingly, the Company, after consultation with its independent public
accountants, has concluded that its internal controls for the preparation of
interim financial information did not provide an adequate basis for its
independent public accountants to complete reviews of the quarterly financial
data for the quarters during 1999. The Company believes that certain charges
that were recorded in the third and fourth quarters of 1999 may relate to
individual prior periods; however, the Company does not have sufficient
information to identify all specific charges attributable to prior periods. If
identification of all specific charges attributable to individual prior periods
were possible, the Company believes that the reported results of operations
presented in Note 20 to the financial statements for the third and fourth
quarters of 1999 would have been favorably impacted, and the reported results of
operations for the first and second quarters of 1999 would have been adversely
impacted. In connection with the preparation of its third quarter financial
statements, the Company concluded, based on its quantitative and qualitative
analysis of available information, after consultation with its independent
public accountants, that it did not have, nor was it able to obtain, sufficient
information to conclude what amount of the charges relate to any individual
prior year, although


                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

qualitative analysis indicates that these charges are principally related to
1999. Accordingly, the Company has concluded that these charges were
appropriately reflected in the 1999 annual financial statements.

3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     Cash and cash equivalents -- Cash and cash equivalents consist primarily of
cash on deposit, certificates of deposit, money market accounts, and investment
grade commercial paper purchased with original maturities of three months or
less.

     Restricted funds held by trustees -- Restricted funds held by trustees of
$167.1 million and $153.0 million at December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively,
are included in other non-current assets and consist principally of funds
deposited in connection with landfill final closure and post-closure
obligations, insurance escrow deposits, and amounts held for landfill and other
construction arising from industrial revenue financings. These amounts are
principally invested in fixed income securities of federal, state and local
governmental entities and financial institutions. The Company considers its
landfill final closure, post-closure and construction escrow investments to be
held to maturity. At December 31, 1999 and 1998, the aggregate fair value of
these investments approximates their net book value and substantially all of
these investments mature within one year. The Company's insurance escrow funds
are invested in pooled investment accounts that hold debt and equity securities
and are considered to be available for sale. The market value of those pooled
accounts approximates their aggregate cost at December 31, 1999 and 1998.

     Concentrations of credit risk -- Financial instruments that potentially
subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash
and cash equivalents and accounts receivable. The Company places its cash and
cash equivalents with high quality financial institutions and limits the amount
of credit exposure with any one institution. Concentrations of credit risk with
respect to accounts receivable are limited because a large number of
geographically diverse customers comprise the Company's customer base, thus
spreading the trade credit risk. At December 31, 1999 and 1998, no single group
or customer represents greater than 10% of total accounts receivable. The
Company controls credit risk through credit evaluations, credit limits, and
monitoring procedures. The Company performs credit evaluations for commercial
and industrial customers and performs ongoing credit evaluations of its
customers, but generally does not require collateral to support accounts
receivable.

     Derivative financial instruments -- From time to time, the Company uses
derivatives to manage interest rate and currency risk. At December 31, 1999, the
Company also engaged in hedging of recyclable paper price risk. The Company's
policy is to use derivatives for risk management purposes only, which includes
maintaining the ratio between the Company's fixed and floating rate debt
obligations that management deems appropriate, and prohibits entering into such
contracts for trading purposes. The Company enters into derivatives only with
counterparties (primarily financial institutions) which have substantial
financial wherewithal to minimize credit risk. The amount of gains or losses
from the use of derivative financial instruments has not been and is not
expected to be material to the Company's financial statements.

     Instruments accounted for as hedges must be effective at managing risk
associated with the exposure being hedged and must be designated as a hedge at
the inception of the contract. Accordingly, changes in market values or cash
flows of hedge instruments must have a high degree of inverse correlation with
changes in market values or cash flows of the underlying hedged items.
Derivatives that meet the hedge criteria are accounted for under the deferral or
accrual method. See Note 9.

     Operations held for sale -- It is the Company's policy to classify the
businesses that the Company is marketing for sale and the portfolio of real
estate that the Company considers surplus and is marketing for sale, as
operations held for sale. The carrying values of these assets are written down
to fair value, less costs to sell. These charges are based on estimates and
certain contingencies that could materially differ from actual results and
resolution of any such contingencies. In the fourth quarter of 1999, the Company
identified certain


                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

operations for sale whose depreciation on fixed assets was discontinued as of
October 1, 1999. If depreciation had not been discontinued, depreciation and
amortization for 1999 would have increased by $45.6 million.

     Property and equipment -- Property and equipment are recorded at cost.
Except for the Company's waste-to-energy and independent power facilities,
expenditures for major additions and improvements are capitalized, while minor
replacements, maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred. At the
Company's waste-to-energy and independent power facilities, the Company accrues
for major maintenance expenditures. Such accruals are based upon planned
maintenance expenditures and are classified as current or non-current
liabilities based on the expected timing of the expenditures.

     When property and equipment are retired or otherwise disposed of, the cost
and accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts and any resulting
gain or loss is included in the results of operations as increases or offsets to
operating expense for the respective period. Depreciation is provided over the
estimated useful lives of the related assets using the straight-line method. The
estimated useful lives for significant property and equipment categories are as
follows (in years):



     As of October 1, 1997, and thereafter, the Company assumes no salvage value
for its depreciable North American fixed assets. Prior to October 1, 1997, WM
Holdings assigned salvage value to certain fixed asset categories as described
in Note 5.

     Landfill accounting -- Capitalizable landfill site costs are recorded at
cost. Recorded costs, net of recorded amortization, are added to estimated
projected costs to determine the amount to be amortized over the remaining
estimated useful life of a site. Amortization is recorded on a units of
consumption basis, typically applying cost as a rate per ton. Landfill site
costs are amortized to expected net realizable value upon final closure of a
landfill.

     The difference between the present value of a landfill's estimated total
final closure and post-closure costs and amounts accrued to date is accrued
prospectively on a units of consumption basis, typically by applying a rate per
ton over the remaining capacity of the landfill. The present value of final
closure and post-closure costs are accrued for each landfill once the site
discontinues operations.

     The remaining capacity of a landfill is determined by the unutilized
permitted airspace and expansion airspace when the success of obtaining such
expansion permit is considered probable.

     Effective as of the third quarter of 1999, the Company applied a newly
defined, more stringent set of criteria for evaluating the probability of
obtaining an expansion permit to landfill airspace at existing sites, which are
as follows:

     - Personnel are actively working to obtain land use, local and state
       approvals for an expansion of an existing landfill;

     - At the time the expansion is added to the permitted site life, it is
       probable that the approvals will be received within the normal
       application and processing time periods for approvals in the jurisdiction
       in which the landfill is located;

     - The respective landfill owners or the Company has a legal right to use or
       obtain land to be included in the expansion plan;


                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     - There are no significant known technical, legal, community, business, or
       political restrictions or issues that could impair the success of such
       expansion;

     - Financial analysis has been completed, and the results demonstrate that
       the expansion has a positive financial and operational impact; and

     - Airspace and related costs, including additional final closure and
       post-closure costs, have been estimated based on conceptual design.

     Additionally, to include airspace from an expansion effort, the expansion
permit application must generally be expected to be submitted within one year,
and the expansion permit must be expected to be received within two to five
years. Exceptions to these criteria must be approved through a landfill-specific
approval process that includes an approval from the Company's Chief Financial
Officer and prompt review by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Such
exceptions are generally due to permit application processes beyond the one-year
limit, which in most cases, are due to state-specific permitting procedures.
Generally, the Company has been successful in receiving approvals for expansions
pursued; however, there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful
in obtaining landfill expansions in the future.

     As disposal volumes are affected by seasonality and competitive factors,
airspace amortization varies between fiscal quarters due to changes in volumes
of waste disposal at the Company's landfills. Airspace amortization is also
affected by changes in engineering costs and estimates.

     Business combinations -- The Company assesses each business combination to
determine whether the pooling of interests or the purchase method of accounting
is appropriate. For those business combinations accounted for under the pooling
of interests method, the financial statements are combined with those of the
Company at their historical amounts, and, if material, all periods presented are
restated as if the combination occurred on the first day of the earliest year
presented. For those acquisitions accounted for using the purchase method of
accounting, the Company allocates the cost of the acquired business to the
assets acquired and the liabilities assumed based on estimates of fair values
thereof. These estimates are revised during the allocation period as necessary
when, and if, information regarding contingencies becomes available to define
and quantify assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The allocation period
generally does not exceed one year. To the extent contingencies such as
preacquisition environmental matters, litigation and related legal fees are
resolved or settled during the allocation period, such items are included in the
revised allocation of the purchase price. After the allocation period, the
effect of changes in such contingencies is included in results of operations in
the periods in which the adjustments are determined. The Company does not
believe potential differences between its fair value estimates and actual fair
values will be material.

     In certain business combinations, the Company agrees to pay additional
amounts to sellers contingent upon achievement by the acquired businesses of
certain negotiated goals, such as targeted revenue levels, targeted disposal
volumes or the issuance of permits for expanded landfill airspace. Contingent
payments, when incurred, are recorded as purchase price adjustments or
compensation expense, as appropriate, based on the nature of each contingent
payment.

     Excess of cost over net assets of acquired businesses and other intangible
assets -- The excess of cost over net assets of acquired businesses is amortized
on a straight-line basis over a period not greater than 40 years commencing on
the dates of the respective acquisitions. Accumulated amortization for the
excess of cost over net assets of acquired businesses was $627.2 million and
$813.6 million at December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively. Other intangible
assets consist primarily of customer lists, covenants not to compete, licenses
and permits. Other intangible assets are recorded at cost and amortized on a
straight-line basis. Customer lists are generally amortized over five to seven
years. Covenants not to compete are amortized over the term of the


                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

agreement, which is generally three to five years. Licenses, permits and
contracts are amortized over the shorter of the definitive terms of the related
agreements or 40 years. Accumulated amortization for other intangible assets was
$135.9 million and $113.3 million at December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.
The Company recorded $271.0 million, $184.1 million and $149.7 million of
amortization expense for excess of costs over net assets of acquired businesses
and other intangibles for 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

     Long-lived assets -- Long-lived assets consist primarily of property and
equipment, excess of cost over net assets of acquired businesses, and other
intangible assets. The recoverability of long-lived assets is evaluated
periodically at the operating unit level by an analysis of operating results and
consideration of other significant events or changes in the business
environment. If an operating unit has indications of possible impairment, such
as current operating losses, the Company will evaluate whether impairment exists
on the basis of undiscounted expected future cash flows from operations for the
remaining amortization period. If an impairment loss exists, the carrying amount
of the related long-lived assets is reduced to its estimated fair value.

     Contracts in process -- Contracts in process relate to contracts involving
a substantial construction component. For 1998, such contracts primarily related
to activities performed by the Company's international operations. In 1999, this
presentation does not include contracts for certain of the Company's WM
International operations because they have been classified as operations held
for sale as of December 31, 1999. Contracts in process are as follows (in
thousands):



     Contracts in process are included in the accompanying balance sheets under
the following captions (in thousands):



     As of December 31, 1999, all contracts in process are expected to be billed
and collected within two years.

     Income taxes -- Deferred income taxes are determined based on the
difference between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and
liabilities. Deferred income tax expense represents the change during the
reporting period in the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities, net of
the effect of acquisitions and dispositions. Deferred tax assets include tax
loss and credit carryforwards and are reduced by a valuation allowance if, based
on available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of
the deferred tax assets will not be realized.

     Foreign currency -- The functional currency of the majority of the
Company's foreign operations is the local currency of the country in which the
Company operates. Adjustments resulting from the translation of financial
information are included in comprehensive income.

     Revenue recognition -- The Company recognizes revenues on service contracts
as services are provided. Amounts billed and collected prior to services being
performed are included in deferred revenues. Results


                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

from long-term contracts involving a substantial construction component are
recorded on the percentage-of-completion basis. Changes in project performance
and conditions, estimated profitability and final contract settlements may
result in future revisions to long-term construction contract costs and income.

     Capitalized interest -- Interest is capitalized on certain projects under
development including greenfield landfill projects and probable landfill
expansion projects, and on certain assets under construction, including
operating landfills and waste-to-energy facilities. The capitalization of
interest for operating landfills is based on the costs incurred on discrete cell
construction projects, plus an allocated portion of the common site costs. The
common site costs include the development costs of a greenfield site or the
purchase price of an operating landfill, and the ongoing infrastructure costs
benefiting the lifecycle of the landfill. Cell construction costs include the
construction of cell liners and final capping during the operating life of the
site. During 1999, 1998, and 1997, total interest costs were $804.0 million,
$723.0 million and $607.0 million, respectively, of which $34.3 million, $41.5
million and $51.4 million were capitalized, respectively.

     Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting Principle -- In the fourth
quarter of 1997, the Company began expensing process reengineering costs in
accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board Emerging Issues Task
Force Issue No. 97-13. Accordingly, the Company expensed any amounts previously
capitalized, which reduced net income by $1.9 million in 1997.

     New accounting pronouncements -- In June 1998, SFAS No. 133, Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities was issued. SFAS No. 133
establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments,
including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, and
derivatives used for hedging purposes. SFAS No. 133 requires that entities
recognize all derivative financial instruments as either assets or liabilities
in the statement of financial position and measure those instruments at fair
value. SFAS No. 133, as amended by SFAS No. 137, is effective for the Company in
its first fiscal quarter of 2001. Management is currently assessing the impact
that the adoption of SFAS No. 133 will have on the Company's financial
statements.

4. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS

  Pooling of Interests Transactions

     On December 31, 1998, the Company consummated the Eastern Merger, which was
accounted for as a pooling of interests, and accordingly, the accompanying
financial statements include the accounts and operations of Eastern for all
periods presented. Under the terms of the Eastern Merger, the Company issued
0.6406 of a share of its common stock for each share of Eastern's outstanding
common stock. Prior to the Eastern Merger, the Company owned approximately 1.3%
of Eastern's outstanding shares, which were canceled on the effective date of
the Eastern Merger. The Eastern Merger increased the Company's outstanding
shares of common stock by approximately 24.5 million shares, and the Company
assumed Eastern's stock options equivalent to approximately 2.3 million
underlying shares of the Company's common stock. The results of operations for
Eastern prior to consummation of the Eastern Merger for the restated periods are
as follows (in thousands):



     Prior to December 31, 1997, Eastern reported on a June 30 fiscal year-end.
The accounts of Eastern for its 1997 fiscal year have been consolidated with the
accounts of the Company as of and for the year ended December 31, 1997.
Operating revenues and net income for Eastern for the six-month period ended


                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

December 31, 1997, were approximately $119.5 million and $5.3 million,
respectively. Accordingly, an adjustment is included in the Company's 1998
financial statements for this six-month period. In addition, Eastern issued
shares of its common stock in connection with acquisitions and a public offering
during that six-month period.

     On July 16, 1998, the Company consummated a merger with WM Holdings, which
was accounted for as a pooling of interests and, accordingly, the accompanying
financial statements include the accounts and operations of WM Holdings for all
periods presented. Under the terms of the WM Holdings Merger, the Company issued
0.725 of a share of its common stock for each share of WM Holdings outstanding
common stock. The WM Holdings Merger increased the Company's outstanding shares
of common stock by approximately 354.0 million shares, and the Company assumed
WM Holdings' stock options equivalent to approximately 16.0 million underlying
shares of the Company's common stock. Any unvested WM Holdings' stock options
granted prior to March 10, 1998 vested upon consummation of the WM Holdings
Merger due to change of control provisions. The results of operations for WM
Holdings prior to consummation of the WM Holdings Merger for the restated
periods are as follows (in thousands):



     In 1999, the Company incurred approximately $44.6 million in merger costs
primarily related to the WM Holdings Merger and the Eastern Merger. The table
below reflects the amounts charged to merger costs in 1998 related to the WM
Holdings Merger and the Eastern Merger (in thousands):



     Merger and acquisition related costs include estimates for anticipated
losses from the sales of assets pursuant to governmental orders and other asset
divestiture plans. These anticipated losses have been estimated based on the
Company's assessment of relevant facts and circumstances, including
consideration of


                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

the various provisions of asset sale agreements. In certain instances, the asset
sale agreements contain contingencies, the resolution of which are uncertain and
may materially change the proceeds which the Company will ultimately receive.
During the second quarter of 1999, the Company resolved an outstanding
contingency regarding its governmentally-ordered sale of assets to Republic
Services, Inc., which reduced the previously reported loss on that sale by
approximately $80.0 million. Offsetting this amount in the same quarter, the
Company (i) consummated its sale of 51% of its non-land disposal hazardous waste
operations and on-site industrial cleaning services to Vivendi S.A. which
resulted in losses of approximately $79 million greater than previously
estimated; (ii) increased its anticipated losses by approximately $14 million
related to the assets required to be sold pursuant to the Eastern Merger; and
(iii) decreased other anticipated losses by approximately $13 million.

     Furthermore, the Company recorded certain unusual charges of $864.1 million
in 1998 that were primarily, yet indirectly, related to the WM Holdings Merger
as discussed in Note 15.

     On August 26, 1997, the Company consummated a merger with United Waste
Systems, Inc. ("United") which was accounted for as a pooling of interests (the
"United Merger") and, accordingly, the accompanying financial statements include
the accounts and operations of United for all periods presented. Under the terms
of the United Merger, the Company issued 1.075 shares of its common stock for
each outstanding share of United common stock. Additionally, at the effective
date of the United Merger, United stock options, whether or not such stock
options had vested or had become exercisable, were canceled in exchange for
shares of the Company's common stock equal in market value to the fair value of
such United stock options, as determined by an independent third party. The
United Merger increased the Company's outstanding shares of common stock by
approximately 51.9 million shares, which includes approximately 1.9 million
shares exchanged for the United stock options. In the third quarter of 1997, the
Company incurred approximately $89.2 million in merger costs associated with the
United Merger. Of this amount, $17.6 million was for transaction costs, $26.2
million for severance and other termination benefits, $21.6 million for
integration of operations, and $23.8 million for disposal of duplicate
facilities and impaired assets as a result of the United Merger. The results of
operations for United prior to consummation of the United Merger for the
restated periods are as follows (in thousands):



  Purchase Acquisitions and Acquisitions of Minority Interests

     During 1999, the Company consummated over 240 acquisitions that were
accounted for under the purchase method of accounting. The total cost of
acquisitions was approximately $1.4 billion, which included cash paid, common
stock issued and debt assumed.

     The Company consummated purchases of outstanding minority interest and
numerous acquisitions in 1998 that were accounted for under the purchase method
of accounting. The total cost of all acquisitions accounted for under the
purchase method of accounting, and completed purchases of outstanding minority
interests, was approximately $4.1 billion in 1998.

     The pro forma information set forth below assumes acquisitions in 1999 and
1998 accounted for as if the purchases had occurred at the beginning of 1998.
The pro forma information is presented for informational


                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of the results of operations
that actually would have been achieved had the acquisitions been consummated at
that time (in thousands, except per share amounts):



5. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

     Property and equipment consists of the following (in thousands):



     Depreciation and amortization expense for property and equipment was $1.3
billion for each of 1999 and 1998, and $1.2 billion for 1997.

     The exclusion of certain landfill expansions from the airspace amortization
estimates due to more stringent criteria (see Note 3) and related business
judgements regarding probable success increased depreciation and amortization
expense and the provision for final closure and post-closure (included in
operating expenses) in the second half of 1999. The exclusions of these
expansions also resulted in the Company recognizing $32.6 million in landfill
impairments in the third quarter of 1999 (see Note 2).

     Effective October 1, 1997, the Board of Directors of WM Holdings approved a
revision to WM Holdings' North American collection fleet management policy.
Under the revised policy, WM Holdings replaced front-end loaders after eight
years, and rear-end loaders and roll-off trucks after ten years. The previous
policy was to not replace front-end loaders before they were a minimum of ten
years old and other heavy collection vehicles before they were a minimum of 12
years old. As a result of this decision, the Company recognized an impairment
writedown of $70.9 million in the fourth quarter of 1997 for those vehicles
scheduled for replacement in the next two years under the new policy.
Depreciable lives were adjusted for the WM Holdings' fleet commencing in the
fourth quarter of 1997 to reflect the new policy. Also effective October 1,
1997, WM Holdings reduced depreciable lives on containers from 15 and 20 years
to 12 years, and ceased assigning salvage value in computing depreciation on
North American collection vehicles or containers. These changes in estimates
resulted in an increase in depreciation expense of $33.7 million in the fourth
quarter of 1997.


                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

Upon consummation of the WM Holdings Merger, WM Holdings' replacement policies
were conformed with that of the Company, which are materially consistent with
the revised WM Holdings' policy stated above.

     Also effective October 1, 1997, WM Holdings changed its process of
evaluating the probability that airspace from expansions would be permitted.
This change in estimate decreased the useful lives of certain WM Holdings
landfills and increased depreciation and amortization expense and the provision
for final closure and post-closure by $15.8 million in the fourth quarter of
1997.

6. LONG-TERM DEBT

     Long-term debt consists of the following (in thousands):



     The aggregate estimated payments, including scheduled minimum maturities,
of long-term debt outstanding at December 31, 1999, are as follows (in
thousands).



- ---------------

(a)  Consists of $848.7 million that will be repaid in 2000 under the terms of
     the respective credit agreements and $2.25 billion of debt, which is
     classified as current based on the likelihood that the Company will be in
     non-compliance with certain of the financial requirements under its credit
     agreements in the year 2000.

     The Company has a $3 billion syndicated loan facility (the "Syndicated
Facility") and a $2 billion senior revolving credit facility (the "Credit
Facility"). The Syndicated Facility requires annual renewal by the lender and
provides for a one-year term option at the Company's request in the event of
non-renewal. The Syndicated Facility is available for borrowings, including
letters of credit, and for supporting the issuance of commercial paper. The
covenant restrictions for the Syndicated Facility and Credit Facility include,
among others, interest coverage and debt capitalization ratios, limitations on
dividends, additional indebtedness and liens. The


                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

Syndicated Facility and Credit Facility are used to refinance existing bank
loans and letters of credit, to fund acquisitions, and for working capital
purposes.

     As a result of the charges and adjustments recorded in the third quarter of
1999 (see Note 2), absent waivers, the Company would not have been in compliance
with certain financial covenants as required by its bank credit facilities as of
September 30, 1999. The Company received waivers from each of its bank groups
for the period ended September 30, 1999, enabling the Company to be in full
compliance with and have full access to its existing bank credit facilities. In
December 1999, the Company received unanimous approval for amendments to its
existing $2 billion, $3 billion, and Eurocurrency bank credit facilities. The
approvals provide permanent amendments to the waivers previously granted to the
Company related to its operating results for the third quarter of 1999.
Additionally, the amended terms and conditions of the facilities contain the
necessary provisions for the Company to proceed with its strategy of divesting
certain of its international and non-core assets.

     Under the terms of the Syndicated Facility and Credit Facility, the Company
is obligated to repay its indebtedness under such facilities with the cash
proceeds to be received from the divestitures of its WM International
operations, domestic non-core assets and up to 10% of its NASW operations
pursuant to its strategic plan. Specifically, the Company must use all of the
first $1.5 billion of net proceeds it receives from the sales of any domestic
operations to repay indebtedness under the Syndicated Facility and Credit
Facility. Additionally, 50% of the net proceeds greater than $1.5 billion but
less than $2.5 billion from sales of domestic operations must be used to repay
indebtedness under such facilities. Finally, all net proceeds from the
divestiture of WM International operations must be used to repay indebtedness
under the Company's Eurocurrency facilities. The net proceeds remaining after
the repayment of the Eurocurrency facilities will be counted as, and therefore
subject to the same requirements to repay the Syndicated Facility and Credit
Facility as, net proceeds received from the sales of domestic operations.

     The Company was in compliance with all financial requirements under its
credit agreements as of December 31, 1999. However, the Company anticipates that
its cash flows from operations for the year 2000 will likely not be sufficient
for the Company to maintain compliance with certain of the financial ratios
contained in its Syndicated Facility, Credit Facility, and Eurocurrency credit
facilities. Therefore, it has classified the borrowings outstanding under the
Syndicated Facility and the Credit Facility as short-term obligations as of
December 31, 1999. The Eurocurrency credit facility is included in operations
held for sale at December 31, 1999. As discussed in the preceding paragraph, the
Company expects to make a substantial principal reduction on these facilities
with the net proceeds of its anticipated divestitures. The Company intends to
pursue waivers or amendments of such agreements in advance of any potential
violation of the credit agreements. However, there can be no assurance that, in
the event the Company actually violates its agreements, that such waivers or
amendments will be obtained. Failure to obtain such waivers or amendments would
have an adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows.

     At December 31, 1999, the Company had borrowings of $1.75 billion under the
Syndicated Facility at 7.54% interest, and had borrowings of $500.0 million
under the Credit Facility at 7.25% interest. The facility fees were 0.20% and
0.25% per annum under the Syndicated Facility and Credit Facility, respectively,
at December 31, 1999. The Company had issued letters of credit of approximately
$1.2 billion in aggregate under the Syndicated Facility and Credit Facility
leaving unused and available credit capacity of approximately $1.5 billion at
December 31, 1999.

     At December 31, 1998, the Company's long-term debt balances included two
Eurocurrency credit facilities. On December 17, 1999, the Company's two
Eurocurrency facilities were converted into two Euro term loans totaling Euro
180.6 million (equivalent to approximately $181.9 million). These loans are
included in current liabilities of operations held for sale at December 31,
1999, as they relate to WM International operations, which are being sold
pursuant to the Company's strategic plan. These facilities mature on July 3,


                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

2000. The initial interest rate is 4.80% for the first 32 day period and will be
reset based on Euro LIBOR rates each 30 days until paid.

     In 1999, the Company redeemed its $150.0 million of 4 1/2% convertible
subordinated notes and its $115.0 million of 5% convertible subordinated
debentures. These debentures were subsequently converted into equity by the
debenture holders. Approximately 9.0 million shares of the Company's common
stock were issued upon such conversions.

     On May 21, 1999, the Company completed a private placement of $1.15 billion
of its senior notes. The Company issued $200.0 million of 6% senior notes, due
2001; $200.0 million of 6 1/2% senior notes due 2004; $500.0 million of 6 7/8%
senior notes due 2009; and $250.0 million of 7 3/8% senior notes due 2029. The
senior notes constitute senior and unsecured obligations of the Company ranking
equal in right of payment with all other senior and unsecured obligations of the
Company, as defined in the indenture. The 6% senior notes are not redeemable by
the Company. The 6 1/2% senior notes, the 6 7/8% senior notes, and 7 3/8% senior
notes are redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company at any
time, or from time to time, at a redemption price defined in the indenture.
Interest is payable semi-annually on May 15 and November 15. All proceeds from
the private placement notes were used to repay outstanding debt under the Credit
Facility and to reduce the amount of commercial paper outstanding.

     On July 17, 1998, the Company issued $600.0 million of 7% senior notes, due
on July 15, 2028 (the "7% Notes") and $600.0 million of 6 1/8% mandatorily
tendered senior notes, due on July 15, 2011 (the "6 1/8% Notes"). The 7% Notes
are redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company at any time
and from time to time at the redemption price, as defined in the indenture. The
6 1/8% Notes are subject to certain mandatory tender features as described in
the indenture, which may require the purchase by the Company of a portion of or
all of the outstanding notes on July 15, 2001. The proceeds from the 7% Notes
and 6 1/8% Notes were used to repay outstanding indebtedness under the Company's
credit facilities. Interest on the 7% Notes and 6 1/8% Notes is payable
semi-annually on January 15 and July 15.

     On December 17, 1997, the Company issued $350.0 million of 6 1/2% senior
notes due December 15, 2002, and $150.0 million of 7 1/8% senior notes due
December 15, 2017. The senior notes constitute senior and unsecured obligations
of the Company ranking equal in right of payment with all other senior and
unsecured obligations of the Company, as defined in the indenture. The 6 1/2%
senior notes due December 15, 2002, are not redeemable. The $150.0 million of
7 1/8% senior notes due December 15, 2017, are redeemable, in whole or in part,
at the option of the Company at any time and from time to time at a redemption
price defined in the indenture. Interest is payable semi-annually on December 15
and June 15. The proceeds were used to repay debt under the Company's credit
facilities.

     On February 7, 1997, the Company issued $535.3 million of 4% convertible
subordinated notes, due on February 1, 2002. Interest is payable semi-annually
in February and August. The notes are convertible by the holders into shares of
the Company's common stock at any time at a conversion price of $43.56 per
share. The notes are subordinated in right of payment to all existing and future
senior indebtedness, as defined in the indenture. The notes are redeemable after
February 1, 2000 at the option of the Company at 101.6% of the principal amount,
declining to 100.8% of the principal amount on February 1, 2001 and thereafter
until maturity, at which time the notes will be redeemed at par, plus accrued
interest. The proceeds were primarily used to repay debt under the Company's
bank borrowings, to fund acquisitions, and for general corporate purposes.

     The 5.75% convertible subordinated notes due 2005 are subordinated to all
existing and future senior indebtedness of the Company. Each note bears cash
interest at the rate of two percent per annum of the $1,000 principal amount at
maturity, payable semi-annually. The difference between the principal amount at
maturity of $1,000 and the $717.80 stated issue price of each note represents
the stated discount. At the option of the holder, each note can be redeemed for
cash by the Company on March 15, 2000, at $843.03. Accrued


                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

unpaid interest to those dates will also be paid. The notes will be callable by
the Company on and after March 15, 2000, for cash, at the stated issue price
plus accrued stated discount and accrued but unpaid interest through the date of
redemption. In addition, each note is convertible at any time prior to maturity
into approximately 18.9 shares of the Company's common stock, subject to
adjustment upon the occurrence of certain events. Upon any such conversion, the
Company will have the option of paying cash equal to the market value of the
shares which would otherwise be issuable. Since these securities are redeemable
at the option of the holders prior to maturity, the outstanding balance is
classified as current in the accompanying financial statements. In December of
1999, the Company began repurchasing its 5.75% convertible notes. At December
31, 1999, the Company had repurchased $32.3 million of these notes. Through
March 16, 2000, the Company had repurchased an additional $397.9 million of the
remaining outstanding notes.

7. ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITIES

     The Company has material financial commitments for the costs associated
with its future obligations for final closure, which is the closure of the
landfill and the capping of the final uncapped areas of a landfill or the costs
required by regulation associated with existing operations at a hazardous waste
treatment, storage or disposal facility which are subject to the Toxic
Substances Control Act ("TSCA") or Subtitle C of the Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act ("RCRA"), and post-closure maintenance of those facilities.
Estimates for final closure and post-closure costs are developed using input
from the Company's engineers and accountants and are reviewed by management,
typically at least once per year. The estimates are based on the Company's
interpretation of current requirements and proposed regulatory changes. For
landfills, the present value of final closure and post-closure liabilities are
accrued using the calculated rate per ton and charged to expense as airspace is
consumed such that the present value of total estimated final closure and
post-closure cost will be accrued for each landfill at the time the site
discontinues accepting waste and is closed. In the United States, the final
closure and post-closure requirements are established under the standards of the
United States Environmental Protection Agency's Subtitle C and D regulations, as
implemented and applied on a state-by-state basis. Such costs may increase in
the future as a result of legislation or regulation. Final closure and
post-closure accruals consider estimates for the final cap and cover for the
site, methane gas control, leachate management and groundwater monitoring, and
other operational, and maintenance costs to be incurred after the site
discontinues accepting waste, which is generally expected to be for a period of
up to thirty years after final site closure. For purchased disposal sites, the
Company assesses and records a present value-based final closure and
post-closure liability at the time the Company assumes closure responsibility
based upon the estimated final closure and post-closure costs and the percentage
of airspace utilized as of such date. Thereafter, the difference between the
final closure and post-closure liability recorded at the time of acquisition and
the present value of total estimated final closure and post-closure costs to be
incurred is accrued using the calculated rate and charged to expense as airspace
is consumed. Such costs for foreign landfills are estimated based on compliance
with local laws, regulations and customs. For other facilities, final closure
and post-closure costs are determined in consideration of regulatory
requirements.

     The Company has also established procedures to evaluate its potential
remedial liabilities at closed sites which it owns or operates, or to which it
transported waste, including 84 sites listed on the Superfund National
Priorities List ("NPL") as of December 31, 1999. The majority of situations
involving NPL sites relate to allegations that subsidiaries of the Company (or
their predecessors) transported waste to the facilities in question, often prior
to the acquisition of such subsidiaries by the Company. The Company routinely
reviews and evaluates sites that require remediation, including NPL sites,
giving consideration to the nature (e.g., owner, operator, transporter, or
generator), and the extent (e.g., amount and nature of waste hauled to the
location, number of years of site operation by the Company, or other relevant
factors) of the Company's alleged connection with the site, the accuracy and
strength of evidence connecting the Company to the location, the number,
connection and financial ability of other named and unnamed potentially
responsible parties ("PRPs"), and the nature and estimated cost of the likely
remedy. Cost estimates are based on


                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

management's judgment and experience in remediating such sites for the Company
as well as for unrelated parties, information available from regulatory agencies
as to costs of remediation, and the number, financial resources and relative
degree of responsibility of other PRPs who are jointly and severally liable for
remediation of a specific site, as well as the typical allocation of costs among
PRPs. These estimates are sometimes a range of possible outcomes. In such cases,
the Company provides for the amount within the range which constitutes its best
estimate. If no amount within the range appears to be a better estimate than any
other amount, then the Company provides for the minimum amount within the range
in accordance with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies. The Company
believes that it is "reasonably possible," as that term is defined in SFAS No. 5
("more than remote but less than likely"), that its potential liability, at the
high end of such ranges, would be approximately $190.0 million higher, on a
discounted basis in the aggregate than the estimate that has been recorded in
the consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 1999.

     Estimates of the extent of the Company's degree of responsibility for
remediation of a particular site and the method and ultimate cost of remediation
require a number of assumptions and are inherently difficult, and the ultimate
outcome may differ from current estimates. However, the Company believes that
its extensive experience in the environmental services business, as well as its
involvement with a large number of sites, provides a reasonable basis for
estimating its aggregate liability. As additional information becomes available,
estimates are adjusted as necessary. While the Company does not anticipate that
any such adjustment would be material to its financial statements, it is
reasonably possible that technological, regulatory or enforcement developments,
the results of environmental studies, the non-existence or inability of other
PRPs to contribute to the settlements of such liabilities, or other factors
could necessitate the recording of additional liabilities which could be
material.

     As part of its ongoing operations, the Company reviews its reserve
requirements for remediation and other environmental matters based on an
analysis of, among other things, the regulatory context surrounding landfills
and remaining airspace capacity in light of changes to operational efficiencies.
Accordingly, revisions to remediation reserve requirements may result in upward
or downward adjustments to income from operations in any given period.
Adjustments for final closure and post-closure estimates are accounted for
prospectively over the remaining capacity of the landfill.

     Where the Company believes that both the amount of a particular
environmental liability and the timing of the payments are reliably
determinable, the cost in current dollars is inflated (2% at December 31, 1999
and 1998) until expected time of payment and then discounted to present value
(5.5% at December 31, 1999 and 1998). The accretion of the interest related to
the discounted environmental liabilities is included in the annual calculation
of the landfill's final closure and post-closure cost per ton and is charged to
operating expense as landfill airspace is consumed. The portion of the Company's
recorded environmental liabilities that is not inflated or discounted was
approximately $370.6 million and $492.3 million at December 31, 1999 and 1998,
respectively. Had the Company not discounted any portion of its liability, the
amount recorded would have been increased by approximately $342.9 million at
December 31, 1999.

     The Company's liabilities for final closure, post-closure and environmental
remediation costs are as follows (in thousands):




                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Anticipated payments (based on current costs) of environmental liabilities
at December 31, 1999, are as follows (in thousands):



     In addition to the amounts above, at a certain site, the Company has
perpetual care obligations aggregating approximately $1.5 million per year.

     From time to time, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries are named as
defendants in personal injury and property damage lawsuits, including purported
class actions, on the basis of a Company subsidiary having allegedly owned,
operated or transported waste to a disposal facility which is alleged to have
contaminated the environment or, in certain cases, conducted environmental
remediation activities at such sites. While the Company believes it has
meritorious defenses to these lawsuits, their ultimate resolution is often
substantially uncertain due to a number of factors, and it is possible such
matters could have a material adverse impact on the Company's earnings for one
or more quarters or years.

     The Company has filed suit against numerous insurance carriers seeking
reimbursement for past and future environmentally related remedial, defense and
tort claim costs at a number of sites. Carriers involved in these matters have
typically denied coverage and are defending against the Company's claims. While
the Company is vigorously pursuing such claims, it regularly considers
settlement opportunities when appropriate terms are offered. Settlements to date
($7.1 million in 1999, $46.6 million in 1998, and $94.3 million in 1997) have
been included in operating costs and expenses as an offset to environmental
expenses.

8. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     The estimated fair value amounts of the Company's financial instruments
have been determined by the Company using available market information and
commonly accepted valuation methodologies. However, considerable judgement is
required in interpreting market data to develop the estimates of fair value.
Accordingly, the estimates presented herein are not necessarily indicative of
the amounts that the Company or holders of the instruments could realize in a
current market exchange. The use of different assumptions and/ or estimation
methodologies may have a material effect on the estimated fair values. The fair
value estimates presented herein are based on information available to
management as of December 31, 1999 and 1998. Such amounts have not been revalued
since those dates, and current estimates of fair value may differ significantly
from the amounts presented herein.

     The carrying values of cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments,
restricted funds held by trustees, trade accounts receivable, trade accounts
payable, financial instruments included in notes and other receivables and
financial instruments included in other assets approximate their fair values
principally because of the short-term maturities of these instruments.


                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The fair values of the Company's outstanding indebtedness is as follows (in
thousands):



9. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     Interest rate agreements -- The Company has entered into interest rate swap
agreements to balance fixed and floating rate debt in accordance with
management's criteria (see Note 3). The agreements are contracts to exchange
fixed and floating interest rate payments periodically over a specified term
without the exchange of the underlying notional amounts. The agreements provide
only for the exchange of interest on the notional amounts at the stated rates,
with no multipliers or leverage. Differences paid or received are accrued in the
consolidated financial statements as a part of interest expense on the
underlying debt over the life of the agreements, and the swap is not recorded on
the balance sheet. As of December 31, 1999, interest rate agreements in notional
amounts and with terms as set forth in the following table were outstanding (in
thousands):



     Commodity agreements -- The Company has entered into recycled paper swap
agreements to help mitigate the price volatility of recycled paper. The
agreements are contracts to exchange fixed and floating commodity prices over a
fixed period of time. All of the Company's recyclable paper hedges are
cash-settled on a monthly basis with the counterparty. At December 31, 1999 the
Company had recycled paper swap agreements for a total notional amount of 14,100
tons per month expiring at various dates through February 2007 at a weighted
average contract price of $66 per ton. These swap agreements are not recorded on
the balance sheet.

     Fair values -- The fair values of the interest rate swaps and recycled
paper swaps represent the amounts at which the agreements could be settled based
on estimated market rates. At December 31, 1999, the Company would have had to
pay $26.5 million and $4.5 million to settle the interest rate swap agreements
and recycled paper swap agreements, respectively.


                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

10. CAPITAL STOCK

     The Board of Directors is authorized to issue preferred stock in series,
and with respect to each series, to fix its designation, relative rights
(including voting, dividend, conversion, sinking fund, and redemption rights),
preferences (including dividends and liquidation), and limitations. The Company
currently has no issued or outstanding preferred stock.

     In 1999, the Company resolved certain litigation relating to
stock-for-asset acquisitions through the issuance of approximately 1,125,000
shares of the Company's common stock, which were issued in February 2000.

     As discussed in Note 6, in 1999, certain of the Company's convertible
subordinated notes and convertible subordinated debentures were converted into
approximately 9.0 million shares of common stock.

     In June 1998, Eastern completed the registration and sale of approximately
8.6 million shares of its common stock at $26.38 per share (equivalent to
approximately 5.5 million shares of the Company's common stock at $41.17 per
share). This public offering included the sale of 500,000 shares of Eastern
common stock by selling shareholders (equivalent to 320,300 shares of the
Company's common stock). The net proceeds, after deducting fees and related
costs, were approximately $205.0 million and were primarily used to repay debt
under Eastern's credit facility and for general corporate purposes.

     As a condition to completing the WM Holdings Merger, during June 1998, WM
Holdings sold 20.0 million shares of its common stock from its treasury
(equivalent to 14.5 million shares of the Company's common stock) in an offering
to the public. The net proceeds of approximately $607.0 million were used by WM
Holdings to retire outstanding debt under its credit facilities.

     In June 1997, prior to the WM Holdings Merger, the Company acquired a
majority of the Canadian solid waste businesses of WM Holdings in a purchase
business combination for consideration that included approximately 1.7 million
shares of the Company's common stock. WM Holdings sold its shares of the
Company's common stock on the open market during December 1997 for approximately
$65.0 million. Because the WM Holdings Merger was accounted for as a pooling of
interests, WM Holdings' sale of its shares of the Company's common stock is
treated as an equity offering to the public for financial reporting purposes.

     On March 3, 1997, prior to the United Merger, United completed a public
offering in which it issued approximately 3.5 million shares of its common
stock, priced at $36.50 per share (equivalent to 3.7 million shares of the
Company's common stock, priced at $33.95 per share). The net proceeds of
approximately $119.0 million were used to repay debt under United's credit
facility, to fund acquisitions and for general corporate purposes.

     On February 7, 1997, the Company completed a public offering of 11.5
million shares of its common stock, priced at $35.13 per share. The net proceeds
of approximately $387.4 million were primarily used to repay bank borrowings.

     In February 1997, the board of directors of WM Holdings authorized the
repurchase of up to 50.0 million shares of its own common stock (equivalent to
36.3 million shares of the Company's common stock) in the open market, in
privately negotiated transactions or through issuer tender offers. WM Holdings
repurchased 30.0 million shares of its own common stock (equivalent to 21.8
million shares of the Company's common stock) through a "Dutch auction" tender
offer in the second quarter of 1997.

     During 1994 through 1996, WM Holdings sold put options on 42.3 million
shares of its common stock (equivalent to 30.7 million shares of the Company's
common stock). The put options gave the holders the right at maturity to require
WM Holdings to repurchase shares of its common stock at specified prices.
Proceeds from the sale of put options were credited to additional paid-in
capital. The amount WM Holdings


                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

would be obligated to pay to repurchase shares of its common stock if all
outstanding put options were exercised was reclassified to a temporary equity
account. In the event the options were exercised, WM Holdings had the right to
pay the holder the difference in cash between the strike price and the market
price of WM Holdings' shares, in lieu of repurchasing the stock. Options on 32.5
million shares expired unexercised, as the price of WM Holdings' stock was in
excess of the strike price at maturity. WM Holdings repurchased 3.1 million
shares of its common stock at a cost of $107.5 million, and 6.7 million options
were settled for cash of $13.6 million. There were no put options outstanding at
and subsequent to December 31, 1997.

     As of December 31, 1999, the Company is limited in its ability to pay
dividends pursuant to its current credit agreements of amounts not to exceed
$25.0 million per year. The Company declared cash dividends of approximately
$6.2 million, $93.8 million, and $309.6 million to its shareholders during 1999,
1998, and 1997, respectively. Based on the Company's weighted average common
shares outstanding, the cash dividends per common share were $0.01, $0.16, and
$0.56 for 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

11. COMMON STOCK OPTIONS AND WARRANTS

     The Company accounts for its stock-based compensation using the intrinsic
value method prescribed by Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,
"Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," under which no compensation cost for
stock options is recognized for stock option awards granted at or above fair
market value. SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,"
established accounting and disclosure requirements using a fair-value-based
method of accounting for stock-based employee compensation plans. The Company
has adopted the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123, which are included
below.

     In accordance with the Company's 1993 Stock Option Incentive Plan, as
amended (the "1993 Plan"), options to purchase 26.5 million shares of the
Company's common stock may be granted to officers, directors, and key employees.
Options are granted under the 1993 Plan at an exercise price which equals or
exceeds the fair market value of the common stock on the date of grant, with
various vesting periods, and expire up to ten years from the date of grant.

     Under the Company's 1996 Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors
("1996 Directors Plan"), its directors who are not officers, full-time employees
or consultants of the Company receive an annual grant of 10,000 options on each
January 1. In accordance with the 1996 Directors Plan, options to purchase up to
1,400,000 shares of the Company's common stock may be granted, with one-year
vesting periods and expiration dates ten years from the date of grant. Options
may be granted at an exercise price which equals fair market value of the common
stock on the date of grant.

     Stock options granted by the Company in 1999, 1998, and 1997 generally have
ten-year terms. At the effective date of the United Merger, United stock
options, whether or not such stock options had vested or had become exercisable,
were canceled in exchange for shares of the Company's common stock equal in
market value to the fair value of such United stock options, as determined by an
independent third party. Stock options granted by WM Holdings prior to March 10,
1998, became fully vested upon consummation of the WM Holdings Merger, and
certain of those include put provision benefits for up to a one-year period from
the date of the WM Holdings Merger, which expired in 1999 (See Note 4). WM
Holdings' options granted after March 10, 1998, continue to vest in accordance
with their original vesting schedule of 3 years. All other stock options granted
by merged entities continue to vest under varying vesting periods ranging from
immediate vesting to five years following the date of the grant.

     The Company also has outstanding options and warrants related to various
predecessor plans acquired through merger and acquisition activity.


                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The following table summarizes common stock option and warrant transactions
under the aforementioned plans and various predecessor plans for 1999, 1998, and
1997:



     In addition to the options and warrants discussed above, the Company also
has approximately 1.0 million warrants outstanding that were issued by United
prior to the United Merger that have a weighted average exercise price of $20.96
per share.

     Outstanding and exercisable stock options and warrants at December 31,
1999, were as follows (in thousands):



     The weighted average fair value per share of common stock options and
warrants granted during 1999, 1998 and 1997 were $16.17, $18.61, and $11.92,
respectively. The fair value of each common stock option or warrant granted to
employees or directors by the Company during 1999, 1998 and 1997 is estimated
utilizing the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The following weighted average
assumptions were used: dividend yield of 0% to 2%, risk-free interest rates
which vary for each grant and range from 4.63% to 7.67%, expected life of three
to seven years for all grants, and stock price volatility primarily ranging from
25.2% to 41.9% for all three to seven year grants.


                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     If the Company applied the recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123, the
Company's net loss and loss per common share for 1999, 1998, and 1997 would
approximate the pro forma amounts shown below (in thousands, except per share
amounts):



     The effects of applying SFAS No. 123 in this pro forma disclosure are not
necessarily indicative of future results or performance.

     Beginning in 1996, WM Holdings made grants of restricted stock.
Compensation expense for grants of restricted shares was recognized ratably over
the vesting period (generally five to ten years) and amounted to approximately
$759,000 in 1998 through the date of the WM Holdings Merger and $2.4 million in
1997. The unamortized restricted stock of $9.2 million vested upon consummation
of the WM Holdings Merger, and accordingly was included in merger costs in 1998.

     In November 1999, one of the Company's senior executives was granted
265,000 shares of restricted stock that vest in three equal installments over
the next three years and 650,000 stock options that vest according to certain
performance goals in lieu of the normal vesting schedules. Notwithstanding these
performance goals, all of these options will vest no later than five years from
the date of grant.

12. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

     Effective January 1, 1999, the Waste Management Retirement Savings Plan and
the Wheelabrator-Rust Savings and Retirement Plan were merged into the USA Waste
Services, Inc. Employee Savings Plan, which was then renamed the Waste
Management Retirement Savings Plan ("Savings Plan"). The Savings Plan covers
employees (except those working subject to collective bargaining agreements
which do not provide for coverage under such plans) following a 90 day waiting
period after hire, and allows eligible employees to contribute up to 15% of
their annual compensation, as limited by IRS regulations. Under the Savings
Plan, the Company matches employee contributions up to 3% of their eligible
compensation and matches 50% of employee contributions in excess of 3% but no
more than 6% of eligible compensation. Both employee and Company contributions
vest immediately. Charges to operations for the Company's defined contribution
plans were $49.4 million, $69.7 million, and $42.3 million during 1999, 1998 and
1997, respectively.

     Certain of the Company's foreign subsidiaries participate in both defined
benefit and defined contribution retirement plans for its employees in those
countries. The projected benefit obligation of $64.8 million and $53.1 million,
plan assets of $55.1 million and $43.7 million and unfunded liability of $9.8
million and $9.4 million as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively,
relating to the foreign subsidiaries' defined benefit plans are not included in
the tables below primarily due to their insignificance and pending sale of the
related operating companies. In addition to the pension plan for certain
employees under collective bargaining agreements established at the end of 1998
(see below), other Company subsidiaries participate in various multi-employer
pension plans and in two instances, site or contract specific plans, covering
certain employees not covered under the Company's pension plan. These
multi-employer plans are generally defined benefit


                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

plans; however, in many cases, specific benefit levels are not negotiated with
or known by the employer contributors. The projected benefit obligation, plan
assets and unfunded liability of the site or contract specific plans are not
material and are not included in tables below. Contributions of $30.9 million,
$25.8 million, and $18.6 million for subsidiaries' defined benefit plans were
charged to operations in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

     The Company had a qualified defined benefit pension plan (the "Plan") for
all eligible non-union domestic employees of WM Holdings which, as discussed
below, was terminated as of October 31, 1999 in connection with the WM Holdings
Merger. Throughout the life of the Plan, benefits were based on the employee's
years of service and compensation during the highest five consecutive years out
of the last ten years of employment. The Company's funding policy was to
contribute annually an amount determined in consultation with its actuaries,
approximately equal to pension expense, except as may be limited by the
requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act ("ERISA"). An
actuarial valuation report was prepared for the Plan as of September 30 each
year and used, as permitted by the SFAS No. 87, Employers Accounting for
Pensions, for the year-end disclosures.

     In connection with the WM Holdings Merger, the Company ceased benefit
accruals for the Plan as of December 31, 1998. The Company planned to liquidate
the Plan's assets and settle its obligations to participants, except as related
to certain employees participating under collective bargaining agreements, whose
benefits were transferred to a newly created plan effective October 1, 1998. As
required under SFAS No. 88, Employer's Accounting for Settlements and
Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits, this
decision has resulted in a curtailment expense charge in unusual items of $34.7
million in 1998. The Plan was officially terminated as of October 31, 1999. The
Company contributed approximately $43.4 million to the Plan's trusts during 1999
and expects payments of approximately $185 million to be made through 2000
relating to the termination of the Plan. The actual charge to expense of
settling the Plan will be recorded as settlements occur.

     Also in conjunction with the WM Holdings Merger, the Company has terminated
certain non-qualified supplemental benefit plans for certain officers and
non-officer managers, the most significant plan being the WM Holdings'
Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan ("SERP") (collectively the "Supplemental
Plans"). The curtailment and settlement loss related to these plans of $62.0
million was recorded in unusual items in 1998.

     WM Holdings and certain of its subsidiaries provided post-retirement health
care and other benefits to eligible employees. In conjunction with the WM
Holdings Merger, the Company limited participation in these plans to
participating retired employees as of December 31, 1998.


                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The following tables provide a reconciliation of the changes in the plans'
benefit obligations and the fair value of assets over the two-year period ending
December 31, 1999, and a statement of the funded status as of December 31 of
both years (in thousands):



     The following table provides the amounts recognized in the consolidated
balance sheets as of December 31 of both years (in thousands):




                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The following table provides the components of net periodic benefit cost
for 1999, 1998, and 1997 (in thousands):



     The assumptions used in the measurement of the Company's benefit
obligations are shown in the following table (weighted average assumptions as of
December 31):



     The assumptions used for discount rate and expected long-term rate of
return on assets in the 1999 disclosure reflect the weighted average assumptions
for the terminated and ongoing plans. Since the terminating Waste Management,
Inc. Pension Plan is large relative to other plans, the assumptions applicable
to this plan are the main factor in these weighted average assumptions. The
assumptions for the terminating plan reflect the assumptions used in settling
this plan (lump sum interest rates and annuity purchase rates) and the return on
the immunized assets for this plan. A discount rate of 7.5% and an expected long
term rate of return of 9.0% are used for the ongoing plan.

     The principal element of the "other benefits" referred to above is the
post-retirement health care plan. Participants in the WM Holdings
post-retirement plan contribute to the cost of the benefit, and for retirees
since January 1, 1992, the Company's contribution is capped at between $0 and
$600 per month per retiree, based on years of service. For measurement purposes,
a 10.0% annual rate of increase in the per capita cost of covered health care
claims was assumed for 1999 (being an average of the rate used by all plans);
the rate was assumed to decrease to 6.0% in 2004 and remain at that level
thereafter. A 1% change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the
following effects (in thousands):




                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     In 1998, WM Holdings merged the Employee Stock Ownership Plan that was
initially established for eligible WM Holdings' employees in 1988, into the
Waste Management Retirement Savings Plan, which has since been merged into the
Savings Plan. During 1994, WM Holdings established an Employee Stock Benefit
Trust ("Trust") and sold 12.6 million shares of its treasury stock to the Trust
in return for a 30-year, 7.33% note with interest payable quarterly and
principal due at maturity. WM Holdings has agreed to contribute to the Trust
each quarter funds sufficient, when added to dividends on the shares held by the
Trust, to pay interest on the note as well as principal outstanding at maturity.
At the direction of an administrative committee, the trustee will use the shares
or proceeds from the sale of shares to pay employee benefits, and to the extent
of such payments by the Trust, the Company will forgive principal and interest
on the note. The shares of common stock issued to the Trust are not considered
to be outstanding in the computation of earnings per share until the shares are
utilized to fund obligations for which the Trust was established. Changes in the
market value of these shares are reflected as adjustments in additional
paid-in-capital.

13. INCOME TAXES

     For financial reporting purposes, loss from continuing operations before
income taxes, showing domestic and international sources, is as follows (in
thousands):



     The provision for income taxes on continuing operations consists of the
following (in thousands):




                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The federal statutory rate is reconciled to the effective rate as follows:



     The components of the net deferred tax assets (liabilities), excluding $80
million of net deferred tax liability related to operations held for sale, are
as follows (in thousands):



     At December 31, 1999 the Company's subsidiaries have approximately $142.4
million of federal net operating loss ("NOL") carryforwards, $1.8 billion of
state NOL carryforwards, and $522.5 million of foreign NOL carryforwards.
Foreign NOL carryforwards of approximately $287.3 million may be carried forward
indefinitely; the remaining NOL carryforwards have expiration dates through
2019. The Company's subsidiaries have approximately $1.0 million of alternative
minimum tax credit carryforwards that may be used indefinitely; state tax credit
carryforwards of $13.6 million; federal investment tax credit carryforwards of
approximately $0.1 million; and foreign tax credit carryforwards of $50.7
million. Certain foreign NOL carryforwards are included in operations held for
sale.

     Valuation allowances have been established for uncertainties in realizing
the benefit of tax loss and credit carryforwards. While the Company expects to
realize the deferred tax assets, net of the valuation allowances, changes in
estimates of future taxable income or in tax laws may alter this expectation.
The valuation allowance increased approximately $121.2 million and $98.8 million
in 1999 and 1998, respectively, primarily due to the uncertainty of realizing
foreign tax credits and NOL carryforwards. However, valuation allowances of $124
million for certain foreign deferred tax assets are included in operations held
for sale.

     Prior to the Board of Directors' adoption of the strategic plan in August
1999, which included the divestiture of the Company's WM International
operations, the Company did not provide for United States income taxes on
unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries as it was the intention of
management to reinvest the unremitted earnings in its foreign operations. Since
the adoption of the strategic plan in August 1999, the


                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

Company has provided for United States income taxes on unremitted foreign
earnings on its international operations other than in Canada. The amount of
United States income tax provided for the repatriation of its international
operations other than in Canada in 1999 is approximately $13.0 million. With
respect to its Canadian operations, the Company intends to reinvest its
earnings. Unremitted earnings in Canada are approximately $28.0 million at
December 31, 1999. It is not practicable to determine the amount of United
States income taxes that would be payable upon remittance of the assets that
represent those earnings.

14. SEGMENT AND RELATED INFORMATION

     The Company's North American solid waste management operations represent
approximately $10.7 billion of operating revenues, $1.6 billion of earnings
before interest and tax ("EBIT"), and $17.2 billion of total assets in 1999, and
is the Company's principal reportable segment. This segment provides integrated
waste management services consisting of collection, transfer, disposal (solid
waste landfill, hazardous waste landfill and waste-to-energy facilities),
recycling, and other miscellaneous services to commercial, industrial, municipal
and residential customers in North America, including the United States and
Puerto Rico, Mexico and Canada. Similar operations in international markets
outside of North America are disclosed as a separate segment under WM
International, which includes operations in Europe, the Pacific Rim, South
America and Israel. The Company's other reportable segment consists of non-solid
waste services, aggregated as a single segment for this reporting presentation.
The non-solid waste segment includes other hazardous waste services such as
chemical waste management services and low-level and other radioactive waste
management services, the Company's independent power projects, and other
non-solid waste services to commercial, industrial and government customers, and
includes business lines that are being actively marketed and considered to be
held for sale. No single customer accounted for 10% or more of consolidated
revenues in any year presented.

     Certain of the services provided by the Company are subject to extensive
and evolving federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations in the
United States and elsewhere that have been enacted in response to technological
advances and the public's increased concern over environmental issues. Refer to
Notes 7 and 18 for a further discussion of regulatory issues.

     Summarized financial information concerning the Company's reportable
segments for the respective years ended December 31, is shown in the following
table. Prior period information has been restated to conform to the segments
described above, which are based on the structure and internal organization of
the Company as of December 31, 1999 (in thousands):




                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)



- ---------------

a)   Corporate functions include the corporate treasury function (except for
     limited amounts of locally negotiated and managed project debt),
     administration of corporate tax function, the corporate insurance function
     and management of closed landfill and related insurance recovery functions,
     along with other typical administrative functions.

b)   Non-solid waste revenues are net of inter-segment revenue with North
     American solid waste of $45.7 million, $122.4 million, and $86.4 million in
     1999, 1998, and 1997, respectively. There are no other significant sales
     between segments.

c)   For those items included in the determination of EBIT (the earnings
     measurement used by management to evaluate operating performance), the
     accounting policies of the segments are generally the same as those
     described in the summary of significant accounting policies.

d)   There are no material asymmetrical allocations of EBIT versus assets
     between segments or corporate. Certain asset impairments and unusual items
     reported in the reconciliation of EBIT to reported net loss below, however,
     have resulted in adjustments to assets ultimately reflected on segment
     balance sheets. Assets are net of inter-segment receivables and
     investments.

     The reconciliation of total EBIT reported above to net loss is as follows
(in thousands):



     In 1999, the Company operated outside the United States and Puerto Rico
through its subsidiaries in nine countries in Europe, seven countries in the
Pacific Rim, Canada, Mexico, Brazil, and Argentina. The Company's WM
International operations, as well as certain of the Company's operations in
Mexico (which is


                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

considered NASW), have their property and equipment reflected in current
operations held for sale. Operating revenues and property and equipment (net)
relating to operations in the United States and Puerto Rico, Europe, Canada and
all other geographic areas ("other foreign") are as follows (in thousands):





     The Company operates facilities in Hong Kong which are owned by the Hong
Kong government. The Hong Kong economy has been impacted by the economic
uncertainty associated with many of the countries in the region. High and
volatile interest rates have resulted from speculation regarding its currency.
The Company also has operations in Indonesia, Brazil, and an office in Thailand.
These countries have experienced illiquidity, volatile currency exchange rates
and interest rates, and reduced economic activity. The Company will be affected
for the foreseeable future by economic conditions in this region, although it is
not possible to determine the extent of such impact. For 1999, the Company
recorded $96.1 million of revenues in the above Asian countries (including Hong
Kong). Income from continuing operations before income taxes from Hong Kong was
$26.5 million in 1999. Income from Indonesia, Thailand and Brazil has not been
significant to date.

15. ASSET IMPAIRMENTS AND UNUSUAL ITEMS

     In 1999, 1998 and 1997, the Company recorded certain charges for asset
impairments and unusual items. Fair values for asset impairment losses were
determined for landfills, hazardous waste facilities, recycling investments and
other facilities, primarily based on future cash flow projections discounted
back using discount rates appropriate for the risks involved with the specific
assets, or offers from interested third parties. For surplus real estate, third
party bids, market opinions and appraisals were used to determine fair value. In
determining fair values for abandoned projects and vehicles to be sold,
recoverable salvage values were determined using market estimates. Impaired
assets to be sold are primarily businesses to be sold (see Note 19) and surplus
real estate. The Company provides for losses in connection with long-term waste
service contracts where an obligation exists to perform services and when it
becomes evident the projected direct and incremental contract costs will exceed
the related contract revenues. In general, these losses relate to contracts with
remaining average duration of five years.


                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The following is a summary of asset impairments and unusual items that are
reflected in the Company's financial statements for 1999 (in millions):



     In August 1999, the Company's Board of Directors adopted a strategic plan
that includes the divestiture of its WM International operations and certain
other businesses. (See Note 14, "Segment and Related Information" and Note 19,
"Operations Held for Sale" for further discussion of the Company's international
operations). Based primarily on preliminary bids from interested parties, these
and certain other assets which were identified as "held for sale" during the
third quarter were written down to fair value less cost to sell in accordance
with SFAS No. 121, resulting in a pre-tax charge of approximately $414.3 million
at September 30, 1999. These assets were considered to be held for use for
periods prior to the third quarter of 1999 and did not meet the criteria for
impairment recognition as a held for use asset, and therefore, were not
considered impaired for periods prior to the third quarter of 1999. The assets
which were identified as held for sale and subject to adjustment include, among
others, the Company's WM International operations, the Company's nuclear
services disposal site operations and certain NASW operations that are not
essential parts of the Company's network. Revisions to the third quarter
estimates were required due to revisions in estimated proceeds and certain
changes in business plans during the fourth quarter. These revisions resulted in
a net increase to the charge of $18.5 million. That amount includes a reduction
of $30 million relating to assets in a single market that have been reclassified
from held for sale assets to operating assets, based on new facts and business
judgments, that have developed through February 2000. Based on these new facts
and business judgements the Company has determined not to divest those assets,
and those assets are not impaired as operating assets. Accordingly, the
impairment recorded in the third quarter of 1999 was reversed in the same
statement of operations caption originally reported, with no net effect for the
year ended December 31, 1999. The remaining $10.2 million of held for sale
adjustments primarily resulted from revisions of estimated proceeds related to
surplus real estate. See Note 19 for further analysis of operations held for
sale.

     The Company recorded asset impairments of $178.3 million during the third
quarter of 1999 (see Note 2 "1999 Accounting Charges and Adjustments") and $15.9
million during the fourth quarter of 1999 related to several landfill sites and
certain other operating assets. Included in this amount is $76.0 million related
to the abandonment or closure of facilities resulting from the Company's recent
business decisions regarding optimal operating strategies in specific markets in
which the Company operates, or consideration of new facts or circumstances
during 1999. Also included in the amount is $40.4 million which is primarily the
result of permit denials and other regulatory problems during the third quarter
of 1999, which is one of the many types of facts and circumstances that may from
time to time trigger impairments, and which may occasionally overlap with other
triggering events or result in abandonment or closure.

     The Company recorded $91.7 million related to the reassessment of ultimate
losses for certain legal issues related to the WM Holdings Merger, which
primarily included increases to its legal reserves in response to developments
in connection with WM Holdings' restatement of earnings in February 1998. These
legal developments caused the Company to evaluate the numerous shareholder cases
filed against WM Holdings and to reassess the range of exposure.


                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The Company is in the process of settling its obligations under the WM
Holdings' defined benefit plan which was terminated as of October 31, 1999 (see
Note 12). The Company has included $13.1 million related to the current year
recognition of net pension costs associated with the terminated plan and will
incur similar charges in future periods until all participants have been paid
the termination benefits.

     The following is a summary of asset impairments and unusual items that are
reflected in the Company's consolidated financial statements for 1998 (in
millions):



     In 1998, the Company increased its reserves for certain legal and
environmental remediation issues as a result of management's emphasis to resolve
and settle certain issues relating primarily to WM Holdings, including a class
action securities litigation against WM Holdings.

     Certain WM Holdings' employee stock option plans included change of control
provisions that were activated as a result of the WM Holdings Merger whereby the
option holder received certain put rights that require charges to earnings
through the put periods. The charge to pre-tax earnings as a result of these put
rights was $114.6 million in the third quarter of 1998. To the extent the future
market value of the Company's common stock exceeded $54.34 per share at the end
of a quarter (the "measurement date"), the Company was required to record
additional charges to earnings through July 16, 1999, at which time all put
rights expired. As the market value of the Company's common stock was less than
$54.34 per share on each measurement date, there were no additional charges to
earnings related to the put rights.

     The following is a summary of asset impairments and unusual items reflected
in the Company's consolidated financial statements for 1997 (in millions):




                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)


16. EARNINGS PER SHARE

     The following reconciles the number of common shares outstanding at
December 31 of each year to the weighted average number of common shares
outstanding and the weighted average number of common and dilutive potential
common shares outstanding for the purposes of calculating basic and dilutive
earnings per common share, respectively (in thousands):



     For all periods presented, the effect of the Company's common stock options
and warrants and the effect of the Company's convertible subordinated notes and
debentures are excluded from the dilutive earnings per share calculation since
inclusion of such items would be antidilutive.

     At December 31, 1999, there were approximately 59.7 million shares of
common stock potentially issuable with respect to stock options, warrants, and
convertible debt, which could dilute basic earnings per share in the future.

17. COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)

     Comprehensive income (loss) represents the change in the Company's equity
from transactions and other events and circumstances from nonowner sources and
includes all changes in equity except those resulting from investments by owners
and distributions to owners. The components of accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss) are as follows for the periods indicated (in thousands):



     The Company is continuing the process of settling its obligations under the
Plan, and the change in minimum pension liability adjustment relates to the
Plan. To the extent that the termination benefit has not yet been charged to
expense, additional minimum pension liability has been recorded as a charge to
other


                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

comprehensive income. The Company expects to settle the obligations at various
dates in 2000, at which time settlement expense will be recorded and adjustments
to other comprehensive income will be made.

     As discussed in Note 1, the Company adopted a strategic plan in August 1999
one element of which is to pursue the divestiture of its WM International
operations. Of the $430.1 million in foreign currency translation adjustment
within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), approximately $344.9
million relates to the Company's WM International operations. Upon the
divestiture of the Company's WM International operations, the foreign currency
translation losses that are included in accumulated other comprehensive income
(loss) will be recognized in the Company's statement of operations as a
component of such operations (decreasing any gain, or increasing any loss). The
foreign currency translation loss for the Company's WM International operations
was $344.9 million at December 31, 1999; however, that amount will fluctuate
from period to period with the change in foreign currency exchange rates.

18. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

     Operating leases -- The Company leases certain of its operating and office
facilities for various terms. Lease expense aggregated $189.3 million, $194.9
million and $189.9 million during 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. These
amounts include rents under long-term leases, short-term cancelable leases and
rents charged as a percentage of revenue, but are exclusive of financing leases
which are capitalized for accounting purposes.

     The long-term rental obligations as of December 31, 1999 are due in the
following years (in thousands):



     Financial instruments -- Letters of credit, performance bonds and other
guarantees have been provided by the Company to support tax-exempt bonds,
performance of landfill final closure and post-closure requirements, insurance
contracts, and other contracts. Total letters of credit, performance bonds,
insurance policies, and other guarantees outstanding at December 31, 1999
aggregated approximately $5.2 billion. The insurance policies are issued by a
wholly-owned insurance company subsidiary, the sole business of which is to
issue such policies to customers of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Approximately $87.4 million (at fair market value) of the Company's assets have
been contributed to this subsidiary to meet regulatory minimum capital
requirements. In those instances where the use of captive insurance is not
acceptable, the Company has available alternative bonding mechanisms. The
Company has not experienced difficulty in obtaining performance bonds or letters
of credit for its current operations. Because virtually no claims have been made
against these financial instruments in the past, management does not expect
these instruments will have a material adverse effect on the Company's
consolidated financial statements.

     Environmental matters -- The continuing business in which the Company is
engaged is intrinsically connected with the protection of the environment. As
such, a significant portion of the Company's operating costs and capital
expenditures could be characterized as costs of environmental protection. Such
costs may increase in the future as a result of legislation or regulation,
however, the Company believes that in general it tends to benefit when
environmental regulation increases, which may increase the demand for its
services, and that it has the resources and experience to manage environmental
risk.


                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     As part of its ongoing operations, the Company provides for the present
value of estimated final closure and post-closure monitoring costs over the
estimated operating life of disposal sites as airspace is consumed. The Company
has also established procedures to evaluate potential remedial liabilities at
closed sites which it owns or operated, or to which it transported waste,
including 84 sites listed on the NPL as of December 31, 1999. Where the Company
concludes that it is probable that a liability has been incurred, provision is
made in the financial statements.

     Estimates of the extent of the Company's degree of responsibility for
remediation of a particular site and the method and ultimate cost of remediation
require a number of assumptions and are inherently difficult, and the ultimate
outcome may differ from current estimates. However, the Company believes that
its extensive experience in the environmental services industry, as well as its
involvement with a large number of sites, provides a reasonable basis for
estimating its aggregate liability. As additional information becomes available,
estimates are adjusted as necessary. While the Company does not anticipate that
any such adjustment would be material to its financial statements, it is
reasonably possible that technological, regulatory or enforcement developments,
the results of environmental studies, the nonexistence or inability of other
potentially responsible third parties to contribute to the settlements of such
liabilities, or other factors could necessitate the recording of additional
liabilities which could be material.

     Litigation -- In November and December 1997, several alleged purchasers of
WM Holdings securities (including but not limited to common stock), who
allegedly bought their securities during 1996 and 1997, brought fourteen
purported class action lawsuits against WM Holdings and several of its current
and former officers and directors in the United States District Court for the
Northern District of Illinois. Each of these lawsuits asserted that the
defendants violated the federal securities laws by issuing allegedly false and
misleading statements in 1996 and 1997 about WM Holdings' financial condition
and results of operations. In January 1998, the 14 putative class actions were
consolidated before one judge and in February 1998, WM Holdings announced a
restatement of prior-period earnings for 1991 and earlier as well as for 1992
through 1996 and the first three quarters of 1997. In July 1998, the class
plaintiffs filed an amended complaint against WM Holdings, its outside auditor,
and five of WM Holdings' former officers. The amended complaint sought recovery
on behalf of a proposed class of all purchasers of WM Holdings' securities
between May 29, 1995, and October 30, 1997. The amended complaint alleged, among
other things, that WM Holdings filed false and misleading financial statements
beginning in 1991 and continuing through October 1997 and sought recovery for
alleged violations of the federal securities laws between May 1995 and October
1997.

     In December 1998, the Company announced an agreement to settle the
consolidated action against all defendants and the establishment of a settlement
fund of $220 million for the class of open market purchasers of WM Holdings
securities between November 3, 1994, and February 24, 1998. On September 17,
1999, the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois
gave final approval to the settlement after a hearing. There were no objections
to the fairness or adequacy of the settlement fund.

     In January 2000, the Company settled two actions, one pending in Illinois
State court and the other in Florida Federal court, arising out of the same set
of facts as the above federal action brought by open market purchasers of WM
Holdings' securities.

     Additionally, there are several other actions and claims, which arise out
of the same set of facts, that have been brought by business owners who received
WM Holdings common stock in the sales of their businesses to WM Holdings. These
actions and claims allege, among other things, breach of warranty or breach of
contract based on WM Holdings' restatement of earnings in February 1998. In
April 1999, courts having jurisdiction over two such actions granted summary
judgment against WM Holdings and in favor of the individual plaintiffs who
brought the respective claims on the issue of breach of contract. Additionally,
in October 1999, the court in one of these actions certified a class consisting
of all sellers of business assets to WM Holdings between January 1, 1990, and
February 24, 1998, whose purchase agreements with WM Holdings contained express
warranties regarding the accuracy of WM Holdings' financial statements. The
Company has appealed that decision and the appeal is pending. The extent of
damages, if any, in this class action has not yet been


                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

determined. The Company, however, has settled or resolved four, separate
stock-for-asset disputes that otherwise would have been part of the above class,
as currently defined, including the individual action identified above in which
summary judgment was entered against WM Holdings.

     In February and March 2000, two asset sellers who otherwise would have been
included in the above class, as currently defined, brought separate actions
against the Company for breach of contract and fraud, among other things. One of
the suits arises out of a transaction valued at over $200 million at the time of
closing in 1996, while the other involves a transaction in excess of $11 million
at its closing in 1995. Both suits are in their early stages and the extent of
possible damages, if any, has not yet been determined.

     In December 1999, a sole plaintiff brought an action against the Company,
five former officers of WM Holdings, and WM Holdings' auditors in Illinois State
court on behalf of a proposed class of individuals who purchased WM Holdings
common stock before November 3, 1994, and who held that stock through February
24, 1998, for alleged acts of common law fraud, negligence, and breach of
fiduciary duty. The defendants have removed this action to federal court, where
plaintiff is seeking a remand back to the state forum. This action is in its
early stages and the extent of possible damages, if any, has not yet been
determined.

     Purported derivative actions have also been filed in Delaware Chancery
Court by alleged former shareholders of WM Holdings against certain former
officers and directors of WM Holdings and nominally against WM Holdings to
recover damages caused to WM Holdings as a result of the settled consolidated
federal securities class action described above. These actions have been
consolidated and plaintiffs have filed a consolidated amended complaint. The
plaintiffs seek to recover from the former officers and directors, on behalf of
WM Holdings, the amounts paid in the federal class action as well as additional
amounts based on alleged harms not at issue in the federal class action.

     The Company is also aware that the United States Securities and Exchange
Commission ("SEC") has commenced a formal investigation with respect to WM
Holdings' previously filed financial statements (which were subsequently
restated) and related accounting policies, procedures and system of internal
controls. The Company intends to cooperate with such investigation. The Company
is unable to predict the outcome or impact of this investigation at this time.

     In March and April 1999, two former officers of WM Holdings sued the
Company for retirement and other benefits. These actions are in their early
stages and the extent of possible damages, if any, has not yet been determined.
Additionally, a third former officer brought a similar claim, that was
subsequently dismissed, in March 2000. This newest action included claims
related to the decision by the board of WM Holdings to recommend the merger of
WM Holdings with the Company.

     On July 6, 1999, the Company announced that it had lowered its expected
earnings per share for the three months ended June 30, 1999. On July 29, 1999,
the Company announced a further reduction in its expected earnings for that
period. On August 3, 1999, the Company announced a further reduction in its
expected earnings for that period and that its reported operating income for the
three months ended March 31, 1999 may have included certain unusual pretax
income items. More than 20 lawsuits that purport to be based on one or more of
these announcements were filed against the Company and certain of its officers
and directors in the United States District Court for the Southern District of
Texas. These actions have been consolidated into a single action. On September
7, 1999, a lawsuit was filed against the Company and certain of its officers and
directors in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas.
Pursuant to a joint motion, this case was transferred to the United States
District Court for the Southern District of Texas, to be consolidated with the
consolidated action pending there. Taken together, the plaintiffs in these
lawsuits purport to assert claims on behalf of a class of purchasers of the
Company's common stock between June 10, 1998 and August 13, 1999. Among other
things, the plaintiffs allege that the Company and certain of its officers and
directors (i) made knowingly false earnings projections for the three months
ended June 30, 1999 and (ii) failed to adequately disclose facts relating to its
earnings projections that the plaintiffs allege would have been material to
purchasers of the Company's common stock. The plaintiffs also claim that certain
of the Company's officers and directors sold common stock between March 31, 1999
and July 6, 1999 at prices

                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

known to be inflated by the alleged material misstatements and omissions. The
plaintiffs in these actions seek damages with interest, costs and such other
relief as the court deems proper.

     In November 1999, an action was filed in Oregon state court by individuals
who received Company common stock in the sale of their business to the Company.
For reasons similar to those alleged in the class actions described in the
preceding paragraph, these individuals allege that the stock they received was
overvalued. The case is in an early stage and the extent of possible damages, if
any, has not yet been determined.

     In addition, three of the Company's shareholders have filed purported
derivative lawsuits against certain officers and directors of the Company in
connection with the events surrounding the Company's second quarter 1999
earnings projections and July 6, 1999 earnings announcement. Two of these
lawsuits were filed in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware on July
16, 1999 and August 18, 1999, respectively, and one was filed in the United
States District Court for the Southern District of Texas on July 27, 1999. The
Delaware cases have been consolidated and the plaintiffs have filed an amended
consolidated complaint. The plaintiffs in these actions purport to allege
derivative claims on behalf of the Company against these individuals for alleged
breaches of fiduciary duty resulting from their alleged common stock sales
during the three months ended June 30, 1999 and/or their oversight of the
Company's affairs. The lawsuits name Waste Management, Inc. as a nominal
defendant and seek compensatory and punitive damages with interest, equitable
and/or injunctive relief, costs and such other relief as the respective courts
deem proper. The defendants have not yet been required to respond to the
complaints.

     On December 29, 1999, the Company sued Louis D. Paolino, former President
and Chief Executive Officer of Eastern, and others in federal court in Delaware
in connection with the Eastern Merger. The Company alleges, among other things,
that defendants artificially inflated the revenues of Eastern by employing
improper accounting practices and usurped Eastern corporate opportunities for
personal gain. The Company alleges that the inflated Eastern financials caused
the Company to pay substantially more than Eastern was worth. The defendants in
this case have not yet filed a response to the complaint.

     In a related matter, on December 31, 1999, Louis D. Paolino and others sued
the Company and unnamed defendants in Philadelphia for securities fraud in
connection with the Eastern Merger. Plaintiffs allege that the Company's stock
that they were issued in connection with the Eastern Merger was over-valued
because the Company failed to disclose that it was having problems integrating
the operations of WM Holdings and the Company after the WM Holdings Merger. As
none of the defendants has been served in this action, no responsive pleadings
have been filed.

     The Company is aware of a lawsuit filed in state court in Houston, Texas by
several related shareholders against the Company and three of its former
officers. The petition alleges that the plaintiffs are substantial shareholders
of the Company's common stock who intended to sell their stock in 1999, but that
the individual defendants made false and misleading statements regarding the
Company's prospects that induced the plaintiffs to retain their stock.
Plaintiffs assert that the value of their retained stock declined dramatically.
Plaintiffs asserted claims for fraud, negligent misrepresentation, and
conspiracy. As neither the Company nor the individual defendants have been
served in this action, the defendants have filed no responsive pleadings in the
action.

     The Company has also received a letter from participants in the Company's
Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "ESPP") who purchased the Company's common
stock on June 30, 1999. The letter demands that the Administrative Committee of
the ESPP bring an action against the Company and certain selling officers and
directors for losses allegedly sustained by the participants in their stock
purchases. These ESPP participants stated in the letter that, absent action by
the Administrative Committee of the ESPP, they intended to sue the Company and
the directors and officers on behalf of the ESPP and its participants. The
Administrative Committee of the ESPP has advised these participants that it
cannot file suit, as requested, because the committee is neither a
representative of the plan nor a Waste Management shareholder. The Company has
not


                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

received any further communication from these participants. However, the Company
does not believe that this claim, if pursued, would have a material adverse
effect on the Company's financial statements.

     In addition, the SEC has notified the Company of an informal inquiry into
the period ended June 30, 1999, as well as certain sales of the Company's common
stock that preceded the Company's July 6, 1999 earnings announcement.

     The New York Stock Exchange has notified the Company that its Market
Trading Analysis Department is reviewing transactions in the common stock of the
Company prior to the July 6, 1999 earnings forecast announcement.

     The Company is conducting a thorough investigation of each of the
allegations that have been made in connection with the Company's second quarter
1999 earnings communications. As part of this investigation, the Company's Board
of Directors has authorized a review of the allegations that have been made
against certain of the Company's officers and directors. Roderick M. Hills, a
former chairman of the SEC and chairman of the Company's Audit Committee, is
directing the review.

     The Company received a Civil Investigative Demand ("CID") from the
Antitrust Division of the United States Department of Justice in July 1999
inquiring into the Company's non-hazardous solid waste operations in the State
of Massachusetts. The CID purports to have been issued for the purpose of
determining whether the Company has engaged in monopolization, illegal contracts
in restraint of trade, or anticompetitive acquisitions of disposal and/or
hauling assets. The CID requires the Company to provide the United States
Department of Justice with certain documents to assist it in its inquiry with
which the Company is fully cooperating.

     On July 16, 1999, a lawsuit was filed against the Company in the Circuit
Court for Sumter County in the State of Alabama. The plaintiff in the lawsuit
purported to allege on behalf of a class of similarly situated persons that the
Company has deprived the class of lump sum payments of pension plan benefits
allegedly promised to be paid in connection with termination of the Plan. On
behalf of the purported class, the plaintiff sought compensatory and punitive
damages, costs, restitution with interest, and such relief as the Court deemed
proper. On July 29, 1999, the Company announced that it had determined to
proceed with the termination of the Plan, liquidating the Plan's assets and
settling its obligations to participants. The plaintiff voluntarily dismissed
her case on September 13, 1999. However, that same day, the same attorneys filed
another Plan-related putative class action against the Company and various
individual defendants in the United States District Court for the Middle
District of Alabama, Northern Division. This case, brought by a different
putative class representative, alleges that the defendants violated ERISA by
failing to terminate the Plan in accordance with its terms, by failing to manage
Plan assets prudently and in the interests of Plan participants, and by delaying
the Plan's termination date and the expected distribution of lump-sum pension
benefits. On behalf of the purported class, the plaintiff seeks declaratory and
injunctive relief, restitution of all losses and expenses allegedly incurred by
the Plan, payment of all benefits allegedly owed to Plan participants,
attorney's fees and costs, and other "appropriate" relief under the Internal
Revenue Code, ERISA and the Plan. Defendants' time to move, answer or otherwise
respond to the complaint has been extended, and no proceedings have yet
occurred.

     The continuing business in which the Company is engaged is intrinsically
connected with the protection of the environment and the potential for the
unintended or unpermitted discharge of materials into the environment. In the
ordinary course of conducting its business activities, the Company becomes
involved in judicial and administrative proceedings involving governmental
authorities at the foreign, federal, state, and local level, including, in
certain instances, proceedings instituted by citizens or local governmental
authorities seeking to overturn governmental action where governmental officials
or agencies are named as defendants together with the Company or one or more of
its subsidiaries, or both. In the majority of the situations where proceedings
are commenced by governmental authorities, the matters involved related to
alleged technical violations of licenses or permits pursuant to which the
Company operates or is seeking to operate or laws or regulations to which its
operations are subject or are the result of different interpretations of
applicable

                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

requirements. From time to time, the Company pays fines or penalties in
environmental proceedings relating primarily to waste treatment, storage or
disposal facilities. As of December 31, 1999, there were six proceedings
involving Company subsidiaries where the sanctions involved could potentially
exceed $100,000. The Company believes that these matters will not have a
material adverse effect on its results of operations or financial condition.
However, the outcome of any particular proceeding cannot be predicted with
certainty, and the possibility remains that technological, regulatory or
enforcement developments, the results of environmental studies or other factors
could materially alter this expectation at any time.

     From time to time, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries are named as
defendants in personal injury and property damage lawsuits, including purported
class actions, on the basis of a Company's subsidiary having owned, operated or
transported waste to a disposal facility which is alleged to have contaminated
the environment or, in certain cases, conducted environmental remediation
activities at sites. Some of such lawsuits may seek to have the Company or its
subsidiaries pay the costs of groundwater monitoring and health care
examinations of allegedly affected persons for a substantial period of time even
where no actual damage is proven. While the Company believes it has meritorious
defenses to these lawsuits, their ultimate resolution is often substantially
uncertain due to the difficulty of determining the cause, extent and impact of
alleged contamination (which may have occurred over a long period of time), the
potential for successive groups of complainants to emerge, the diversity of the
individual plaintiffs' circumstances, and the potential contribution or
indemnification obligations of co-defendants or other third parties, among other
factors. Accordingly, it is possible such matters could have a material adverse
impact on the Company's financial statements.

     The Company or certain of its subsidiaries have been identified as
potentially responsible parties in a number of governmental investigations and
actions relating to waste disposal facilities which may be subject to remedial
action under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and
Liabilities Act of 1980, as amended ("CERCLA" or "Superfund"). The majority of
these proceedings are based on allegations that certain subsidiaries of the
Company (or their predecessors) transported hazardous substances to the sites in
question, often prior to acquisition of such subsidiaries by the Company. CERCLA
generally provides for joint and several liability for those parties owning,
operating, transporting to or disposing at the sites. Such proceedings arising
under Superfund typically involve numerous waste generators and other waste
transportation and disposal companies and seek to allocate or recover costs
associated with site investigation and cleanup, which costs could be substantial
and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial statements.

     In June 1999, the Company was notified that the EPA is conducting a civil
investigation of alleged chlorofluorocarbons ("CFC") disposal violations by
Waste Management of Massachusetts, Inc. ("WMMA"), one of the Company's wholly
owned subsidiaries, to determine whether further enforcement measures are
warranted. The activities giving rise to the allegations of CFC disposal
violations appear to have occurred prior to July 30, 1998. On July 29, 1998, the
EPA inspected WMMA's operations, notified the Company of the alleged violations
and issued an Administrative Order in January 1999 requiring WMMA to comply with
the CFC regulations. WMMA is cooperating with the investigation and the Company
believes that the ultimate outcome of this matter will not have a material
adverse effect on the Company's financial statements.

     In August 1999, sludge materials from trucks entering the Company's
Woodland Meadows Landfill in Michigan were seized by the FBI pursuant to an
investigation of the generator of the sludge materials, a company that provides
waste treatment services. Subsequently, the Company received two Grand Jury
subpoenas as well as requests for information from the Michigan Department of
Environmental Quality, seeking information related to the landfill's waste
acceptance practices and the Company's business relationship with the generator.
According to affidavits attached to the subpoena, the generator's treatment
plant was sold by the Company to the generator in May 1998. The Company is
cooperating with the pending investigation and believes that the ultimate
outcome of this matter will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's
financial statements.


                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     As of December 31, 1999, the Company or its subsidiaries had been notified
that they are potentially responsible parties in connection with 84 locations
listed on the NPL. Of the 84 NPL sites at which claims have been made against
the Company, 17 are sites which the Company has come to own over time. All of
the NPL sites owned by the Company were initially developed by others as land
disposal facilities. At each of the 17 owned facilities, the Company is working
in conjunction with the government to characterize or remediate identified site
problems. In addition, at these 17 facilities, the Company has either agreed
with other legally liable parties on an arrangement for sharing the costs of
remediation or is pursuing resolution of an allocation formula. The 67 NPL sites
at which claims have been made against the Company and which are not owned by
the Company are at different procedural stages under Superfund. At some of these
sites, the Company's liability is well defined as a consequence of a
governmental decision as to the appropriate remedy and an agreement among liable
parties as to the share each will pay for implementing that remedy. At others
where no remedy has been selected or the liable parties have been unable to
agree on an appropriate allocation, the Company's future costs are uncertain.
Any of these matters could have a material adverse effect on the Company's
financial statements.

     In November 1998, the Company was sued by the estate of Shayne Conner, who
died on November 24, 1995 in Greenland, New Hampshire. Plaintiffs allege that
Mr. Conner's death was caused by biosolids that were applied to a nearby field
by Wheelabrator's BioGro business unit. The litigation is currently in the
discovery phase, and the Company is waiting for plaintiff's production of a
court-ordered expert on causation. The Company is vigorously defending itself in
the litigation.

     The Company has been advised by the United States Department of Justice
that Laurel Ridge Landfill, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company as a
result of the United Merger in August 1997, allegedly committed certain
violations of the Clean Water Act at the Laurel Ridge Landfill in Kentucky. The
alleged activities occurred prior to the United Merger. In May 1999, the Company
pleaded guilty to a criminal misdemeanor and was sentenced in November 1999 to
pay a fine of $100,000 and perform in kind services valued at $1.0 million.

     In February 1999, a San Bernardino County, California grand jury returned
an amended felony indictment against the Company, certain of its subsidiaries
and their current or former employees, and a County employee. The proceeding is
based on events that allegedly occurred prior to the WM Holdings Merger in
connection with a WM Holdings landfill development project. The indictment
includes allegations that certain of the defendants engaged in conduct involving
fraud, wiretapping, theft of a trade secret and manipulation of computer data,
and that they engaged in a conspiracy to do so. If convicted, the most serious
of the available sanctions against the corporate defendants would include
substantial fines and forfeitures. The Company believes that meritorious
defenses exist to each of the allegations, and the defendants are vigorously
contesting them. The Company believes that the ultimate outcome of this matter
will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial statements.

     The Company has brought suit against a substantial number of insurance
carriers in an action entitled Waste Management, Inc. et al. v. The Admiral
Insurance Company, et al. pending in the Superior Court in Hudson County, New
Jersey. In this action, the Company is seeking a declaratory judgment that
environmental liabilities asserted against the Company or its subsidiaries, or
that may be asserted in the future, are covered by insurance policies purchased
by the Company or its subsidiaries. The Company is also seeking to recover
defense costs and other damages incurred as a result of the assertion of
environmental liabilities against the Company or its subsidiaries for events
occurring over at least the last 25 years at approximately 140 sites and the
defendant insurance carriers' denial of coverage of such liabilities. While the
Company has reached settlements with some of the carriers, the remaining
defendants have denied liability to the Company and have asserted various
defenses, including that environmental liabilities of the type for which the
Company is seeking relief are not risks covered by the insurance policies in
question. The remaining defendants are contesting these claims vigorously.
Discovery is complete as to the 12 sites in the first phase of the case and
discovery is expected to continue for several years as to the remaining sites.
Currently, trial dates have not


                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

been set. The Company is unable at this time to predict the outcome of this
proceeding. No amounts have been recognized in the Company's financial
statements for potential recoveries.

     It is not possible at this time to predict the impact that the above
lawsuits, proceedings, investigations and inquiries may have on WM Holdings or
the Company, nor is it possible to predict whether any other suits or claims may
arise out of these matters in the future. However, it is reasonably possible
that the outcome of any present or future litigation, proceedings,
investigations or inquiries may have a material adverse impact on their
respective financial conditions or results of operations in one or more future
periods. The Company and WM Holdings intend to defend themselves vigorously in
all the above matters.

     The Company and certain of its subsidiaries are also currently involved in
other civil litigation and governmental proceedings relating to the conduct of
their business. The outcome of any particular lawsuit or governmental
investigation cannot be predicted with certainty and these matters could have a
material adverse impact on the Company's financial statements.

     Insurance -- The Company carries a broad range of insurance coverages,
which management considers prudent for the protection of the Company's assets
and operations including general liability, automobile liability, real and
personal property, workers' compensation, directors' and officers' liability,
and such other coverages as management deems necessary. Some of these coverages
are subject to varying retentions of risk by the Company. At December 31, 1999,
the Company's casualty policies provided for $2 million per occurrence coverage
for primary commercial general liability and $1 million per accident coverage
for primary automobile liability (including coverage for pollution exposure
arising out of trucking operations) supported by $500 million in umbrella
insurance protection. At December 31, 1999 the Company's property policy
provided insurance coverage for all of the Company's real and personal property
on a replacement cost basis, including California earthquake perils. At December
31, 1999 the Company also carried $200 million in aircraft liability protection.
The Company believes these are appropriate levels for its operations and that
such levels meet applicable requirements of the various states and countries in
which it operates, however, various factors including cost and coverage
availability could cause the Company to change its levels of coverage.

     The Company maintains workers' compensation insurance in accordance with
laws of the various states and countries in which it has employees. At December
31, 1999, the Company's ongoing workers' compensation insurance program had a
deductible per incident of $250,000. Through the second quarter of 1999, the
Company estimated its insurance-related liabilities for the ongoing programs
mainly related to workers' compensation, based on an analysis of insurance
claims submitted for reimbursement, plus an estimate for liabilities incurred as
of the balance sheet date, but not yet reported to the Company. In the third
quarter of 1999, the Company began estimating these liabilities based on
actuarially determined estimates of ultimate losses. These estimates are
generally within a range of potential ultimate outcomes.

     The Company also currently has an environmental impairment liability
("EIL") insurance policy for certain of its landfills, transfer stations, and
recycling facilities that provides coverage for property damages and/or bodily
injuries to third parties caused by off-site pollution emanating from such
landfills, transfer stations, or recycling facilities. At December 31, 1999,
this policy provides $10 million of coverage per loss with a $20 million
aggregate limit.

     Through the date of the WM Holdings Merger, certain of WM Holdings' auto,
general liability, environmental impairment liability, and workers' compensation
risks were self-insured up to $5.0 million per accident. For such programs, a
provision was made in each accounting period for estimated losses, including
losses incurred but not reported, and the related reserves are adjusted as
additional claims information becomes available. Claims reserves related to WM
Holdings are discounted at 5.5% at December 31, 1999 and 1998. The
insurance-related liability for the ongoing program and the WM Holdings'
self-insurance runoff program included in the accompanying balance sheet amounts
to $361.7 million and $334.5 million at December 31, 1999 and 1998,
respectively.


                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     To date, the Company has not experienced any difficulty in obtaining
insurance. However, if the Company in the future is unable to obtain adequate
insurance, or decides to operate without insurance, a partially or completely
uninsured claim against the Company, if successful and of sufficient magnitude,
could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition,
results of operations or cash flows. Additionally, continued availability of
casualty and EIL insurance with sufficient limits at acceptable terms is an
important aspect of obtaining revenue-producing waste service contracts.

19. OPERATIONS HELD FOR SALE

     During the third quarter of 1999, the Company's Board of Directors adopted
a strategic plan, one element of which is for the Company to market for sale its
WM International operations, significant portions of its domestic non-core
businesses and selected NASW operations. As discussed in Note 2, the Company has
recorded charges to write down certain of these assets. In determining fair
value, the Company considered, among other things, the range of preliminary
purchase prices being discussed with potential buyers. These businesses' results
of operations are fully included in revenues and expenses in the accompanying
statement of operations.

     Operational information included in the statement of operations regarding
the businesses classified as operations held for sale at December 31, 1999, is
as follows (in thousands):



- ---------------

(a)  For those items included in the determination of EBIT (the earnings
     measurement used by management to evaluate operating performance), the
     accounting policies of the segments are generally the same as those
     described in the summary of significant accounting policies. (See Note 3.)
     EBIT is defined as income (loss) from operations excluding merger and
     acquisition related costs, asset impairments and unusual items, and income
     from continuing operations held for sale, net of minority interest.

     The Company has classified as current operations held for sale its WM
International operations and certain domestic operations, which management
believes will be divested prior to December 31, 2000. The Company has classified
as non-current operations held for sale certain NASW operations which the
Company


                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

has committed to sell to Allied Waste Industries, Inc. ("Allied") in connection
with the Company's purchase of certain of Allied's operations, as well as the
Company's surplus real estate portfolio.



     At December 31, 1998, the Company planned to dispose of certain assets to
comply with governmental orders related to the WM Holdings Merger and Eastern
Merger and certain other assets as a result of implementing the business
strategy related to the WM Holdings Merger and thus, classified these assets as
current assets held for sale. These operations are set forth in the table below.
These businesses' results of operations are fully included in revenues and
expenses in the 1998 statement of operations and generated third-party operating
revenues of approximately $372.6 million and earnings before interest and taxes
of approximately $20.6 million in 1998. As discussed in Notes 4 and 15, the
Company recorded charges to write these assets down to fair value, less costs to
sell.


                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Information regarding the businesses classified as operations held for sale
as of December 31, 1998 (in thousands):



     At the beginning of 1997, management classified as discontinued and planned
to sell Rust International Inc.'s ("Rust") domestic environmental and
infrastructure engineering and consulting business and Chemical Waste
Management, Inc.'s ("CWM") high organic waste fuel blending services business.
At the end of 1997, management reclassified the CWM business back into
continuing operations, and classified certain of its sites as operations held
for sale. The Rust dispositions were not completed within one year, and
accordingly, these businesses were reclassified back into continuing operations
held for sale, at December 31, 1997, though management continued its efforts to
market these businesses. Because these businesses were reclassified to
continuing operations, the remaining provision for loss on disposal ($95.0
million after tax -- $87.0 million related to Rust and $8.0 million related to
CWM) was reversed in discontinued operations and an impairment loss for Rust of
$122.2 million was recorded in continuing operations in the fourth quarter of
1997.

20. SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA, UNAUDITED

     The Company's independent public accountants' report on these financial
statements indicates that they do not believe that the Company's internal
controls for the preparation of interim financial information were sufficient to
provide them an adequate basis to complete a review in accordance with standards
established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants of the
selected 1999 quarterly financial data, set forth below. See Note 2.


                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The following table summarizes the unaudited quarterly results of
operations for 1999 and 1998 (in thousands, except per share amounts):



     Basic and diluted earnings per common share for each of the quarters
presented above is based on the respective weighted average number of common and
dilutive potential common shares outstanding for each period and the sum of the
quarters may not necessarily be equal to the full year basic and diluted
earnings per common share amounts. For certain periods presented, the effect of
the Company's common stock options and warrants and the effect of the Company's
convertible subordinated notes and debentures are excluded from the diluted
earnings per share calculations since inclusion of such items would be
antidilutive for that period.

21. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     WM Holdings ("Guarantor"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Waste Management,
Inc. ("Parent"), has fully and unconditionally guaranteed all of the senior
indebtedness of the Parent, as well as the Parent's 4% convertible subordinated
notes due 2002. The Parent has fully and unconditionally guaranteed all of the
senior indebtedness of WM Holdings, as well as WM Holdings' 5.75% convertible
subordinated debentures due 2005. However, none of the Company's nor WM
Holdings' debt is guaranteed by any of the Parent's indirect subsidiaries or WM
Holdings' subsidiaries ("Non-Guarantor"). Accordingly, the following condensed
consolidating balance sheets as of December 31, 1999 and 1998 and the related
condensed consolidating statements of operations for 1999, 1998, and 1997, along
with the related statements of cash flows, have been provided below (in
thousands).


                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

                     CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEET
                               DECEMBER 31, 1999

                                     ASSETS




                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

                     CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEET
                               DECEMBER 31, 1998

                                     ASSETS




                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

                CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999



                CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998




                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

                CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997




                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

                CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999




                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

                CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998




                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

                CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997




                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

22. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

     As part of its strategic plan, the Company announced in January 2000 that
one of its subsidiaries has reached an agreement to sell its waste services
operations in Finland to Lassila & Tikanoja plc for approximately $100 million.
The transaction is subject to the approval of the Finnish Competition Authority.
In February 2000, the Company announced that one of its subsidiaries intends to
sell the 60.5% interest in Waste Management New Zealand Limited that it owns.
The sale is to be by way of a public and institutional offering in New Zealand
and an institutional offering in selected overseas markets. The shares will not
be or have not been registered under the United States Securities Act of 1933,
as amended, and may not be offered and sold in the United States without
registration thereof. In March 2000, the Company announced that one of its
wholly-owned subsidiaries has reached an agreement to sell its waste services
operations in The Netherlands to Shanks Group plc for approximately $328
million. The sale is subject to the Shanks Group's raising capital and obtaining
financing. The Company expects each of these transactions to be completed in the
second quarter of 2000.

     Additionally, in March 2000, the Company announced that one of its
subsidiaries reached an agreement to sell its nuclear services business to GTS
Duratek, Inc. for up to $65 million (unaudited) in cash, consisting of $55
million (unaudited) at closing and up to $10 million (unaudited) in additional
cash consideration upon the satisfaction of certain post-closing conditions. The
sale, which is subject to regulatory approvals and other customary conditions,
is expected to occur in the second quarter of 2000.



ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

     None.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

     The information required by this Item concerning directors of the Company
is set forth under the caption "Election of Directors" in the Company's
definitive Proxy Statement for its 2000 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, to be
filed pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended (the "2000 Proxy Statement"), and is incorporated herein by reference.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     Set forth below are the names and ages, as of March 6, 2000, of the
Company's executive officers (as defined by regulations of the SEC), the
positions they hold with the Company, and summaries of their business
experience.

     Robert P. Damico, age 51, has been Senior Vice President -- Midwest Area
since the consummation of the WM Holdings Merger in July 1998. Prior thereto,
Mr. Damico had served in various capacities at WM Holdings since 1980, including
District Manager, Division Manager and Region Manager for the Mountain Region.

     David R. Hopkins, age 56, has been Senior Vice President -- International
Operations since November 1998 and has been Chief Executive Officer of Waste
Management International, Inc. during that same period. Prior thereto, Mr.
Hopkins had served as Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of
Browning-Ferris Industries, Inc. since 1987.

     Ronald H. Jones, age 49, has been Vice President and Treasurer since
joining the Company in June 1995. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Jones was
employed by Chambers Development Company, Inc. ("Chambers") as Vice President
and Treasurer from July 1992 to June 1995, Director, Corporate Development from
December 1990 to July 1992, and Assistant Vice President -- Finance from July
1989 to December 1990. Prior to joining Chambers, Mr. Jones was a Vice President
and Manager of the Cincinnati regional office engaged in corporate and middle
market lending with Bank of New York (formerly Irving Trust Company) and with
Chase Manhattan Bank.

     Miller J. Mathews, Jr., age 62, has been the Senior Vice
President -- Southern Area since the consummation of the WM Holdings Merger.
Prior thereto, Mr. Mathews was the Company's Region Vice President -- Southern
Region since 1995 when the waste company which he had owned since 1981, Sunray
Services, Inc., was acquired by the Company.

     A. Maurice Myers, age 59, has been Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive
Officer and President of the Company since November 1999. Mr. Myers was employed
by Yellow Corporation, where he was Chairman, CEO and President since April
1996. Yellow Corporation is the parent company of Yellow Freight, one of the
nation's oldest and largest trucking companies. Prior to joining Yellow
Corporation in 1996, Mr. Myers served as President and Chief Operating Officer
of America West Airlines. Mr. Myers also served as President and CEO of Aloha
Airlines, and held a senior management position with Continental Airlines.

     Lawrence O'Donnell, III, age 42, has been Senior Vice President, General
Counsel and Secretary of the Company since January 2000. From 1991 until joining
the Company, Mr. O'Donnell was with Baker Hughes Incorporated where he held
various positions, including Vice President and General Counsel since 1995.

     Susan J. Piller, age 47, has been Senior Vice President -- Employee
Relations since May 1996. Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Piller was with
Browning-Ferris Industries, Inc. from 1984 until 1996, where she held various
labor and employment positions, including Vice President -- Employee Relations.
Prior thereto, Ms. Piller was employed by the Houston law firm of Fulbright &
Jaworski.



     Robert G. Simpson, age 48, has been Vice President -- Taxation since
November 1998. From July 1997 to November 1998, Mr. Simpson served as Vice
President and General Manager of Tenneco Inc. and Tenneco Business Services, a
diversified industrial company. From April 1990 to July 1997, Mr. Simpson served
as Vice President -- Tax of Tenneco Inc.

     Thomas L. Smith, age 61, has been Senior Vice President -- Information
Systems since November 1999. From February 1997 through November 1999, Mr. Smith
was Vice President of Information Systems of Yellow Services, Inc., and from
November 1989 through February 1997 held the same position at America West
Airlines.

     Bruce E. Snyder, age 44, has been Vice President and Chief Accounting
Officer of the Company since July 1992. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Snyder
was employed by the international accounting firm of Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.,
serving there since 1989 as an audit manager.

     Douglas G. Sobey, age 48, has been Senior Vice President -- Western Area,
since July 1998. From 1996 to July 1998, Mr. Sobey was the Company's Region Vice
President -- Northwest Region. From 1990 to 1996, Mr. Sobey held similar
positions with Sanifill, Inc.

     William L. Trubeck, age 53, has been Senior Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer since March 2000. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Trubeck
was employed by International Multifoods Corporation, where he was Senior Vice
President -- Finance, and Chief Financial Officer since early 1997 and
President, Latin American Operations, since 1998. Prior to joining International
Multifoods, Mr. Trubeck was Senior Vice President -- Finance, and Chief
Financial Officer of SPX Corporation from 1994 to 1997.

     Charles A. Wilcox, age 47, has been Senior Vice President -- Eastern Area
since July 1998. From August 1996 to July 1998, Mr. Wilcox was Region Vice
President -- Central Region. From December 1994 to August 1996, Mr. Wilcox
served as an Executive Vice President of the Company.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

     The information required by this Item is set forth under the caption
"Election of Directors -- Executive Compensation" in the 2000 Proxy Statement
and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.

     The information required by this Item is set forth under the caption
"Election of Directors -- Beneficial Ownership of Waste Management Common Stock"
in the 2000 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

     The information required by this Item is set forth under the caption
"Election of Directors -- Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" in the
2000 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

                                    PART IV

ITEM 14. FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, EXHIBITS, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

     (a)(1) Consolidated Financial Statements:

        Report of Independent Public Accountants

        Report of Independent Accountants

        Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1999 and 1998

        Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31,
        1999, 1998, and 1997



        Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the years ended
        December 31, 1999, 1998, and 1997

        Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31,
        1999, 1998, and 1997

        Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the years ended
        December 31, 1999, 1998, and 1997

        Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

     (a)(2) Consolidated Financial Statement Schedules:

        Schedule II -- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

        All other schedules have been omitted because the required information
        is not significant or is included in the financial statements or notes
        thereto, or is not applicable.

     (a)(3) Exhibits:















- ---------------

 *  In the case of incorporation by reference to documents filed under the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant's file number under that Act
    is 1-12154. Waste Management Holdings' file number under the Exchange Act is
    1-7327, Chemical Waste Management, Inc.'s file number is 1-9253 and
    Wheelabrator Technologies Inc.'s file number is 0-14246.

     (b) Reports on Form 8-K:

     During the fourth quarter of 1999, the Company filed a Current Report on
Form 8-K dated October 20, 1999 to report the resignation of Messrs. Heckmann,
Kinder and Drury from the Board of Directors of the Company effective August 13,
September 23 and October 19, 1999, respectively. The Company also reported that
consistent with its plan to reduce the size of its Board of Directors, none of
Messrs. Heckmann's, Kinder's or Drury's board positions would be filled.



                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
                                            WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

                                            By:    /s/ A. MAURICE MYERS
                                              ----------------------------------
                                                       A. Maurice Myers
                                              President, Chief Executive Officer
                                                              and
                                                    Chairman of the Board
Date: March 30, 2000

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.





                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To the Stockholders and Board of Directors
  of Waste Management, Inc.:

We have audited in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the
United States, the consolidated financial statements of Waste Management, Inc.
and subsidiaries included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and have issued our
report thereon dated March 27, 2000, in which we expressed an unqualified
opinion based upon our audits and the report of other auditors. Our report
contained an explanatory paragraph indicating that we attempted, but were
unable, to review the quarterly financial data for the interim periods within
1999 included in Note 20 to the Company's consolidated financial statements. Our
audits were made for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic financial
statements taken as a whole. Schedule II is the responsibility of the Company's
management and is presented for purposes of complying with the Securities and
Exchange Commission's rules and is not part of the basic financial statements.
Schedule II has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audits,
of the basic financial statements, and, in our opinion, fairly states in all
material respects the financial data required to be set forth therein in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole.


ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP


Houston, Texas
March 27, 2000



                             WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.
                 SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)



(A)  Acquired reserves for doubtful accounts relative to purchase business
     combinations, reserves associated with dispositions of businesses, and
     reserves reclassified to operations held for sale.

(B)  Includes reserves for doubtful long-term notes receivable.

(C)  Accruals are included in accrued liabilities and other liabilities.
     These accruals represent transaction or deal costs, employee severance,
     separation, and transitional costs and restructuring charges.

(D)  Accruals for major maintenance expenditures at the Company's
     waste-to-energy and independent power facilities.


                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS












- ---------------

 *  In the case of incorporation by reference to documents filed under the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant's file number under that Act
    is 1-12154. Waste Management Holdings' file number under the Exchange Act is
    1-7327, Chemical Waste Management, Inc.'s file number is 1-9253 and
    Wheelabrator Technologies Inc.'s file number is 0-14246.

