
10-K
FORM 10-K







                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K



          Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
/X/       Securities Exchange Act of 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993

          Transaction Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
/ /       Securities Act of 1934


                           Commission File No. 1-4018

                               DOVER CORPORATION
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

       Delaware                            53-0257888
(State of Incorporation)     (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

280 Park Avenue, New York, NY         10017
(Address of principal executive    (Zip Code)
offices)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code
(212) 922-1640

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                  Name of each exchange
    Title of each class             on which registered 

Common Stock, par value $1.       New York Stock Exchange

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months with the Commission and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past ninety days.  Yes  X   No   .
                                                                   ---     --

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K (Section  229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive
proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.   X
                                               ---

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant as of February 28, 1994 was $3,236,712,089.

The number of outstanding shares of the Registrant's common stock as of
February 28, 1994 was 57,179,870.


DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Parts I, II, and IV  -    Certain portions of the Annual Report to
                          Stockholders for Fiscal  Year Ended December 31,
                          1993 (the "1993  Annual Report").
                       
Part III             -    Certain portions of the Proxy Statement for Annual
                          Meeting to be held on April 26, 1994 (the "1994
                          Proxy Statement").
                       




                                     - 2 -

                                     PART I

Item 1.  BUSINESS

General

        Dover Corporation ("Dover" or the "Company") was originally
incorporated in 1947 in the State of Delaware and commenced operations as a
public company in 1954 with four operating divisions, engaged primarily in the
manufacture of metal fabricated industrial products.  Primarily through
acquisitions, the Company has grown to encompass over 60 different businesses
which fabricate, install and service elevators, and manufacture a broad range
of specialized industrial products and electronic components and sophisticated
manufacturing equipment.  The primary criteria for Dover operating companies is
that they strive to be the market leader in their respective market, meeting
customer needs with superior products and services with appropriate increased
compensation, while achieving long-term earnings growth, high cash flow and
superior return on stockholders' equity.

        The Company's businesses are divided into five business segments.
Dover Elevator manufacturers, sells, installs and services elevators primarily
in North America.  Dover Resources manufactures products primarily to serve the
automotive, fuel handling and service and petroleum industries.  Dover
Industries makes products for use in the waste handling, bulk transport,
automotive service, commercial food service and machine tool industries.  Dover
Technologies builds primarily sophisticated automated electronic assembly
equipment and to a lesser degree specialized electronic components.  Dover
Diversified builds heat transfer equipment, larger power generation,
sophisticated assembly and production machines, as well as sophisticated
products and control systems for use in the defense, aerospace and commercial
building industries.  Dover sells its products and services both directly and
through various distributors, sales and commission agents and manufacturers
representatives, in all cases consistent generally with the custom of the
industry and market being served.  For more information on these segments and
their products, sales, markets served, earnings before tax and total assets for
the six years ended December 31, 1993, see pages 6 through 16 of the 1993
Annual Report, which are hereby incorporated by reference.

        During the past five years, Dover has spent approximately $550 million
on acquisitions of which $321 million was expended in 1993.  For more detail
regarding acquisitions, see pages 1 through 5 of the 1993 Annual Report as well
as Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 21-22 of the 1993
Annual Report, which are hereby incorporated by reference.





                                     - 3 -

Raw Materials

        Dover's operating companies use a wide variety of raw materials,
primarily metals, semi-processed or finished components, which are generally
available from a number of sources.  Temporary shortages may occur
occasionally, but have not resulted in business interruptions or major
problems, nor are any such problems anticipated.

Research and Development

        Dover's operating companies are encouraged to develop new products as
well as upgrade and improve existing products to satisfy customer needs, expand
sales opportunities and improve product reliability and reduce production
costs.  During 1993, approximately $60 million was spent on research and
development, compared with $68 million and $62 million in 1992 and 1991,
respectively.

        Dover holds or is licensed to use a substantial number of U.S. patents
covering a number of its product lines, and to a far lesser degree patents in
certain foreign countries where it conducts business.  Dover licenses some of
its patents to other companies for which it collects royalties which are not
significant.  These patents have been obtained over a number of years and
expire at various times.  Although patents in the aggregate are important to
Dover, the loss or expiration of any one patent or group of patents would not
materially affect Dover or any of its segments.  Where patents have expired,
Dover believes that its commitment to leadership in continuous engineering
improvements, manufacturing techniques, and other sales, service and marketing
efforts are significant to maintaining its general market leadership position.

Trademarks and Tradenames

        Several of the Company's products are sold under various trademarks and
tradenames owned or licensed by the Company.  Among the most significant are:
Dover, Heil, Norris, Universal, DEK, Brown & Sharpe, Marathon, OPW, Duncan,
Blackmer, Rotary Lift, Groen, Annubar, Sargent, A-C Compressor and Tipper Tie.

Seasonality

        Dover's operations are generally not seasonal.

Customers

        Dover's businesses serve thousands of customers, no one of which
accounted for more than 10% of sales.  Within each of the five segments, no
customer accounted for more than 10% of segment sales.





                                     - 4 -

Backlog

        Backlog generally is not considered a significant factor in Dover's
businesses, as most products have relatively short delivery periods.  The only
exceptions are in those businesses which produce larger and more sophisticated
machines, or have long-term government contractor subcontracts, particularly in
the Diversified Group (Belvac, A-C Compressor, Sargent Controls and Sargent
Technologies) and the Technologies Group (Universal).

        Total Company backlog as of December 31, 1993 and 1992 was $710,977,000
and $606,681,000 respectively.

Competition

        Dover's competitive environment is complex because of the wide
diversity of products manufactured and markets served.  In general, Dover
companies are market leaders which compete with only a few companies.  In
addition, since most of Dover's manufacturing operation are in the United
States, Dover usually is a more significant competitor domestically than in
foreign markets.  There are some exceptions.

        In the Elevator segment, Dover competes for the manufacture and
installation of elevators with a few generally large multinational competitors
and maintains a strong domestic position.  For service work, there are numerous
local, regional and national competitors.

        In the Technologies segment, Dover competes globally against a few very
large companies, primarily based in Japan or Europe.  Within the other three
segments, there are a few companies whose markets and competition are
international, particularly Wittemann, AOT, Tipper Tie and Belvac.

International

        For foreign sales and assets, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements on page 22 of the 1993 Annual Report and information about the
Company's Operations in Different Geographic Areas on page 27 of the 1993
Annual Report, which are incorporated herein by reference.  Export sales of
domestic operations were $392 million in 1993 and $432 million in 1992.

        Although international operations are subject to certain risks, such as
price and exchange rate fluctuations and other foreign governmental
restrictions, Dover intends to increase its expansion into foreign markets,
particularly with respect to its elevator business, as domestic markets mature.

        The countries where most of Dover's foreign subsidiaries and affiliates
are based are Canada, Great Britain and Germany.





                                     - 5 -

Environmental Matters

        Dover believes its operations generally are in substantial compliance
with applicable regulations.  In some instances, particular plants and
businesses have been the subject of administrative and legal proceedings with
governmental agencies relating to the discharge or potential discharge of
materials.  Where necessary, these matters have been addressed with specific
consent orders to achieve compliance.  Dover believes that continued compliance
will not have any material impact on the Company's financial position going
forward and will not require significant capital expenditures beyond normal
requirements.

Employees

        The Company had approximately 20,500 employees as of December 31, 1993.

Item 2.  DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY

The number, type, location and size of the Company's properties are shown on
the following charts, by segment.





        The facilities are generally well maintained and suitable for the
operations conducted and their productive capacity is adequate for current
needs.

Item 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

        Dover is party to a number of legal proceedings arising out of the
normal course of its businesses.  In general, most claims arise in connection
with activities of its Elevator segment





                                     - 6 -

operations and certain of its other businesses which make products used by the
public.  In recent years, Dover has also been involved with the Internal
Revenue Service regarding tax assessments for the eight years ended December
31, 1989 and certain patent litigation.  In addition, matters have arisen under
various environmental laws, as well as under local regulatory compliance
agencies.  For a further description of such matters, see Note 13 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements on page 26 of the 1993 Annual Report, which
is incorporated herein by reference.

        Based on insurance availability, established reserves and periodic
reviews of those matters, management is of the opinion that the ultimate
resolution of current pending claims and known contingencies should not have a
material adverse effect on Dover's financial position taken as a whole.

Item 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY
              HOLDERS

         Not applicable.

         EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

         All officers are elected annually at the first meeting of the Board of
Directors following the annual meeting of stockholders and are subject to
removal at any time by the Board of Directors.  The executive officers of Dover
as of March 11, 1994, and their positions with the Company for the past five
years are as follows:

                                    





                                     - 7 -

                                   


                                    PART II

Item 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK
         AND RELATED SECURITY HOLDER MATTERS

         The principal market in which the Company's Common Stock is traded is
the New York Stock Exchange.  Information on the high and low prices of such
stock and the frequency and the amount of dividends paid during the last two
years, is set forth on Page 32 of the 1993 Annual Report and incorporated
herein by reference.

         The number of holders of record of the Registrant's Common Stock as of
February 28, 1994 is approximately 3,100.

Item 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

         The information for the years 1983 through 1993 is set forth in the
Annual Report on pages 30 and 31 and is incorporated herein by reference.





                                     - 8 -

Item 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
         FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

         The information set forth in the Annual Report on pages 28 and 29 is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

         The information set forth in the Annual Report on pages 17 through 27
is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 9.  DISAGREEMENTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL
         DISCLOSURE

         Not applicable.

                                    PART III

Item 10.   DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

           The information with respect to the directors of the Company required
to be included pursuant to this Item 10 is included under the caption "Election
of Directors" in the 1994 Proxy Statement relating to the 1994 Annual Meeting
of Stockholders to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the
"Commission") pursuant to Rule 14a-6 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended, and is incorporated in this Item 10 by reference.  The information
with respect to the executive officers of the Company required to be included
pursuant to this Item 10 is included under the caption "Executive Officers of
the Company" in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item 11.   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

           The information with respect to executive compensation required to be
included pursuant to this Item 11 is included under the caption "Compensation"
in the 1994 Proxy Statement and is incorporated in this Item 11 by reference.

Item 12.   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
           MANAGEMENT

           The information regarding security ownership of certain beneficial
owners and management that is required to be included pursuant to this Item 12
is included under the captions "General" and "Security Ownership" in the 1994
Proxy Statement and is incorporated in this Item 12 by reference.

Item 13.   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

           The information with respect to any reportable transaction, business
relationship or indebtedness between the Company and the beneficial owners of
more than 5% of the Common Stock, the directors or nominees for director of the
Company, the





                                     - 9 -

executive officers of the Company or the members of the immediate families of
such individuals that is required to be included pursuant to this Item 13 is
included under the caption "Election of Directors" in the 1994 Proxy Statement
and is incorporated in this Item 13 by reference.

                                    PART IV

Item 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES,
          AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     (a)(1).  Financial Statements

        The following consolidated financial statements of Dover Corporation
and its subsidiaries are set forth in the 1993 Annual Report, which financial
statements are incorporated herein by reference:

              (A)  Independent Auditors' Report.

              (B)  Consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 1993, 1992
        and 1991.

              (C)  Consolidated statements of earnings for the years ended
        December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991.

              (D)  Consolidated statements of retained earnings for the years
        ended December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991.

              (E)  Consolidated statements of cash flows for the years ended
        December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991.

              (F)  Notes to consolidated financial statements.

        (2)  Financial Statement Schedules

        The following financial statement schedules are included in Part IV of
this report:

        Independent Auditors' Report on Schedules and Consent
                    II -  Amounts Receivable from Related
                          Parties and Underwriters, Promoters and
                          Employees Other than Related Parties
                  VIII  - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
                    IX  - Short-term Borrowings
                     X  - Supplementary Income Statement
                          Information
                  
        All other schedules are not required and have been omitted.

        (b)   No reports on Form 8-K have been filed during the fourth quarter
of the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993.





                                     - 10 -

        (c)  Exhibits:

              (13)    Dover's Annual Report to Stockholders for its fiscal
        year ended December 31, 1993.

              (21)    Subsidiaries of Dover.

              (23)    Independent Auditors' consent.  (See Independent
        Auditors' Report on Schedules and Consent)

              (24)    Powers of Attorney.



                                   SIGNATURES

              Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

                                             DOVER CORPORATION

                                                 Gary L. Roubos
                                             By: ------------------------
                                                 Gary L. Roubos
                                                 Chairman


                                                  Date:  March 29, 1994

              Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of
the Registrant in the capacities and on the dates indicated.







                                     - 11 -




        Robert G. Kuhbach
*  By -------------------------
        Robert G. Kuhbach
        Attorney-in-Fact





                                     - 12 -

            INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT ON SCHEDULES AND CONSENT



The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Dover Corporation:


Under date of February 22, 1994, we reported on the consolidated balance sheets
of Dover Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991
and the related consolidated statements of earnings, retained earnings, and
cash flows of the years then ended, as contained in the 1993 annual 
report to stockholders.  These consolidated financial statements and our 
report thereon are incorporated by reference in the annual report on Form 
10-K for the year 1993.  In connection with our audits of the aforementioned 
consolidated financial statements, we also have audited the related financial 
statement schedules listed in answer to Part IV, item 14(A)2 of Form 10-K.  
These financial statement schedules are the responsibility of the Company's 
management.  Our responsibility is the express an opinion on these financial 
statement schedules based on our audits.

In our opinion, such financial statement schedules when considered in relation
to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, present
fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.

In addition, we consent to the incorporation by reference of our above-
mentioned report dated February 22, 1984 in the Registration Statement 
(No. 2-58037) on Form S-8 (1974 Incentive Stock Option Plan) in the 
Registration Statement (No. 33-11229) on Form S-8 the Prospectus dated 
January 28, 1987 (1984 Incentive Stock Option Plan) and in the Registration 
Statement (No. 2-91561) on Form S-8 dated July 1, 1984 to the Dover Corporation
Employee Savings and Investment Plan.  We also consent to the reference to our 
firm under the heading "Financial Statements and Experts" in the Prospectuses.


                                             KPMG Peat Marwick



New York, New York
March 29, 1994

                                                                     SCHEDULE II

                       DOVER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                    Amounts Receivable from Related Parties
                        and Underwriters, Promoters, and
                      Employees Other Than Related Parties

                  Years ended December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991









Notes:
    (1)  Unsecured loan to employee, payable on demand, bearing interest at
         4.16%.

    (2)  Loan to employee for purchase of residence, payable on demand, bearing
         interest at 8.75%, secured by residence.

                                                                   SCHEDULE VIII

                       DOVER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                       Valuations and Qualifying Accounts

                     Years ended December 31, 1992 and 1991




                                                                 





Notes:
    (1) Represents uncollectible accounts written off and reductions of prior
        years over provision less recoveries of accounts previously written
        off, net of additions and deductions relating to acquired and
        divested companies.

                                                                     SCHEDULE IX


                       DOVER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                             Short-Term Borrowings

                  Years ended December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991





Notes:
  (1)  Represents maximum amount outstanding at any month-end.

  (2)  Average of 13 month-end balances (including December of previous year).

  (3)  Weighted average of interest rates on all commercial paper outstanding
       at month-end.

  (4)  Includes $250,000 classified as long-term debt.

                                                                      SCHEDULE X

                       DOVER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Supplementary Income Statement Information

                  Years ended December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991








Notes:
   *  Amounts not shown are not in excess of 1% of total sales.

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX








                                     - 13 -

