Item 1. Business.



Ross Stores,
Inc. and its subsidiaries (“we” or the “Company”) operate two chains of
off-price retail apparel and home accessoriesstores. At
January 30, 2010, we operated a total of 1,005 stores, of which 953 were Ross
Dress for Less®(“Ross”) locations in 27 states and Guam and 52 were dd’s DISCOUNTS®stores in four states.
Both chains target value-conscious women and men between the ages of 18 and 54.
Ross target customers are primarily from middle income households, while the
dd’s DISCOUNTS target customer is typically from more moderate income
households. The decisions we make, from merchandising, purchasing and pricing,
to the locations of our stores, are based on these customer
profiles.



Ross offers
first-quality, in-season, name brand and designer apparel, accessories,
footwear, and home fashions for the entire family at everyday savings of 20 to
60 percent off department and specialty store regular prices. dd’s DISCOUNTS
features a more moderately-priced assortment of first-quality, in-season, name
brand apparel, accessories, footwear, and home fashions for the entire family at
everyday savings of 20 to 70 percent off moderate department and discount store
regular prices. We believe that both Ross and dd’s DISCOUNTS derive a
competitive advantage by offering a wide assortment of product within each of
our merchandise categories in organized and easy-to-shop store environments.



Our mission is
to offer competitive values to our target customers by focusing on the following
key strategic objectives:

Maintain an
  appropriate level of recognizable brands, labels, and fashions at strong
  discounts throughout the store.

Meet customer
  needs on a local basis.

Deliver an
  in-store shopping experience that reflects the expectations of the off-price
  customer.

Manage real
  estate growth to compete effectively across all our markets.

We refer to our
fiscal years ended January 30, 2010, January 31, 2009, and February 2, 2008 as
fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008, and fiscal 2007, respectively.



Merchandising, Purchasing and
Pricing



We seek to
provide our customers with a wide assortment of first-quality, in-season,
brand-name and designer apparel, accessories, footwear, and home merchandise for
the entire family at everyday savings of 20 to 60 percent below department and
specialty store regular prices at Ross, and 20 to 70 percent below moderate
department and discount store regular prices at dd’s DISCOUNTS. We sell
recognizable brand-name merchandise that is current and fashionable in each
category. New merchandise typically is received from three to six times per week
at both Ross and dd’s DISCOUNTS stores. Our buyers review their merchandise
assortments on a weekly basis, enabling them to respond to selling trends and
purchasing opportunities in the market. Our merchandising strategy is reflected
in our advertising, which emphasizes a strong value message. Our stores offer a
treasure-hunt shopping experience where customers can find great savings every
day on a broad assortment of brand-name bargains for the family and the
home.












Merchandising.Our merchandising strategy incorporates
a combination of off-price buying techniques to purchase advance-of-season,
in-season, and past-season merchandise for both Ross and dd’s DISCOUNTS. We
believe nationally recognized name brands sold at compelling discounts will
continue to be an important determinant of our success. We generally leave the
brand-name label on the merchandise we sell.



We have
established merchandise assortments that we believe are attractive to our target
customers. Although we offer fewer classifications of merchandise than most
department stores, we generally offer a large selection of brand names within
each classification with a wide assortment of vendors, labels, prices, colors,
styles, and fabrics within each size or item. The mix of comparable store sales
by department in fiscal 2009 was approximately as follows: Ladies 30%, Home
Accents and Bed and Bath 24%, Men's 13%, Accessories, Lingerie, Fine Jewelry,
and Fragrances 13%, Shoes 11%, and Children’s 9%. Our merchandise offerings also
include product categories such as small furniture and furniture accents,
educational toys and games, luggage, gourmet food and cookware, watches,
sporting goods and, in select Ross stores, fine jewelry.



Purchasing.We have a combined network of
approximately 7,700 merchandise vendors and manufacturers for both Ross and dd’s
DISCOUNTS and believe we have adequate sources of first-quality merchandise to
meet our requirements. We purchase the vast majority of our merchandise directly
from manufacturers, and we have not experienced any difficulty in obtaining
sufficient merchandise inventory.



We believe that
our ability to effectively execute certain off-price buying strategies is a key
factor in our success. Our buyers use a number of methods that enable us to
offer our customers brand-name and designer merchandise at strong everyday
discounts relative to department and specialty stores for Ross and moderate
department and discount stores for dd’s DISCOUNTS. By purchasing later in the
merchandise buying cycle than department, specialty, and discount stores we are
able to take advantage of imbalances between retailers’ demand for products and
manufacturers’ supply of those products.



Unlike most
department and specialty stores, we typically do not require that manufacturers
provide promotional allowances, co-op advertising allowances, return privileges,
split shipments, drop shipments to stores, or delayed deliveries of merchandise.
For most orders, only one delivery is made to one of our four distribution
centers. These flexible requirements further enable our buyers to obtain
significant discounts on in-season purchases.



The majority of
the apparel and apparel-related merchandise that we offer in all of our stores
is acquired through opportunistic purchases created by manufacturer overruns and
canceled orders both during and at the end of a season. These buys are referred
to as "close-out" and "packaway" purchases. Close-outs can be shipped to stores
in-season, allowing us to get in-season goods into our stores at lower prices.
Packaway merchandise is purchased with the intent that it will be stored in our
warehouses until a later date, which may even be the beginning of the same
selling season in the following year. Packaway purchases are an effective method
of increasing the percentage of prestige and national brands at competitive
savings within our merchandise assortments. Packaway merchandise is mainly
fashion basics and, therefore, not usually affected by shifts in fashion
trends.



In fiscal 2009,
we continued our emphasis on this important sourcing strategy in response to
compelling opportunities available in the marketplace. Packaway accounted for
approximately 38% of total inventories as of January 30, 2010 and January 31,
2009. We believe the strong discounts we are able to offer on packaway
merchandise are one of the key drivers of our business results.












We continued to
roll out additional information system enhancements and process changes to
improve our merchandising capabilities. These new tools are designed to
strengthen our ability to plan, buy, and allocate at a more local versus
regional level. We completed the chain-wide rollout to all merchandise
categories for Ross in fiscal 2009, which was earlier than planned. The
long-term objective of these investments is to fine tune our merchandise
offerings to address more localized customer preferences and thereby gradually
increase sales productivity and gross profit margins in both newer and existing
regions and markets.



Our buying
offices are located in New York City and Los Angeles, the nation's two largest
apparel markets. These strategic locations allow our buyers to be in the market
on a daily basis, sourcing opportunities andnegotiating purchases with vendors and
manufacturers. These locations also enable our buyers to strengthen vendor
relationships -- a key element to the success of our off-price buying
strategies.



Over the past
year, we continued to make strategic investments in our merchandise organization
to further enhance our ability to deliver name brand bargains to our customers.
At the end of fiscal 2009, we had a total of approximately 410 merchants for
Ross and dd’s DISCOUNTS combined, up from 360 in the prior year. The Ross and
dd’s buying organizations are separate and distinct. These buying resources
include merchandise management, buyers, and assistant buyers. Ross and dd’s
DISCOUNTS buyers have an average of about 12 years of experience, including
merchandising positions with other retailers such as Ann Taylor, Bloomingdale's,
Burlington Coat Factory, Foot Locker, HomeGoods, Kohl’s, Loehmann’s, Lord &
Taylor, Macy's, Marshalls, Nordstrom, Saks, and T.J. Maxx. We expect to continue
to make additional targeted investments in new merchants to further develop our
relationships with an expanding number of manufacturers and vendors. Our ongoing
objective is to strengthen our ability to procure the most desirable brands and
fashions at competitive discounts.



The off-price
buying strategies utilized by our experienced team of merchants enable us to
purchase Ross merchandise at net prices that are lower than prices paid by
department and specialty stores and to purchase dd’s DISCOUNTS merchandise at
net prices that are lower than prices paid by moderate department and discount
stores.



Pricing.Our policy is to sell brand-name
merchandise at Ross that is priced 20 to 60 percent below most department and
specialty store regular prices. At dd’s DISCOUNTS, we sell more moderate
brand-name product and fashions that are priced 20 to 70 percent below most
moderate department and discount store regular prices. Our pricing policy is
reflected on the price tag displaying our selling price as well as the
comparable selling price for that item in department and specialty stores for
Ross merchandise, or in more moderate department and discount stores for dd’s
DISCOUNTS merchandise.



Our pricing
strategy at Ross differs from that of a department or specialty store. We
purchase our merchandise at lower prices and mark it up less than a department
or specialty store. This strategy enables us to offer customers consistently low
prices. On a weekly basis our buyers review specified departments in our stores
for possible markdowns based on the rate of sale as well as at the end of
fashion seasons to promote faster turnover of merchandise inventory and to
accelerate the flow of fresh product. A similar pricing strategy is in place at
dd’s DISCOUNTS where prices are compared to those in moderate department and
discount stores.



Stores



At January 30,
2010, we operated a total of1,005 stores
comprised of 953 Ross stores and 52 dd’s DISCOUNTS stores. Our stores are
conveniently located in predominantly community and neighborhood shopping
centers in heavily populated urban and suburban areas. Where the size of the
market permits, we cluster stores to benefit from economies of scale in
advertising, distribution, and field management.












We believe a key
element of our success is our organized, attractive, easy-to-shop, in-store
environments at both Ross and dd’s DISCOUNTS, which allow customers to shop at
their own pace. While our stores promote a self-service, treasure hunt shopping
experience, the layouts are designed to promote customer convenience in their
merchandise presentation, dressing rooms, checkout, and merchandise return
areas. Each store's sales area is based on a prototype single floor design with
a racetrack aisle layout. A customer can locate desired departments by signs
displayed just below the ceiling of each department. We enable our customers to
select among sizes and prices through prominent category and sizing markers,
promoting a self-service atmosphere. At most stores, shopping carts are
available at the entrance for customer convenience. All cash registers are
centrally located at store exits for customer ease and efficient
staffing.



We use
point-of-sale (“POS”) hardware and software systems in all stores, which
minimizes transaction time for the customer at the checkout counter by
electronically scanning each ticket at the point of sale and authorizing
personal checks and credit cards in a matter of seconds. In addition, the POS
systems allow us to accept debit cards and electronic gift cards from customers.
For Ross and dd’s DISCOUNTS combined, approximately 58% of payments in fiscal
2009 and fiscal 2008 were made with credit cards and debit cards. We provide
cash, credit card, and debit card refunds on all merchandise (not used, worn, or
altered) returned with a receipt within 30 days. Merchandise returns having a
receipt older than 30 days are exchanged or credited with store credit.



Operating Costs



Consistent with
the other aspects of our business strategy, we strive to keep operating costs as
low as possible. Among the factors which have enabled us to keep operating costs
low are:

Labor costs that generally
  are lower than full-price department and specialty stores due to a store
  design that creates a self-service retail format and due to the utilization of
  labor saving technologies.Economies of
  scale with respect to general and administrative costs as a result of
  centralized merchandising, marketing, and purchasing
  decisions.Flexible store
  layout criteria which facilitates conversion of existing buildings to our
  formats.

Information Systems



We continue to
invest in new information systems and technology to provide a platform for
growth over the next several years. Recent initiatives include the following:

We completed
  the rollout of demand forecasting software and related process changes
  designed to strengthen our merchandise planning effectiveness for Ross. We
  expect this initiative to drive gradual increases over time in store sales
  productivity and profitability by improving our ability to plan, buy, and
  allocate product at a more local level.We implemented
  additional supply chain enhancements to support expansion and improvement of
  our supply chain network. We also implemented a new labor time and attendance
  system at all of our distribution centers.We completed
  the rollout of new tools to better support the continued growth of our import
  business. These new tools provide our merchants with greater visibility into
  item cost components and inbound movement of import
products.








We made enhancements to our
  POS systems to reduce customer transaction and wait times.We implemented enhanced labor
  scheduling capabilities to give our stores the ability to better align the
  workforce with in-store activities.We upgraded our loss
  prevention software to allow for greater in-depth analysis and reporting. We
  also invested in additional store video surveillance systems to provide
  centralized remote monitoring.We implemented new on-line
  tools to assist our stores in their recruiting and hiring efforts. These new
  tools are designed to help our store managers expedite the hiring process and
  increase the quality of hiring decisions.

Distribution



We have four
distribution processing facilities–-two in California and one each in
Pennsylvania and South Carolina. We ship all of our merchandise to our stores
through these distribution centers, which are large, highly automated, and built
to suit our specific off-price business model.



In addition, we
own one and lease three other warehouse facilities for packaway storage. We use
other third-party facilities as needed for storage of packaway
inventory.



We also utilize
third-party cross docks to distribute merchandise to stores on a regional basis.
Shipments are made by contract carriers to the stores from three to six times
per week depending on location.



We believe that
our existing distribution centers with their current expansion capabilities will
provide adequate processing capacity to support store growth over the next few
years. Additional information on the size and locations of our distribution
centers and warehouse facilities is found under “Properties” in Item 2.



Advertising



We rely
primarily on television advertising to communicate the Ross value
proposition--brand-name merchandise at low everyday prices. This strategy
reflects our belief that television is the most efficient and cost-effective
medium for communicating everyday savings on a wide selection of brand-name
bargains for both the family and home. Advertising for dd’s DISCOUNTS is
primarily focused on new store grand openings and local grass roots initiatives.



Trademarks



The trademarks
for Ross Dress For Less®and dd’s
DISCOUNTS®have
been registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office.



Employees



As of January
30, 2010, we had approximately 45,600 total employees, including an estimated
32,300 part-time employees. Additionally, we hire temporary
employees--especially during the peak seasons. Our employees are non-union.
Management considers the relationship between the Company and our employees to
be good.












CompetitionWe believe the
principal competitive factors in the off-price retail apparel and home
accessories industry are offering significant discounts on brand-name
merchandise, offering a well-balanced assortment that appeals to our target
customer, and consistently providing store environments that are convenient and
easy to shop. To execute this concept, we continue to make strategic investments
in our buying organization. As discussed under Information Systems, we also
recently completed the rollout in fiscal 2009 of additional enhancements to our
merchandise planning system to strengthen our ability to plan, buy, and allocate
product based on more local versus regional trends. We believe that we are well
positioned to compete on the basis of each of these factors.

Nevertheless, the
retail apparel market is highly fragmented and competitive. We face a
challenging macro- economic and retail environment that creates intense
competition for business from department stores, specialty stores, discount
stores, warehouse stores, other off-price retailers, and manufacturer-owned
outlet stores, many of which are units of large national or regional chains that
have substantially greater resources. We also compete to some degree with
retailers that sell apparel and home accessories through catalogs or over the
internet. The retail apparel and home-related businesses may become even more
competitive in the future.



dd’s DISCOUNTS



At January 30,
2010, we operated 52 dd’s DISCOUNTS in four states: 39 in California, 7 in
Texas, 5 in Florida, and 1 in Arizona. At January 31, 2009, we had 39 dd’s
DISCOUNTS stores in California, 6 in Florida, 5 in Texas, and 2 in Arizona, for
a total of 52 stores. This smaller off-price concept targets the needs of
households with more moderate incomesthan Ross customers.We believe this is one of the fastest
growing demographic markets in the country. dd’s DISCOUNTS features a
moderately-priced assortment of first-quality, in-season, name brand apparel,
accessories, footwear, and home fashions at everyday savings of 20 to 70 percent
off moderate department and discount store regular prices.



The dd’s
DISCOUNTS business generally has similar merchandise departments and categories
to those of Ross, but features a different mix of brands at lower average price
points. The typical dd’s DISCOUNTS store is located in an established shopping
center in a densely populated urban or suburban neighborhood. The merchant,
store, and distribution organizations for dd’s DISCOUNTS and Ross are separate
and distinct; however, dd’s DISCOUNTS shares certain other corporate and support
services with Ross.



Available Information



The internet
address for our corporate website is www.rossstores.com. Our Annual Reports on
Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, Proxy
Statements, and amendments to those reports are made available free of charge on
or through the Investors section of our corporate website promptly after being
electronically filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The
information found on our corporate website is not part of this, or any other
report or regulatory filing we file with or furnish to the Securities and
Exchange Commission.












Item 1A. Risk Factors.Our Annual
Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2009, and information we provide in our Annual
Report to Stockholders, press releases, telephonic reports, and other investor
communications, including those on our corporate website, may contain
forward-looking statements with respect to anticipated future events and our
projected financial performance, operations and competitive position that are
subject to risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially
from those forward-looking statements and our prior expectations and
projections. Refer to Management’s Discussion and Analysis for a more complete
identification and discussion of “Forward-Looking Statements.”Our financial
condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the performance of our common
stock may be adversely affected by a number of risk factors. Risks and
uncertainties that apply to both Ross and dd’s DISCOUNTS include, without
limitation, the following:



We are subject to the economic and
industry risks that affect large retailers operating in the United States.Our business is exposed to the risks of a large, multi-store retailer,
which must continually and efficiently obtain and distribute a supply of fresh
merchandise throughout a large and growing network of stores. These risk factors
include:

An increase in the level of
  competitive pressures in the apparel or home-related merchandise
  industry.Changes in the level of
  consumer spending on or preferences for apparel or home-related merchandise,
  including the potential impact from the macro-economic environment,
  uncertainty in financial and credit markets, and changes in geopolitical
  conditions.Unseasonable weather trends
  that could affect consumer demand for seasonal apparel and apparel-related
  products.A change in the availability,
  quantity, or quality of attractive brand-name merchandise at desirable
  discounts that could impact our ability to purchase product and continue to
  offer customers a wide assortment of merchandise at competitive
  prices.Potential disruptions in the
  supply chain that could impact our ability to deliver product to our stores in
  a timely and cost-effective manner.A change in the availability,
  quality, or cost of new store real estate locations.A downturn in the economy or
  a natural disaster in California or in another region where we have a
  concentration of stores or a distribution center. Our corporate headquarters,
  Los Angeles buying office, two distribution centers, and 26% of our stores are
  located in California.

We are subject to operating risks as we
attempt to execute on our merchandising and growth strategies.



The continued
success of our business depends, in part, upon our ability to increase sales at
our existing store locations, to open new stores, and to operate stores on a
profitable basis. Our existing strategies and store expansion programs may not
result in a continuation of our anticipated revenue or profit growth. In
executing our off-price retail strategies and working to improve efficiencies,
expand our store network, and reduce our costs, we face a number of operational
risks, including:

Our ability to attract and
  retain personnel with the retail talent necessary to execute our
  strategies.










Our ability to effectively
  operate our various supply chain, core merchandising, and other information
  systems.Our ability to improve our
  merchandising capabilities through the recent implementation of new processes
  and systems enhancements.Our ability to improve new
  store sales and profitability, especially in newer regions and
  markets.Our ability to achieve and
  maintain targeted levels of productivity and efficiency in our distribution
  centers.Our ability to lease or
  acquire acceptable new store sites with favorable demographics and long term
  financial returns.Our ability to identify and
  to successfully enter new geographic markets.Our ability to achieve
  planned gross margins by effectively managing inventories, markdowns, and
  shrink.Our ability to effectively
  manage all operating costs of the business, the largest of which are payroll
  and benefit costs for store and distribution center employees.

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.



Not applicable.



Item 2. Properties.



At January 30,
2010, we operated a total of 1,005 stores, of which 953 were Ross Dress for Less
locations in 27 states and Guam and 52 were dd’s DISCOUNTS®stores in four states. All stores are
leased, with the exception of two locations which we own.



During fiscal
2009, we opened 52 new Ross stores and closed three existing stores. The average
approximate Ross store size is 29,800 square feet.



During fiscal
2009, we opened four new dd’s DISCOUNTS stores and closed four existing stores.
The average approximate dd’s DISCOUNTS store size is 24,900 square feet. Our
dd’s DISCOUNTS stores are currently located in California, Texas, Florida, and
Arizona.



During fiscal
2009, no one store accounted for more than 1% of our sales.



We carry
earthquake insurance for business interruption, inventory, and personal property
to mitigate our risk on our corporate headquarters, distribution centers, buying
offices, and all of our stores.



Our real estate
strategy in 2010 is to open stores in states where we currently operate to
increase our market penetration and to reduce overhead and advertising expenses
as a percentage of sales in each market. We expect to enter new states for both
Ross and dd’s DISCOUNTS in 2011. Important considerations in evaluating a new
store location are the availability and quality of potential sites, demographic
characteristics, competition, and population density of the local trade area. In
addition, we continue to consider opportunistic real estate acquisitions.












The following
table summarizes the locations of our stores by state as of January 30, 2010 and
January 31, 2009.



State/TerritoryJanuary 30, 2010January 31,
      2009Alabama1717Arizona5252California259247Colorado2827Delaware11Florida125114Georgia4444Guam11Hawaii1211Idaho99Louisiana1110Maryland1817Mississippi55Montana66Nevada2019New Jersey109New Mexico65North Carolina3232Oklahoma1816Oregon2525Pennsylvania3229South Carolina2020Tennessee2524Texas153143Utah1212Virginia3230Washington3029Wyoming22Total1,005956



Where possible,
we obtain sites in buildings requiring minimal alterations, allowing us to
establish stores in new locations in a relatively short period of time at
reasonable costs in a given market. At January 30, 2010, the majority of our
stores had unexpired original lease terms ranging from three to ten years with
three to four renewal options of five years each. The average unexpired original
lease term of our leased stores is five years, or 22 years if renewal options
are included. See Note E of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



See additional
discussion under “Stores” in Item 1.












The following
table summarizes the location and approximate sizes of our distribution centers,
warehouses, and office locations as of January 30, 2010. Square footage
information for the distribution centers and warehouses represents total ground
floor area of the facility. Square footage information for office space
represents total space occupied. See additional discussion in Management’s
Discussion and Analysis.



LocationApproximate Square
      FootageOwn /
      LeaseDistribution
      centersCarlisle, Pennsylvania425,000OWNFort Mill, South Carolina1,300,000OWNMoreno Valley, California1,300,000OWNPerris, California1,300,000LEASEWarehousesCarlisle, Pennsylvania239,000LEASECarlisle, Pennsylvania246,000LEASEFort Mill, South Carolina423,000OWNFort Mill, South Carolina255,000LEASEOffice
      spaceLos Angeles, California26,000LEASENew York City, New York197,000LEASEPleasanton, California181,000LEASE



In October 2008,
we purchased 167 acres of land in the Southeast.



See additional
discussion under “Distribution” in Item 1.



Item 3. Legal
Proceedings.



Like many
California retailers, we have been named in class action lawsuits regarding wage
and hour claims. Class action litigation involving allegations that hourly
associates have missed meal and/or rest break periods, as well as allegations of
unpaid overtime wages to store managers and assistant store managers at Company
stores under state law remains pending as of January 30, 2010.



We are also
party to various other legal proceedings arising in the normal course of
business. Actions filed against us include commercial, product, customer,
intellectual property, and labor and employment-related claims, including
lawsuits in which plaintiffs allege that we violated state or federal laws.
Actions against us are in various procedural stages. Many of these proceedings
raise factual and legal issues and are subject to uncertainties.



We believe that
the resolution of these legal proceedings will not have a material adverse
effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash
flows.












Item 4. (Removed and
Reserved).



Executive Officers of the Registrant



The following
sets forth the names and ages of our executive officers, indicating each
person's principal occupation or employment during at least the past five years.
The term of office is at the discretion of our Board of Directors.



NameAgePositionMichael Balmuth59Vice Chairman and Chief Executive
      OfficerJames S. Fassio55President and Chief Development OfficerMichael O’Sullivan46President and Chief Operating
      OfficerBarbara Rentler52President and Chief Merchandising OfficerLisa Panattoni47Group Executive Vice President,
      MerchandisingJohn G. Call51Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
  Officer



Mr. Balmuth
joined the Board of Directors as Vice Chairman and became Chief Executive
Officer in September 1996. From February 2005 to December 2009, he also served
as President. He was Executive Vice President, Merchandising from July 1993 to
September 1996 and Senior Vice President and General Merchandise Manager from
November 1989 to July 1993. Before joining Ross, he was Senior Vice President
and General Merchandising Manager at Bon Marché in Seattle from September 1988
to November 1989. From April 1986 to September 1988, he served as Executive Vice
President and General Merchandising Manager for Karen Austin Petites.



Mr. Fassio
became President and Chief Development Officer in December 2009. Prior to this,
he was Executive Vice President, Property Development, Construction and Store
Design from February 2005 to December 2009. From March 1991 to February 2005, he
served as Senior Vice President, Property Development, Construction and Store
Design. He joined the Company in June 1988 as Vice President of Real Estate.
Prior to joining Ross, Mr. Fassio held various retail and real estate positions
with Safeway Stores, Inc.



Mr. O’Sullivan
became President and Chief Operating Officer in December 2009. From February
2005 to December 2009, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief
Administrative Officer, after joining Ross in September 2003 as Senior Vice
President, Strategic Planning and Marketing. From 1991 to 2003, Mr. O’Sullivan
was a partner with Bain & Company providing consulting advice to retail,
consumer goods, financial services and private equity clients.



Ms. Rentler has
served as President and Chief Merchandising Officer of Ross Dress for Less®
since December 2009, with responsibility for all merchandising categories at
Ross. From December 2006 to December 2009, she was Executive Vice President,
Merchandising, with responsibility for all Ross Apparel and Apparel-related
products. She also served as Executive Vice President and Chief Merchandising
Officer of dd’s DISCOUNTS® from February 2005 to December 2006, Senior Vice
President and Chief Merchandising Officer of dd's DISCOUNTS from January 2004 to
February 2005 and Senior Vice President and General Merchandise Manager at Ross
Dress for Less from February 2001 to January 2004. Prior to that, she held
various merchandising positions since joining the Company in February
1986.



Ms. Panattoni
was named Group Executive Vice President, Merchandising for Ross Home, Men’s and
Children’s in December 2009. She joined the Company in January 2005 as Senior
Vice President and General Merchandise Manager of Ross Home and was promoted to
Executive Vice President in October 2005. Prior to joining Ross, Ms. Panattoni
was with The TJX Companies, where she served as Senior VicePresident of Merchandising and Marketing
for HomeGoods from 1998 to 2004 and as Divisional Merchandise Manager of the
Marmaxx Home Store from 1994 to 1998.












Mr. Call has
served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since joining the
Company in June 1997. From June 1997 to February 2009 he also served as
Corporate Secretary. Mr. Call was Senior Vice President, Chief Financial
Officer, Secretary and Treasurer of Friedman’s from June 1993 until joining Ross
in 1997. Prior to joining Friedman’s, Mr. Call held various positions with Ernst
& Young LLP.



PART II



Item
5.Market for Registrant’s Common
      Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
      Securities.



General information.See the information set forth under the caption "Quarterly Financial Data
(Unaudited)" under Note K of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item
8 of this Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference. Our stock is
traded on The NASDAQ Global Select Market®under the symbol ROST. There were 768
stockholders of record as of March 12, 2010 and the closing stock price on that
date was $52.92 per share.



Cash dividends.In January 2010, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash
dividend payment of $.16 per common share, payable on March 31, 2010. Our Board
of Directors declared quarterly cash dividends of $.11 per common share in
January, May, August, and November 2009, and cash dividends of $.095 per common
share in January, May, August, and November 2008.



Issuer purchases of equity securities.Information regarding shares of common
stock we repurchased during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 is as
follows:



Total number ofMaximum numberTotalshares (or units)(or approximate
    dollarnumber ofAveragepurchased as partvalue) of shares (or
      units)sharesprice paidof publiclythat may yet be
      purchased(or units)per shareannounced plans orunder the plans orPeriodpurchased1(or unit)programsprograms ($000)November(11/01/2009-11/28/2009)310,363$45.31309,776$56,000December(11/29/2009-01/02/2010)724,912$43.68722,670$25,000January(01/03/2010-01/30/2010)553,919$45.27542,397$-Total1,589,194$44.551,574,843$-²



1We acquired 14,351
shares of treasury stock during the quarter ended January 30, 2010. Treasury
stock includes shares purchased from employees for tax withholding purposes
related to vesting of restricted stock grants. All remaining shares were
repurchased under our publicly announced stock repurchase program.

2In January 2010 our
Board of Directors approved a two-year $750 million stock repurchase program for
fiscal 2010 and 2011.



See Note H of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements for equity compensation plan information. The information
under Item 12 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption “Equity
compensation plan information” is incorporated herein by reference.












Stockholder Return Performance Graph



The following
information in this Item 5 shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18
of the Securities Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference
in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933.



Set forth below
is a line graph comparing the cumulative total stockholder returns for our
common stock with the Standard & Poors (“S&P”) 500 Index and the S&P
Retailing Group over the last five years. The five year period comparison graph
assumes that the value of the investment in our common stock at each fiscal year
end and the comparative indexes was $100 on January 31, 2005 and measures the
performance of this investment as of the last trading day in the month of
January for each of the following five years. These measurement dates are based
on the historical month-end data available and may vary slightly from our actual
fiscal year-end date for each period. Data with respect to returns for the
S&P indexes is not readily available for periods shorter than one month. The
total return assumes the reinvestment of dividends at the frequency with which
dividends are paid. The graph is a historical representation of past performance
only and is not necessarily indicative of future returns to stockholders.



COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE
      TOTAL RETURN*Among Ross Stores, Inc., The
      S&P 500 Indexand S&P Retailing Group*$100 invested on 1/28/05 in stock
      or 1/31/05 in index, including reinvestment of dividends.Fiscal year
      ended January 31. Indexes calculated on month-end
  basis.



Base PeriodIndexed Returns for Years
EndedCompany /
      Index200520062007200820092010Ross Stores, Inc.100106119110110173S&P 500 Index10011012612376101S&P Retailing Group10010912410667107












Item 6. Selected Financial Data.



The following
selected financial data is derived from our consolidated financial statements.
The data set forth below should be read in conjunction with “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” the
section “Forward-Looking Statements” in this Annual Report on Form 10–K and our
consolidated financial statements and notes thereto.



($000, except per
      share data)200920082007200612005OperationsSales$7,184,213$6,486,139$5,975,212$5,570,210$4,944,179Cost of goods sold5,327,2784,956,5764,618,2204,317,5273,852,591Percent of
      sales74.2%76.4%77.3%77.5%77.9%Selling, general and administrative1,130,8131,034,357935,901863,033766,144Percent of
      sales15.7%16.0%15.7%15.5%15.5%Interest expense (income), net7,593(157)(4,029)(8,627)(2,898)Earnings before taxes718,529495,363425,120398,277328,342Percent of
      sales10.0%7.6%7.1%7.2%6.6%Provision for taxes on
      earnings275,772189,922164,069156,643128,710Net earnings442,757305,441261,051241,634199,632Percent of
      sales6.2%4.7%4.4%4.3%4.0%Basic earnings per share$3.60$2.36$1.93$1.73$1.38Diluted earnings per
share$3.54$2.33$1.90$1.70$1.36Cash
      dividends declared per common share$.490$.395$.320$.255$.2201Fiscal 2006 was
      a 53-week year; all other fiscal years presented were 52
      weeks.












Selected Financial Data



($000, except per
      share data)2009200820072006¹2005Financial PositionMerchandise inventory$872,498$881,058$1,025,295$1,051,729$938,091Property and equipment, net942,999951,656868,315748,233639,852Total assets2,768,6332,355,5112,371,3222,358,5911,938,738Return on average assets17%13%11%11%11%Working capital554,933358,456387,396431,699349,864Current ratio1.5:11.4:11.4:11.4:11.4:1Long-term debt150,000150,000150,000150,000-Long-term debt as a percentof total capitalization11%13%13%14%-Stockholders' equity1,157,293996,369970,649909,830836,172Return on average stockholders' equity41%31%28%28%25%Book value per common
    shareoutstanding at
      year-end$9.41$7.82$7.24$6.53$5.80Operating
    StatisticsNumber of stores opened5677986686Number of stores closed711531Number of stores at
    year-end1,005956890797734Comparable store sales increase²(52-week basis)6%2%1%4%6%Sales per square foot of
      sellingspace3(52-week basis)$311$298$301$305$304Square feet of selling spaceat year-end (000)23,70022,50021,10018,60017,300Number of employees at
      year-end45,60040,00039,10035,80033,200Number of common stockholdersof record at year-end7677547607497561Fiscal 2006 was
      a 53-week year; all other fiscal years presented were 52
      weeks.2Comparable stores are stores open
      for more than 14 complete months.3Based on average
      annual selling square footage.












Item 7. Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.



Overview



We are the
second largest off-price apparel and home goods retailer in the United States.
At the end of fiscal 2009, we operated 953 Ross Dress for Less (“Ross”)
locations in 27 states and Guam, and 52 dd’s DISCOUNTS stores in four states.
Ross offers first-quality, in-season, name brand and designer apparel,
accessories, footwear and home fashions at everyday savings of 20 to 60 percent
off department and specialty store regular prices. dd’s DISCOUNTS features a
more moderately-priced assortment of first-quality, in-season, name brand
apparel, accessories, footwear and home fashions at everyday savings of 20 to 70
percent off moderate department and discount store regular prices.



Our primary
objective is to pursue and refine our existing off-price strategies to maintain
or improve profitability and improve financial returns over the long term. In
establishing appropriate growth targets for our business, we closely monitor
market share trends for the off-price industry. Total aggregate sales for five
of the largest off-price retailers in the United States increased 7% during 2009
on top of a 3% increase in 2008. This compares to total national apparel sales
which declined 5% during 2009 compared to a 3% decline in 2008, according to
data published by the NPD Group, Inc., which provides global sales and marketing
information on the retail industry.



We believe that
the stronger relative sales gains of the off-price retailers during 2009 were
driven mainly by the increased focus on value by consumers, whose spending
continued to be pressured by the challenging macro-economic environment. Our
sales and earnings gains in 2009 benefited from efficient execution of our
resilient and flexible off-price business model. Our merchandise and operational
strategies are designed to take advantage of the expanding market share of our
off-price industry as well as the ongoing customer demand for name brand
fashions for the family and home at compelling everyday discounts.



Looking ahead to
2010, we are planning to maintain tight controls of both inventory levels and
operating expenses as part of our strategy to help us maximize our
profitability.



We refer to our
fiscal years ended January 30, 2010, January 31, 2009, and February 2, 2008 as
fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008, and fiscal 2007, respectively. Fiscal 2009, 2008, and
2007 were 52 weeks.












Results of Operations



The following
table summarizes the financial results for fiscal years ended 2009, 2008, and
2007.



200920082007SalesSales (millions)$7,184$6,486$5,975Sales
      growth10.8%8.6%7.3%Comparable store sales growth6%2%1%Costs and expenses (as a percent of
      sales)Cost of goods sold74.2%76.4%77.3%Selling,
      general and administrative15.7%16.0%15.7%Interest expense (income), net0.1%0.0%(0.1%)Earnings before taxes (as a percent
      of sales)10.0%7.6%7.1%Net earnings (as a percent of
      sales)6.2%4.7%4.4%



Stores.Total stores open at the end of 2009,
2008, and 2007 were 1,005, 956, and 890, respectively. The number of stores at
the end of fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007 increased by 5%, 7%, and 12% from the
respective prior years. Our expansion strategy is to open additional stores
based on market penetration, local demographic characteristics, competition,
expected store profitability, and the ability to leverage overhead expenses. We
continually evaluate opportunistic real estate acquisitions and opportunities
for potential new store locations. We also evaluate our current store locations
and determine store closures based on similar criteria.



200920082007Stores at the beginning of the
      period956890797Stores opened in the period567798Stores closed in the
    period(7)(11)(5)Stores at the end of the period1,005956890Selling square footage at the end
      of the period (000)23,70022,50021,100



Sales.Sales for fiscal 2009 increased $698.1
million, or 10.8%, compared to the prior year due to the opening of 49 net new
stores during 2009, and a 6% increase in sales from “comparable” stores (defined
as stores that have been open for more than 14 complete months). Sales for
fiscal 2008 increased $510.9 million, or 8.6%, compared to the prior year due to
the opening of 66 net new stores during 2008, and a 2% increase in sales from
comparable stores.












Our sales mix is
shown below for fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007:



200920082007Ladies30%32%32%Home accents and bed and bath24%23%23%Men’s13%14%15%Accessories, lingerie, fine jewelry, and fragrances13%12%11%Shoes11%10%10%Children’s9%9%9%Total100%100%100%



We expect to address the competitive
climate for off-price apparel and home goods by pursuing and refining our
existing strategies and by continuing to strengthen our organization, to
diversify our merchandise mix, and to more fully develop our organization and
systems to improve regional and local merchandise offerings. Although our
strategies and store expansion program contributed to sales gains in fiscal
2009, 2008, and 2007, we cannot be sure that they will result in a continuation
of sales growth or an increase in net earnings.



Cost of goods sold.Cost of goods sold in fiscal 2009 increased $370.7 million compared to
the prior year mainly due to increased sales from the opening of 49 net new
stores during the year, and a 6% increase in sales from comparable
stores.



Cost of goods sold as a percentage of
sales for fiscal 2009 decreased approximately 230 basis points from the prior
year. This improvement was mainly the result of a 170 basis point increase in
merchandise gross margin, which includes a 40 basis point benefit from lower
shortage. In addition, freight costs declined by about 50 basis points,
occupancy leveraged 35 basis points, and distribution costs declined by about 10
basis points. These improvements were partially offset by a 35 basis point
increase in buying expenses due in part to higher incentive costs versus the
prior year.



Cost of goods sold in fiscal 2008
increased $338.4 million compared to the prior year mainly due to increased
sales from the opening of 66 net new stores during the year, and a 2% increase
in sales from comparable stores.



Cost of goods sold as a percentage of
sales for fiscal 2008 decreased approximately 90 basis points from the prior
year. This improvement was mainly the result of a 100 basis point increase in
merchandise gross margin. In addition, distribution costs for the year improved
by about 20 basis points. As a percent of sales, these favorable trends were
partially offset by a 10 basis point increase in occupancy expense and a 20
basis point increase in incentive costs.



We cannot be sure that the gross profit
margins realized in fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007 will continue in future years.



Selling, general and administrative expenses.For fiscal 2009, selling, general and
administrative expenses (“SG&A”) increased $96.5 million compared to the
prior year, mainly due to increased store operating costs reflecting the opening
of 49 net new stores during the year.



SG&A as a percentage of sales for
fiscal 2009 decreased by approximately 20 basis points compared to the prior
year. This decrease was mainly driven by 40 basis points of leverage on store
operating expenses partially offset by a 20 basis point increase in general and
administrative expenses due in part to higher incentive costs versus the prior
year.



For fiscal 2008, SG&A increased $98.5
million compared to the prior year, mainly due to increased store operating
costs reflecting the opening of 66 net new stores during the year.












SG&A as a
percentage of sales for fiscal 2008 grew by approximately 30 basis points over
the prior year. This increase was mainly driven by a 20 basis point increase in
store operating expenses and a 10 basis point increase in general and
administrative costs as a percent of sales.



The largest
component of SG&A is payroll. The total number of employees, including both
full and part-time, as of fiscal year end 2009, 2008, and 2007 was approximately
45,600, 40,000, and 39,100, respectively.



Interest expense (income), net.In fiscal 2009,
interest expense increased by $1.1 million primarily due to lower capitalization
of construction interest. In fiscal 2009, interest income decreased by $6.7
million primarily due to lower investment yields as compared to the prior year.
As a percentage of sales, net interest expense in fiscal 2009 decreased pre-tax
earnings by approximately 10 basis points compared to the same period in the
prior year. The table below shows interest expense and income for fiscal 2009,
2008, and 2007:



($
      millions)200920082007Interest expense$9.4$8.3$9.8Interest income(1.8)(8.5)(13.8)Total interest expense (income),
      net$7.6$(0.2)$(4.0)



Taxes on earnings.Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2009,
2008, and 2007 was approximately 38%, 38%, and 39%, respectively, which
represents the applicable combined federal and state statutory rates reduced by
the federal benefit of state taxes deductible on federal returns. The effective
rate is affected by changes in law, location of new stores, level of earnings,
and the resolution of tax positions with various taxing authorities. We
anticipate that our effective tax rate for fiscal 2010 will be in the range of
38% to 39%.



Net earnings.Net earnings as a percentage of sales for
fiscal 2009 were higher compared to fiscal 2008 primarily due to both lower cost
of goods sold and lower SG&A expenses as a percentage of sales. Net earnings
as a percentage of sales for fiscal 2008 were higher compared to fiscal 2007
primarily due to lower cost of goods sold as a percentage of sales, partially
offset by higher SG&A expenses as a percentage of sales.



Earnings per share.Diluted earnings per share in fiscal 2009
was $3.54, compared to $2.33 in fiscal 2008. This 52% increase in diluted
earnings per share is attributable to an approximate 45% increase in net
earnings and a 5% reduction in weighted average diluted shares outstanding,
largely due to the repurchase of common stock under our stock repurchase
program. Diluted earnings per share in fiscal 2008 was $2.33, compared to $1.90
in fiscal 2007. This 23% increase in diluted earnings per share is attributable
to an approximate 17% increase in net earnings and a 4% reduction in weighted
average diluted shares outstanding, largely due to the repurchase of common
stock under our stock repurchase program.












Financial Condition



Liquidity and Capital Resources



Our primary
sources of funds for our business activities are cash flows from operations and
short-term trade credit. Our primary ongoing cash requirements are for
merchandise inventory purchases, payroll, capital expenditures in connection
with opening new stores, and investments in distribution centers and information
systems. We also use cash to repurchase stock under our stock repurchase program
and to pay dividends.



($ millions)200920082007Cash flows provided by operating
      activities$888.4$583.4$353.5Cash flows used in investing activities(136.8)(218.7)(244.7)Cash flows used in financing
      activities(304.6)(300.9)(218.6)Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents$447.0$63.8$(109.8)



Operating Activities



Net cash
provided by operating activities was $888.4 million, $583.4 million, and $353.5
million in fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. The primary sources of
cash provided by operating activities in fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007 were net
earnings plus non-cash expenses for depreciation and amortization. Accounts
payable leverage (defined as accounts payable divided by merchandise inventory)
was 75% as of January 30, 2010 and 61% as of January 31, 2009. The increase in
leverage was due to faster turns on lower inventory levels.



Our primary
source of liquidity is the sale of our merchandise inventory. We regularly
review the age and condition of our merchandise and are able to maintain current
merchandise inventory in our stores through replenishment processes and
liquidation of slower-moving merchandise through clearance markdowns.



Investing Activities



In fiscal 2009,
2008, and 2007, our capital expenditures were $158.5 million, $224.4 million,
and $236.1 million, respectively. Our capital expenditures included fixtures and
leasehold improvements to open new stores, implement information technology
systems, build or expand distribution centers, and various other expenditures
related to our stores, buying and corporate offices. In fiscal 2008 we also
purchased land in South Carolina with the intention of building a new
distribution center in the future. We opened 56, 77, and 98 new stores in fiscal
2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively, which included relocating one store in 2009
and one store in 2007.



We had purchases
of investments of $2.9 million, $37.0 million, and $146.1 million in fiscal
2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. We had sales of investments of $24.5
million, $42.5 million, and $137.1 million in fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007,
respectively.












We are
forecasting approximately $215 million in capital requirements in 2010 to fund
expenditures for fixtures and leasehold improvements to open both new Ross and
dd’s DISCOUNTS stores, for the relocation, or upgrade of existing stores, for
investments in store and merchandising systems, buildings, equipment and
systems, and for various buying and corporate office expenditures. We expect to
fund these expenditures with available cash, cash flows from operations, and
trade credit.



Our capital
expenditures over the last three years are set forth in the table below:



($ millions)200920082007New stores$55.4$52.0$110.1Store renovations and improvements44.347.332.3Information systems10.413.221.4Distribution centers, corporate office, and other48.4111.972.3Total capital
expenditures$158.5$224.4$236.1



Financing Activities



During fiscal
2009, 2008, and 2007, our liquidity and capital requirements were provided by
available cash, cash flows from operations, and trade credit. Our buying
offices, our corporate headquarters, one distribution center, one trailer
parking lot, three warehouse facilities, and all but two of our store locations
are leased and, except for certain leasehold improvements and equipment, do not
represent capital investments. We own one distribution center in each of the
following cities: Carlisle, Pennsylvania; Moreno Valley, California; and Fort
Mill, South Carolina; and one warehouse facility in Fort Mill, South
Carolina.



In January 2008,
our Board of Directors approved a two-year $600 million stock repurchase program
for fiscal 2008 and 2009. We repurchased 7.4 million and 9.3 million shares of
common stock for aggregate purchase prices of approximately $300 million in both
2009 and 2008. In January 2010, our Board of Directors approved a two-year $750
million stock repurchase program for fiscal 2010 and 2011.



In January 2010,
our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend payment of $.16 per
common share, payable on March 31, 2010. Our Board of Directors declared
quarterly cash dividends of $.11 per common share in January, May, August, and
November 2009, and cash dividends of $.095 per common share in January, May,
August, and November 2008.



Short-term trade
credit represents a significant source of financing for merchandise inventory.
Trade credit arises from customary payment terms and trade practices with our
vendors. We regularly review the adequacy of credit available to us from all
sources and expect to be able to maintain adequate trade, bank, and other credit
lines to meet our capital and liquidity requirements, including lease payment
obligations in 2010.



We estimate that
cash flows from operations, bank credit lines, and trade credit are adequate to
meet operating cash needs, fund our planned capital investments, repurchase
common stock, and make quarterly dividend payments for at least the next twelve
months.












Contractual Obligations



The table below
presents our significant contractual obligations as of January 30, 2010:



Less than 1After 5($000)year1 - 3 years3 - 5 yearsyearsTotal1Senior Notes$-$-$-$150,000$150,000Interest payment obligations9,66719,33519,33550,19598,532Capital leases29145--336Operating leases:Rent
      obligations333,077660,350502,136500,2781,995,841Synthetic leases5,6818,8861,705-16,272Other
      synthetic lease obligations1,5641,03056,000-58,594Purchase obligations1,078,0717,886831-1,086,788Total contractual
    obligations$1,428,351$697,532$580,007$700,473$3,406,363



1We have a $33.6
million liability for unrecognized tax benefits that is included in other
long-term liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. This liability is
excluded from the schedule above as the timing of payments cannot be reasonably
estimated.



Senior Notes.We have two series of unsecured senior
notes outstanding with various institutional investors for $150 million. The
Series A notes totaling $85 million are due in December 2018 and bear interest
at a rate of 6.38%. The Series B notes totaling $65 million, are due in December
2021, and bear interest at a rate of 6.53%. Interest on these notes is included
in Interest payment obligations in the table above. These notes are subject to
prepayment penalties for early payment of principal.



Borrowings under
these notes are subject to certain operating and financial covenants, including
maintaining certain interest coverage and other financial ratios. As of January
30, 2010, we were in compliance with these covenants.



Capital leases.The obligations under capital leases
relate to distribution center equipment and have terms of two to three
years.



Off-Balance Sheet
Arrangements



Operating leases.We lease our two buying offices, our
corporate headquarters, one distribution center, one trailer parking lot, three
warehouse facilities, and all but two of our store locations. Except for certain
leasehold improvements and equipment, these leased locations do not represent
long-term capital investments.



We have lease
arrangements for certain equipment in our stores for our point-of-sale (“POS”)
hardware and software systems. These leases are accounted for as operating
leases for financial reporting purposes. The initial terms of these leases are
either two or three years, and we typically have options to renew the leases for
two to three one-year periods. Alternatively, we may purchase or return the
equipment at the end of the initial or each renewal term. We have guaranteed the
value of the equipment of $2.6 million, at the end of the respective initial
lease terms, which is included in Other synthetic lease obligations in the table
above.












We lease
approximately 181,000 square feet of office space for our corporate headquarters
in Pleasanton, California, under several facility leases. The terms for these
leases expire between 2011 and 2015 and contain renewal provisions.



We lease
approximately 197,000 and 26,000 square feet of office space for our New York
City and Los Angeles buying offices, respectively. The lease terms for these
facilities expire in 2021 and 2014, respectively and contain renewal
provisions.



We lease a 1.3
million square foot distribution center in Perris, California. The land and
building for this distribution center are financed under a $70 million ten-year
synthetic lease that expires in July 2013. Rent expense on this center is
payable monthly at a fixed annual rate of 5.8% on the lease balance of $70
million. At the end of the lease term, we have the option to either refinance
the $70 million synthetic lease facility, purchase the distribution center at
the amount of the then-outstanding lease obligation, or arrange a sale of the
distribution center to a third party. If the distribution center is sold to a
third party for less than $70 million, we have agreed under a residual value
guarantee to pay the lessor any shortfall amount up to $56 million. The
agreement includes a prepayment penalty for early payoff of the lease. Our
contractual obligation of $56 million is included in Other synthetic lease
obligations in the above table.



We have
recognized a liability and corresponding asset for the inception date estimated
fair value of the residual value guarantee in the amount of $8.3 million for the
Perris, California distribution center and $0.9 million for the POS leases.
These residual value guarantees are being amortized on a straight-line basis
over the original terms of the leases. The current portion of the related asset
and liability is recorded in prepaid expenses and accrued expenses,
respectively, and the long-term portion of the related assets and liabilities is
recorded in other long-term assets and other long-term liabilities,
respectively, in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.



We lease two
warehouses in Carlisle, Pennsylvania with one lease expiring in 2013 and the
other expiring in 2014. In January 2009, we exercised a three-year option for a
255,000 square foot warehouse in Fort Mill, South Carolina, extending the term
to February 2013. In June 2008, we purchased a 423,000 square foot warehouse
also in Fort Mill, South Carolina. All four of these properties are used to
store our packaway inventory. We also lease a 10-acre parcel of land that has
been developed for trailer parking adjacent to our Perris distribution center.



The synthetic
lease facilities described above, as well as our revolving credit facility and
senior notes, have covenant restrictions requiring us to maintain certain
interest coverage and other financial ratios. In addition, the interest rates
under the revolving credit facility may vary depending on actual interest
coverage ratios achieved. As of January 30, 2010, we were in compliance with
these covenants.



Purchase obligations.As of January 30, 2010 we had purchase
obligations of $1,087 million. These purchase obligations primarily consist of
merchandise inventory purchase orders, commitments related to store fixtures and
supplies, and information technology service and maintenance contracts.
Merchandise inventory purchase orders of $1,044 million represent purchase
obligations of less than one year as of January 30, 2010.












Commercial Credit Facilities



The table below
presents our significant available commercial credit facilities at January 30,
2010:



Amount of Commitment Expiration Per
      PeriodTotalLess than1 - 33 – 5After 5amount($000)1 yearyearsyearsyearscommittedRevolving credit facility$-$600,000$-$-$600,000Total commercial
commitments$-$600,000$-$-$600,000For additional
      information relating to this credit facility, refer to Note D of Notes to
      the Consolidated Financial Statements.



Revolving credit facility.We have available a
$600 million revolving credit facility with our banks, which contains a $300
million sublimit for issuance of standby letters of credit, of which $234.8
million was available at January 30, 2010. This credit facility which expires in
July 2011 has a LIBOR-based interest rate plus an applicable margin (currently
45 basis points) and is payable upon maturity but not less than quarterly. Our
borrowing ability under this credit facility is subject to our maintaining
certain financial ratios. As of January 30, 2010 we had no borrowings
outstanding under this facility and were in compliance with the covenants.



Standby letters of credit.We use standby
letters of credit to collateralize certain obligations related to our
self-insured workers’ compensation and general liability claims. We had $65.2
million and $60.4 million in standby letters of credit outstanding at January
30, 2010 and January 31, 2009, respectively.



Trade letters of
credit.We had $32.9
million and $16.7 million in trade letters of credit outstanding at January 30,
2010 and January 31, 2009, respectively.



Other



2008 Equity Incentive Plan.In May 2008, our
stockholders approved the adoption of the Ross Stores, Inc. 2008 Equity
Incentive Plan (the “2008 Plan”) with an initial share reserve of 8.3 million
shares of our common stock, of which 6.0 million shares can be issued as full
value awards. The 2008 Plan provides for various types of incentive awards,
which may potentially include the grant of stock options, stock appreciation
rights, restricted stock purchase rights, restricted stock bonuses, restricted
stock units, performance shares, performance units, and deferred compensation
awards.



Critical Accounting Policies



The preparation
of our consolidated financial statements requires our management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts. These estimates and
assumptions are evaluated on an ongoing basis and are based on historical
experience and on various other factors that management believes to be
reasonable. We believe the following critical accounting policies describe the
more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our
consolidated financial statements.












Merchandise inventory.Our merchandise inventory is stated at
the lower of cost or market, with cost determined on a weighted average cost
basis. We purchase manufacturer overruns and canceled orders both during and at
the end of a season which are referred to as "packaway" inventory. Packaway
inventory is purchased with the intent that it will be stored in our warehouses
until a later date, which may even be the beginning of the same selling season
in the following year. Packaway inventory accounted for approximately 38% of
total inventories as of January 30, 2010 and January 31, 2009. Merchandise
inventory includes acquisition, processing, and storage costs related to
packaway inventory.



Included in the
carrying value of our merchandise inventory is a provision for shortage. The
shortage reserve is based on historical shortage rates as evaluated through our
periodic physical merchandise inventory counts and cycle counts. If actual
market conditions, markdowns, or shortage are less favorable than those
projected by us, or if sales of the merchandise inventory are more difficult
than anticipated, additional merchandise inventory write-downs may be required.



Long-lived assets.We record a long-lived asset impairment
charge when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount
of a long-lived asset may not be recoverable based on estimated future cash
flows. An impairment loss would be recognized if analysis of the undiscounted
cash flow of an asset group was less than the carrying value of the asset
group.If our actual results differ materially
from projected results, an impairment charge may be required in the future. In
the course of performing our annual analysis, we determined that no long-lived
asset impairment charge was required for fiscal 2009, 2008, or
2007.



Depreciation and amortization
expense.Property and
equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method over the estimated
useful life of the asset, typically ranging from five to twelve years for
equipment and 20 to 40 years for real property. The cost of leasehold
improvements is amortized over the lesser of the useful life of the asset or the
applicable lease term.



Lease accounting.When a lease contains “rent holidays” or
requires fixed escalations of the minimum lease payments, we record rental
expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease and the difference
between the average rental amount charged to expense and the amount payable
under the lease is recorded as deferred rent. We amortize deferred rent on a
straight-line basis over the lease term commencing on the possession date.
Tenant improvement allowances are included in other long-term liabilities and
are amortized over the lease term. Tenant improvement allowances are included as
a component of operating cash flows in the consolidated Statements of Cash
Flows.



Self-insurance.We self insure certain of our workers’
compensation and general liability risks as well as certain coverages under our
health plans. Our self-insurance liability is determined actuarially, based on
claims filed and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported. Should a
greater amount of claims occur compared to what is estimated or the costs of
medical care increase beyond what was anticipated, our recorded reserves may not
be sufficient and additional charges could be required.



Stock-based compensation.We recognize
compensation expense based upon the grant date fair value of all stock-based
awards, typically over the vesting period. We use historical data to estimate
pre-vesting forfeitures and to recognize stock-based compensation expense. All
stock-based compensation awards are expensed over the service or performance
periods of the awards.



Income taxes.We account for our uncertain tax
positions in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 740. We
are required to make assumptions and judgments regarding our income tax
exposures. Our policy is to recognize interest and/or penalties related to all
tax positions in income tax expense. To the extent that accrued interest and
penalties do not ultimately become payable, amounts accrued will be reduced and
reflected as a reduction of the overall income tax provision in the period that
such determination is made.












The critical
accounting policies noted above are not intended to be a comprehensive list of
all of our accounting policies. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a
particular transaction is specifically dictated by Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles (“GAAP”), with no need for management’s judgment in their
application. There are also areas in which management’s judgment in selecting
one alternative accounting principle over another would not produce a materially
different result. See our audited consolidated financial statements and notes
thereto under Item 8 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which contain
accounting policies and other disclosures required by GAAP.



Effects of inflation or deflation.We do not consider
the effects of inflation or deflation to be material to our financial position
and results of operations.



New Accounting
Pronouncements



In June 2009,
the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASC 810 (originally
issued as SFAS No. 167, “Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R))”. Among
other things, ASC 810 responds to concerns about the application of certain key
provisions of FIN 46(R), including those regarding the transparency of the
involvement with variable interest entities. ASC 810 is effective for fiscal
years beginning after November 15, 2009. We do not believe the adoption of ASC
810 will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.



Forward-Looking Statements



Our Annual
Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2009, and information we provide in our Annual
Report to Stockholders, press releases, telephonic reports, and other investor
communications including on our corporate website, may contain a number of
forward-looking statements regarding, without limitation, planned store growth,
new markets, expected sales, projected earnings levels, capital expenditures,
and other matters. These forward-looking statements reflect our then current
beliefs, projections, and estimates with respect to future events and our
projected financial performance, operations, and competitive position. The words
“plan,” “expect,” “target,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “believe,” “forecast,”
“projected,” “guidance,” “looking ahead,” and similar expressions identify
forward-looking statements.



Future economic
and industry trends that could potentially impact revenue, profitability, and
growth remain difficult to predict. As a result, our forward-looking statements
are subject to risks and uncertainties which could cause our actual results to
differ materially from those forward-looking statements and our previous
expectations and projections. Refer to Item 1A in this Annual Report on Form
10-K for a more complete discussion of risk factors for Ross and dd’s DISCOUNTS.
The factors underlying our forecasts are dynamic and subject to change. As a
result, any forecasts or forward-looking statements speak only as of the date
they are given and do not necessarily reflect our outlook at any other point in
time. We do not undertake to update or revise these forward-looking
statements.



ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE
DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.



We are exposed
to market risks, which primarily include changes in interest rates. We do not
engage in financial transactions for trading or speculative
purposes.



We occasionally
use forward contracts to hedge against fluctuations in foreign currency prices.
We had no outstanding forward contracts as of January 30, 2010.














Interest that is
payable on our revolving credit facility is based on variable interest rates and
is, therefore, affected by changes in market interest rates. As of January 30,
2010, we had no borrowings outstanding under our revolving credit facility. In
addition, lease payments under certain of our synthetic lease agreements are
determined based on variable interest rates and are, therefore, affected by
changes in market interest rates.



In addition, we
issued notes to institutional investors in two series: Series A for $85 million
accrues interest at 6.38% and Series B for $65 million accrues interest at
6.53%. The amount outstanding under these notes as of January 30, 2010 is $150
million.



Interest is
receivable on our short- and long-term investments. Changes in interest rates
may impact interest income recognized in the future, or the fair value of our
investment portfolio.



A hypothetical
100 basis point increase or decrease in prevailing market interest rates would
not have materially impacted our consolidated financial position, results of
operations, cash flows, or the fair values of our short- and long-term
investments as of and for the year ended January 30, 2010. We do not consider
the potential losses in future earnings and cash flows from reasonably possible,
near term changes in interest rates to be material.












ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.



Consolidated Statements of Earnings



Year endedYear endedYear ended($000, except per
      share data)January 30, 2010January 31,
      2009February 2,
      2008Sales$7,184,213$6,486,139$5,975,212Costs and ExpensesCosts of goods sold5,327,2784,956,5764,618,220Selling,
      general and administrative1,130,8131,034,357935,901Interest expense (income), net7,593(157)(4,029)Total costs
      and expenses6,465,6845,990,7765,550,092Earnings before taxes718,529495,363425,120Provision for taxes on earnings275,772189,922164,069Net
      earnings$442,757$305,441$261,051Earnings per shareBasic$3.60$2.36$1.93Diluted$3.54$2.33$1.90Weighted average shares outstanding
      (000)Basic122,887129,235135,093Diluted125,014131,315137,142DividendsCash dividends declared per
share$0.490$0.395$0.320

The accompanying
notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.












Consolidated Balance
Sheets



($000, except
      share data)January 30, 2010January 31,

Assets



Current Assets

Cash and cash equivalents$768,343$321,355

Short-term investments1,754798

Accounts receivable44,23441,170

Merchandise inventory872,498881,058

Prepaid expenses and other58,61855,241

Deferred income taxes-14,093

Total
      current assets1,745,4471,313,715



Property and
    Equipment

Land and buildings239,688201,385

Fixtures and equipment1,189,5381,073,990

Leasehold improvements536,979509,971

Construction-in-progress21,81272,839

1,988,0171,858,185

Less accumulated depreciation and
      amortization1,045,018906,529

Property and
      equipment, net942,999951,656

Long-term investments16,84838,014

Other long-term assets63,33952,126

Total assets$2,768,633$2,355,511



Liabilities and Stockholders’
      Equity



Current
Liabilities

Accounts payable$658,299$536,745

Accrued expenses and other259,582238,516

Accrued payroll and benefits218,234170,878

Income taxes payable51,5059,120

Deferred income taxes2,894-

Total
      current liabilities1,190,514955,259

Long-term debt150,000150,000

Other long-term liabilities174,543156,726

Deferred income taxes96,28397,157

Commitments and contingencies



Stockholders’
    Equity

Common stock, par value $.01 per
      share1,2291,273

Authorized
      600,000,000 shares

Issued and
      outstanding 122,929,000 and

127,346,000
      shares, respectively.

Additional paid-in capital681,908626,117

Treasury stock(36,864)(30,819)

Accumulated other comprehensive income
      (loss)170(1,174)

Retained earnings510,850400,972

Total stockholders’ equity1,157,293996,369

Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity$2,768,633$2,355,511



The accompanying
notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.








Consolidated Statements of Stockholders'
Equity

Accumulated

Additionalother

Common
      stockpaid-inTreasurycomprehensiveRetained

(000)SharesAmountcapitalstockincome
    (loss)earningsTotal

Balance at February 3,
      2007139,356$1,402$545,702$(22,031)$(163)$384,920$909,830

Cumulative effect of adoption of new-----(7,417)(7,417)

accounting standard

Comprehensive income:

Net earnings-----261,051261,051

Unrealized
      investment gain----1,503-1,503

Total comprehensive income262,554

Common stock issued under
      stock

plans, net
      of shares

used for
      tax withholding1,612820,745(3,879)--16,874

Tax benefit from equity issuance--6,535---6,535

Stock based compensation--25,165---25,165

Common stock repurchased(6,872)(69)(20,360)--(179,571)(200,000)

Dividends
      declared-----(42,892)(42,892)



Balance at February 2,
      2008134,096$1,341$577,787$(25,910)$1,340$416,091$970,649

Comprehensive income:

Net earnings-----305,441305,441

Unrealized investment loss----(2,514)-(2,514)

Total comprehensive income302,927

Common stock issued under stock

plans, net of shares

used for tax withholding2,5982547,848(4,909)--42,964

Tax benefit from equity issuance--8,532---8,532

Stock based compensation--22,575---22,575

Common stock repurchased(9,348)(93)(30,625)--(269,282)(300,000)

Dividends
      declared-----(51,278)(51,278)



Balance at January 31,
      2009127,346$1,273$626,117$(30,819)$(1,174)$400,972$996,369

Comprehensive income:

Net earnings-----442,757442,757

Unrealized investment gain----1,344-1,344

Total comprehensive income444,101

Common stock issued under stock

plans, net of shares

used for tax withholding2,9583049,363(6,045)--43,348

Tax benefit from equity issuance--8,582---8,582

Stock based compensation--25,746---25,746

Common stock repurchased(7,375)(74)(27,900)--(272,026)(300,000)

Dividends
      declared-----(60,853)(60,853)

Balance at January 30,
      2010122,929$1,229$681,908$(36,864)$170$510,850$1,157,293



The
      accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
      statements.












Consolidated Statements of Cash
Flows



Year endedYear endedYear ended

($000)January 30, 2010January 31,
      2009February 2,

Cash Flows From Operating
      Activities

Net earnings$442,757$305,441$261,051

Adjustments to reconcile net
      earnings to net cash

provided by operating
      activities:

Depreciation and amortization159,043141,802122,801

Stock-based
      compensation25,74622,57525,165

Deferred income taxes16,11323,804(10,699)

Tax
      benefit from equity issuance8,5828,5326,535

Excess tax benefit from stock-based
      compensation(7,291)(5,973)(5,140)

Change in
      assets and liabilities:

Merchandise
      inventory8,560144,23726,434

Other
      current assets(6,441)(6,089)(15,039)

Accounts
      payable115,893(101,682)(63,199)

Other
      current liabilities118,98043,249(18,716)

Other
      long-term, net6,4427,54324,366

Net cash
      provided by operating activities888,384583,439353,559



Cash Flows From Investing
      Activities

Additions to property and equipment(158,487)(224,418)(236,121)

Proceeds from sales of property and
      equipment10117356

Purchases of investments(2,904)(36,984)(146,082)

Proceeds from investments24,54842,522137,104

Net cash
      used in investing activities(136,833)(218,763)(244,743)



Cash Flows From Financing
      Activities

Excess tax benefit from stock-based compensation7,2915,9735,140

Issuance of common stock related to
      stock plans49,39347,87320,753

Treasury stock purchased(6,045)(4,909)(3,879)

Repurchase of common
stock(300,000)(300,000)(200,000)

Dividends paid(55,202)(49,838)(40,638)

Net cash
      used in financing activities(304,563)(300,901)(218,624)



Net increase (decrease) in cash and
      cash equivalents446,98863,775(109,808)



Cash and cash
equivalents:

Beginning of
      year321,355257,580367,388

End of
      year$768,343$321,355$257,580



Supplemental Cash Flow
      Disclosures

Interest paid$9,668$9,676$9,668

Income taxes paid$201,232$167,478$164,223



Non-Cash Investing
      Activities

Increase (decrease) in fair value of investment
securities$1,435$(2,514)$1,503



The accompanying
notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.










NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS



Note A: Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies



Business.Ross Stores, Inc. and its subsidiaries
(the “Company”) is an off-price retailer of first-quality, name brand apparel,
shoes, and accessories for the entire family, as well as gift items, linens and
other home-related merchandise. At the end of fiscal 2009, the Company operated
953 Ross Dress for Less®(“Ross”) locations in
27 states and Guam and 52 dd’s DISCOUNTS®stores in four states,
all of which are supported by four distribution centers. The Company’s
headquarters, one buying office, two distribution centers and 26% of its stores
are located in California.



Segment reporting.The Company has one reportable segment.
The Company’s operations include only activities related to off-price retailing
in stores throughout the United States.



Basis of presentation and fiscal year.The consolidated
financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries,
all of which are wholly-owned. Intercompany transactions and accounts have been
eliminated. The Company follows the National Retail Federation fiscal calendar
and utilizes a 52-53 week fiscal year whereby the fiscal year ends on the
Saturday nearest to January 31. The fiscal years ended January 30, 2010, January
31, 2009 and February 2, 2008 are referred to as fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008, and
fiscal 2007, respectively, and were 52 weeks.



Use of accounting estimates.The preparation of
consolidated financial statements in conformity with Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles in the United States of America (“GAAP”) requires the
Company to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of
assets, liabilities, and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the
date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of
revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ
from those estimates. The Company’s significant accounting estimates include
valuation of merchandise inventory and long-lived assets and accruals for
self-insurance.



Purchase obligations.As of January 30, 2010, the Company had
purchase obligations of approximately $1,087 million. These purchase obligations
primarily consist of merchandise inventory purchase orders, commitments related
to store fixtures and supplies, and information technology service and
maintenance contracts. Merchandise inventory purchase orders of $1,044 million
represent purchase obligations of less than one year as of January 30,
2010.



Cash and cash equivalents.Cash equivalents
consist of highly liquid, fixed income instruments purchased with an original
maturity of three months or less.



Investments.The Company’s investments are comprised
of various debt securities. At January 30, 2010 and January 31, 2009, these
investments were classified as available-for-sale and are stated at fair value.
Investments are classified as either short- or long-term based on their original
maturities and the Company’s intent. Investments with an original maturity of
less than one year are classified as short-term. See Note B for additional
information.



Merchandise inventory.Merchandise inventory
is stated at the lower of cost (determined using a weighted average basis) or
net realizable value. The Company purchases manufacturer overruns and canceled
orders both during and at the end of a season which are referred to as
"packaway" inventory. Packaway inventory is purchased with the intent that it
will be stored in the Company's warehouses until a later date, which may even be
the beginning of the same selling season in the following year. Packaway
inventory accounted for approximately 38% of total inventories as of January 30,
2010 and January 31, 2009. The cost of the Company’s merchandise inventory is
reduced by valuation reserves for shortage based on historical shortage
experience from the Company’s physical merchandise inventory counts and cycle
counts. Merchandise inventory includes acquisition, processing, and storage
costs related to packaway inventory.












Cost of goods sold.In addition toproduct
costs, the Company includes in cost of goods sold its buying, distribution and
freight expenses as well as occupancy costs, and depreciation and amortization
related to the Company’s retail stores, buying and distribution facilities.
Buying expenses include costs to procure merchandise inventories. Distribution
expenses include the cost of operating the Company’s distribution
centers.



Property and equipment.Property and
equipment, which include amounts recorded under capital leases, are stated at
cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation is calculated
using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the asset,
typically ranging from five to twelve years for equipment and 20 to 40 years for
real property. Depreciation and amortization expense on property and equipment
was $153.1 million, $134.0 million and $120.7 million for fiscal 2009, 2008, and
2007, respectively. The cost of leasehold improvements is amortized over the
useful life of the asset or the applicable lease term, whichever is less.
Computer hardware and software costs, net of amortization, of $106.7 million and
$125.8 million at January 30, 2010 and January 31, 2009, respectively, are
included in fixtures and equipment and are amortized over their estimated useful
life generally ranging from five to seven years. Capital leases, net of
depreciation, of $0.6 million at January 30, 2010 consist of distribution center
equipment and have terms of two to three years. The Company capitalizes interest
during the construction period. Interest capitalized was $1.8 million and $3.2
million in fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, respectively.



Other long-term
assets.Other
long-term assets as of January 30, 2010 and January 31, 2009 consisted of the
following:



($000)20092008Deferred compensation (Note B)$50,706$37,304Goodwill2,8892,889Deposits3,0003,851Other6,7448,082Total$63,339$52,126



Other
assetsare principally comprised of prepaid rent
and other long term prepayments.



Property, other
long-term assets, and certain identifiable intangibles that are subject to
amortization are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be
recoverable. Intangible assets that are not subject to amortization, including
goodwill, are tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired. Based on the
Company’s evaluation during fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008, and fiscal 2007, no
impairment charges were recorded.



Store closures.The Company continually reviews the
operating performance of individual stores. For stores that are closed, the
Company records a liability for future minimum lease payments net of estimated
sublease recoveries and related ancillary costs at the time the liability is
incurred. In 2009, the Company closed three Ross Dress for Less and four dd’s
DISCOUNTS locations. In 2008, the Company closed six Ross Dress for Less and
five dd’s DISCOUNTS locations. The lease loss liability related to certain of
these closed stores was $6.2 million and $1.0 million, as of January 30, 2010
and January 31, 2009, respectively. Operating costs, including depreciation, of
stores to be closed are expensed during the period they remain in
use.



Accounts payable.Accounts payable represents amounts owed
to third parties at the end of the period. Accounts payable includes book cash
overdrafts (checks issued under zero balance accounts not yet presented for
payment) in excess of cash balances in such accounts of approximately $125.7
million and $97.2 million at January 30, 2010 and January 31, 2009,
respectively. The Company includes the change in book cash overdrafts in
operating cash flows.










Self-insurance.The Company is self-insured for workers’
compensation, general liability insurance costs and costs of certain medical
plans. The self-insurance liability is determined actuarially, based on claims
filed and an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. Self-insurance
reserves as of January 30, 2010 and January 31, 2009 consisted of the following:



($000)20092008Workers’ Compensation$61,525$57,466General Liability19,19618,294Medical Plans3,1073,166Total$83,828$78,926



Workers’
compensation and self-insured medical plan liabilities are included in accrued
payroll and benefits and accruals for general liability are included in accrued
expenses and other in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.



Other long-term
liabilities.Other
long-term liabilities as of January 30, 2010 and January 31, 2009 consisted of
the following:



($000)20092008Deferred rent$58,954$57,428Deferred compensation50,70637,304Tenant improvement allowances26,55929,818Income taxes (See Note F)33,57026,019Other4,7546,157Total$174,543$156,726



Lease accounting.When a lease contains “rent holidays” or
requires fixed escalations of the minimum lease payments, the Company records
rental expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease and the
difference between the average rental amount charged to expense and the amount
payable under the lease is recorded as deferred rent. The Company amortizes
deferred rent on a straight-line basis over the lease term commencing on the
possession date. Tenant improvement allowances are included in other long-term
liabilities and are amortized over the lease term. Changes in tenant improvement
allowances are included as a component of operating activities in the
consolidated statements of cash flows.



Estimated fair value of financial
instruments.The
carrying value of cash and cash equivalents, short- and long-term investments,
accounts receivable, and accounts payable approximates their estimated fair
value. See Note B and Note D for additional fair value information.



Revenue recognition.The Company recognizes revenue at the
point of sale and maintains an allowance for estimated future returns. Sales of
gift cards are deferred until they are redeemed for the purchase of Company
merchandise. Sales tax collected is not recognized as revenue and is included in
accrued expenses and other.












Allowance for sales returns.An allowance for the
gross margin loss on estimated sales returns is included in accrued expenses and
other in the consolidated balance sheets. The allowance for sales returns
consists of the following:



($000)Beginning balanceAdditionsReturnsEnding balanceYear ended:January 30, 2010$4,702$506,249$(505,607)$5,344January 31, 2009$4,559$452,035$(451,892)$4,702February 2, 2008$4,320$408,434$(408,195)$4,559



Store pre-opening.Store pre-opening costs are expensed in
the period incurred.



Advertising.Advertising costs are expensed in the
period incurred. Advertising costs for fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007 were $53.5
million, $53.9 million, and $50.2 million, respectively.



Stock-based compensation.The Company
recognizes compensation expense based upon the grant date fair value of all
stock-based awards, typically over the vesting period. See Note C for more
information on the Company’s stock-based compensation plans.



Taxes on earnings.The Company accounts for income taxes in
accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 740-10, “Accounting
for Income Taxes,” which requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and
liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been
recognized in the Company's consolidated financial statements or tax returns. In
estimating future tax consequences, the Company generally considers all expected
future events other than changes in the tax law or tax rates. ASC 740-10 also
clarifies the criteria that an individual tax position must satisfy for some or
all of the benefits of that position to be recognized in a company’s
consolidated financial statements and prescribes a recognition threshold of
more-likely-than-not, and a measurement standard for all tax positions taken or
expected to be taken on a tax return, in order for those tax positions to be
recognized in the consolidated financial statements. See Note F.



Treasury stock.The Company records treasury stock at
cost. Treasury stock includes shares purchased from employees for tax
withholding purposes related to vesting of restricted stock grants.



Earnings per share(“EPS”).The
Company computes and reports both basic EPS and diluted EPS. Basic EPS is
computed by dividing net earnings by the weighted average number of common
shares outstanding for the period. Diluted EPS is computed by dividing net
earnings by the sum of the weighted average number of common shares and dilutive
common stock equivalents outstanding during the period. Diluted EPS reflects the
total potential dilution that could occur from outstanding equity plan awards,
including unexercised stock options and unvested shares of both performance and
non-performance based awards of restricted stock.



In fiscal 2009,
2008, and 2007 there were 19,800, 583,000, and 1,277,000 weighted average
shares, respectively, that could potentially dilute basic EPS in the future that
were excluded from the calculation of diluted EPS because their effect would
have been anti-dilutive for those years.












The following is
a reconciliation of the number of shares (denominator) used in the basic and
diluted EPS computations:



Effect
      of dilutiveBasiccommon stockDilutedShares in
      (000s)EPSequivalentsEPS2009Shares122,8872,127125,014Amount$3.60$(.06)$3.542008Shares129,2352,080131,315Amount$2.36$(.03)$2.332007Shares135,0932,049137,142Amount$1.93$(.03)$1.90



Sales mix.The Company’s sales mix is shown below
for fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007:



200920082007Ladies30%32%32%Home accents and bed and bath24%23%23%Men’s13%14%15%Accessories, lingerie, fine jewelry, and fragrances13%12%11%Shoes11%10%10%Children’s9%9%9%Total100%100%100%



Comprehensive income.Comprehensive income consists of net
earnings and other comprehensive income, principally unrealized investment gains
or losses. Components of comprehensive income are presented in the consolidated
statements of stockholders’ equity.



New accounting standards.In June 2009, the
Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASC 810 (originally issued
as SFAS No. 167, “Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R))”. Among other
things, ASC 810 responds to concerns about the application of certain key
provisions of FIN 46(R), including those regarding the transparency of the
involvement with variable interest entities. ASC 810 is effective for fiscal
years beginning after November 15, 2009. The Company does not believe the
adoption of ASC 810 will have a material impact on its consolidated financial
statements.












Note B: Investments



The amortized cost and fair value of the
Company’s available-for-sale securities as of January 30, 2010
were:



AmortizedUnrealizedUnrealizedFairShort-Long-($000)costgainslossesvaluetermtermAuction-rate securities$1,050$-$(158)$892$-$892Corporate securities9,704567(67)10,2041,0739,131U.S. Government and
agencysecurities5,24730(187)5,090-5,090Mortgage-backed securities2,34079(3)2,4166811,735Total$18,341$676$(415)$18,602$1,754$16,848



The amortized cost and fair value of the
Company’s available-for-sale securities as of January 31, 2009
were:



AmortizedUnrealizedUnrealizedFairShort-Long-($000)costgainslossesvaluetermtermAuction-rate securities$1,100$-$-$1,100$-$1,100Asset-backed securities9845(200)789389400Corporate securities13,773152(685)13,240-13,240U.S. Government and agencysecurities15,940446-16,386-16,386Mortgage-backed
securities8,189119(1,011)7,2974096,888Total$39,986$722$(1,896)$38,812$798$38,014



At January 30, 2010, the Company had
investments of approximately $18.3 million of which $5.0 million had gross
unrealized losses of $0.2 million that had been in a continuous unrealized loss
position for more than twelve months. Of the remaining $13.3 million, $3.0
million of investments had gross unrealized losses of $0.2 million which had
been in a continuous unrealized loss position for less than twelve months. These
unrealized losses on investments were caused primarily by the decline in market
values of floating rate corporate and auction rate securities and the impact of
interest yield fluctuations on long-term treasury securities. The Company does
not consider these investments to be other than temporarily impaired at January
30, 2010.



In applying the valuation principles to
financial assets and liabilities, a three-tier fair value hierarchy was used to
prioritize the inputs used in the valuation methodologies as
follows:



Level 1—Observable inputs that reflect
quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active
markets.



Level 2—Include other inputs that are
directly or indirectly observable in the marketplace.



Level 3—Unobservable inputs which are
supported by little or no market activity.



This fair value hierarchy also requires
the Company to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of
unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. Asset-backed, corporate, U.S.
Government and agency, and mortgage-backed securities are classified within
Level 1 or Level 2 because these securities are valued using quoted market
prices or alternative pricing sources and models utilizing market observable
inputs. The Company’s investment in auction rate securities is classified within
Level 3 because these are valued using valuation techniques for which some of
the inputs to these models are unobservable in the market.












Assets measured
at fair value on a recurring basis at January 30, 2010 are summarized
below:



Fair
      Value Measurements at Reporting DateQuotedPrices inActiveSignificantMarkets forOtherSignificantIdenticalObservableUnobservableJanuary 30,AssetsInputsInputs($000)2010(Level
      1)(Level
      2)(Level
      3)Auction-rate securities$892$-$-$892Corporate securities10,204-10,204-U.S. Government and agency
      securities5,0905,090--Mortgage-backed securities2,416-2,416-Total assets measured at fair
      value$18,602$5,090$12,620$892



Assets measured
at fair value on a recurring basis at January 31, 2009 are summarized
below:



Fair
      Value Measurements at Reporting DateQuotedPrices inActiveSignificantMarkets forOtherSignificantIdenticalObservableUnobservableJanuary 31,AssetsInputsInputs($000)2009(Level
      1)(Level
      2)(Level
      3)Auction-rate securities$1,100$-$-$1,100Asset-backed securities789-789-Corporate securities13,240-13,240-U.S. Government and agency securities16,38616,386--Mortgage-backed
securities7,297-7,297-Total assets measured at fair value$38,812$16,386$21,326$1,100



The maturities
of investment securities at January 30, 2010 were:



Estimated($000)Cost
basisfair
valueMaturing in one year or
    less$1,722$1,754Maturing after one year through five years6,4466,812Maturing after five years through
      ten years9,1239,144Maturing after ten years1,050892Total$18,341$18,602












The maturities
of investment securities at January 31, 2009 were:



Estimated($000)Cost
      basisfair
      valueMaturing in one year or
    less$886$798Maturing after one year through five years25,64625,600Maturing after five years through
      ten years11,52510,532Maturing after ten years1,9291,882Total$39,986$38,812



The underlying
assets in the Company’s non-qualified deferred compensation program totaling
$50.7 million as of January 30, 2010 (included in Other long-term assets and in
Other long-term liabilities) primarily consist of participant directed money
market mutual funds, as well as stable value, stock, and bond funds. The fair
value measurement for funds that are quoted market prices in active markets
(Level 1) totaled $43.9 million as of January 30, 2010. The fair value
measurement for the stable value funds without quoted market prices in active
markets (Level 2) totaled $6.8 million as of January 30, 2010. Fair market value
for these funds is considered to be the sum of participant funds invested under
the contract plus accrued interest.



Note C: Stock-based
compensation



For fiscal 2009,
2008, and 2007, the Company recognized stock-based compensation expense as
follows:



($000)200920082007ESPP and stock options$2,952$5,359$9,083Restricted stock and performance awards22,79417,21616,082Total$25,746$22,575$25,165



Capitalized
stock-based compensation cost was not significant in any year.



No stock options
were granted during 2009 or 2008. Beginning in 2008, the Company eliminated a
lookback option in determining the purchase price for shares purchased under the
ESPP. The Company recognizes expense for ESPP purchase rights equal to the value
of the 15% discount given on the purchase date. At January 30, 2010, the Company
had one stock-based compensation plan, which is further described in Note
H.



The fair value
of stock options granted during fiscal 2007 was estimated using a 3.9 year
expected life from grant date, volatility of 28.4%, risk-free interest rate of
4.7%, and dividend yield of 0.9%. The fair value of ESPP rights granted during
fiscal 2007 was estimated using a one year expected life from grant date, 26.4%
expected volatility, 5.0% risk-free interest rate, and 0.9% dividend yield. The
weighted average fair values per share of stock options granted and employee
stock purchase plan shares issued during 2007 were $9.12 and $8.02,
respectively.














Total
stock-based compensation recognized in the Company’s consolidated Statements of
Earnings for fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007 is as follows:



Statements of Earnings Classification ($000)200920082007Cost of goods sold$11,912$10,021$10,736Selling, general and administrative13,83412,55414,429Total$25,746$22,575$25,165



Note D: Debt



Revolving credit
facilities.The
Company has a $600 million revolving credit facility with an expiration date of
July 2011 and interest pricing at LIBOR plus 45 basis points. This facility
contains a $300 million sublimit for issuance of standby letters of credit, of
which $234.8 million was available at January 30, 2010. Interest is payable upon
borrowing maturity but no less than quarterly. Borrowing under this credit
facility is subject to maintaining certain financial ratios. As of January 30,
2010 and January 31, 2009, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under this
facility and was in compliance with the covenants.



Senior Notes.The Company has two series of unsecured
senior notes with various institutional investors for $150 million. The Series A
notes, totaling $85 million are due in December 2018 and bear interest at a rate
of 6.38%. The Series B notes totaling $65 million are due in December 2021 and
bear interest at a rate of 6.53%. The fair value of these notes as of January
30, 2010 of approximately $164 million is estimated by obtaining comparable
market quotes. Borrowings under these notes are subject to certain covenants
including interest coverage and other financial ratios. As of January 30, 2010,
the Company was in compliance with these covenants. The senior notes are subject
to prepayment penalties for early payment of principal.



Letters of credit.The Company uses standby letters of
credit to collateralize certain obligations related to its self-insured workers’
compensation and general liability programs. The Company had $65.2 million and
$60.4 million in standby letters of credit at January 30, 2010 and January 31,
2009, respectively.



The Company also
had $32.9 million and $16.7 million in trade letters of credit outstanding at
January 30, 2010 and January 31, 2009, respectively.



Note E: Leases



The Company
leases all but two of its store sites with original, non-cancelable terms that
in general range from three to ten years. Store leases typically contain
provisions for three to four renewal options of five years each. Most store
leases also provide for minimum annual rentals and for payment of certain
expenses. In addition, some store leases also have provisions for additional
rent based on a percentage of sales.



The Company has
lease arrangements for certain equipment in its stores for its point-of-sale
(“POS”) hardware and software systems. These leases are accounted for as
operating leases for financial reporting purposes. The initial terms of these
leases are either two or three years and the Company typically has options to
renew the leases for two to three one-year periods. Alternatively, the Company
may purchase or return the equipment at the end of the initial or each renewal
term. The Company’s obligation under the residual value guarantee at the end of
the respective lease terms is $2.6 million.












The Company also leases a 1.3 million square foot distribution center in
Perris, California. The land and building for this distribution center are
financed under a $70 million ten-year synthetic lease facility that expires in
July 2013. Rent expense on this distribution center is payable monthly at a
fixed annual rate of 5.8% on the lease balance of $70 million. At the end of the
lease term, the Company must either refinance the distribution facility,
purchase it at the amount of the then-outstanding lease balance, or sell it to a
third party. If the distribution center is sold to a third party for less than
$70 million, the Company has agreed under a residual value guarantee to pay the
lessor any shortfall amount up to $56 million. The agreement includes a
prepayment penalty for early payoff of the lease.



The Company has recognized a liability and corresponding asset for the
inception date estimated fair value of the residual value guarantee in the
amount of $8.3 million for the Perris, California distribution center and $0.9
million for the POS leases. These residual value guarantees are amortized on a
straight-line basis over the original terms of the leases. The current portion
of the related asset and liability is recorded in “Prepaid expenses and other”
and “Accrued expenses and other,” respectively, and the long-term portion of the
related assets and liabilities is recorded in “Other long-term assets” and
“Other long-term liabilities,” respectively, in the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets.



The Company
leases two warehouses in Carlisle, Pennsylvania with one lease expiring in 2013
and the other expiring in 2014. In January 2009, the Company exercised a
three-year option for a 255,000 square foot warehouse in Fort Mill, South
Carolina, extending the term to February 2013. In June 2008, the Company
purchased a 423,000 square foot warehouse also in Fort Mill, South Carolina. All
four of these properties are used to store the Company’s packaway inventory. The
Company also leases a 10-acre parcel that has been developed for trailer parking
adjacent to its Perris distribution center.



The synthetic
lease facilities described above, as well as the Company’s revolving credit
facility and senior notes, have covenant restrictions requiring the Company to
maintain certain interest coverage and other financial ratios. In addition, the
interest rates under the revolving credit facility may vary depending on the
Company’s actual interest coverage ratios. As of January 30, 2010, the Company
was in compliance with these covenants.



The Company
leases approximately 181,000 square feet of office space for its corporate
headquarters in Pleasanton, California, under several facility leases. The lease
terms for these facilities expire between 2011 and 2015 and contain renewal
provisions.



The Company
leases approximately 197,000 and 26,000 square feet of office space for its New
York City and Los Angeles buying offices, respectively. The lease terms for
these facilities expire in 2021 and 2014, respectively and contain renewal
provisions.












The aggregate future minimum annual lease
payments under leases in effect at January 30, 2010 are as
follows:



ResidualCapitalOperatingSyntheticvalue($000)leasesleasesleasesguaranteesTotal leases2010$291$333,077$5,681$1,564$340,613201134347,1504,674714352,572201211313,2004,212316317,7392013-276,4591,70556,000334,1642014-225,677--225,677Thereafter-500,278--500,278Total minimum lease
    payments$336$1,995,841$16,272$58,594$2,071,043



Total rent
expense for all leases was $336.5 million in 2009, $325.9 million in 2008, and
$301.6 million in 2007.



Note F: Taxes on
Earnings



The provision
for taxes consisted of the following:



($000)200920082007CurrentFederal$242,111$152,833$160,155State17,54813,28514,613259,659166,118174,768DeferredFederal13,41723,621(9,263)State2,696183(1,436)16,11323,804(10,699)Total$275,772$189,922$164,069



In fiscal 2009,
2008, and 2007, the Company realized tax benefits of $8.6 million, $8.5 million
and $6.5 million, respectively, related to employee equity programs that were
credited to additional paid-in capital.



The provision
for taxes for financial reporting purposes is different from the tax provision
computed by applying the statutory federal income tax rate. Differences are as
follows:



200920082007Federal income taxes at the
      statutory rate35%35%35%State income taxes (net of federal
      benefit) and other, net3%3%4%38%38%39%












The components
of deferred income taxes at January 30, 2010 and January 31, 2009 are as
follows:



($000)20092008Deferred Tax
AssetsDeferred compensation$29,014$25,015Deferred rent11,09410,490Employee benefits-7,861Accrued liabilities20,27518,776California franchise taxes5,3993,701Stock-based compensation7,2247,771Other9,9958,57383,00182,187Deferred Tax
      LiabilitiesDepreciation(138,134)(121,952)Merchandise inventory(24,652)(30,627)Employee benefits(5,529)-Supplies(7,811)(7,015)Prepaid expenses(6,052)(5,657)(182,178)(165,251)Net Deferred Tax
      Liabilities$(99,177)$(83,064)Classified as:Current net deferred tax (liability) asset$(2,894)$14,093Long-term net deferred tax liability(96,283)(97,157)Net Deferred Tax
      Liabilities$(99,177)$(83,064)



Effective
February 4, 2007, the Company adopted new accounting guidance on the accounting
for uncertainty in income taxes. As a result, the Company established a $26.3
million reserve for unrecognized tax benefits, inclusive of $6.0 million of
related interest. The reserve is classified as a long-term liability and
included in other long-term liabilities in the Company’s consolidated balance
sheets. Upon adoption of ASC 740, the Company also recognized a reduction in
retained earnings of $7.4 million and certain other deferred income tax assets
and liabilities were reclassified.



The changes in
amounts of unrecognized tax benefits (gross of federal tax benefits and
excluding interest) at fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007 are as follows:



($000)200920082007Unrecognized tax benefits -
      beginning of year$26,338$23,218$25,680Gross increases:Tax positions in current
      period7,3144,6955,451Tax positions in prior
      period2,3083,6581,486Gross decreases:Tax positions in prior
      periods-(1,115)(6,352)Lapse of statute
      limitations(1,731)(1,783)(3,004)Settlements(880)(2,335)(43)Unrecognized tax benefits - end of
      year$33,349$26,338$23,218










In fiscal 2009,
2008, and 2007, the reserves for unrecognized tax benefits (net of federal tax
benefits) were $33.6 million, $26.0 million, and $23.2 million inclusive of
$10.0 million, $6.5 million, and $5.6 million of related interest, respectively.
The Company accounts for interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax
benefits as a part of its provision for taxes on earnings. If recognized, $26.9
million would impact the Company’s effective tax rate. The difference between
the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits and the amounts that would impact
the effective tax rate relates to amounts attributable to deferred income tax
assets and liabilities. These amounts are net of federal and state income taxes.



During the next
twelve months, it is reasonably possible that the statute of limitations may
lapse pertaining to positions taken by the Company in prior year tax returns. If
this occurs, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits may decrease,
reducing the provision for taxes on earnings by up to $2.3 million.



The Company is
generally open to audit by the Internal Revenue Service under the statute of
limitations for fiscal years 2006 through 2009. The Company’s state income tax
returns are generally open to audit under the various statutes of limitations
for fiscal years 2005 through 2009. Certain state tax returns are currently
under audit by state tax authorities. The Company does not expect the results of
these audits to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.



Note G: Employee Benefit Plans



The Company has
a defined contribution plan that is available to certain employees. Under the
plan, employee and Company contributions and accumulated plan earnings qualify
for favorable tax treatment under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code.
This plan permits employees to make contributions up to the maximum limits
allowable under the Internal Revenue Code. The Company matches up to 4% of the
employee’s salary up to the plan limits. Company matching contributions to the
401(k) plan were $7.6 million, $7.3 million, and $6.8 million in fiscal 2009,
2008, and 2007, respectively.



The Company also
has an Incentive Compensation Plan, which provides cash awards to key management
and employees based on Company and individual performance.



The Company also
makes available to management a Non-qualified Deferred Compensation Plan which
allows management to make payroll contributions on a pre-tax basis in addition
to the 401(k) plan. Other long-term assets include $50.7 million and $37.3
million at January 30, 2010 and January 31, 2009, respectively, of long-term
plan investments, at market value, set aside or designated for the Non-qualified
Deferred Compensation Plan (See Note B). Plan investments are designated by the
participants, and investment returns are not guaranteed by the Company. The
Company has a corresponding liability to participants of $50.7 million and $37.3
million at January 30, 2010 and January 31, 2009, respectively, included in
other long-term liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets.



In addition, the
Company has certain individuals who receive or will receive post-employment
medical benefits. The estimated liability for these benefits of $3.9 million and
$4.3 million is included in accrued liabilities and other in the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets as of January 30, 2010 and January 31, 2009,
respectively.












Note H: Stockholders'
Equity



Common stock.In January 2008 the Company’s Board of
Directors approved a two-year stock repurchase program of up to $600 million for
fiscal 2008 and 2009. In November 2005, the Company’s Board of Directors
authorized a two-year stock repurchase program of up to $400 million for fiscal
2006 and 2007. In January 2010, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a
two-year $750 million stock repurchase program for fiscal 2010 and 2011. The
following table summarizes the Company’s stock repurchase activity in fiscal
2009, 2008, and 2007:



Shares
      repurchasedAverage
      repurchaseRepurchasedFiscal
    Year(in
      millions)price(in
    millions)20097.4$ 40.68$ 30020089.3$ 32.09$ 30020076.9$ 29.10$ 200



Preferred stock.The Company has four million shares of
preferred stock authorized, with a par value of $.01 per share. No preferred
stock is issued or outstanding.



Dividends.In January 2010, the Company’s Board of
Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $.16 per common share, payable
on March 31, 2010. The Company’s Board of Directors declared quarterly cash
dividends of $.11 per common share in January, May, August, and November 2009,
cash dividends of $.095 per common share in January, May, August, and November
2008, and cash dividends of $.075 per common share in January, May, August, and
November 2007.



2008 Equity Incentive Plan.On May 22, 2008, the Company’s
stockholders approved the adoption of the Ross Stores, Inc. 2008 Equity
Incentive Plan (the “2008 Plan”) with an initial share reserve of 8.3 million
shares of the Company’s common stock, of which 6.0 million shares can be issued
as full value awards. The 2008 Plan provides for various types of incentive
awards, which may potentially include the grant of stock options, stock
appreciation rights, restricted stock purchase rights, restricted stock bonuses,
restricted stock units, performance shares, performance units, and deferred
compensation awards.












As of January
30, 2010, there were 4.9 million shares that remained available for grant under
the 2008 Plan. A summary of the stock option activity for fiscal 2009 is
presented below.



WeightedWeightedaverageaverageremainingAggregateNumber ofexercisecontractualintrinsic(000, except per share data)sharespricetermvalueOutstanding at January 31,
      20094,534$ 25.39Granted-$-Exercised(1,733)$25.16Forfeited(28)$ 25.75Outstanding at January 30,
      20102,773$ 25.534.54$ 56,568Vested and Expected to Vest at
      January 30, 20102,751$ 25.464.52$ 56,319Exercisable at January 30,
      20102,451$ 24.384.20$ 52,827



The following
table summarizes information about the weighted average remaining contractual
life (in years) and the weighted average exercise prices for stock options both
outstanding and exercisable as of January 30, 2010 (number of shares in
thousands):



Options outstandingOptions exercisableNumber ofRemainingExerciseNumber ofExerciseExercise price rangeshareslifepricesharesprice$7.19to$19.025781.71$ 14.49578$ 14.49$19.13to$26.865614.06$ 23.73560$ 23.73$26.99to$28.535565.45$ 27.79555$ 27.79$28.55to$29.425634.85$ 28.94562$ 28.94$29.57to$34.375156.94$ 33.67196$ 32.57$7.19to$34.372,7734.54$ 25.532,451$ 24.38












A summary of the
restricted stock activity for fiscal 2009 is presented below:



WeightedaverageNumber ofgrant date(000, except per share data)sharesfair
valueUnvested at February 3,
    20071,964$27.11Awarded572$32.61Released(521)$24.31Forfeited(43)$28.98Unvested at February 2,
    20081,972$29.40Awarded618$29.79Released(621)$28.15Forfeited(33)$29.35Unvested at January 31,
    20091,936$29.93Awarded1,271$37.93Released(589)$30.12Forfeited(50)$30.47Unvested at January 30,
      20102,568$33.83



The market value
of restricted shares at the date of grant is amortized to expense ratably over
the vesting period of generally three to five years. The unamortized
compensation expense at January 30, 2010 and January 31, 2009 was $56.1 million
and $31.0 million, respectively, which is expected to be recognized over a
weighted-average period of 2.2 years. During fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007, shares
purchased by the Company for tax withholding totaled 163,000, 163,000, and
125,000 shares, respectively, and are considered treasury shares which are
available for reissuance. As of January 30, 2010 and January 31, 2009, the
Company held 1,291,000 and 1,128,000 shares of treasury stock, respectively.
Intrinsic value for restricted stock, defined as the market value on the last
business day of fiscal year 2009 (or $45.93), was $117.9 million. A total of
4,943,000, 5,840,000 and 2,709,000 shares were available for new restricted
stock awards at the end of fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007,
respectively.



Performance share awards.The Company has a performance share
award program for senior executives. A performance share award represents a
right to receive shares of common stock on a specified settlement date based on
the Company’s attainment of a profitability-based performance goal during a
performance period. If attained, the common stock then granted vests over a
specified remaining service period, generally two years. The Company recognized
$4.0 million, $1.5 million, and $0.6 million of expense related to performance
share awards in fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007 respectively.



Employee Stock Purchase
Plan.Under the
Employee Stock Purchase Plan, eligible full-time employees participating in the
annual offering period can choose to have up to the lesser of 10% or $21,250 of
their annual base earnings withheld to purchase the Company’s common stock. The
purchase price of the stock is 85% of the closing market price on the date of
purchase. In addition, purchases occur on a quarterly basis (on the last trading
day of each calendar quarter). Prior to 2008, the purchase price of the stock
was the lower of 85% of the market price at the beginning of the offering period
or the end of the offering period. During fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007, employees
purchased approximately 166,000, 188,000 and 214,000 shares, respectively, of
the Company’s common stock under the plan at weighted average per share prices
of $34.75, $27.89, and $21.73, respectively. Through January 30, 2010,
approximately 9,094,000 shares had been issued under this plan and 906,000
shares remained available for future issuance.










Note I: Related Party Transactions



The Company has
a consulting agreement with its Chairman of the Board of Directors, under which
the Company pays him an annual consulting fee of $1.1 million in monthly
installments through January 2012. In addition, the agreement provides for
administrative support and health and other benefits for the individual and his
dependents, which totaled approximately $0.2 million in fiscal 2009, 2008 and
2007, along with amounts to cover premiums through January 2012 on a life
insurance policy with a death benefit of $2 million. On termination of Mr.
Ferber’s consultancy with the Company, the Company will pay Mr. Ferber $75,000
per year for a period of 10 years.



Note J: Litigation, Claims, and
Assessments



Like many
California retailers, the Company has been named in class action lawsuits
regarding wage and hour claims. Class action litigation involving allegations
that hourly associates have missed meal and/or rest break periods, as well as
allegations of unpaid overtime wages to store managers and assistant store
managers at Company stores under state law remains pending as of January 30,
2010.



The Company is
also party to various other legal proceedings arising in the normal course of
business. Actions filed against the Company include commercial, product,
customer, intellectual property, and labor and employment-related claims,
including lawsuits in which plaintiffs allege that the Company violated state or
federal laws. Actions against the Company are in various procedural stages. Many
of these proceedings raise factual and legal issues and are subject to
uncertainties.



In the opinion
of management, the resolution of pending class action litigation and other
currently pending legal proceedings is not expected to have a material adverse
effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, or cash
flows.












Note K: Quarterly Financial Data
(Unaudited)



Summarized
quarterly financial information for fiscal 2009 and 2008 is presented in the
tables below.



Year ended
January 30, 2010:



QuarterQuarterQuarterQuarterendedendedendedendedMay 2,August 1,October 31,January 30,($000, except per
      share data)2009200920092010Sales$1,691,599$1,768,636$1,744,139$1,979,839Cost of goods sold1,268,7091,311,1361,284,8521,462,581Selling, general and administrative272,030286,158286,511286,114Interest expense, net1,6561,3901,9432,604Total costs and expenses1,542,3951,598,6841,573,3061,751,299Earnings before taxes149,204169,952170,833228,540Provision for taxes on earnings57,81766,54565,75385,657Net earnings$91,387$103,407$105,080$142,883Earnings per share – basic1$.73$.84$.86$1.18Earnings per share – diluted1$.72$.82$.84$1.16Dividends declared pershare on
      common stock$-$.110$.110$.2702Stock price3High$39.86$44.49$48.46$46.74Low$28.25$35.19$42.14$42.51





1Quarterly EPS
      results may not equal full year amounts due to
  rounding.2Includes $.11
      per share dividend declared in November 2009 and $.16 per share dividend
      declared in January 2010.3Ross Stores,
      Inc. common stock trades on The NASDAQ Global Select Market®under the symbol
      ROST.












Year ended
January 31, 2009:



QuarterQuarterQuarterQuarterendedendedendedendedMay 3,August 2,November 1,January 31,($000, except per
      share data)2008200820082009Sales$1,556,328$1,640,412$1,555,287$1,734,112Cost of goods sold1,181,5571,255,2221,198,4511,321,346Selling, general and administrative247,672268,839262,534255,312Interest (income) expense,
      net(1,621)(1,052)(15)2,531Total costs and expenses1,427,6081,523,0091,460,9701,579,189Earnings before taxes128,720117,40394,317154,923Provision for taxes on earnings49,23546,10437,04757,536Net earnings$79,485$71,299$57,270$97,387Earnings per share – basic1$.61$.55$.44$.77Earnings per share – diluted1$.60$.54$.44$.76Dividends declared pershare on
      common stock$-$.095$.095$.2052Stock price3High$34.39$39.69$41.31$31.64Low$27.09$33.61$27.10$22.10



1Quarterly EPS
      results may not equal full year amounts due to
  rounding.2Includes $.095
      per share dividend declared in November 2008 and $.11 per share dividend
      declared in January 2009.3Ross Stores,
      Inc. common stock trades on The NASDAQ Global Select Market®under the symbol
      ROST.












REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC
ACCOUNTING FIRM



Board of
Directors and StockholdersRoss Stores, Inc.Pleasanton, California



We have audited
the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Ross Stores, Inc. and
subsidiaries (the "Company") as of January 30, 2010 and January 31, 2009, and
the related consolidated statements of earnings, stockholders' equity, and cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended January 30,
2010.We also have audited the Company's
internal control over financial reporting as of January 30, 2010, based on
criteria established inInternal Control — Integrated Frameworkissued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company's
management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for
maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting,
included in the accompanying Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements and an opinion on the Company's internal control over
financial reporting based on our audits.



We conducted our
audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal
control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our
audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing
the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal
control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness
exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of
internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing
such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We
believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.



A company's
internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the
supervision of, the company's principal executive and principal financial
officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company's
board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect
the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's
assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.












Because of the
inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the
possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material
misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely
basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal
control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that
the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the
degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.



In our opinion,
the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of Ross Stores, Inc. and subsidiaries
as of January 30, 2010 and January 31, 2009, and the results of their operations
and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended January 30,
2010, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America. Also, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material
respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of January 30,
2010, based on the criteria established inInternal Control — Integrated Frameworkissued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.





/s/DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP



San
Francisco, CaliforniaMarch 25, 2010












ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH
ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.



None



ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND
PROCEDURES.



Disclosure Controls and Procedures



Our management,
with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer, conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our “disclosure
controls and procedures” (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e)) as of the
end of the period covered by this report. Based on that evaluation, our Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure
controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by
this report.



It should be
noted that any system of controls, however well designed and operated, can
provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the
system will be met. In addition, the design of any control system is based in
part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events.



Management’s Annual Report on Internal
Control Over Financial Reporting



Our management
is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting, as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). Our internal
control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
consolidated financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles.



Under the
supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of the
effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the
framework established by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (COSO) as set forth inInternal Control — Integrated
Framework. Based on
our evaluation under the framework inInternal Control — Integrated
Framework, our
management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was
effective as of January 30, 2010.



Our internal
control over financial reporting as of January 30, 2010 has also been audited by
Deloitte & Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, and
their opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial
reporting is stated in their report, dated March 25, 2010, which is included in
Item 8 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Because of its
inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent
or detect misstatements. It should be noted that any system of controls, however
well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute,
assurance that the objectives of the system will be met. In addition, the design
of any control system is based in part upon certain assumptions about the
likelihood of future events. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.












Quarterly Evaluation of Changes in
Internal Control Over Financial ReportingOur management,
with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer, also conducted an evaluation of our internal control over financial
reporting to determine whether any change occurred during the fourth fiscal
quarter of 2009 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. Based on that
evaluation, our management concluded that there was no such change during the
fourth fiscal quarter.

ITEM 9B. OTHER
INFORMATION.



None



PART III



ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE.



Information
required by item 401 of Regulation S-K is incorporated herein by reference to
the sections entitled “Executive Officers of the Registrant” at the end of Part
I of this report; and to the sections of the Ross Stores, Inc. Proxy Statement
for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on Wednesday, May 19, 2010
(the “Proxy Statement”) entitled “Information Regarding Nominees and Incumbent
Directors.” Information required by Item 405 of Regulation S-K is incorporated
by reference to the Proxy Statement under the section titled “Section 16(a)
Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance.” We have not made any material
changes to the procedures by which our stockholders may recommend nominees to
the Board of Directors. Information required by Item 407(d)(4) and (d)(5) of
Regulation S-K is incorporated by reference to the Proxy Statement under the
section entitled “Information Regarding Nominees and Incumbent Directors” under
the caption “Audit Committee.”



Our Board of
Directors has adopted a Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers that
applies to the Company's Chief Executive Officer, Chief Merchandising Officer,
Chief Development Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer,
Corporate Controller, Assistant Controller, Treasurer, Assistant Treasurer,
Investor and Media Relations personnel, and other positions that may be
designated by the Company. This Code of Ethics is posted on our corporate
website (www.rossstores.com). We intend to satisfy the disclosure requirements
of Item 5.05 of Form 8-K regarding any future amendments to, or waivers from,
our Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers by posting any changed version
on the same corporate website.



ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE
COMPENSATION.



The information
required by Item 402 of Regulation S-K is incorporated herein by reference to
the sections of the Proxy Statement entitled “Compensation of Directors” and
“Executive Compensation” under the captions “Compensation Discussion and
Analysis,” “Summary Compensation Table,” “All Other Compensation,”
“Perquisites,” “Discussion of Summary Compensation,” “Grants of Plan Based
Awards During Fiscal Year,” “Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End,”
“Option Exercises and Stock Vested,” “Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation,” and
“Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change In Control.”



The information
required by Items 407(e)(4) and (e)(5) of Regulation S-K are incorporated herein
by reference to the sections of the Proxy Statement entitled “Compensation
Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation” and “Compensation Committee
Report.”












ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN
BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.



Equity compensation plan
information. The
following table summarizes the equity compensation plans under which the
Company’s common stock may be issued as of January 30, 2010:



(a)(c)Number of securities(b)Number of securitiesto be issued uponWeighted averageremaining available forexercise ofexercise price perfuture issuanceoutstanding optionsshare of outstanding(excluding securitiesShares in
      (000s)and
    rightsoptions
      and rightsreflected in
      column (a))1Equity compensationplans approved bysecurity holders2,0372$ 27.555,8493Equity compensationplans not approved bysecurity holders4736$
    19.93-Total2,773$
    25.535,849





1After approval
      by stockholders of the 2008 Equity Incentive Plan in May 2008, any shares
      remaining available for grant in the share reserves of the 2004 Equity
      Incentive Plan, 1992 Stock Option Plan, the 2000 Equity Plan, the 1991
      Outside Directors Stock Option Plan and the 1988 Restricted Stock Plan
      were automatically canceled.2Represents
      shares reserved for options granted under the prior 1992 Stock Option
      Plan, the prior 1991 Outside Directors Stock Option Plan, and the 2004
      Equity Incentive Plan.3Includes 906,000
      shares reserved for issuance under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan and
      4,943,000 shares reserved for issuance under the 2008 Equity Incentive
      Plan.4Represents
      shares reserved for options granted under the prior 2000 Equity Incentive
      Plan, which was approved by the Company’s Board of Directors in March
      2000.



The information
required by Item 403 of Regulation S-K is incorporated herein by reference to
the section of the Proxy Statement entitled "Stock Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners and Management."



ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND
RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE.



The information
required by Items 404 and 407(a) of Regulation S-K are incorporated herein by
reference to the section of the Proxy Statement entitled “Information Regarding
Nominees and Incumbent Directors” including the captions “Audit Committee,”
“Compensation Committee,” and “Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee”
and the section of the Proxy Statement entitled “Certain Transactions.”












ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND
SERVICES.Information
concerning principal accountant fees and services will appear in the Proxy
Statement in the Ross Stores, Inc. Board of Directors Audit Committee Report
under the caption “Summary of Audit, Audit-Related, Tax and All Other Fees.”
Such information is incorporated herein by reference.

PART IV



ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT
SCHEDULES.



(a)The following consolidated financial statements, schedules and
      exhibits are filed as part of this report or are incorporated herein as
      indicated:1.List of Consolidated Financial Statements.The following consolidated financial statements are included herein
      under Item 8:Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the years ended January 30,
      2010, January 31, 2009, and February 2, 2008.Consolidated Balance Sheets at January 30, 2010 and January 31,
      2009.Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the years ended
      January 30, 2010, January 31, 2009, and February 2, 2008.Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended January
      30, 2010, January 31, 2009, and February 2, 2008.Notes to
      Consolidated Financial Statements.Report of
      Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.2.List of
      Consolidated Financial Statement Schedules.Schedules are
      omitted because they are not required, not applicable, or such information
      is included in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto
      which are included in this Report.3.List of
      Exhibits (in accordance with Item 601 of Regulation S-K).Incorporated
      herein by reference to the list of Exhibits contained in the Exhibit Index
      within this Report.












SIGNATURES



Pursuant to the
requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.



ROSS STORES, INC.(Registrant)Date:March 30, 2010By:/s/Michael BalmuthMichael BalmuthVice Chairman andChief Executive
  Officer



Pursuant to the
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities
and on the dates indicated.



SignatureTitleDate/s/Michael BalmuthVice Chairman andMarch 30, 2010Michael BalmuthChief Executive Officer, Director/s/J. CallSenior Vice President,March 30, 2010John G. CallChief Financial Officer andPrincipal Accounting Officer/s/Norman A. FerberChairman of the Board, DirectorMarch 30, 2010Norman A. Ferber/s/K. Gunnar BjorklundDirectorMarch 30, 2010K. Gunnar Bjorklund/s/Michael J. BushDirectorMarch 30, 2010Michael J. Bush/s/Sharon D. GarrettDirectorMarch 30, 2010Sharon D. Garrett/s/G. OrbanDirectorMarch 30, 2010George P. Orban/s/G. L. QuesnelDirectorMarch 30, 2010Gregory L. Quesnel/s/Donald H. SeilerDirectorMarch 30, 2010Donald H. Seiler












INDEX TO EXHIBITS



Exhibit

NumberExhibit

3.1Amendment of
      Certificate of Incorporation dated May 21, 2004 and Amendment of
      Certificate of Incorporation dated June 5, 2002 and Corrected First
      Restated Certificate of Incorporation incorporated by reference to Exhibit
      3.1 to the Form 10-Q filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for its quarter ended July
      31, 2004.



3.2Amended
      By-laws, dated August 25, 1994, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2
      to the Form 10-Q filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for its quarter ended July 30,
      1994.



4.1Note Purchase
      Agreement dated October 17, 2006 incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2
      to the Form 10-Q filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for its quarter ended October
      28, 2006.



10.1Lease dated
      July 23, 2003 of Certain Property located in Perris, California,
      incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10-Q filed by Ross
      Stores, Inc. for its quarter ended August 2, 2003.



MANAGEMENT CONTRACTS AND COMPENSATORY
      PLANS (EXHIBITS 10.2 - 10.72)



10.2Third Amended
      and Restated Ross Stores, Inc. 1992 Stock Option Plan, incorporated by
      reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Form 10-K filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for
      its fiscal year ended January 29, 2000.



10.3Amendment to
      Third Amended and Restated Ross Stores, Inc. 1992 Stock Option Plan,
      incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Form 10-Q filed by Ross
      Stores, Inc. for its quarter ended August 4, 2001.



10.4Ross Stores,
      Inc. 2000 Equity Incentive Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7
      to the Form 10-K filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for its fiscal year ended
      January 29, 2000.



10.5Fourth Amended
      and Restated Ross Stores, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, incorporated
      by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Form 10-Q filed by Ross Stores, Inc.
      for its quarter ended July 29, 2000.



10.6Amended and
      Restated Ross Stores, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan dated November 20,
      2007 incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the Form 10-K filed by
      Ross Stores, Inc. for its fiscal year ended February 2,
    2008.



10.7Fourth Amended
      and Restated Ross Stores, Inc. 1988 Restricted Stock Plan, incorporated by
      reference to Exhibit 10.9 to the Form 10-K filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for
      its fiscal year ended January 29, 2000.



10.8Amended and
      Restated Ross Stores, Inc. 1991 Outside Directors Stock Option Plan, as
      amended through January 30, 2003, incorporated by reference to Exhibit
      10.9 to the Form 10-K filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for its fiscal year ended
      February 1, 2003.



10.9Ross Stores
      Executive Medical Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to the
      Form 10-K filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for its fiscal year ended January 30,
      1999.



10.10Ross Stores
      Executive Dental Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to the
      Form 10-K filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for its fiscal year ended January 30,
      1999.












10.11Ross Stores Second Amended and
      Restated Ross Stores, Inc. Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan,
      incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to the Form 10-K filed by Ross
      Stores, Inc. for its fiscal year ended January 30, 1999.



10.12Amended and Restated Ross Stores,
      Inc. Incentive Compensation Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit
      10.18 to the Form 10-K filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for its year ended
      January 29, 2000.



10.13Ross Stores, Inc. Second Amended
      and Restated Incentive Compensation Plan, incorporated by reference to the
      appendix to the Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A filed by Ross
      Stores, Inc. on April 12, 2006.



10.14Ross Stores, Inc. 2004 Equity
      Incentive Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99 to the Definitive
      Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A filed by Ross Stores, Inc. on April 15,
      2004.



10.15First Amendment to the Ross Stores,
      Inc. 2004 Equity Incentive Plan, effective May 17, 2005, incorporated by
      reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Form 10-Q filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for
      its quarter ended July 30, 2005.



10.16Second Amendment to the Ross
      Stores, Inc. 2004 Equity Incentive Plan effective March 22, 2007
      incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the Form 10-Q filed by Ross
      Stores, Inc. for its quarter ended May 5, 2007.



10.17Form of Stock Option Agreement for
      options granted pursuant to Ross Stores, Inc. 2004 Equity Incentive Plan,
      incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.32 to the Form 10-Q filed by Ross
      Stores, Inc. for its quarter ended July 31, 2004.



10.18Form of Restricted Stock Agreement
      for stock awards granted pursuant to the Ross Stores, Inc. 2004 Equity
      Incentive Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.33 to the Form
      10-Q filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for its quarter ended July 31,
    2004.



10.19Form of Stock Option Agreement for
      Non-Employee Directors for options granted pursuant to Ross Stores, Inc.
      2004 Equity Incentive Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to
      the Form 10-Q filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for its quarter ended July 30,
      2005.



10.20Ross Stores, Inc. 2008 Equity
      Incentive Plan, incorporated by reference to the appendix to the
      Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A filed by Ross Stores, Inc. on
      April 14, 2008.



10.21Form of Nonemployee Director Equity
      Notice of Grant of Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Agreement under
      the Ross Stores, Inc. 2008 Equity Incentive Plan, incorporated by
      reference to Exhibit 99.2 to the Form 8-K filed by Ross Stores, Inc. on
      May 23, 2008.



10.22Form of Nonemployee Director Equity
      Notice of Grant of Restricted Stock Units and Restricted Stock Units
      Agreement under the Ross Stores, Inc. 2008 Equity Incentive Plan,
      incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.3 to the Form 8-K filed by Ross
      Stores, Inc. on May 23, 2008.



10.23Form of Notice of Grant of
      Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Agreement under the Ross Stores,
      Inc. 2008 Equity Incentive Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.4
      to the Form 8-K filed by Ross Stores, Inc. on May 23,
  2008.












10.24Form of Notice of Grant of
      Restricted Stock Units and Restricted Stock Units Agreement under the Ross
      Stores, Inc. 2008 Equity Incentive Plan, incorporated by reference to
      Exhibit 99.5 to the Form 8-K filed by Ross Stores, Inc. on May 23,
      2008.



10.25Form of Notice of Grant of
      Performance Shares and Performance Share Agreement under the Ross Stores,
      Inc. 2008 Equity Incentive Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.6
      to the Form 8-K filed by Ross Stores, Inc. on May 23, 2008.



10.26Form of Notice of Grant of Stock
      Option and Stock Option Agreement under the Ross Stores, Inc. 2008 Equity
      Incentive Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.7 to the Form 8-K
      filed by Ross Stores, Inc. on May 23, 2008.



10.27Ross Stores, Inc. 2008 Equity
      Incentive Plan, as Amended Through March 18, 2009 incorporated by
      reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10-Q filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for
      its quarter ended May 2, 2009.



10.28Ross Stores, Inc. Restricted Stock
      Agreement incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Form 10-Q filed
      by Ross Stores, Inc. for its quarter ended May 2, 2009.



10.29Ross Stores, Inc. Restricted Stock
      Agreement for Nonemployee Director incorporated by reference to Exhibit
      10.3 to the Form 10-Q filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for its quarter ended May
      2, 2009.



10.30Form of Performance Share Award
      Agreement incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the Form 10-Q filed
      by Ross Stores, Inc. for its quarter ended May 5, 2007.



10.31Ross Stores, Inc. Form of Notice of
      Grant and Performance Share Agreement incorporated by reference to Exhibit
      10.4 to the Form 10-Q filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for its quarter ended May
      2, 2009.



10.32Form of Indemnity Agreement between
      Ross Stores, Inc. for Directors and Executive Officers, incorporated by
      reference to Exhibit 10.27 to the Form 10-K filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for
      its fiscal year ended February 2, 2002.



10.33Form of Executive Employment
      Agreement between Ross Stores, Inc. and Executive Vice Presidents or
      Senior Vice Presidents, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.35 to the
      Form 10-K filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for its fiscal year ended January 29,
      2005.



10.34Form of Executive Employment
      Agreement between Ross Stores, Inc. and Executive Vice Presidents or
      Senior Vice Presidents incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.48 to the
      Form 10-K filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for its year ended January 31,
      2009.



10.35Form of Executive Employment
      Agreement between Ross Stores, Inc. and Executives incorporated by
      reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Form 10-Q filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for
      its quarter ended May 2, 2009.



10.36Form of Executive Employment
      Agreement between Ross Stores, Inc. and Executives.



10.37Independent Contractor Consultancy
      Agreement effective February 1, 2000 between Norman A. Ferber and Ross
      Stores, Inc., incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.41 to the Form 10-Q
      filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for its quarter ended April 29,
  2000.



10.38Retirement Benefit Package
      Agreement effective February 1, 2000 between Norman A. Ferber and Ross
      Stores, Inc., incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.42 to the Form 10-Q
      filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for its quarter ended April 29,
  2000.












10.39Amendment to Independent Contractor
      Consultancy Agreement dated January 10, 2001 between Norman A. Ferber and
      Ross Stores, Inc., incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16 to the Form
      10-K filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for its fiscal year ended February 3,
      2001.



10.40Amendment #2 to the Independent
      Contractor Consultancy Agreement dated January 7, 2002 between Norman A.
      Ferber and Ross Stores, Inc., incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16
      to the Form 10-K filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for its fiscal year ended
      February 2, 2002.



10.41Third Amendment to the Independent
      Contractor Consultancy Agreement effective February 1, 2003 between Norman
      A. Ferber and Ross Stores, Inc., incorporated by reference to Exhibit
      10.19 of the Form 10-K filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for its fiscal year
      ended February 1, 2003.



10.42Fourth Amendment to the Independent
      Contractor Consultancy Agreement effective February 1, 2004 between Norman
      A. Ferber and Ross Stores, Inc., incorporated by reference to Exhibit
      10.19 to the Form 10-K filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for its fiscal year
      ended January 29, 2005.



10.43Fifth Amendment to the Independent
      Contractor Consultancy Agreement effective February 1, 2005 between Norman
      A. Ferber and Ross Stores, Inc., incorporated by reference to Exhibit
      10.20 to the Form 10-K filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for its fiscal year
      ended January 29, 2005.



10.44Sixth Amendment to the Independent
      Contractor Consultancy Agreement between Norman A. Ferber and Ross Stores,
      Inc. effective February 1, 2006, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1
      to the Form 10-Q filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for its quarter ended April
      29, 2006.



10.45Revised and Restated Sixth
      Amendment to the Independent Contractor Consultancy Agreement executed
      June 2007 between Norman A. Ferber and Ross Stores, Inc., incorporated by
      reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10-Q filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for
      its quarter ended August 4, 2007.



10.46Seventh Amendment to the
      Independent Contractor Consultancy Agreement executed March 2008 between
      Norman A. Ferber and Ross Stores, Inc., incorporated by reference to
      Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10-Q filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for its quarter
      ended May 3, 2008.



10.47Amended and Restated Independent
      Contractor Consultancy Agreement effective January 6, 2010 between Norman
      A. Ferber and Ross Stores, Inc.



10.48Amended and Restated Retirement
      Benefit Package Agreement effective January 6, 2010 between Norman A.
      Ferber and Ross Stores, Inc.



10.49Employment Agreement effective May
      31, 2001 between Michael Balmuth and Ross Stores, Inc., incorporated by
      reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Form 10-Q filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for
      its quarter ended August 4, 2001.



10.50First Amendment to the Employment
      Agreement effective January 30, 2003 between Michael Balmuth and Ross
      Stores, Inc., incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10-Q
      filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for its quarter ended May 3, 2003.



10.51Second Amendment to the Employment
      Agreement effective May 18, 2005 between Michael Balmuth and Ross Stores,
      Inc., incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10-Q filed by
      Ross Stores, Inc. for its quarter ended July 30,
2005.












10.52Third Amendment to the Employment
      Agreement executed April 2007 between Michael Balmuth and Ross Stores,
      Inc. incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the Form 10-Q filed by
      Ross Stores, Inc. for its quarter ended May 5, 2007.



10.53Restated Third Amendment to the
      Employment Agreement executed December 29, 2008 between Michael Balmuth
      and Ross Stores, Inc. incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.42 to the
      Form 10-K filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for its year ended January 31,
      2009.



10.54Fourth Amendment to the Employment
      Agreement effective June 9, 2009 between Michael Balmuth and Ross Stores,
      Inc. incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to the Form 10-Q filed by
      Ross Stores, Inc. for its quarter ended August 1, 2009.



10.55Employment Agreement effective
      January 3, 2005 between Lisa Panattoni and Ross Stores, Inc., incorporated
      by reference to Exhibit 10.36 to the Form 10-K filed by Ross Stores, Inc.
      for its fiscal year ended January 29, 2005.



10.56First Amendment to the Employment
      Agreement effective October 1, 2005 between Lisa Panattoni and Ross
      Stores, Inc., incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10-Q
      filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for its quarter ended October 29,
    2005.



10.57Employment Agreement executed April
      2007 between Lisa Panattoni and Ross Stores, Inc. incorporated by
      reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Form 10-Q filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for
      its quarter ended May 5, 2007.



10.58First Amendment to the Employment
      Agreement effective December 31, 2008 between Lisa Panattoni and Ross
      Stores, Inc. incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.52 to the Form 10-K
      filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for its year ended January 31,
  2009.



10.59Employment Agreement executed April
      2009 between Lisa Panattoni and Ross Stores, Inc. incorporated by
      reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the Form 10-Q filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for
      its quarter ended May 2, 2009.



10.60Executive Employment Agreement
      effective December 4, 2009 between Lisa Panattoni and Ross Stores,
      Inc.



10.61Employment Agreement executed April
      2007 between Barbara Rentler and Ross Stores, Inc., incorporated by
      reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Form 10-Q filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for
      its quarter ended May 5, 2007.



10.62First Amendment to the Employment
      Agreement executed April 2007 between Barbara Rentler and Ross Stores,
      Inc., incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Form 10-Q filed by
      Ross Stores, Inc. for its quarter ended May 5, 2007.



10.63Second Amendment to the Employment
      Agreement effective December 31, 2008 between Barbara Rentler and Ross
      Stores, Inc. incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.55 to the Form 10-K
      filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for its year ended January 31,
  2009.



10.64Employment Agreement executed April
      2009 between Barbara Rentler and Ross Stores, Inc. incorporated by
      reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the Form 10-Q filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for
      its quarter ended May 2, 2009.



10.65Executive Employment Agreement
      effective December 4, 2009 between Barbara Rentler and Ross Stores,
      Inc.












10.66Employment Agreement executed
      October 2007 between John G. Call and Ross Stores, Inc., incorporated by
      reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Form 10-Q filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for
      its quarter ended November 3, 2007.



10.67First Amendment to the Employment
      Agreement effective December 31, 2008 between John G. Call and Ross
      Stores, Inc. incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.58 to the Form 10-K
      filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for its year ended January 31,
  2009.



10.68Employment Agreement executed April
      2009 between John G. Call and Ross Stores, Inc. incorporated by reference
      to Exhibit 10.9 to the Form 10-Q filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for its
      quarter ended May 2, 2009.



10.69Employment Agreement executed March
      22, 2007 between Michael O’Sullivan and Ross Stores, Inc. incorporated by
      reference to Exhibit 10.59 to the Form 10-K filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for
      its year ended January 31, 2009.



10.70First Amendment to the Employment
      Agreement effective December 31, 2008 between Michael O’Sullivan and Ross
      Stores, Inc. incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.60 to the Form 10-K
      filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for its year ended January 31,
  2009.



10.71Employment Agreement executed April
      2009 between Michael O’Sullivan and Ross Stores, Inc. incorporated by
      reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the Form 10-Q filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for
      its quarter ended May 2, 2009.



10.72Executive Employment Agreement
      effective December 4, 2009 between Michael O’Sullivan and Ross Stores,
      Inc.



21Subsidiaries.



23Consent of Independent Registered
      Public Accounting Firm.



31.1Certification of Chief Executive
      Officer Pursuant to Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 302(a).



31.2Certification of Chief Financial
      Officer Pursuant to Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 302(a).



32.1Certification of Chief Executive
      Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350.



32.2Certification of Chief Financial
      Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section
1350.








