
10-K405
1998 10-K


                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C.  20549
                                    FORM 10-K
      (Mark One)
          /X/  Annual report pursuant to section 13 or 15(d) of the
               Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Fee Required) for the
               fiscal year ended December 31, 1998
                                 -----------------
               or
          / /  Transition report pursuant to section 13 or 15(d) of
               the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (No Fee Required)
               for the transition period from
                      to
               -------  -------
     
     Commission file number   1-9044
                              ------
     
                          DUKE REALTY INVESTMENTS, INC.
                         ------------------------------
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
                                        
                    Indiana                                 35-1740409
     ---------------------------------------------   -----------------------
     (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation   (I.R.S. Employer
      or organization)                                Identification No.)
     
     8888 Keystone Crossing, Suite 1200
        Indianapolis, Indiana                               46240
     ----------------------------------               ----------------------
     (Address of principal executive offices)              (Zip Code)
                                 (317)  808-6000
               --------------------------------------------------
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
     
           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:
                                        
     Title of each class:                    Name of each exchange on
                                             which registered:
     -------------------                ----------------------------------
     Common Stock ($.01 par value)         New York Stock Exchange
     Preferred Share Purchase Rights       New York Stock Exchange
     Depositary Shares, each representing
      a 1/10 share interest in a 9.10%
      Series A Cumulative Redeemable
      Preferred Shares ($.01 par value)    New York Stock Exchange
     Depositary Shares, each representing
      a 1/10 share interest in a 7.37%
      Series D Convertible Cumulative              
      Redeemable Preferred Shares
      ($.01 par value)                     New York Stock Exchange
     Depositary Shares, each representing
      a 1/10 share interest in a 8.25%
      Series E Cumulative Redeemable 
      Preferred Shares ($.01 par value)    New York Stock Exchange

        SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT: NONE.
     
     Indicate  by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed  all
     reports  required  to be filed by Section  13  or  15(d)  of  the
     Securities  Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding  12  months
     (or  for such shorter period that the Registrant was required  to
     file  such  reports),  and (2) has been subject  to  such  filing
     requirements for the past 90 days. Yes   X   No
                                            -----    -----
     
     Indicate  by  check  mark  if  disclosure  of  delinquent  filers
     pursuant to Item 405 Regulation S-K is not contained herein,  and
     will not be contained, to the best of Registrant's knowledge,  in
     definitive  proxy  or  information  statements  incorporated   by
     reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to  this
     Form 10-K. /X/
     
     The   aggregate  market  value  of  the  voting  shares  of   the
     Registrant's outstanding common shares held by non-affiliates  of
     the  Registrant is $1,726,803,060 based on the last reported sale
     price on March 1, 1999.
     
     The  number of Common Shares outstanding as of March  1, 1999 was
     86,690,489 ($.01 par value).
                                        
     

                                                                        
                                    FORM 10-K

          
          Item No.                                               Page(s)
          --------                                               ------
          PART I
          
               1.   Business                                     1 - 4
               2.   Properties                                   4 - 17
               3.   Legal Proceedings                              17
               4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote 
                     of Security Holders                           17
          
          PART II
          
               5.   Market for the Registrant's Common 
                      Stock and Related Security Holder 
                      Matters                                      18
               6.   Selected Financial Data                     18 - 19
               7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis 
                     of Financial Condition and Results 
                     of Operations                              19 - 27
               7a.  Quantitative and Qualitative
                      Disclosure about Market Risks             27 - 28
               8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary 
                      Data                                         28
               9.   Changes in and Disagreements with
                      Accountants on Accounting and 
                      Financial Disclosure                         28
          
          PART III
          
               10.  Directors and Executive Officers of 
                      the Registrant                            28 - 31
               11.  Executive Compensation                      31 - 39
               12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
                      Owners and Management                     39 - 40
               13.  Certain Relationships and 
                      Related Transactions                         41
          
          PART IV
          
               14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 
                      and Reports on Form 8-K                   42 - 70
          
          Signatures                                            71 - 72
          Exhibits                                              73 - 74


   WHEN  USED  IN THIS FORM 10-K REPORT, THE WORDS "BELIEVES," "EXPECTS,"
   "ESTIMATES" AND SIMILAR EXPRESSIONS ARE INTENDED TO IDENTIFY  FORWARD-
   LOOKING  STATEMENTS. SUCH STATEMENTS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN RISKS  AND
   UNCERTAINTIES  WHICH COULD CAUSE ACTUAL RESULTS TO DIFFER  MATERIALLY.
   IN  PARTICULAR, AMONG THE FACTORS THAT COULD CAUSE ACTUAL  RESULTS  TO
   DIFFER  MATERIALLY  ARE  CONTINUED  QUALIFICATION  AS  A  REAL  ESTATE
   INVESTMENT   TRUST,   GENERAL  BUSINESS   AND   ECONOMIC   CONDITIONS,
   COMPETITION,  INCREASES  IN REAL ESTATE CONSTRUCTION  COSTS,  INTEREST
   RATES,  ACCESSIBILITY  OF DEBT AND EQUITY CAPITAL  MARKETS  AND  OTHER
   RISKS  INHERENT IN THE REAL ESTATE BUSINESS INCLUDING TENANT DEFAULTS,
   POTENTIAL  LIABILITY RELATING TO ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS AND ILLIQUIDITY
   OF  REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS. READERS ARE CAUTIONED NOT TO PLACE  UNDUE
   RELIANCE ON THESE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS, WHICH SPEAK ONLY  AS  OF
   THE  DATE  HEREOF.  THE COMPANY UNDERTAKES NO OBLIGATION  TO  PUBLICLY
   RELEASE   THE  RESULTS  OF  ANY  REVISIONS  TO  THESE  FORWARD-LOOKING
   STATEMENTS WHICH MAY BE MADE TO REFLECT EVENTS OR CIRCUMSTANCES  AFTER
   THE  DATE HEREOF OR TO REFLECT THE OCCURRENCE OF UNANTICIPATED EVENTS.
   READERS ARE ALSO ADVISED TO REFER TO THE COMPANY'S FORM 8-K REPORT  AS
   FILED  WITH THE U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION ON  MARCH  28,
   1996 FOR ADDITIONAL  INFORMATION CONCERNING THESE RISKS.
   
                                     PART I
                                        
   ITEM 1.  BUSINESS
   
   Duke  Realty  Investments, Inc. (the "Company") is a self-administered
   and  self-managed real estate investment trust ("REIT").  The  Company
   began  operations  upon completion of its initial public  offering  in
   February  1986. In October 1993, the Company completed  an  additional
   common  stock offering and acquired the rental real estate and service
   businesses  of Duke Associates, whose operations began  in  1972.  The
   Company  owns  and  rents  industrial, office  and  retail  properties
   throughout the Midwest (see discussion of Weeks merger below).  As  of
   December  31,  1998,  the  Company owned interests  in  a  diversified
   portfolio  of  493 rental properties comprising 59.3   million  square
   feet  (including  40  properties and three expansions  comprising  7.2
   million  square feet under development). Substantially  all  of  these
   properties   are   located  in  the  Company's  primary   markets   of
   Indianapolis, Indiana; Cincinnati, Cleveland, and Columbus, Ohio;  St.
   Louis,   Missouri;  Minneapolis,  Minnesota;  Chicago,  Illinois   and
   Nashville,  Tennessee.  The Company, through  its  service  operations
   provides,   on   a  fee  basis,  leasing,  management,   construction,
   development  and  other  real estate services  for  approximately  6.9
   million square feet of properties owned by third parties. See Item  7,
   "Management's  Discussion  and Analysis  of  Financial  Condition  and
   Results   of  Operations"  and  Item  8,  "Financial  Statements   and
   Supplementary  Data" for financial information. The  Company's  rental
   operations are conducted through Duke Realty Limited Partnership  (the
   "Operating  Partnership").  In  addition,  the  Company  conducts  its
   service  operations  through Duke Realty Services Limited  Partnership
   and  Duke  Construction Limited Partnership, in  which  the  Company's
   wholly-owned  subsidiary, Duke Services, Inc.,  is  the  sole  general
   partner.  All  references to the "Company" in this  Form  10-K  Report
   include  the  Company and those entities owned or  controlled  by  the
   Company, unless the context indicates otherwise. The Company  has  the
   largest   commercial  real  estate  operations  in  Indianapolis   and
   Cincinnati  and  is one of the largest real estate  companies  in  the
   Midwest.
   
   The  Company's  headquarters  and executive  offices  are  located  in
   Indianapolis,  Indiana. In addition, the Company  has  seven  regional
   offices located in Cincinnati, Ohio; Columbus, Ohio; Cleveland,  Ohio;
   Chicago,  Illinois; Nashville, Tennessee; St.  Louis,  Missouri
   and  Minneapolis,  Minnesota. The Company  had  748  employees  as  of
   December 31, 1998.
   
                                      - 1 -
   
   BUSINESS STRATEGY
   
   The  Company's  business  objective is  to  increase  its  Funds  From
   Operations   ("FFO")  by  (i)  maintaining  and  increasing   property
   occupancy  and rental rates through the aggressive management  of  its
   portfolio  of existing properties; (ii) expanding existing properties;
   (iii)  developing and acquiring new properties; and (iv)  providing  a
   full  line  of  real estate services to the Company's tenants  and  to
   third-parties.  FFO  is defined by the National  Association  of  Real
   Estate  Investment  Trusts as net income or loss  excluding  gains  or
   losses   from   debt   restructuring  and  sales  of   property   plus
   depreciation  and  amortization, and after  adjustments  for  minority
   interest   and  unconsolidated  companies  (adjustments  for  minority
   interests  and unconsolidated companies are calculated to reflect  FFO
   on  the  same basis). While management believes that FFO is a relevant
   measure  of the Company's operating performance because it  is  widely
   used  by  industry  analysts to measure the operating  performance  of
   equity   REITs,  such  amount  does  not  represent  cash  flow   from
   operations  as  defined  by generally accepted accounting  principles,
   should  not  be  considered as an alternative  to  net  income  as  an
   indicator  of  the  Company's  operating  performance,  and   is   not
   indicative of cash available to fund all cash flow needs. As  a  fully
   integrated commercial real estate firm, the Company believes that  its
   in-house  leasing,  management, development and construction  services
   and   the  Company's  significant  base  of  commercially  zoned   and
   unencumbered land in existing business parks should give  the  Company
   a competitive advantage in its future development activities.
                                        
   The  Company  believes that the analysis of real estate  opportunities
   and  risks  can be done most effectively at regional or local  levels.
   As  a  result,  the  Company  intends  to  continue  its  emphasis  on
   increasing  its  market  share  and effective  rents  in  the 
   markets  where it owns properties (see discussion of Weeks  merger  below).
   The  Company also expects to utilize its approximately 1,750 acres  of
   unencumbered land and its many business relationships with  more  than
   3,600   commercial  tenants  to  expand  its  build-to-suit   business
   (development  projects substantially pre-leased to  a  single  tenant)
   and  to pursue other development and acquisition opportunities in  its
   primary  markets  and  elsewhere.  The  Company  believes  that   this
   regional  focus will allow it to assess market supply and  demand  for
   real  estate more effectively as well as to capitalize on  its  strong
   relationships with its tenant base.
   
   The  Company's  policy  is  to seek to develop  and  acquire  Class  A
   commercial  properties located in markets with high  growth  potential
   for  Fortune 500 companies and other quality regional and local firms.
   The  Company's industrial and suburban office development  focuses  on
   business parks and mixed-use developments  suitable for development of
   multiple  projects on a single site where the Company can  create  and
   control  the business environment. These business parks and  mixed-use
   developments  generally include restaurants and other amenities  which
   the  Company  believes will create an atmosphere that is  particularly
   efficient  and desirable. The Company's retail development focuses  on
   community, power and neighborhood centers in its existing markets.  As
   a fully integrated real estate company, the Company is able to arrange
   for  or provide to its industrial, office and retail tenants not  only
   well  located  and  well maintained facilities,  but  also  additional
   services   such   as   build-to-suit   construction,   tenant   finish
   construction,  expansion  flexibility and  advertising  and  marketing
   services.
   
   All  of  the  Company's properties are located in areas  that  include
   competitive  properties.  Such  properties  are  generally  owned   by
   institutional  investors, other REITs or local real estate  operators;
   however,  no  single  competitor  or small  group  of  competitors  is
   dominant in the Company's current markets. The supply and demand of similar
   available  rental properties may affect the rental rates  the  Company
   will  receive  on  its  properties. Based upon the  current  occupancy
   rates  in  Company  and competitive properties, the  Company  believes
   there  will  not be significant competitive pressure to  lower  rental
   rates in the near future.
                                      - 2 -
   
   FINANCING STRATEGY
   
   The  Company  seeks  to  maintain  a well-balanced,  conservative  and
   flexible  capital  structure by: (i) currently targeting  a  ratio  of
   long-term debt to total market capitalization in the range of  25%  to
   40%;  (ii)  extending and sequencing the maturity dates of  its  debt;
   (iii)  borrowing  primarily at fixed rates;  (iv)  generally  pursuing
   current  and future long-term debt financings and refinancings  on  an
   unsecured  basis;  and (v) maintaining conservative debt  service  and
   fixed   charge  coverage  ratios.  Management  believes   that   these
   strategies  have enabled and should continue to enable the Company  to
   access  the  debt  and  equity  capital markets  for  their  long-term
   requirements such as debt refinancings and financing development  and
   acquisitions of additional rental properties. The Company  has  raised
   approximately  $1.4 billion through public debt and  equity  offerings
   during  the  three  years  ended December 31,  1998.  Based  on  these
   offerings,  the Company has demonstrated its abilities to  access  the
   public  markets  as  a  source of capital to fund  future  growth.  In
   addition,  as  discussed  under Item 7, "Management's  Discussion  and
   Analysis  of  Financial  Condition and  Results  of  Operations,"  the
   Company  has  a  $450 million unsecured line of credit  available  for
   short-term  fundings  of  development and  acquisition  of  additional
   rental  properties. The Company's debt to total market  capitalization
   ratio  (total  market capitalization is defined as  the  total  market
   value  of  all  outstanding Common and Preferred Shares and  units  of
   limited  partnership  interest ("Units") in the Operating  Partnership
   plus  outstanding indebtedness) at December 31, 1998 was  27.75%.  The
   Company's  ratio of earnings to debt service and ratio of earnings  to
   fixed charges for the year ended December 31, 1998 were 2.54x  and
   2.05x,  respectively. In computing the ratio of  earnings  to  debt
   service,  earnings  have  been calculated by adding  debt  service  to
   income  before gains or losses on property sales and minority interest
   in  earnings  of the Operating Partnership. Debt service  consists  of
   interest  expense  and  recurring  principal  amortization  (excluding
   maturities)  and  excludes amortization of  debt  issuance  costs.  In
   computing  the ratio of earnings to fixed charges, earnings have  been
   calculated  by  adding fixed charges, excluding capitalized  interest,
   to  income  before  gains  or losses on property  sales  and  minority
   interest  in  earnings  of  the Operating Partnership.  Fixed  charges
   consist  of  interest  costs,  whether expensed  or  capitalized,  the
   interest  component of rental expense, amortization of  debt  issuance
   costs  and preferred stock dividend requirements. Management  believes
   these measures to be consistent with its financing strategy.
   
   MERGER WITH WEEKS CORPORATION
   
   On  March  1,  1999,  the Company announced that it  entered  into  an
   Agreement  and  Plan  of Merger, dated as of February  28,  1999  (the
   "Merger  Agreement"),  with Weeks Corporation ("Weeks"),  pursuant  to
   which Weeks will merge with and into the Company. Weeks is a self-
   administered, self-managed, geographically focused REIT that was organized
   in 1994. As of December 31, 1998, Weeks' in-service property portfolio
   consisted of 300 industrial properties, 34 suburban office properties and
   five retail properties comprising 28.1 million square feet. As of December 
   31, 1998, Weeks' primary markets and the concentration of Weeks' portfolio 
   (based on square footage of in-service properties) were Atlanta, Georgia;
   Nashville, Tennessee; Miami, Florida; Raleigh-Durham-Chapel Hill (the
   "Research Triangle"), North Carolina; Dallas/Ft. Worth, Texas; Orlando,
   Florida; and Spartanburg, South Carolina. In addition, 31 industrial,
   suburban office and retail properties were under development, in lease-up
   or under agreement to acquire at December 31, 1998, comprising an additional
   3.4 million square feet. At December 31, 1998, Weeks had approximately 19.7 
   million shares of common stock and six million shares of preferred stock
   outstanding, and approximately $654 million aggregate principal amount of
   outstanding indebtedness. In the merger, each outstanding share of common
   stock of Weeks will be converted into the right to receive 1.38 shares of
   common stock of the Company; each outstanding share of 8.0% Series A
   Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock of Weeks will be converted into the
   right to receive one depositary share of the Company representing 1/1000
   of a share of 8.0% Series F Cumulative Redeemable     
                                   - 3 -
  
   Preferred Stock of the Company; and each outstanding share of 8.625% Series
   D Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock of Weeks will be converted into 
   the right to receive one depositary share of the Company representing 1/1000
   of a share of 8.625% Series H Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock of the
   Company. The terms of the Company's depositary shares to be issued in the
   merger will be identical to the terms of the Weeks Series A  and  Series D
   preferred stock. Weeks' principal operating subsidiary, Weeks  Realty,
   L.P.  (the  "Weeks Operating Partnership"), will be  merged  with  and
   into  the  Operating  Partnership. In the partnership merger, each 
   outstanding common unit of Weeks Operating Partnership will be converted
   into the right to receive 1.38 common units of the Operating Partnership.
   At December 31, 1998, Weeks Operating Partnership had approximately 7.3
   million units of limited partnership interest outstanding. The merger of
   Weeks into the Company is expected to qualify as a tax-free reorganization
   and will be accounted for under the purchase method of accounting. The 
   transactions are expected to close  in  the second or third quarter of
   1999, subject to receipt  of necessary  approvals by  the  Duke  and  
   Weeks shareholders and satisfaction of customary closing conditions.

   If the merger between the Company and Weeks is consummated as expected, the
   combined company will have significant operations and assets located in
   southeastern markets where the Company and its management have not 
   traditionally operated or owned assets. Since substantially all of the 
   members of Weeks' management are expected to remain with the combined 
   company for the foreseeable future after the merger, the Company expects to 
   have the necessary expertise to operate successfully in the new markets.
   The combined company's operating performance will, however, be exposed to 
   the general economic conditions of its new markets and could be adversely
   affected if conditions, such as an oversupply of space or a reduction in
   demand for the types of properties supplied by the combined company, 
   become unfavorable.
   
   OTHER
   
   The  Company's  operations  are  not dependent  on  a  single  or  few
   customers  as  no single customer accounts for more  than  2%  of  the
   Company's  total revenue. The Company's operations are not subject  to
   any  significant seasonal fluctuations. The Company believes it is  in
   compliance  with  environmental regulations and  does  not  anticipate
   material effects of continued compliance.
   
   For  additional  information regarding the Company's  investments  and
   operations,  see  Item  7, "Management's Discussion  and  Analysis  of
   Financial   Condition  and  Results  of  Operations,"  and   Item   8,
   "Financial   Statements  and  Supplementary  Data."   For   additional
   information  about  the  Company's  business  segments,  see  Item  8,
   "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data."
   
   ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES
   
   As  of  December  31,  1998,  the  Company  owns  an  interest  in   a
   diversified  portfolio  of  493  commercial   properties  encompassing
   approximately  59.3  million net rentable square  feet  (including  40
   properties  and  three expansions comprising 7.2 million  square  feet
   under  development) located primarily in five states and approximately
   1,750  acres  of  land  for  future development.  The  properties  are
   described on the following pages.
                                      - 4 -
                                        
   
   

[1]   These buildings and a 50% general partnership interest in Park
Fletcher Buildings 27 and 28 are owned by a limited liability company
in which  the Company is a 50.1% member. The Company shares in the
profit or loss from such buildings in accordance with the Company's
ownership interest.

[2]  These buildings are owned by a partnership in which the Company
is a partner. The Company owns a 10% capital interest in  the
partnership and receives a 50% interest in the residual cash flow
after payment of a 9% preferred return to the other partner on its
capital interest.

[3]  This building is owned in partnership with a tenant of the
building. The Company owns a 50% general partnership interest in the
partnership. The Company shares in the profit or loss from the
building in  accordance with such ownership interest.

[4]  This building was constructed in three phases; 1962, 1971 and
1974. An expansion was completed in 1998.

[5]  This building is owned by a limited partnership in which the
Company has a 1% general partnership interest and a 39% limited
partnership interest. The Company shares in the profit or loss from
such building in accordance with such ownership interest.

[6] This building is owned by a limited liability company in which the
Company is a 50% member. The Company shares in the profit or loss of
the building in accordance with the Company's ownership interest.
                                     - 16 -
                                                                      

[7]  This building is owned by a partnership in which the Company owns
a 33.33% limited partnership interest. The Company shares in the
profit or loss from the building in accordance with such ownership
interest.

[8]  The Company owns a 66.67% general partnership interest in the
partnership owning this building. The Company shares in the profit or
loss of this building in accordance with the Company's ownership
interest.

[9] The Company owns the building and has a leasehold interest in  the
land underlying this building with a lease term expiring October 2067.

[10] The Company has a leasehold interest in this building with a
lease term expiring May 2006.

[11] The Company owns the building and has a leasehold interest in the
land underlying this building with a lease expiring October 2067.

[12] These are properties for which there are loans to owners which
fully encumber the properties. Under the terms of the loans, the
Company effectively receives all income and economic value from the
properties. As a result, the properties are accounted for as owned
properties.

[13] The Company owns this building and has a leasehold interest in
the land underlying this building with a lease term expiring August
2045, with two 20-year options to renew.

[14] The Company has a leasehold interest in the building and the
underlying land with a lease term expiring  June 2020. The Company
has an option to purchase the fee interest in the property throughout
the term of the lease.

[15] This building was renovated in 1986.
                                                                      
[16] These buildings are owned by a partnership in which the Company
owns a 75% general partnership interest.  The Company shares in the
profit or loss from these buildings in accordance with such ownership
interest.

[17] This building was renovated in 1985.

[18] Tri-County Office Park consists of four buildings. One was built
in 1971, two were built in 1973, and one was built in 1982.

[19] The Company owns this building and has a leasehold interest in
the land underlying this building with a lease term expiring in June
2095.

[20] This building is currently vacant because the Company intends to
demolish the existing building and construct a new, larger office
property.

[21] This building is owned by a partnership in which the Company owns
a 30% limited partnership interest. The Company shares in the profit
or loss from the building in accordance with such ownership interest.

[22] This building is owned through a limited liability company in
which the partnership is a 25% member. The limited liability company
owns a 57.5% interest in the Fountain Place retail project.
                                                                                
[23] The Company owns this building and has a leasehold interest in
the land underlying this building with a lease term expiring in
October 2048.
                                                                                
   ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
   
   The  Company is engaged in litigation as a defendant in a case filed  by
   a  tenant  involving an alleged breach of contractual lease  obligation.
   Based  on  information  currently  available  and  upon  the  advice  of
   counsel,  it  is the opinion of management that the ultimate disposition
   of  the  pending  legal proceeding should not have  a  material  adverse
   effect  on the Company's consolidated financial statements. However,  in
   the  event  of an unfavorable ruling by a jury or judge in  a  court  of
   competent jurisdiction with respect to the ultimate disposition of  this
   case,  such  a  ruling  could  have a material  adverse  effect  on  the
   Company's results of operations in a particular future period.

   ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
   
   No  matters  were  submitted to a vote of security holders  during  the
   fourth quarter of the year ended December 31, 1998.
   
                                     - 17 -
                                        
   
                                     PART II
                                        
   ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
   STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
   
   The  Company's  Common Shares are listed for trading on  the  New  York
   Stock  Exchange, symbol DRE. The following table sets  forth  the  high
   and  low sales prices of the Common Stock for the periods indicated and
   the  dividend paid per share during each such period.  Comparable  cash
   dividends  are expected in the future. As of March 1, 1999, there  were
   9,046 record holders of Common Shares.
   
   
   (1)  All stock prices and dividend amounts reflect the Company's two-for-one
   stock split effected in August 1997.

   On  January 27, 1999, the Company declared a quarterly cash dividend of
   $.34  per share payable on February 26, 1999 to common shareholders  of
   record  on  February 11, 1999. Following is a summary  of  the  taxable
   nature  of  the Company's dividends for the three years ended  December
   31:
       
       
   Dividends  per  share of $1.09, $.97 and $.89 were  required  for  the
   Company  to  maintain  its  REIT  status  in  1998,  1997,  and  1996,
   respectively.
       
   See "Item 10-Directors and Executive Offcers of the Registrant" for a 
   description of certain shares of common stock issued to non-employee
   directors in non-registered transactions pursuant to Section 4(2) under
   the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.

   ITEM 6.  SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA
   
   The   following   sets  forth  selected  consolidated  financial   and
   operating information on a historical basis for the Company  for  each
   of  the  years  in the five-year period ended December 31,  1998.  The
   following  information  should be read in  conjunction  with  Item  7,
   "Management's  Discussion  and Analysis  of  Financial  Condition  and
   Results   of  Operations"  and  Item  8,  "Financial  Statements   and
   Supplementary  Data" included in this Form 10-K (in thousands,  except
   per share amounts):
                                     - 18 -
   
   
   
   (1)Information  for  all  five years reflects  the  two-for-one  stock
      split effected in August 1997.
   
   (2)Funds  From  Operations, is defined by the National Association  of
      Real  Estate  Investment  Trusts as net income  or  loss  excluding
      gains or losses from debt restructuring and sales of property  plus
      depreciation  and amortization, and after adjustments for  minority
      interest  and  unconsolidated companies (adjustments  for  minority
      interests,  unconsolidated  companies  are  calculated  to  reflect
      Funds  From  Operations on the same basis). Funds  From  Operations
      does  not  represent  cash  flow  from  operations  as  defined  by
      generally accepted  accounting  principles, should not be  considered
      as an alternative to net income as an indicator  of  the  Company's
      operating  performance, and is not indicative of cash available  to
      fund all cash flow needs.
   
   ITEM  7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF  FINANCIAL  CONDITION
   AND RESULTS OF  OPERATIONS
   
   OVERVIEW
   --------
   The   Company's   income  from  rental  operations  is   substantially
   influenced by the supply and demand for the Company's rental space  in
   its  primary  markets,  its ability to maintain  occupancy  rates  and
   increase  rental  rates on its in-service portfolio  and  to  continue
   development and acquisition of additional rental properties.
   
   The  Company's primary markets in the Midwest have continued to  offer
   strong  and  stable local economies and have provided  attractive  new
   development   opportunities  because  of   their   central   location,
   established manufacturing base, skilled work force and moderate  labor
   costs.  Consequently, the Company's occupancy rate of  its  in-service
   portfolio has averaged 94.9% the last two years and  was 95.1%  at
   December  31,  1998. The Company expects  to  maintain  its
   overall  occupancy at comparable levels and also expects  to  increase
   rental  rates  as leases are renewed or new leases are executed.  This
   stable  occupancy  as well as increasing rental rates  should  improve
   the  Company's  results of operations from its in-service  properties.
   The  Company's  strategy for continued growth includes developing  and
   acquiring  additional  rental properties in its  primary  markets  and
   expanding  into  other  attractive markets (see  discussion  of  Weeks
   merger below).
   
   The  Company  tracks  Same Property performance which  compares  those
   properties  that  were fully in-service for all of a two-year  period.
   Because  of  the  rapid  growth  of the Company,  this  population  of
   properties  only  represented 47.7% and 45.3%  of  the  in-service
   portfolio at December 31, 1998 and December 31, 1997,
   
                                     - 19 -
   
   
   respectively. In 1998, FFO from those properties that were  fully  in-
   service  for the past two years increased 4.4% over 1997, compared  to
   a 4.7% increase in 1997 over 1996.
   
   The following table sets forth information regarding the Company's in-
   service  portfolio of rental properties as of December  31,  1998  and
   1997 (square feet in thousands):
   
   
   Management  expects occupancy of the in-service property portfolio  to
   remain  stable  because  (i)  only 11.1% and  9.0%  of  the  Company's
   occupied  square  footage is subject to leases expiring  in  1999  and
   2000,   respectively,  and  (ii)  the  Company's  renewal   percentage
   averaged 69%, 81% and 80% in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
   
   The   following   tables  reflects  the  Company's  in-service   lease
   expiration  schedules  as  of  December  31,  1998,  by  product  type
   indicating  square  footage and annualized net effective  rents  under
   expiring leases (in thousands, except per square foot amounts):
   

   This stable occupancy, along with increasing rental rates in each  of
   the  Company's  markets,  will  allow  the  in-service  portfolio  to
   continue  to  provide  an increasing level of  earnings  from  rental
   operations.  The Company also expects to realize growth  in  earnings
   from  rental  operations through (i) the development and  acquisition
   of  additional  rental properties in its primary  markets;  (ii)  the
   expansion  into  other attractive Midwestern markets (see  discussion
   of  Weeks merger below); and (iii) the completion of the 7.2  million
   square  feet  of  properties under development at December  31,  1998
   over  the  next four quarters and thereafter. The 7.2 million  square
   under development are expected to be placed in service as follows  (in
   thousands, except percentages):
   
                                     - 20 -
   
   
   
     
   RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
   ---------------------
     
   A  summary  of  the Company's operating results and property  statistics
   for  each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31,  1998
   is  as  follows (in thousands, except number of properties and per share
   amounts):
   

   
   The  Company  has  a $450.0 million unsecured line of  credit  ("LOC")
   available  to  fund  the  development and  acquisition  of  additional
   rental  properties and to provide working capital as needed.  The  LOC
   matures  in  April  2001  and  bears interest  at  the  30-day  London
   Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") plus .80%. The Company increased  the
   LOC from $200.0 million in August 1998. The Company has the option  to
   obtain  borrowings from financial institutions who participate in  the
   LOC  at  rates lower than LIBOR plus .80% ("Competitive Bid  Option"),
   subject  to  certain restrictions. While the Company has utilized  the
   Competitive  Bid  Option  during  1998,  all  amounts  outstanding  at
   December  31, 1998 are at LIBOR plus .80%. Borrowings of  $91  million
   under  the  LOC as of December 31, 1998 bear interest at an  effective
   rate  of  6.43%.  The Company also has a demand $7.0  million  secured
   line  of  credit  which is available to provide working  capital,  and
   bears  interest  payable monthly at the 30-day LIBOR rate  plus  .65%.
   Borrowings of $7.0 million are outstanding on this line of  credit  at
   December 31, 1998 and bear interest at an effective rate of 6.28%.
                                        
   The  Company  currently  has  on  file  three  Form  S-3  Registration
   Statements  with  the Securities and Exchange Commission  (the  "Shelf
   Registrations") which have remaining availability as of  December  31,
   1998  of  $967.9  million to issue additional common stock,  preferred
   stock  and  unsecured debt securities. The Company  intends  to  issue
   additional  securities  under such Shelf  Registrations  to  fund  the
   development and acquisition of additional rental properties. The Company
   also has a shelf registration on file for at-the-market offerings of 1.5
   million shares of common stock.
   
   The  total  debt  outstanding at December 31, 1998 consists  of  notes
   totaling  $1.007  billion  with a weighted average  interest  rate  of
   7.31%  maturing at various dates through 2028. The Company has  $681.0
   million  of  unsecured  debt  and  $326.3  million  of  secured   debt
   outstanding at December 31, 1998. Scheduled principal amortization  of
   such  debt totaled $7.1 million for the year ended 1998. A summary  of
   the  scheduled  future amortization and maturities  of  the  Company's
   indebtedness is as follows (in thousands):
                                     - 24 -
   
   
   
   The  Company intends to pay regular quarterly dividends from net  cash
   provided  by  operating activities. A quarterly dividend of  $.34  per
   common  share  was  declared on January 27, 1999 which  represents  an
   annualized dividend of $1.36 per share.
   
   FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS
   
   Management  believes  that  Funds From Operations  ("FFO"),  which  is
   defined  by the National Association of Real Estate Investment  Trusts
   as   net   income  or  loss  excluding  gains  or  losses  from   debt
   restructuring   and   sales   of  property   plus   depreciation   and
   amortization,  and  after  adjustments  for  minority   interest   and
   unconsolidated  companies  (adjustments  for  minority  interest   and
   unconsolidated  companies are calculated to reflect FFO  on  the  same
   basis), is the industry standard for reporting the operations of  real
   estate investment trusts.
   
   The  following reflects the calculation of the Company's FFO  for  the
   years ended December 31 (in thousands):
   
   
   The  increase in FFO during the three-year period results primarily
   from   the  increased  in-service  rental  property  portfolio   as
   discussed above under "Results of Operations."
   
   While  management believes that FFO is the most relevant and widely
   used  measure of the Company's operating performance,  such  amount
   does  not  represent  cash  flow  from  operations  as  defined  by
   generally  accepted accounting principles, should not be considered
   as  an  alternative to net income as an indicator of the  Company's
   operating  performance, and is not indicative of cash available  to
   fund all cash flow needs.
   
   MERGER WITH WEEKS
   
   On  March 1, 1999, the Company announced that it entered  into  an
   Agreement  and Plan of Merger, dated as of February 28, 1999  (the
   "Merger Agreement"), with Weeks Corporation ("Weeks"),
                                     - 25 -
   
   
   pursuant  to which Weeks will merge with and into the Company. Weeks is a
   self-administered, self-managed, geographically focused REIT that was 
   organized in 1994. As of December 31, 1998, Weeks' in-service property
   portfolio consisted of 300 industrial properties, 34 suburban office 
   properties and five retail properties comprising 28.1 million square feet. 
   As of December 31, 1998, Weeks' primary markets and the concentration of
   Weeks' portfolio (based on square footage of in-service properties) were
   Atlanta, Georgia; Nashville, Tennesses; Miami, Florida; Raleigh-Durham-
   Chapel Hill (the "Research Triangle"), North Carolina; Dallas/Ft. Worth,
   Texas; Orlando, Florida; and Spartanburg, South Carolina. In addition, 31
   industrial, suburban office and retail properties were under development,
   in lease-up or under agreement to acquire at December 31, 1998, comprising
   an additional 3.4 million square feet. At December 31, 1998, Weeks had
   approximately 19.7 million shares of common stock and six million shares of
   preferred stock outstanding, and approximately $654 million aggregate
   principal amount of outstanding indebtedness. In the  merger, each 
   outstanding share of common stock of Weeks  will be converted into the
   right to receive 1.38 shares of common stock of the Company; each 
   outstanding share of 8.0% Series A Cumulative Redeemable  Preferred Stock
   of Weeks will be  converted  into  the right  to  receive one depositary
   share of the Company representing 1/1000 of a share of 8.0% Series F 
   Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock  of the Company; and each
   outstanding share of 8.625% Series D Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock
   of Weeks will be converted into  the  right  to receive one depositary
   share  of  the  Company representing  1/1000  of  a share of 8.625%  
   Series  H  Cumulative Redeemable  Preferred  Stock of the  Company.  The
   terms  of  the Company's  depositary shares to be issued in  the  Merger 
   will  be identical  to  the  terms  of the Weeks  Series  A  and  Series
   D preferred  stock.  Weeks'  principal operating  subsidiary,  Weeks
   Realty,  L.P. (The "Weeks Operating Partnership"), will be  merged
   with  and  into  the Operating Partnership. In the partnership merger, each
   outstanding common unit of Weeks Operating Partnership will be converted into
   the right to receive 1.38 common units of the Operating Partnership. At 
   December 31, 1998, Weeks Operating Partnership had approximately 7.3 million
   units of limited partnership interest outstanding. The merger of Weeks into
   the Company is expected to qualify as a tax-free reorganization and will be
   accounted for under the purchase method of accounting. The  transactions  are
   expected to close in the second or third quarter of 1999,  subject
   to  receipt  of  necessary  approvals by  the  Company  and  Weeks
   shareholders and satisfaction of customary closing conditions.
   
   If the merger between the Company and Weeks is consummated as expected, the
   combined company will have significant operations and assets located in
   southeastern markets where the Company and its management have not 
   traditionally owned assets. Since substantially all of the members of 
   Weeks' management are expected to remain with the combined company for the
   foreseeable future after the merger, the Company expects to have the 
   necessary expertise to operate successfully in the new markets. The combined
   company's operating performance will, however, be exposed to the general 
   economic conditions of its new markets and could be adversely affected if
   conditions, such as an oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for the
   types of properties supplied by the combined company, become unfavorable.

   YEAR 2000
   
   The  Company  adopted a Year 2000 readiness plan for its  buildings
   in  April  1998 following the basic framework recommended  by  the
   Building  Owners and Managers Association. This Year 2000 readiness
   plan  consists  of eight (8) steps focusing on the  identification,
   prioritization,  and remediation of potential  Year  2000  problems
   arising  from  software  and  embedded  chips  located  within  the
   building systems at the Company's properties.
                                   - 26 -
   
   Based   upon  implementation  of  this  readiness  plan  which   is
   substantially complete, the Company does not believe the  cost  for
   the  upgrade  and  replacement of building  systems  and  equipment
   having  potential  Year 2000 related problems will  be  a  material
   amount.
   
   The  Company has retained a third-party consultant to identify  and
   assess  the  Year  2000  readiness  of  the  Company's  information
   systems.  Such systems include, but are not limited to,  accounting
   and  property management, network operations, desktop and  software
   applications,  internally  developed  software  and  other  general
   information  systems  and  software  utilized  for  payroll,  human
   resources, budgeting and tenant services.
   
   Based  upon  the results of this assessment, the Company  does  not
   believe  the  cost  for  the upgrade and  replacement  of  internal
   information systems having potential Year 2000 problems will  be  a
   material  amount. Based on the evaluations performed,  the  Company
   does  not  believe the risks associated with its Year  2000  issues
   are  significant. The Company's contingency plans include  allowing
   for  alternative access to its properties, the provision of limited
   electrical  and  telephone services and security  and  other  basic
   services.
   
   ITEM  7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISKS
   
   The  Company  is  exposed to interest rate changes primarily  as  a
   result  of  its line of credit and long-term debt used to  maintain
   liquidity  and  fund  capital expenditures  and  expansion  of  the
   Company's  real  estate investment portfolio  and  operations.  The
   Company's  interest rate risk management objective is to limit  the
   impact  of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows and  to
   lower  its  overall borrowing costs. To achieve its objectives  the
   Company borrows primarily at fixed rates and may enter into derivative
   financial instruments such as interest rate swaps, caps and treasury
   locks in order to mitigate its interest rate risk on a related financial
   instrument. The Company does not enter into derivative or interest rate
   transactions for speculative purposes.
   
   The  Company's interest rate risk is monitored using a  variety  of
   techniques.  The  table  below presents the principal  amounts  (in
   thousands)  of  the  expected annual maturities,  weighted  average
   interest  rates for the average debt outstanding in  the  specified
   period,  fair  values  and  other terms required  to  evaluate  the
   expected  cash flows and sensitivity to interest rate changes.  The
   fair  values  of the Company's debt instruments are  calculated  as
   the  present value of estimated future cash flows using a  discount
   rate commensurate with the risks involved.
   
   
   As  the  table incorporates only those exposures that exist  as  of
   December  31,  1998,  it  does  not  consider  those  exposures  or
   positions  which  could  arise after that date.  Moreover,  because
   firm 
                               - 27 -

   
   commitments  are  not  presented  in  the  table  above,  the
   information  presented therein has limited predictive value.  As  a
   result,  the Company's ultimate realized gain or loss with  respect
   to  interest  rate fluctuations will depend on the  exposures  that
   arise  during the period, the Company's hedging strategies at  that
   time, and interest rates.
   
   ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
   
   The  financial statements and supplementary data are included under Item
   14 of this Report.
                                        
   ITEM  9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS AND ON ACCOUNTING 
            FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
   
   None.
                                    PART III
                                        
   ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
   
   The   following  information  is  provided  regarding  the  Board   of
   Directors of the Company:
   
                            NAME, AGE, PRINCIPAL OCCUPATION(S) AND     DIRECTOR
                            BUSINESS EXPERIENCE DURING PAST 5 YEARS    SINCE
                            --------------------------------------     -------
   
   DIRECTORS WHOSE TERMS EXPIRE IN 1999
   THOMAS L. HEFNER, AGE 52                                               1993
   Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
   L. BEN LYTLE, AGE 52                                                   1996
   Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Anthem, Inc., a
   national insurance and financial services firm. Director of IPALCO
   Enterprises, Inc. and Central Newspapers, Inc.
   EDWARD T. BAUR, AGE 52                                                 1997
   Vice  President and General Manager of the Company. Prior  to  joining
   the  Company in 1997, Mr. Baur was the Chief Executive Officer of Baur
   Properties.
   JOHN W. WYNNE, AGE 65                                                  1986
   Former Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company through 1998.
   Director of First Indiana Corp.   
   
   DIRECTORS WHOSE TERMS EXPIRE IN 2000
   HOWARD L. FEINSAND, AGE 51                                             1988
   Founder and Principal, Choir Capital Ltd., since 1996. Managing
   Director, Citicorp North America, Inc., 1995-1996; Senior Vice
   President and Manager, GE Capital Aviation Services, Inc. an
   aircraft leasing company, 1994 - 1995. Director of Egan Systems, Inc.
   JAMES E. ROGERS, AGE 51                                                1994
   Vice  Chairman,  President  and  Chief Executive  Officer  of  Cinergy
   Corp., a regional utility holding company. Director of Cinergy Corp.
   and Fifth Third Bancorp.
   DANIEL C. STATON, AGE 46                                               1993
   President  of  Walnut  Capital Partners,  an  investment  and  venture
   capital company, since 1997. Executive Vice President and Chief
   Operating Officer of the Company until May 1997. Chairman of the
   Board of Directors of Storage Trust Realty, Inc.
   JAY J. STRAUSS, AGE 63                                                 1985
   Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Regent Realty Group, Inc.,
   a general real estate and mortgage banking firm.
   
   DIRECTORS WHOSE TERMS EXPIRE IN 2001
   GEOFFREY BUTTON, AGE 50                                                1993
   An independent real estate and financing consultant. Prior to
   1996, was Executive Director of Wyndham Investments Limited, a
   property holding company of Allied Domecq Pension Funds. Director
   of Sector Communications, Inc.
                                 - 28 -
   
                           NAME, AGE, PRINCIPAL OCCUPATION(S) AND      DIRECTOR
                           BUSINESS EXPERIENCE DURING PAST 5 YEARS     SINCE
                           ---------------------------------------     --------
   NGAIRE E. CUNEO, AGE 48                                                1995
   Executive Vice President, Corporate Development, Conseco, Inc., an
   owner, operator and provider of services to companies in the
   financial services industry. Director of Conseco, Inc. and Bankers
   Life Holding Corporation.
   JOHN D. PETERSON, AGE 65                                               1986
   Chairman of City Securities Corporation, a securities brokerage firm.
   Director of Lilly Industries, Inc.
   DARELL E. ZINK, JR., AGE 52                                            1993
   Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant
   Secretary of the Company. Director of People's Bank Corporation of
   Indianapolis.
   
   COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COMPANY
   
   The  Board of Directors of the Company met four times during the  last
   fiscal  year.  The  Board of Directors of the  Company  has  an  Asset
   Committee, an Audit Committee, an Executive Compensation Committee,  a
   Finance Committee and a Nominating Committee.
   
   The  function  of  the  Asset  Committee is  to  discuss,  review  and
   authorize  business  transactions that exceed established  guidelines.
   The  members  of  the  Asset  Committee are  Messrs.  Baur,  Feinsand,
   Peterson,  Strauss and Zink and Ms. Cuneo. Mr. Strauss served  as  the
   Committee's chairman. The Committee met 12 times in 1998.
   
   The  function of the Audit Committee is to evaluate audit performance,
   handle  relations with the Company's independent auditors and evaluate
   policies  and procedures related to internal accounting controls.  The
   members  of  the  Audit Committee are Messrs. Button, Feinsand,  Lytle
   and  Peterson  and Ms. Cuneo. Mr. Feinsand served as  the  Committee's
   chairman. The Committee met 3 times during 1998.
   
   The  function of the Executive Compensation Committee is to review and
   make  recommendations to the Board of Directors with  respect  to  the
   compensation of directors, officers, and employees of the Company,  to
   implement  the  Company's  long  term  compensation  plans  and  other
   employee  benefit plans and to make recommendations to the  Nominating
   Committee   regarding  individuals  qualified  to  be   nominated   as
   unaffiliated  directors.  The members of  the  Executive  Compensation
   Committee  are  Messrs.  Button, Lytle, Rogers  and  Strauss  and  Ms.
   Cuneo.  Mr.  Button served as the Committee's chairman. The  Committee
   met 5 times during 1998.
   
   The  function  of  the Finance Committee is to review,  recommend  and
   authorize certain debt financing and equity transactions. The  members
   of  the  Finance Committee are Messrs. Baur, Button, Feinsand, Rogers,
   Staton,  Strauss  and  Zink.  Mr. Rogers  served  as  the  Committee's
   chairman. The committee met 6 times during 1998.
   
   The  function  of the Nominating Committee is to nominate  individuals
   to  serve as directors. The Nominating Committee is comprised  of  all
   of  the  unaffiliated  directors,  Messrs.  Button,  Feinsand,  Lytle,
   Peterson,  Rogers  and Strauss and Ms. Cuneo. The committee  does  not
   formally  consider nominations by shareholders. Mr. Button  served  as
   the Committee's chairman. The Committee met once during 1998.
   
   In  1998, all directors attended at least 75% of the meetings  of  the
   Board  and  all  committees of the Board of which  they  were  members
   except  for  Mr.  Rogers. Mr. Rogers attended 100%  of  the  Board  of
   Directors  meetings,  but  his overall attendance  at  all  Board  and
   committee meetings was less than 75%.
                                      - 29 -
      
   DIRECTOR EMERITUS
   
   At  the  annual meeting of shareholders, the Company will  confer  the
   title  of Director Emeritus upon John W. Wynne, who does not intend to 
   stand  for re-election as a Director this year. Mr. Wynne has served the  
   Company as  a Director with exemplary skill and loyalty since the Company
   was established  and was one of the founders of the Company in  1972.  The
   entire   Duke  organization  wishes  to  express  its  gratitude   and
   admiration  for Mr. Wynne's outstanding service throughout his  career
   and  looks forward to many more years of his valuable counsel  in  the
   role of Director Emeritus.
   
   COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS
   
   Each  non-employee  director receives 1,200 shares of  Company  common
   stock  as  annual compensation. Non-employee directors also receive  a
   fee  of  $2,500  for  attendance  at each  meeting  of  the  Board  of
   Directors.  In addition, the non-employee directors receive  $500  for
   participation  in  each  telephonic  meeting  of  the  Board  and  for
   participation  in each committee meeting not held in conjunction  with
   a  regularly scheduled Board meeting. Officers of the Company who  are
   also  directors receive no additional compensation for their  services
   as directors.
   
   Beginning  in  1999, certain Directors will receive  grants  of  stock
   option  and  dividend increase units under the 1999  Director's  Stock
   Option  and  Dividend  Increase Unit Plan of Duke Realty  Investments,
   Inc.   Pursuant to this plan, Directors that do not receive grants  of
   stock  options under any other Company plan for a year will receive  a
   grant of 2,500 stock options and 2,500 dividend increase units at  the
   first  meeting  of the Company's Executive Compensation  Committee  of
   each  year.   However, for 1999 only, Directors that have  never  been
   granted  stock options under a Company plan will receive  a  grant  of
   7,500 stock options and 7,500 dividend increase units.
   
   The   following  information  is  provided  regarding  the   executive
   officers of the Company who do not serve as Directors of the Company:
   
                     Name, Age, Principal Occupation(s) and        With the
                     Business Experience during Past 5 Years       Company Since
                     ---------------------------------------       -------------
   
   GARY A. BURK - Age 47                                                  1979
   President of Duke Services, Inc. Mr. Burk is responsible
   for the Company's construction operations.
    
   ROBERT CHAPMAN - Age 45                                                1997
   Executive Vice President - Acquisitions. Mr. Chapman was previously
   with The REEF Funds where he managed acquisitions and dispositions.
   
   JOHN R. GASKIN - Age 37                                                1990
   Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
      
   RICHARD W. HORN - Age 41                                               1984
   Executive  Vice  President - Office. Mr. Horn is responsible for 
   all office activities of the Company.
     
   WILLIAM E. LINVILLE, III - Age 44                                      1987
   Executive Vice President - Industrial. Mr. Linville is responsible
   for all Industrial activities of the Company.
   
   JOHN NEMECEK - Age 44                                                  1994
   President - Asset and Property Management. Mr. Nemecek was
   previously with Compass Management where he managed the Florida
   operations.
    
   DENNIS D. OKLAK - AGE 45                                               1986
   Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer and Treasurer.
   
                                      - 30 -   
   
   BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING COMPLIANCE
   
   Section  16(a)  of  the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,  as  amended,
   requires  the  Company's  officers  and  directors,  and  persons  who
   beneficially  own  more than 10% of the Company's  Common  Shares,  to
   file   reports  of  ownership  and  changes  in  ownership  with   the
   Securities and Exchange Commission. Based on a review of these  forms,
   the  Company believes that during 1998 all of its officers,  directors
   and  greater  than  10%  beneficial  owners  timely  filed  the  forms
   required under Section 16(a).
   
   ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
   
   REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION COMMITTEE
   
   Executive Compensation Philosophy
   ---------------------------------
   The  primary  objectives of the Executive Compensation Committee  (the
   "Committee")   of   the  Board  of  Directors  in  determining   total
   compensation  of the Company's executive officers are  (i)  to  enable
   the  Company  to  attract  and  retain  high  quality  executives   by
   providing  total  compensation opportunities  with  a  combination  of
   compensation  elements which are at or above competitive opportunities
   and  which  provide  for moderate fixed costs and leveraged  incentive
   opportunities, and (ii) to align shareholder interests  and  executive
   rewards by providing substantial incentive opportunities to be  earned
   by   meeting   pay-for-performance  standards  designed  to   increase
   long-term  shareholder value. In order to accomplish these objectives,
   the  Committee adopted in 1995 an executive compensation program which
   provides  (i)  annual  base salaries at or  near  the  market  median,
   (ii)  annual  incentive opportunities which reward the executives  for
   achieving  or  surpassing performance goals which  represent  industry
   norms  of  excellence,  and  (iii) long-term  incentive  opportunities
   which are directly related to increasing shareholder value.
                                        
   Section  162(m)  of  the Internal Revenue Code of  1986,  as  amended,
   imposes  a  limitation  on the deductibility of  nonperformance  based
   compensation  in  excess  of  $1 million  paid  to  certain  executive
   officers. The Compensation Committee's policy with respect to  Section
   162(m)  is to make every reasonable effort to ensure that compensation
   is  deductible to the extent permitted, while simultaneously providing
   executives  appropriate  awards for their performance.  The  Company's
   long-term  incentive  plans  have been designed  to  comply  with  the
   performance-based requirements of Section 162(m).
   
   Base Salaries and Annual Cash Incentives
   ----------------------------------------
   The  range of base salaries for the executive officers of the  Company
   is  established after a review by the Committee of the  salaries  paid
   to  executive officers of a comparison group of other publicly  traded
   real   estate   investment  trusts.  Other  subjective   factors   are
   considered such as the individual's experience and performance.
   
   An  annual  cash  incentive range is established  for  each  executive
   officer  at  the  beginning  of  the  year.  The  actual  annual  cash
   incentive  paid to each executive is determined based on  his  or  her
   ability  to  impact measurable results. The amount of each executive's
   annual  award is based on a combination of three performance  factors:
   (i)   overall   corporate  performance;  (ii)  business   segment   or
   departmental  performance;  and  (iii)  individual  performance.   The
   relative  importance of each of the performance factors in determining
   annual  cash incentives differs for each executive position  with  the
   performance  factor for the most senior executives  being  based  more
   heavily  on  overall corporate performance and the performance  factor
   for  the officers in-charge of business segments or departments  being
   based  more heavily on the performance of their segment or department.
   The  overall  corporate performance factor is based  on  a  three-tier
   measurement  system  consisting of Funds from  Operations  Growth  Per
   Common  Share,  Return  on Shareholders' Equity  and
                                - 31 -
     
   Return  on  Real Estate  Investments.  The  business segment performance
   is  based  on certain financial measurements, including the volume and
   yield of  new acquisitions and developments, performance of the in-service
   property portfolio,  and  the business segment's operating income
   contribution to  the  Company.  The amount of the targeted annual  cash
   incentives paid  is  based on the perceived level of attainment of  each 
   of  the measurements by the Committee.
   
   Long-Term Incentive Opportunities
   ---------------------------------
   The  amount  of long-term incentive awarded to officers and executives
   on  an  annual basis is determined at the discretion of the  Committee
   but  is  tied  to overall corporate and business segment  performance,
   the  participant's level of responsibility within the Company and  the
   participant's   individual  performance.   The   long-term   incentive
   opportunities  consist  of  approximately  two-thirds  Stock   Options
   ("Options")  and  Dividend  Increase  Units  ("DIUs")  and   one-third
   Shareholder Value Grants.
   
   Stock Option and Dividend Increase Unit Plans
   ---------------------------------------------
   The  objectives of the Stock Option and Dividend Increase  Unit  Plans
   are   to   provide   executive  officers  with   long-term   incentive
   opportunities  aligned with the shareholder benefits of  an  increased
   Common  Share  value  and increased annual dividends.  The  number  of
   Options  and  DIUs issued to each executive annually  is  set  by  the
   Committee  based on the goal of providing approximately two-thirds  of
   the  total  annual long-term incentive award through these plans.  The
   Options  and  DIUs  are  for terms of no more  than  ten  years.  With
   certain  limited  exceptions, awards made under the Stock  Option  and
   Dividend  Increase Unit Plans vest 20 percent per year  over  a  five-
   year  period.  The Options may not be issued for less  than  the  fair
   market value of the Company's Common Shares at the date of grant.  The
   value  of  each  DIU  at the date of exercise will  be  determined  by
   calculating  the percentage of the Company's annualized  dividend  per
   share  to the market value of one Common Share (the "Dividend  Yield")
   at  the  date  the  DIU is granted and dividing the  increase  in  the
   Company's  annualized dividend from the date of grant to the  date  of
   exercise  by  such  Dividend  Yield. A  DIU  may  be  exercised  by  a
   participant only to the extent that such participant has exercised  an
   Option  to  purchase  a Common Share of the Company  under  an  Option
   granted  under  the 1995 Stock Option Plan on the  same  date  as  the
   grant of the DIU.
   
   Shareholder Value Plan
   ----------------------
   The  objective  of the Shareholder Value Plan is to provide  executive
   officers  with long-term incentive opportunities directly  related  to
   providing  total  shareholder  return  in  excess  of  the  median  of
   independent  market indices. The annual Shareholder Value Plan  amount
   for  each executive is set by the Committee with the goal of providing
   approximately  one-third  of  the  total  long-term  incentive   award
   through  this  plan. The award vests entirely three  years  after  the
   date  of  grant  and the amount paid is based on the  Company's  total
   shareholder  return  for  such  three  year  period  as  compared   to
   independent  market indices. The independent market indices  used  for
   comparison  are  the S&P 500 Index and the NAREIT  Equity  REIT  Total
   Return  Index.  The amount of the award payable may  range  from  zero
   percent  if  both of the rankings of the comparable returns  are  less
   than the 50th percentile of both of the indices to 300 percent if  the
   rankings  of both of the comparable returns are in the 90th percentile
   or  higher of both of the indices, with 100 percent of the award being
   payable at the 60th percentile.
   
   Compensation of Chief Executive Officer
   ---------------------------------------
   The compensation awarded to Mr. Hefner in 1998 consisted primarily  of
   an  annual  base  salary, an annual cash incentive award,  and  grants
   under  the Company's long-term incentive plans. The total compensation
   paid  to  Mr.  Hefner has historically resulted in total  compensation
   that   is  below  the  comparable  market
                                - 32 -
   
   median  but  is  considered appropriate  in light of Mr. Hefner's
   substantial equity  interest  in the Company and his stock options held.
                                        
   Base Salary:
   -----------
   The  Committee intends to gradually increase Mr. Hefner's base  salary
   with  the  intent that, by 1999, his base salary will be equal  to  90
   percent  of the market median of a comparison group of thirteen  other
   publicly  traded  real estate investment trusts. Mr.  Hefner's  annual
   base salary for 1998 was $195,000.

   Annual Cash Incentive:
   ----------------------
   Under  the  Committee's executive compensation  plan,  Mr.  Hefner  is
   eligible  for  a targeted annual cash incentive bonus. The  amount  of
   Mr.  Hefner's  annual cash incentive bonus is determined  solely  upon
   overall   corporate  performance  which  is  based  on  a   three-tier
   measurement  system  consisting of Funds from  Operations  Growth  Per
   Common  Share,  Return  on Shareholders' Equity  and  Return  on  Real
   Estate  Investments  as  compared  to pre-determined  target  criteria
   established  by the Committee. The amount of the targeted annual  cash
   incentives  paid is based on the level of attainment of  each  of  the
   measurements as compared to the pre-determined targets. For 1998,  the
   Company's  FFO  Growth  was 18.13% per Common  Share,  its  Return  on
   Shareholders'  Equity  was  12.16%  and  its  Return  on  Real  Estate
   Investments  was  9.59%.  Based  on  these  results  versus  the  pre-
   determined  targets established by the Committee, Mr. Hefner  received
   an Annual Cash Incentive award of $250,000 for 1998.
   
   Long-Term Incentive Opportunity Award:
   -------------------------------------
   Mr.  Hefner is also eligible for a targeted long-term incentive  award
   with  a  value  equal to a percentage of his annual base  salary.  The
   long-term  incentive opportunity award granted to Mr. Hefner  in  1998
   consisted  of  i)  the  grant of an option to purchase  18,960  Common
   Shares  at  a price of $24.25 per share, ii) the grant of 18,960  DIUs
   with  a  Dividend  Yield of 4.95%, and iii) the award  of  a  targeted
   amount of $66,667 under the Shareholder Value Plan.
   
   In  January 1998, Mr. Hefner received a payment of $53,460 pursuant to
   a  grant  under the Shareholder Value Plan made in 1995.  In  February
   1999,  Mr.  Hefner received a payment of $64,238 pursuant to  a  grant
   under  the Shareholder Value Plan made in 1996. The payout percentages
   of  these awards as determined by formulas contained in the plan  were
   178% and 214% for the grants made in 1995 and 1996, respectively.

   Stock Purchase Plans
   --------------------
   In  1998,  the  Board  of Directors adopted the Executive  and  Senior
   Officer  Stock  Purchase  Plan of Duke Realty Investments,  Inc.  (the
   "Officer  Stock Purchase Plan") and the Director Stock  Purchase  Plan
   of  Duke  Realty  Investments,  Inc.  (the  "Director  Stock  Purchase
   Plan").   The purpose of these plans is to more closely align  officer
   and Director financial rewards with the financial rewards realized  by
   Company  shareholders,  increase officer and  Director  motivation  to
   manage  the  Company  as  equity  owners,  retain  key  employees  and
   increase the ownership of Common Shares by officers and directors.  On
   August  25,  1998,  under  the Officer Stock  Purchase  Plan,  certain
   officers of the Company received options to purchase 1,231,215  Common
   Shares  at $21.625 per share (the closing price of a Common  Share  on
   that  date).  On that same date, the officers exercised these  options
   by  purchasing 1,231,215 Common Shares from the Company at $21.625 per
   share.   From  August  26,  1998  through  August  31,  1998,  certain
   Directors  of  the Company purchased 402,335 Common Shares  under  the
   Director  Stock Purchase Plan in the open market at an  average  price
   of $21.623 per share.
   
   All  officers  and Directors participating in the plans  borrowed  the
   entire  purchase  price  of  the shares from  KeyBank,  N.A.  and  are
   personally  obligated  to repay the loans.  The Operating Partnership
   has  unconditionally  guaranteed  the  payment and performance obligations
   of  the  officers and  Directors to KeyBank, N.A.  Each participant is
   personally liable to the Operating Partnership for any payments made by
   the Operating Partnership under the guarantee as a result of default by
   such participant on their KeyBank, N.A. loan.
                                   - 33 -
    
   Salary Replacement Plan
   -----------------------
   In  January  1999,  subject  to shareholder  approval,  the  Committee
   adopted   the  1999  Salary  Replacement  Stock  Option  and  Dividend
   Increase  Unit  Plan  of Duke Realty Investments,  Inc.  (the  "Salary
   Replacement  Plan").  The  purpose  of  this  plan  is  to   encourage
   additional  equity  ownership in the Company by key  officers.   Under
   this  plan, certain officers may elect to receive Options and DIUs  in
   lieu  of the receipt of all or a portion of their base salary,  annual
   incentive  bonus  or Shareholder Value Plan payments.  The  number  of
   Options  and  DIUs granted under the Salary Replacement Plan  will  be
   based  on  the amount of forgone compensation elected by a participant
   divided  by  the  Committee's  determination  of  the  value   of   an
   Option/DIU.  The exercise price of an option may not be less than  the
   fair  market  value  of the Company's Common Shares  at  the  date  of
   grant. All awards made under the Salary Replacement Plan will vest  on
   the date of grant.
   
   Employment and Severance Agreements
   -----------------------------------
   In  April  1998, the Committee adopted the Duke Realty  Severance  Pay
   Plan.   This  plan  provides for the payment of severance  amounts  to
   certain  key  officers if, within one year of a change in  control  of
   the  Company, employment is terminated by the Company other than  "for
   cause"  or if an officer voluntarily terminates employment because  of
   a  reduction in the officer's pay or his forced relocation.  A  "Level
   One"  participant  will receive two times the sum of the  compensation
   awarded   to  such  terminated  participant  for  the  calendar   year
   preceding  the date of termination and a "Level Two" will receive  one
   times  his prior year compensation. The only participants of the  plan
   at  this time are Messrs. Burk, Chapman, Hefner, Horn, Linville, Oklak
   and Zink.  The Committee has designated each of these participants  as
   eligible for Level One benefits.
   
                             COMPENSATION COMMITTEE
                             Geoffrey Button, Chair
                                 Ngaire E. Cuneo
                                 James E. Rogers
                                 Jay J. Strauss
                                  L. Ben Lytle
                                        
                                PERFORMANCE TABLE
   
      The  following  table  compares, over  the  last  five  years,  the
      cumulative total shareholder return on the Company's Common  Shares
      with  the  cumulative total return of the S&P 500  Index,  and  the
      cumulative  total  return of the NAREIT Equity  REIT  Total  Return
      Index.
                                    - 34 -
      
            COMPARISON OF FIVE-YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN
                 COMPANY COMMON SHARES, S&P 500 INDEX,
              AND NAREIT EQUITY REIT TOTAL RETURN INDEX *


        *     Assumes  that the value of the investment in the  Company's
        Common  Shares and each index was $100 on December 31,  1993  and
        that all dividends were reinvested.
                                     - 35 -
   
   
   
                       COMPENSATION OF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
                           SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE
                                        
   The  following table sets forth the compensation awarded,  earned  by,
   or  paid  to  the Company's chief executive officer and the  Company's
   six  other  most  highly compensated executive  officers  (the  "Named
   Executive Officers") during the last three fiscal years.
   
      

(1)   Includes  the following options that were granted  in  August,
      1998  in  connection  with the Officer Stock  Purchase  Plan:   Mr.
      Hefner  57,803; Mr. Linville 46,243; Mr. Chapman 34,682; Mr.  Oklak
      46,243;  Mr.  Zink  46,243. Under that plan, the participants  were
      required  to  exercise the options the same day they were  granted.
      The  grant price and the exercise price were both equal to the fair
      market value of the Company's Common Shares on the date of grant.
(2)   Represents payments made under the Company's Shareholder Value Plan.
(3)   For Messrs. Hefner, Horn, Linville, Burk, Oklak and Zink, includes a 
      $4,800 contribution by the Company to the Company's Profit Sharing and 
      Salary Deferral Plan.  For Mr. Chapman, a $2,625 Profit Sharing and 
      Salary Deferral Plan contribution was made.  Also includes discounts of
      $2,876, $ 4,404 and $686 received by Messrs. Hefner, Horn and Chapman,
      respectively, in connection with Common Shares purchased under the 
      Company's Employee Stock Purchase Plan.

                                     - 36 -
                                        
   
                           STOCK OPTION GRANTS IN 1998

   The  following  table  sets forth certain information  for  the  Named
   Executive  Officers relating to stock option grants during 1998  under
   the Company's 1995 Stock Option Plan.
   
   
   (1)   The  dollar  amounts  under these  columns  are  the  result  of
   calculations  at  the  5%  and 10% rates set  by  the  Securities  and
   Exchange  Commission  and,  therefore, are not  intended  to  forecast
   future  appreciation  of the Company's stock price.  For  the  options
   expiring  on  January 28, 2008, the Company's per  share  stock  price
   would  be  $39.50  and $62.90 if increased 5% and  10%,  respectively,
   compounded annually over the 10-year option term.
   (2)   These options were granted in connection with the Officer  Stock
   Purchase  Plan.  Under that plan, the participants  were  required  to
   exercise the options the same day they were granted.  The grant  price
   and  the  exercise price were each equal to the fair market  value  of
   one Common Share on the date of grant.
   
   The  following  table  presents  certain  information  for  the  Named
   Executive  Officers relating to the exercise of stock  options  during
   1998  and,  in  addition, information relating  to  the  valuation  of
   unexercised stock options.
   
          AGGREGATED OPTION EXERCISES IN THE LAST FISCAL YEAR
                   AND FISCAL YEAR-END OPTION VALUES
     
   
   (1)   Based  on  the  closing  price  of  the  Company's  Common  Shares   on
   December 31, 1998 of $23.25.
   (2)  Includes shares exercised in connection with the Officer Stock Purchase
   Plan for which no value was realized.
                                     - 37 -
   
   The  following table sets forth awards to the Named Executive Officers
   in   1998  under  the  Company's  Dividend  Increase  Unit  Plan   and
   Shareholder Value Plan.
   
   
(1)  Under the 1995 Dividend Increase Unit Plan, DIUs are granted to key
employees. DIUs vest over a five-year period at 20% per year. A participant may
exercise DIUs only to the extent that such participant has purchased a Common
Share pursuant to an option granted under the 1995 Stock Option Plan on the same
date as the grant of the DIU. The value of each DIU at the date of exercise is
determined by calculating the Dividend Yield at the date the DIU is granted and
dividing the increase in the Company's annualized dividend from the date of
grant to the date of exercise by such Dividend Yield. DIUs not exercised within
10 years of the date of grant are forfeited. Distribution of a participant's
benefits under the 1995 Dividend Increase Unit Plan will be made in a single
lump sum payment in the form of the Company's Common Shares. The "In-the-Money"
value of vested DIUs at December 31, 1998 for these executives was $104,402 for
Messrs. Hefner, Zink and Burk, $178,247 for Messrs. Horn and Linville, $6,936
for Mr. Chapman and $52,841 for Mr. Oklak.

(2)  Under the 1995 Shareholder Value Plan, awards are granted in specified
dollar amounts to selected key employees. The specified award is payable to the
participant on the third anniversary of the grant of the award. The actual
payments under the plan will be determined based upon the Company's cumulative
total shareholder return for the three year period beginning on the date of
grant as compared to the cumulative total return for the S&P 500 Index and the
NAREIT Equity REIT Total Return Index (the "Indices") for the same period. The
Company's cumulative total shareholder return is calculated by determining the
average per share closing price of the Company's Common Shares for the 30 day
period preceding the end of the three year period increased by an amount that
would be realized if all cash dividends paid during the three year period were
reinvested in Common Shares of the Company and comparing this amount to the
average per share closing price of the Company's Common Shares for the 30 day
period preceding the date of grant. The payment of one-half of the bonus award
is adjusted based upon the percentile ranking of the Company's cumulative total
shareholder return as compared to each of the Indices for the same period. The
payment adjustment may range from zero percent of the amount awarded if both of
the rankings of the comparable returns are less than the 50th percentile of both
of the Indices to 300 percent of the amount awarded if both of the rankings are
in the 90th percentile or higher of both of the Indices, with 100 percent of the
award being payable at the 60th percentile. Distribution of a participant's
adjusted bonus award at the end of the three-year period after the date of grant
will be made one-half in cash and one-half in the form of Common Shares of the
Company. The amount of the awards payable to these executives on December 31,
1998 was $64,238 for Messrs. Hefner, Zink, and Burk, $85,650 for Messrs.
Linville and Horn, and  $39,256 for Mr. Oklak.

COMPENSATION COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS AND INSIDER PARTICIPATION

Ms. Cuneo, Mr. Lytle and Mr. Strauss serve on the Company's Executive 
Compensation Committee. The Company contracted with an affiliate of Conseco,
Inc. during 1998 for certain construction and insurance related services. Ms.
Cuneo is an Executive Vice President and director of Conseco, Inc. In 1998, 
the Company received $561,000 in construction related fees from a Conseco, Inc.
affiliate and paid a Conseco, Inc. affiliate $1,522,000 in insurance premiums.

The Company leases office space to affiliates of Anthem, Inc. Mr. Lytle is
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Anthem, Inc. Under the 
leases, which have lease rates comparable to similar space in the area, the
Company received total rental income of $1,756,000 in 1998.

In connection with the acquisition of an eight building portfolio of properties
with a total purchase price of $16.2 million, the Company paid Regent Realty
Group, Inc. a commission of $117,000. Mr. Strauss is Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer of Regent Realty Group, Inc.
                                     - 38 -
   
   
   ITEM   12.  SECURITY  OWNERSHIP  OF  CERTAIN  BENEFICIAL  OWNERS   AND
   MANAGEMENT
   
   The  Company has one class of voting common stock outstanding of which
   86,690,489 shares ("Common Shares") were outstanding as of  the  close
   of  business  on  March  1, 1999. The following  table  shows,  as  of
   March  1, 1999, the number and percentage of Common Shares and limited
   partnership  interests  ("Units") in Duke Realty  Limited  Partnership
   ("DRLP"),  an affiliate of the Company, held by (i) all directors  and
   nominees,  (ii)  each  person known to the  Company  who  beneficially
   owned  more  than  five percent of the issued and  outstanding  Common
   Shares,   and   (iii)  certain  executive  officers.  Each   Unit   is
   convertible  into one Common Share at the option of  the  holder.  The
   total  number  of Common Shares and Units (other than Units  owned  by
   the  Company) outstanding as of the close of business on March 1, 1999
   was 97,522,041.
   
                                         - 39 -

(1)  Assumes that the only Units exchanged for Common Shares are those owned by
such beneficial owner.
(2)  Assumes the exchange of all outstanding Units for Common Shares.
(3)  Reflects Common Shares and Units beneficially owned by Directors and
executive officers, including their proportionate economic interest in Common
Shares and Units owned by family members and various entities. Excludes any
beneficial interest in stock options.
(4)  Includes 649,229 Common Shares owned by Mr. Hefner, members of his family
and Hefner Family Investors Limited Partnership. Also includes the following
Units: (i) 579,506 Units owned directly by Mr. Hefner; and (ii) 2,008,500 Units
owned by DMI Partnership, a partnership in which Mr. Hefner owns a 20.71%
beneficial interest.
(5)  Includes 745,235 Common Shares owned by Mr. Zink, members of his family,
the Zink Family Foundation and the Zink Family Limited Partnership. Also
includes the following Units: (i) 561,514 Units owned directly by Mr. Zink; and
(ii) 2,008,500 Units owned by DMI Partnership, a partnership in which Mr. Zink
owns a 20.71% beneficial interest.
(6)  Includes 863,045 Common Shares owned by Mr. Staton and the following Units:
(i) 398,978 Units owned directly by Mr. Staton; and (ii) 2,008,500 Units owned
by DMI Partnership, a partnership in which Mr. Staton owns a 20.71% beneficial
interest.
(7)  Includes: (i) 965,545 Common Shares owned by Mr. Wynne, members of his
family and the Wynne Family Trust; and (ii) 171,982 Common Shares owned as
trustee under the Phillip R. Duke Irrevocable Trust in which Mr. Wynne disclaims
any beneficial interest. Also includes the following Units: (i) 210,686 Units
owned directly by Mr. Wynne; and (ii) 2,008,500 Units owned by DMI Partnership,
a partnership in which Mr. Wynne owns a 20.71% beneficial interest.
(8)  Includes 13,145 Common Shares owned by Mr. Baur and the following Units:
(i) 330,148 Units owned directly by Mr. Baur; (ii) 120,000 Units owned by Mr.
Baur's spouse; and (iii) 1,086,934 Units owned by Lindbergh-Warson Properties,
Inc., a corporation in which Mr. Baur owns a 60.4% beneficial interest.
(9)  Includes: 214,252 Common Shares owned by Mr. Burk and his spouse and the
following Units: (i) 155,778 Units owned directly by Mr. Burk; and
(ii) 2,008,500 Units owned by DMI Partnership, a partnership in which Mr. Burk
owns a 7.51% beneficial interest.
(10) Includes 77,088 Common Shares owned by Mr. Linville and his family. Also
includes 9,638 Units beneficially owned by Mr. Linville under an agreement with
a partnership owned by certain other executive officers.
(11) Includes 84,442 Common Shares owned by Mr. Horn and his spouse.  Also
includes 6,646 Units beneficially owned by Mr. Horn under an agreement with a
partnership owned by certain other executive officers.
(12) Includes 69,731 Common Shares owned by Mr. Oklak.  Also includes 7,980
Units beneficially owned by Mr. Oklak under an agreement with a partnership
owned by certain other executive officers.
(13) Includes: (i) 18,098 Common Shares owned by Mr. Peterson and members of his
family; (ii) 10,400 Common Shares owned by Mr. Peterson as Trustee for the
Peterson Family GST Investment Share Trust; (iii) 14,282 Common Shares owned for
investment purposes by City Securities Corporation, a firm in which Mr. Peterson
serves as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer; and (iv) 6,000
Common Shares owned by Mr. Peterson as Trustee for the Peterson Family Trusts.
(14) Includes: (i) 49,511 shares owned by Mr. Strauss and his spouse, and (ii)
5,400 shares held in a trust in which Mr. Strauss' family members are
beneficiaries.
(15) Share amount as reported on Schedule 13G filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on February 12, 1999.  Address: 82 Devonshire Street,
Boston, Massachusetts 02109. Includes (i) 6,244,844 shares beneficially owned by
Fidelity Management & Research Company ("Fidelity"), a wholly-owned subsidiary
of FMR Corp., which holds such shares for investment advisory clients, (ii)
6,244,844 shares beneficially owned by Edward C. Johnson III, Chairman of FMR
Corp., and FMR Corp., through its control of Fidelity, and each is deemed to
have sole power to dispose of such shares, (iii) 1,760,900 shares beneficially
owned by Fidelity Management Trust Company ("Fidelity Management"), a wholly-
owned subsidiary of FMR Corp., which holds such shares as investment manager of
certain institutional accounts, and (iv) 1,760,900 shares beneficially owned by
Mr. Johnson and FMR Corp., through its control of Fidelity Management, of which
each is deemed to have sole voting and dispositive power over 1,668,500 of such
shares and sole dispositive but no voting power over the remaining 92,400
shares.  Neither FMR Corp. nor Mr. Johnson has the sole power to vote or direct
the voting of the shares owned directly by the Fidelity funds, which power
resides with such funds' Board of Trustees and Fidelity carries out the voting
of the shares under guidelines established by such Board of Trustees.
(16) Represents less than 1% of the outstanding Common Shares.
                                 - 40 -

   ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
   
   A  wholly owned subsidiary of the Company is the sole general  partner
   of   Duke   Realty   Services  Limited  Partnership   (the   "Services
   Partnership"),  which  is  in turn the sole general  partner  of  Duke
   Construction  Limited  Partnership (the  "Construction  Partnership").
   The  operations  of  these entities are included in  the  consolidated
   financial   statements  of  the  Company.  The  Services   Partnership
   provides   third-party  property  management,  leasing,   construction
   management  and development services and the Construction  Partnership
   provides  third-party construction services. Certain of the  executive
   officers  own limited partnership interests in these entities.  Thomas
   L.  Hefner, Daniel C. Staton, Darell E. Zink, Jr., John W. Wynne, Gary
   A.  Burk and David R. Mennel, all of whom are officers or Directors of
   the  Company,  control  DMI  Partnership ("DMI"),  which  owns  ninety
   percent  of  the capital interests of the Services Partnership  and  a
   profits interest which varies from ten percent to ninety percent.  The
   share  of net income of the Services Partnership allocated to  DMI  in
   1998  was  $1,211,000.  DMI's share of net income  from  the  Services
   Partnership  is  included  in  minority  interest  in  the   Company's
   financial  statements.  The Company has an  option  to  acquire  DMI's
   interest  in  the Services Partnership in exchange for 833,334  Common
   Shares.  The  Company is required to purchase DMI's  interest  in  the
   Services  Partnership  for 833,334 Common  Shares  upon  a  change  in
   control  of  the  Company  or  the  dissolution  of  DRLP.   DMI  also
   indirectly owns a ninety-five percent limited partnership interest  in
   the Construction Partnership, which  the  Company  has  the  option  to
   purchase  for  $1,000.  The Construction  Partnership  has a deficit
   cumulative  capital  balance; thus  there was no allocation of net income 
   to any of the partners  of the Construction Partnership, including DMI.

   The  Services  Partnership  and the Construction  Partnership  provide
   property  management, leasing, construction and other  tenant  related
   services  to properties in which Messrs. Hefner, Staton, Zink,  Wynne,
   Burk  and  Mennel have ownership interests. The Company has an  option
   to  acquire  these  executive officers' interests in these  properties
   (the  "Option Properties"). In 1998, the Services Partnership and  the
   Construction  Partnership  received fees of  $2,247,000  for  services
   provided  to  the Option Properties. The fees charged by the  Services
   Partnership  and  the Construction Partnership for such  services  are
   equivalent  to those charged to other third-party owners  for  similar
   services  except for one property. Pursuant to an agreement with  this
   property's  lender, the payment of 75% of the fees  was  deferred  and
   payable  only  from excess sale or refinancing proceeds.  The  Company
   agreed  to  this deferral in 1997 in order to retain certain contracts
   for  services  provided to other properties owned by  the  lender.  In
   1998,  the Company acquired this loan from the third party lender  and
   all such deferred fees have been paid.

   The  Company also leased operating facilities in certain of the Option
   Properties.  In  1998,  the  aggregate  rent  under  such  leases  was
   approximately  $21,309.  The  rental  amount  paid  is  comparable  to
   similar space in the area.
   
   The Operating Partnership has  a  $20.0  million loan to the Services
   Partnership,  which requires  interest only payments at 12% through
   September 2003.  The loan  then amortizes over a 15-year period with
   interest at 12%  until final  maturity  in  September 2018. The loan
   is  guaranteed  by  an entity  owned indirectly by Messrs. Hefner, Staton,
   Zink, Wynne,  Burk  and  Mennel.  The Operating Partnership also provides
   working capital financing  to  the  Services Partnership at a rate of
   prime plus 1%.
   
   Messrs.  Hefner,  Staton, Zink, Wynne, Burk and  Mennel,  as  well  as
   Edward  T.  Baur,  a  Director  of  the  Company,  and  a  corporation
   controlled by Mr. Baur, have personal guarantees for $65.5 million  of
   the  Company's debt. The Operating Partnership has indemnified them from
   any liability with respect to such debt.
   
   The  Company  contracts with Steel Frame Erectors,  Inc.  ("SFE"),  an
   entity  owned by Messrs. Hefner, Staton, Zink, Wynne, Burk and Mennel,
   for  certain  construction-related services. During  1998,  the  total
   costs  under  these  contracts  for  Company  related  projects   were
   $1,396,000.  The  construction fees earned by SFE on  Company  related
   projects  were $43,000. A 50% owned subsidiary of SFE leases space  in
   an  office  building from a limited liability company partially  owned
   by  the  Company.  The subsidiary paid $294,000 under  this  lease  in
   1998.
   
   In  May 1998 and January 1999, a partnership 70% owned by Edward  T.
   Baur  contributed  land and a building to the Company  in  return  for
   101,849  Units of DRLP with a value of $2.3 million and the assumption
   of $1.4 million in indebtedness.
                                     - 41 -
   
                                     Part IV
   
   ITEM  14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS  ON
   FORM 8-K
   
(A)  DOCUMENTS FILED AS PART OF THIS REPORT

   1. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS:
      
        The   following  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  of   the
        Company,  together with the Independent Auditor's Report,  are
        listed below:
      
       Independent Auditors' Report
       Consolidated Balance Sheets, December 31, 1998 and 1997
       Consolidated  Statements of Operations, Years  Ended  December
         31, 1998, 1997 and 1996
       Consolidated  Statements of Cash Flows, Years  Ended  December
         31, 1998, 1997 and 1996
       Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity,  Years  Ended
         December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996
       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   
   2.   CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
     
          Schedule III - Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation
                                     - 42 -
      
      INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
      
      The Shareholders and Directors of
      Duke Realty Investments, Inc.:
      
      We  have  audited  the consolidated financial  statements  of  Duke
      Realty  Investments,  Inc.  and  Subsidiaries  as  listed  in   the
      accompanying   index.  In  connection  with  our  audits   of   the
      consolidated  financial  statements,  we  also  have  audited   the
      financial  statement schedule as listed in the accompanying  index.
      These   consolidated  financial  statements   and   the   financial
      statement   schedule  are  the  responsibility  of  the   Company's
      management.  Our  responsibility is to express an  opinion  on  the
      consolidated  financial  statements  and  the  financial  statement
      schedule based on our audits.
      
      We  conducted  our  audits  in accordance with  generally  accepted
      auditing  standards.  Those standards  require  that  we  plan  and
      perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether  the
      financial  statements are free of material misstatement.  An  audit
      includes  examining,  on  a  test basis,  evidence  supporting  the
      amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit  also
      includes  assessing the accounting principles used and  significant
      estimates  made  by management, as well as evaluating  the  overall
      financial  statement  presentation.  We  believe  that  our  audits
      provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
      
      In  our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred  to
      above  present  fairly,  in all material  respects,  the  financial
      position  of Duke Realty Investments, Inc. and Subsidiaries  as  of
      December  31,  1998 and 1997, and the results of  their  operations
      and  their  cash  flows  for each of the years  in  the  three-year
      period  ended  December  31,  1998, in  conformity  with  generally
      accepted  accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the  related
      financial  statement schedule, when considered in relation  to  the
      basic  consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents
      fairly,  in  all  material  respects,  the  information  set  forth
      therein.
      
      KPMG LLP
      Indianapolis, Indiana
      January  26,  1999 (except as to note 12, which is  as  of  March  1,
      1999)
                                        
                                     - 43 -

     
          See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
                                     - 44 -
                                        


     
          See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
                                     - 45 -



     
          See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
                                     - 46 -



                                        
          See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
                                        
                                     - 47 -
                                        
     
                 DUKE REALTY INVESTMENTS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                        
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
     
  (1)  THE COMPANY
       ----------
       The  Company owns and operates a portfolio of industrial, office and
       retail properties in the Midwest. The Company's primary markets  are
       Indianapolis, Indiana; Cincinnati, Cleveland and Columbus, Ohio; St.
       Louis,  Missouri;  Chicago,  Illinois;  Minneapolis,  Minnesota  and
       Nashville,  Tennessee.  The  Company  qualifies  as  a  real  estate
       investment  trust  ("REIT")  under the provisions  of  the  Internal
       Revenue Code.
     
       The  Company's rental operations are conducted through  Duke  Realty
       Limited  Partnership ("DRLP"), of which the Company  owns  88.9%  at
       December 31, 1998. The remaining interests in DRLP ("Limited Partner
       Units")  are  exchangeable  by the unitholders  for  shares  of  the
       Company's common stock on a one-for-one basis. The Company  conducts
       its   service  operations  through  Duke  Realty  Services   Limited
       Partnership and Duke Construction Limited Partnership, in which  the
       Company's wholly-owned subsidiary, Duke Services, Inc., is the  sole
       general partner.
       
    (2) SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
       -------------------------------------------
       PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION
       ---------------------------
       The  consolidated  financial statements include the accounts  of  the
       Company  and  its  majority-owned or  controlled  subsidiaries.  The
       equity  interests in these majority-owned or controlled subsidiaries
       not  owned by the Company are reflected as minority interests in the
       consolidated  financial  statements.  All  significant  intercompany
       balances  and  transactions have been eliminated in the consolidated
       financial statements.
     
       RECLASSIFICATIONS
       -----------------
       Certain 1997 and 1996 balances have been reclassified to conform  to
       1998 presentation.
     
       STOCK SPLIT
       -----------
       All  shares and per share amounts have been adjusted to reflect  the
       Company's two-for-one stock split effected in August 1997.
       
       REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS
       -----------------------
       Real  estate  investments  are stated at  the  lower  of  cost  less
       accumulated  depreciation or fair value if impairment is identified.
       Buildings and land improvements are depreciated on the straight-line
       method  over  40 and 15 years, respectively, and tenant  improvement
       costs  are depreciated on the straight-line method over the term  of
       the related lease.
       
       All  direct  and indirect costs, including interest and real  estate
       taxes  clearly  associated  with the  development,  construction  or
       expansion  of real estate investments are capitalized as a  cost  of
       the property.  All external costs associated with the acquisition of
       real estate investments are capitalized as a cost of the property.
       
       The Company evaluates its real estate investments upon occurrence of
       significant  changes in the operations, but not less than  annually,
       to  assess whether any impairment indications are present, including
       recurring operating losses and significant adverse changes in  legal
       factors or business climate that affect the
                                     - 48 -
                                        
     
                 DUKE REALTY INVESTMENTS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                        
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                        
       recovery  of  the recorded value. If any real estate  investment  is
       considered impaired, a loss is provided to reduce the carrying value
       of the property to its estimated fair value.
       
       The  acquisitions  of  minority interests  are  recorded  under  the
       purchase  method with assets acquired reflected at the  fair  market
       value of the Company's common stock on the date of acquisition,  net
       of   the  retirement  of  any  minority  interest  liabilities.  The
       acquisition   amounts   are  allocated  to  rental   property based
       on their estimated fair values.
       
       The  Company has equity interests in unconsolidated partnerships and
       joint ventures which own and operate rental properties and hold land
       for  development in the Midwest. The equity method of accounting  is
       used  for these investments in which the Company has the ability  to
       exercise   significant  influence  over  operating   and   financial
       policies.  Any  difference  between the  carrying  amount  of  these
       investments and the underlying equity in net assets is amortized  to
       equity in earnings of unconsolidated companies over 40 years.
       
       CASH EQUIVALENTS
       ----------------
       Highly  liquid investments with a maturity of three months  or  less
       when purchased are classified as cash equivalents.
       
       DEFERRED COSTS
       --------------
       Costs  incurred in connection with obtaining financing are amortized
       to interest expense on the straight-line method over the term of the
       related  loan.  All  direct and indirect costs associated  with  the
       rental of real estate investments owned by the Company are amortized
       over the term of the related lease. Unamortized costs are charged to
       expense  upon  the  early termination of the  lease  or  upon  early
       payment of the financing.
       
       Prepaid  interest  is  amortized  to  interest  expense  using   the
       effective interest method over the terms of the related loans.
    
       REVENUES
       --------
       Rental Operations
       -----------------
       Rental  income  from leases with scheduled rental  increases  during
       their terms is recognized on a straight-line basis.
       
       Service Operations
       ------------------
       Management  fees  are based on a percentage of  rental  receipts  of
       properties  managed  and are recognized as the rental  receipts  are
       collected. Maintenance fees are based upon established hourly  rates
       and  are recognized as the services are performed.  Leasing fees are
       based on a percentage of the total rental due under completed leases
       and  are  generally  recognized upon lease  execution.  Construction
       management and development  fees are generally based on a percentage
       of  costs  and are recognized as incurred.
                                     - 49 -
                                        
     
                 DUKE REALTY INVESTMENTS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                        
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
       
       NET INCOME PER COMMON SHARE
       ---------------------------
       Basic net income per common share is computed by dividing net income
       available for common shares by the weighted average number of common
       shares  outstanding for the period. Diluted net income per share  is
       computed  by  dividing  the sum of net income available  for  common
       shares and minority interest in earnings of unitholders, by the  sum
       of  the  weighted  average  number of  common  shares  and  dilutive
       potential common shares outstanding for the period.
       
       The  following table reconciles the components of basic and  diluted
       net income per share:
       
     
       The  Preferred D Series Convertible stock was anti-dilutive in 1998;
       therefore,  no conversion to common shares is included  in  weighted
       shares outstanding at December 31, 1998.
     
       FEDERAL INCOME TAXES
       --------------------
       As a REIT, the Company is allowed to reduce taxable income by all or
       a  portion  of  its  distributions to  shareholders.  As  deductible
       distributions have exceeded taxable income, no provision for federal
       income   taxes  has  been  made  in  the  accompanying  consolidated
       financial statements.
       
       Earnings and profits, which determine the taxability of dividends to
       shareholders, differ from reported net income primarily  because  of
       different  depreciable  lives and bases  of  rental  properties  and
       differences   in  the  timing  of  recognition  of   earnings   upon
       disposition of properties.
       
       A  summary of the taxable nature of the Company's dividends for  the
       three years ended December 31 is as follows:
       
       
                                        
       Dividends  per share of $1.09, $.97 and $.89 were required  for  the
       Company  to  maintain  its  REIT status  in  1998,  1997  and  1996,
       respectively.
       
                                     - 50 -
                                        
     
                 DUKE REALTY INVESTMENTS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                        
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
       
       FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
       -----------------------------------
       The fair values of the Company's financial instruments are generally
       calculated as the present value of estimated future cash flows using
       a discount rate commensurate with the risks involved and approximate
       their carrying or contract values.
       
       DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
       --------------------------------
       The  Company  enters into derivative financial instruments  such  as
       interest  rate  swaps and treasury locks in order  to  mitigate  its
       interest  rate  risk  on  a  related  financial  instrument.   These
       derivative  financial  instruments  are  designated  as  hedges  and
       deferral   accounting   is  applied  as  the  derivative   financial
       instrument reduces exposure to interest rate risk. Gains and  losses
       on  derivative  financial  instruments  are  amortized  to  interest
       expense  over  the term of the hedged instrument.  Amounts  paid  or
       received on interest rate swaps are included in interest expense.
                                        
       USE OF ESTIMATES
       ----------------
       The   preparation  of  the  consolidated  financial  statements   in
       conformity  with  generally accepted accounting principles  requires
       management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts
       reported  in  the consolidated financial statements and accompanying
       notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
     
  (3)   RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
       --------------------------
       The  Company  provides management, leasing, construction  and  other
       tenant  related services to partnerships in which certain  executive
       officers  have continuing ownership interests. The Company was  paid
       fees  totaling $2.3 million, $3.3 million and $3.2 million for  such
       services  in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. Management  believes
       the terms for such services are equivalent to those available in the
       market.  The  Company  has  an  option  to  purchase  the  executive
       officers' interest in each of these properties which expires October
       2003. The option price of each property was established at the  date
       the options were granted.
       
  (4)  INVESTMENTS IN UNCONSOLIDATED COMPANIES
      ---------------------------------------
       Combined summarized financial information of the companies which are
       accounted for by the equity method as of December 31, 1998 and  1997
       and  for  the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997, and 1996  are  as
       follows (in thousands):

       
                                     - 51 -
                                        
     
                 DUKE REALTY INVESTMENTS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                        
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                        
 (5)  INDEBTEDNESS
      ------------
      Indebtedness  at  December  31  consists  of  the  following  (in
      thousands):

     
     
     As  of  December  31,  1998, the $326.3 million  of  secured  debt  is
     collateralized  by  rental properties with a  net  carrying  value  of
     $515.7 million.
     
     The   Company's  unsecured  LOC  is  used  to  fund  development   and
     acquisition  of  additional rental properties and to  provide  working
     capital as needed. In 1998, the Company increased the amount available
     under  the  LOC to $450 million and maintained the borrowing  rate  of
     LIBOR plus .80%. As part of the current LOC agreement, the Company has
     the  option to obtain borrowings from the financial institutions which
     participate in the LOC at rates lower than LIBOR plus .80%, subject to
     certain restrictions. All amounts outstanding on the unsecured LOC  at
     December  31, 1998 are at LIBOR plus .80% (effective rate  of  6.43%).
     The unsecured line of credit matures in April 2001.
     
     The  Company  entered  into  a  $75.0 million  forward  Treasury  Lock
     Agreement (the "Treasury Lock") in 1997 to fix the effective  interest
     rate of a debt financing by the Company. The Company paid $575,000  in
     1998  to  settle the Treasury Lock in conjunction with the closing  of
     the  financing. The amount is being treated as a hedge  and  is  being
     amortized  into  interest  expense  over  the  term  of  the   related
     financing.
                                        
     At  December  31, 1998, scheduled amortization and maturities  of  all
     indebtedness  for the next five years and thereafter  are  as  follows
     (in thousands):
     
     
     Cash  paid  for  interest in 1998, 1997, and 1996 was  $63.6  million,
     $41.9   million,  and  $35.5  million,  respectively.  Total  interest
     capitalized in 1998, 1997 and 1996 was $8.5 million, $6.0 million  and
     $5.5 million, respectively.
     
 (6)SEGMENT REPORTING
     -----------------
     The  Company is engaged in four operating segments, the ownership  and
     rental  of office, industrial, and retail real estate investments  and
     the  providing  of  various  real estate  services  such  as  property
     management, maintenance, leasing, and construction management to third-
     party property owners ("Service Operations). The
                                     - 52 -
                                        
                                        
     
                 DUKE REALTY INVESTMENTS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                        
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                        
    Company's reportable segments offer different products or services  and
    are  managed  separately  because  each  requires  different  operating
    strategies and management expertise. There are no material intersegment
    sales or transfers.
     
    Non-segment  revenue to reconcile to total revenue consists  mainly  of
    equity  in earnings of joint ventures. Non-segment assets to reconcile
    to  total  assets consists of corporate assets including cash, deferred
    financing costs and investments in unconsolidated subsidiaries.
    
    The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described
    in Note 1.
    
    The Company assesses and measures segment operating results based on  a
    performance  measure referred to as Funds From Operations ("FFO").  The
    National  Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts defines  FFO  as
    net  income or loss, excluding gains or losses from debt restructurings
    and   sales  of  property,  plus  depreciation  and  amortization   and
    adjustments   for   minority  interest  and  unconsolidated   companies
    (adjustments  for  minority interest and unconsolidated  companies  are
    calculated  to reflect FFO on the same basis). FFO is not a measure  of
    operating  results or cash flows from operating activities as  measured
    by   generally  accepted  accounting  principles,  is  not  necessarily
    indicative  of  cash available to fund cash needs  and  should  not  be
    considered  an  alternative to cash flows as a  measure  of  liquidity.
    Interest  expense and other non-property specific revenues and expenses
    are  not  allocated to individual segments in determining the Company's
    performance measure.
    
                                     - 53 -
                                        
     
                 DUKE REALTY INVESTMENTS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                        
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                        
    The  revenues, FFO and assets for each of the reportable  segments  are
    summarized as follows for the years ended and as of December 31,  1998,
    1997, and 1996:
    
  (7) LEASING ACTIVITY
      -----------------
     Future minimum rents due to the Company under non-cancelable operating
     leases at December 31, 1998 are as follows (in thousands):
     
                                     - 54 -
                                        
     
                 DUKE REALTY INVESTMENTS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                        
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                        
     In addition to minimum rents, certain leases require reimbursements of
     specified  operating expenses which amounted to $56.5  million,  $33.8
     million, and $19.7 million for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997
     and 1996, respectively.
     
 (8) EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS
     -----------------------
     The  Company maintains a 401(k) plan for the benefit of its  full-time
     employees.  The  Company matches the employees'  contributions  up  to
     three  percent  of  the  employees' salary and may  also  make  annual
     discretionary contributions. Total expense recognized by  the  Company
     was  $1,482,000, $882,000 and $328,000 for the years ended 1998,  1997
     and 1996, respectively.

     The  Company makes contributions to a contributory health and  welfare
     plan   as   necessary   to  fund  claims  not  covered   by   employee
     contributions. Total expense recognized by the Company related to this
     plan  was  $2,178,000, $1,245,000 and $1,193,000 for  1998,  1997  and
     1996, respectively. Included in total expense is an estimate based  on
     historical  experience  of  the effect  of  claims  incurred  but  not
     reported as of year-end.
     
  (9) SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
      --------------------
     The  Company periodically accesses the public equity markets  to  fund
     the  development and acquisition of additional rental properties.  The
     proceeds  of  these offerings are contributed to DRLP in exchange  for
     additional interest in the partnership.
     
     The  following series of preferred stock is outstanding as of December
     31, 1998 (in thousands, except percentages):
     
     
     All  series of preferred shares require cumulative distributions,  have
     no  stated maturity date, and the redemption price of each series  may
     only be paid from the proceeds of other capital shares of the Company,
     which may include other classes or series of preferred shares.
     
     The Preferred Series D shares are convertible at a conversion rate  of
     9.3677 common shares for each preferred share outstanding.
     
     The  dividend rate on the Preferred B Series shares increases to 9.99%
     after September 12, 2012.
     
     In  July  1998,  the  Board of Directors of the Company  approved  the
     adoption  of  a  shareholder  rights  plan  ("Rights  Agreement")  and
     declared  a  dividend of one right for each outstanding share  of  the
     Company's  Common  Stock to stockholders of record  at  the  close  of
     business on August 3, 1998, and for each share of common stock  issued
     by  the  Company  thereafter and prior to the  occurrence  of  certain
     triggering  events which would in effect execute the Rights Agreement.
     Upon  the occurrence of certain triggering events, each right entitles
     the  registered holder to purchase from the Company one one-thousandth
     of  a  share  of  Series C Junior Preferred Stock of the  Company.  In
     general, each share of Series C Preferred Shares has substantially the
     same  economic  attributes and carries substantially the  same  voting
     rights  as  one  share of Common Stock. As of December  31,  1998,  no
     events have triggered execution of the Rights Agreement.
                                     - 55 -
                                        

                 DUKE REALTY INVESTMENTS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                        
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

 (10) STOCK BASED COMPENSATION
      ------------------------
     The Company has two fixed stock option plans and two performance based
     stock  compensation plans. The Company applies APB Opinion No. 25  and
     related  interpretations in accounting for its plans. Accordingly,  no
     compensation cost has been recognized for its fixed stock option plans
     as  the  exercise price of each option equals the market price of  the
     Company's stock on the date of grant. The Company charges compensation
     costs against its income for its two performance based stock plans. If
     compensation  cost  for  the Company's four  stock-based  compensation
     plans had been determined consistent with FASB Statement No. 123,  the
     Company's  net  income and net income per share for  the  years  ended
     December 31 would have been reduced to the pro forma amounts indicated
     below:
     
     
     The  effects  of  applying FASB Statement No. 123 in  this  pro  forma
     disclosure  are  not indicative of future amounts. The Statement  does
     not  apply  to awards prior to 1995, and additional awards  in  future
     years are anticipated.
     
     The  fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant
     using  the  Black-Scholes  option-pricing  model  with  the  following
     assumptions  used:  Dividend yield of 6.0% for  all  grants;  expected
     volatility of 19% for all grants; weighted average risk-free  interest
     rates  of  5.7%,  6.4%,  and  5.6% for 1998,  1997  and  1996  grants,
     respectively; and weighted average expected lives of  6.5  years,  6.5
     years, 7.9 years for 1998, 1997 and 1996 grants, respectively.
     
     Fixed Stock Option Plans
     ------------------------
     A  summary of the status of the Company's two fixed stock option plans
     as  of  December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, and changes during the years
     ended on those dates is as follows:
     
     
     The  options  outstanding at December 31, 1998, under  the  two  fixed
     stock  option  plans have a range of exercise prices  from  $11.88  to
     $24.48 with a weighted average exercise price of $16.70 and a weighted
     average   remaining  contractual  life  of  6.80  years.  The  options
     exerciseable  at  December 31, 1998, have a weighted average  exercise
     price of $13.32.
                                     - 56 -
                                        
     
                 DUKE REALTY INVESTMENTS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                        
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                        
     Each  option's maximum term is ten years and, with limited exceptions,
     options granted under both plans vest at 20% per year, or, if earlier,
     upon  the death, retirement or disability of the optionee or a  change
     in control of the Company.
     
     In August 1998, the Company granted 1,231,215 stock options to certain
     officers  in  connection  with those officers'  participation  in  the
     Company's Executive and Senior Officer Stock Purchase Plan. Under this
     plan,  the recipients of these stock options were required to purchase
     1,231,215 shares of Company common stock by immediately exercising the
     stock options. Because the exercise price of the stock option was  the
     same as the fair market value of the stock on the date of grant, these
     options  had  no value on the date of grant. Excluding  the  1,231,215
     stock  options  granted in connection with the  Executive  and  Senior
     Officer  Stock  Purchase  Plan,  the weighted-average  fair  value  of
     options granted during 1998 was $3.12.
     
     Performance Based Stock Plans
     -----------------------------
     The Company has two performance based equity compensation plans. Under
     the  1995  Dividend  Increase  Unit Plan (the  "DIU  Plan"),  Dividend
     Increase  Units ("DIUs") are granted to key employees.  The  value  of
     DIUs exercised by employees is payable in Company stock. A maximum  of
     400,000 shares of Company stock may be issued under the DIU Plan.  The
     maximum term of all DIUs granted is ten years.
     
     The  value of each DIU when exercised is equal to the increase in  the
     Company's annualized dividend per share from the date of grant to  the
     date  of exercise, divided by the "dividend yield." Dividend yield  is
     the  annualized  dividend per share divided by the  market  price  per
     share  of  the Company's common stock at the date of grant.  DIUs  are
     subject to the same vesting schedule as stock options issued under the
     1995 Plan. Under the 1995 Shareholder Value Plan (the "SV Plan"),  the
     Company may grant awards in specified dollar amounts to key employees.
     The  award is payable to the employee on the third anniversary of  the
     date of grant. One-half of the award is payable in common stock of the
     Company, and one-half is payable in cash. A maximum of 200,000  shares
     of Company stock may be issued under the SV Plan.
     
     The  initial dollar amount of each award granted under the SV Plan  is
     adjusted  upward  or downward based on a comparison of  the  Company's
     cumulative  total  shareholder return for the  three  year  period  as
     compared to the cumulative total return of the S&P 500 and the  NAREIT
     Equity  REIT Total Return indices. The award is not payable  upon  the
     employee's  termination  of  employment  for  any  reason  other  than
     retirement, death, disability or a change in control of the Company.
     
     The  Company  believes that it is not possible to reasonably  estimate
     the  fair  value  of  the  common stock to be  issued  under  the  two
     performance  based  stock compensation plans and, therefore,  computes
     compensation cost for these plans based on the intrinsic value of  the
     awards  as  if  they  were  exercised at the end  of  each  applicable
     reporting period. The compensation cost that has been charged  against
     income  for  these plans was $4,132,000, $2,515,000 and  $513,000  for
     1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
     
 (11) COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
     -----------------------------
     The   Company  has  guaranteed  $93  million  of  mortgage  loans   of
     unconsolidated  companies of which the Company is a 50%  partner.  The
     mortgage  loans  are  collateralized by  rental  properties  of  joint
     ventures  which have a net carrying value substantially in  excess  of
     the  mortgage loans. The Company does not anticipate that it  will  be
     required to satisfy these guarantees.
                                     - 57 -
                                        
     
                 DUKE REALTY INVESTMENTS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                        
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                        
     The Company has entered into agreements, subject to the completion  of
     due  diligence  requirements, resolution of certain contingencies  and
     completion of customary closing conditions, for the future acquisition
     of  land totaling $86,439,000. The acquisitions are scheduled to close
     periodically  through 2002 and will be paid for through a  combination
     of cash and DRLP Limited Partner Unit issuance.
     
     In  August 1998, the Company adopted The Executive and Senior  Officer
     Stock  Purchase  Plan (the "Stock Purchase Plan") whereby  members  of
     management  and  unaffiliated  members  of  the  Company's  Board   of
     Directors purchased approximately $37 million of common stock  of  the
     Company.  Both  the  management and Board of Director  purchases  were
     financed by five-year personal loans at market interest rates  from  a
     financial  institution.  Participants are personally  responsible  for
     repaying  the  interest, principal balance, and other  obligations  as
     defined  in  the Stock Purchase Plan. As a condition of the  financing
     agreement  with the financial institution, the Company has  guaranteed
     repayment  of  principal,  interest and  other  obligations  for  each
     participant,  but  is  fully indemnified by the participants.  In  the
     opinion  of  management, it is not probable that the Company  will  be
     required to satisfy this guarantee.
     
     The Company is engaged in litigation as a defendant in a case filed by
     a  tenant involving an alleged breach of contractual lease obligation.
     Based  on  information  currently available and  upon  the  advice  of
     counsel, it is the opinion of management that the ultimate disposition
     of  the  pending  legal proceeding should not have a material  adverse
     effect on the Company's consolidated financial statements. However, in
     the  event of an unfavorable ruling by a jury or judge in a  court  of
     competent  jurisdiction  with respect to the ultimate  disposition  of
     this  case, such a ruling could have a material adverse effect on  the
     Company's results of operations in a particular future period.
     
 (12) Subsequent Event
      ----------------
     On  March  1,  1999,  the Company announced that it  entered  into  an
     Agreement  and  Plan  of Merger, dated as of February  28,  1999  (the
     "Merger  Agreement"),  with Weeks Corporation ("Weeks"),  pursuant  to
     which Weeks will merge with and into the Company. Weeks is a self-
     administered, self-managed, geographically focused REIT that was 
     organized in 1994. As of December 31, 1998, Weeks' in-service property
     portfolio consisted of 300 industrial properties, 34 suburban office
     properties and five retail properties comprising 28.1 million square feet.
     As of December 31, 1998, Weeks' primary markets and the concentration of
     Weeks' portfolio (based on square footage of in-service properties) were
     Atlanta, Georgia; Nashville, Tennessee; Miami, Florida; Raleigh-Durham-
     Chapel Hill (the "Research Triangle"), North Carolina, Dallas/Ft. Worth,
     Texas; Orlando, Florida; and Spartanburg, South Carolina. In addition, 31
     industrial, suburban office and retail properties were under development,
     in lease-up or under agreement to acquire at December 31, 1998, comprising
     an additional 3.4 million square feet. At December 31, 1998, Weeks had 
     approximately 19.7 million shares of common stock and six million shares 
     of preferred stock outstanding, and approximately $654 million aggregate
     principal amount of outstanding indebtedness. In the merger,  each
     outstanding share of common stock of Weeks will be converted into  the
     right  to  receive  1.38 shares of common stock of the  Company;  each
     outstanding  share  of  8.0% Series A Cumulative Redeemable  Preferred
     Stock  of  Weeks  will  be converted into the  right  to  receive  one
     depositary share of the Company representing 1/1000 of a share of  8.0%
     Series  F  Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock of the  Company;  and
     each  outstanding  share  of  8.625% Series  D  Cumulative  Redeemable
     Preferred  Stock of Weeks will be converted into the right to  receive
     one depositary share of the Company representing 1/1000 of a share  of
     8.625%  Series H Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock of the Company.
     The  terms of the Company's depositary
                                  - 58 -
    
     shares to be issued in the  merger will  be  identical to the terms of
     the Weeks Series A  and  Series  D preferred stock. Weeks' principal 
     operating subsidiary, Weeks  Realty, L.P. (the "Weeks Operating
     Partnership"), will be merged with and into the  Operating Partnership.
     In the partnership merger, each outstanding common unit of Weeks 
     Operating Partnership will be converted into the right to receive 1.38
     common units of the Operating Partnership. At December 31, 1998, Weeks
     Operating Partnership had approximately 7.3 million units of limited
     partnership interest outstanding. The merger of Weeks into the Company is
     expected to qualify as a tax-free reorganization and will be accounted for
     under the purchase method of accounting. The transactions are expected
     to close  in the  second or third quarter of 1999, subject to receipt
     of  necessary approvals  by  the Company and Weeks shareholders  and
     satisfaction  of customary closing conditions.
   
     If the merger between the Company and Weeks is consummated as expected, the
     combined company will have significant operations and assets located in
     southeastern markets where the Company and its management have not
     traditionally operated or owned assets. Since substantially all of the 
     members of Weeks' management are expacted to remain with the combined
     company for the foreseeable future after the merger, the Company expects to
     have the necessary expertise to operate successfully in the new markets.
     The combined company's operating performance will, however, be exposed to 
     the general economic conditions of its new markets and could be adversely
     affected if conditions, such as an oversupply of space or a reduction in
     demand for the types of properties supplied by the combined company,
     become unfavorable.
                                     - 59 -
   
   
   
                                     - 66 -



                                     - 66 -



                                     - 66 -
   


                                     - 66 -
   
   
DUKE REALTY INVESTMENTS, INC.

(IN THOUSANDS)


(1)  Costs capitalized subsequent to acquisition include decreases for purchase
price reduction payments received and land sales or takedowns.

(2)  The Company owns a 75% interest in the partnership owning these buildings.
The Company exercises significant control over the partnership, therefore, 
the buildings are consolidated by the Company  with minority interest
recognized on the remaining 25% ownership.

(3)  Depreciation of real estate is computed using the straight-line method over
40 years for buildings, 15 years for land improvements and shorter periods 
based on lease terms (generally 3 to 10 years) for tenant improvements.

   
                                     - 67 -
   
   3.  EXHIBITS
     
     Certain  exhibits  required by Item 601 of Regulation  S-K  have  been
     filed with previous reports by the Company and are herein incorporated
     by reference thereto.
     
     Number                             Description
     ------                             -----------
     3.1  Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Registrant are
          incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the registration
          statement on Form S-3, as amended,  filed on July 28, 1995, as File
          No.  33-61361 (the "1995 Registration Statement").
     
     3.2  Amendment dated August 16, 1996 to Articles of Incorporation of
          Registrant is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to
          the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997.

     3.3  Amendment dated June 12, 1997 to Articles of Incorporation of
          Registrant is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.3 to 
          the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997.

     3.4  Amendment dated July 11, 1997 to Articles of Incorporation of
          Registrant is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.4 to
          the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997.

     3.5  Amendment dated May 27, 1998 to Articles of Incorporation of 
          Registrant is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the
          Registration Statement of Form S-3, file number 333-57755.

     3.6  Amendment dated July 23, 1998 to Articles of Incorporation of
          Registrant is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.0 to 
          the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1998.

     3.7  Amendment dated November 24, 1998 to Articles of Incorporation of
          Registrant is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.0 to 
          the Form 8-K filed November 19, 1998.

     3.8  Amendment dated January 20, 1999 to Articles of Incorporation of
          Registrant is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.0 to
          the Form 8-K filed January 19, 1999.

     3.9  By-Laws of Registrant are incorporated herein by reference to
          Exhibit 3.2 to the 1995 Registration Statement.

     3.10 Amendment dated October 23, 1997 to Bylaws of Registrant are 
          incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.6 to the Annual
          Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997.

     3.11 Amendment dated July 23, 1998 to Bylaws of Registrant is incorporated
          herein by reference to Exhibit 7.3 to the Form 8-K filed
          July 31, 1998.
     
     4.1  Instruments  Defining  Rights  of  Security  Holders,   including
          Indentures,  are incorporated herein by reference to Articles  V,
          VI, VIII, IX and X of Registrant's Articles of Incorporation.
     
     10.1 Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of Duke Realty
          Limited Partnership (the "Operating Partnership") is incorporated 
          herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the registration statement 
          on Form S-2, as amended, filed on June 8, 1993, as File No.
          33-64038 (the "1993 Registration Statement).
     
     10.2 First and Second Amendments to Amended and Restated Agreement of
          Limited Partnership of the Operating Partnership are incorporated
          herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Annual Report on Form
          10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995, and the Third Amendment
          to Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of the
          Operating Partnership is incorporated herein by reference to 
          Exhibit 10 to the Report of the Registrant on Form 8-K filed
          August 15, 1996.
                                     - 66 -
     
     10.3 Fourth Amendment dated July 11, 1997 to Amended and Restated
          Agreement of Operating Partnership of the Registrant are
          incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Annual 
          Report Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997.
     
     10.4 Fifth Amendment dated October 1, 1997 to Amended and Restated
          Agreement of Operating Partnership of the Registrant.

     10.5 Sixth Amendment dated November 24, 1998, to Amended and Restated
          Agreement of Operating Partnership of the Registrant.

     10.6 Seventh Agreement dated January 20, 1999, to Amended and Restated
          Agreement of Operating Partnership of the Registrant.

     10.7 Eighth Amendment dated February 18, 1999, to Amended and Restated
          Agreement of Operating Partnership of the Registrant
     
     10.8 Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of
          Duke Realty Services Limited Partnership (the "Services
          Partnership") is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3
          to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
          December 31, 1995.
                                        
     10.9 Promissory Note of the Services Partnership is incorporated herein by
          reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the 1993 Registration Statement.
     
    10.10 Duke Realty Services Limited Partnership 1993 Stock Option Plan is
          incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the 1993
          Registration Statement.

    10.11 Acquisition Option Agreement relating to certain properties not
          contributed to the Operating Partnership by Duke Associates (the
          "Excluded Properties") is incorporated herein by reference to
          Exhibit 10.5 to the 1993 Registration Statement.

    10.12 Management Agreement relating to the Excluded Properties is
          incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the 1993 
          Registration Statement.

    10.13 Indemnification Agreement is incorporated herein by reference to
          Exhibit 10.11 to the 1993 Registration Statement.

    10.14 1995 Key Employee Stock Option Plan is incorporated herein by
          reference to Exhibit 10.13 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for
          the year ended December 31, 1995.

    10.15 1995 Dividend Increase Unit Plan is incorporated herein by reference
          to Exhibit 10.14 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
          ended December 31, 1995.

    10.16 1995 Shareholder Value Plan is incorporated herein by reference to
          Exhibit 10.15 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
          December 31, 1995.

    10.17 1998 Shareholder Rights Agreement is incorporated herein by reference
          to Exhibit 7.1 to the Form 8-K dated July 31, 1998.
    
    10.18 1998 Duke Realty Severance Pay Plan.

    11.1  Statement of Computation of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

    11.2  Statement of Computation of Earnings to Debt Service.

     21.  List of Subsidiaries of Registrant.
                                     - 69 -
     
     
     23.  Consent of KPMG LLP.
     
     24.  Executed powers of attorney of certain directors.
     
     27.  Financial Data Schedule (EDGAR filing only)
     
     99.1 Selected Quarterly Financial Information
     
     The Company will furnish to any security holder, upon written request,
     copies of any exhibit incorporated by reference, for a fee of 15 cents
     per  page,  to  cover  the costs of furnishing the  exhibits.  Written
     request  should  include a representation that the person  making  the
     request was the beneficial owner of securities entitled to vote at the
     1998 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
     
(B)  REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     The Company filed Form 8-K on October 21, 1998, to file exhibits in
     connection with the issuance of shares of common stock.
     
     The  Company filed Form 8-K on November 13, 1998, to file exhibits in
     connection with the issuance of shares of common stock.
     
     The  Company  filed  Form  8-K on November 19,  1998,  to file exhibits in
     connection with the issuance of Preferred Series D Shares.
     
     The  Company  filed  Form  8-K on November 25,  1998,  to file exhibits in
     connection with the issuance of shares of common stock.
     
                                     - 70 -
                                   SIGNATURES
                                        
     Pursuant  to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
     Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be
     signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
     
                                             DUKE REALTY INVESTMENTS, INC.
     
     
          March 30, 1999         By:  /s/  Thomas L. Hefner
                                    --------------------------------
                                         Thomas L. Hefner
                                         Chairman of the Board,
                                         President and Chief Executive Officer
     
     
                                  By:  /s/ Darell E. Zink, Jr.
                                     -------------------------------
                                         Darell E. Zink, Jr.
                                         Executive Vice President and
                                          Chief Financial Officer
                                          (Principal Financial Officer)
     

                                  By:  /s/ Dennis D. Oklak
                                     -------------------------------
                                         Dennis D. Oklak
                                         Executive Vice President and
                                          Chief Administrative Officer
                                          (Principal Accounting Officer)
    
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
     this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf
     of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
     
          Signature                Date                Title
          ---------                ----                -----
     
     /s/ Thomas L. Hefner *       3/30/99         Chairman of the Board,
     -----------------------                       President and Chief Executive
     Thomas L. Hefner                              Officer and Director
     
     /s/ Darell E. Zink, Jr. *    3/30/99         Executive Vice President
     -----------------------                        and Chief Financial
     Darell E. Zink, Jr.                            Officer and Director
     
     /s/ Dennis D. Oklak *        3/30/99         Executive Vice President and
     -----------------------                       Chief Administrative
     Dennis D. Oklak
                                        
                                     - 71 -
     
     
      /s/ Geoffrey Button *       3/30/99         Director
     -----------------------
     Geoffrey Button
     
      /s/ John D. Peterson *      3/30/99         Director
     -----------------------
     John D. Peterson
     
      /s/ Ngaire E. Cuneo *       3/30/99         Director
     -----------------------
     Ngaire E. Cuneo
     
      /s/ L. Ben Lytle *          3/30/99         Director
     -----------------------
     L. Ben Lytle
     
      /s/ Jay J. Strauss  *       3/30/99         Director
     -----------------------
     Jay J. Strauss
     
      /s/ Howard L. Feinsand *    3/30/99         Director
     -----------------------
     Howard L. Feinsand
     
      /s/ James E. Rogers *        3/30/99        Director
     -----------------------
     James E. Rogers
     
     /s/ Daniel C. Staton*         3/30/99        Director
     -----------------------
     Daniel C. Staton
     
     /s/ John W. Wynne *           3/30/99        Director
     -----------------------
     John W. Wynne
     
     
     * By Dennis D. Oklak, Attorney-in-Fact   /s/
                                              --------------------
                                              Dennis D. Oklak
                                        
                                     - 71 -


