
10-K
w57832e10-k.txt
ANNUAL REPORT



================================================================================

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                              --------------------

                                    FORM 10-K

                  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001

                         Commission file number 1-12672

                           AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                              --------------------

Maryland                                                          77-0404318
(State or other jurisdiction of                               (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                               Identification No.)

                        2900 Eisenhower Avenue, Suite 300
                           Alexandria, Virginia 22314
           (Address of principal executive office, including zip code)

                                 (703) 329-6300
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

                              --------------------
           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:



        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding twelve (12) months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past ninety (90) days.

                               Yes [X]     No [ ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

The aggregate market value of the Registrant's Common Stock, par value $.01 per
share, held by nonaffiliates of the Registrant, as of March 1, 2002 was
$3,229,266,823.

The number of shares of the Registrant's Common Stock, par value $.01 per share,
outstanding as of March 1, 2002 was 68,780,976.

                       Documents Incorporated by Reference
                       -----------------------------------

Portions of AvalonBay Communities, Inc.'s Proxy Statement for the 2002 annual
meeting of stockholders, a definitive copy of which will be filed with the SEC
within 120 days after the year end of the year covered by this Form 10-K, are
incorporated by reference herein as portions of Part III of this Form 10-K.

================================================================================





                                






                                     PART I

This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section
27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934. Our actual results could differ materially from those set forth in each
forward-looking statement. Certain factors that might cause such a difference
are discussed in this report, including in the section entitled "Forward-Looking
Statements" on page 34 of this Form 10-K.

ITEM 1.         BUSINESS

General

AvalonBay is a Maryland corporation that has elected to be treated as a real
estate investment trust, or REIT, for federal income tax purposes. We focus on
the ownership and operation of upscale apartment communities (which generally
command among the highest rents in their submarkets) in high barrier-to-entry
markets of the United States. This is because we believe that, over the long
term, the limited new supply of upscale apartment homes in these markets will
result in larger increases in cash flows relative to other markets. These
barriers-to-entry generally include a difficult and lengthy entitlement process
with local jurisdictions and dense in-fill locations where zoned and entitled
land is in limited supply. Our markets are located in the Northeast,
Mid-Atlantic, Midwest, Pacific Northwest, and Northern and Southern California
regions of the United States. We believe that we have penetrated substantially
all of the high barrier-to-entry markets of the country.

As of March 1, 2002, we owned or held a direct or indirect ownership interest in
126 operating apartment communities containing 37,228 apartment homes in eleven
states and the District of Columbia, of which three communities containing 1,896
apartment homes were under redevelopment. In addition to these operating
communities, we also owned 15 communities under construction that will contain
3,963 apartment homes and rights to develop an additional 30 communities that,
if developed as expected, will contain an estimated 8,918 apartment homes. We
generally obtain ownership in an apartment community by developing a new
community on vacant land or by acquiring and either repositioning or
redeveloping an existing community. In selecting sites for development,
redevelopment or acquisition, we favor locations that are near expanding
employment centers and convenient to recreation areas, entertainment, shopping
and dining.

Our real estate investments consist of Established Communities, Other Stabilized
Communities, Development Communities and Redevelopment Communities. A
description of these segments and other related information can be found in Note
9 of the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Item 8 of this report.

Our principal operating objectives are to develop, own and operate, in our
selected markets, high quality, upscale communities that contain features and
amenities desired by prospective residents, and to provide our residents with
efficient and effective service. Our principal financial goals are to
successfully implement those operating objectives in a cost effective manner and
thereby increase long-term stockholder value by increasing operating cash flow
and Funds from Operations (as defined by the National Association of Real Estate
Investment Trusts). For a description of the meaning of Funds from Operations
and its use and limitation as an operating measure, see the discussion titled
"Funds from Operations" in Item 7 of this report. Our strategies and goals to
achieve these objectives include:

        -   generating consistent, sustained earnings growth at each community
            through increased revenue, by balancing high occupancy with premium
            pricing, and increased operating margins from operating expense
            management;

        -   investing selectively in new development, redevelopment and
            acquisition communities in markets with growing or high potential
            for demand and high barriers-to-entry;

        -   selling communities in markets where we seek to adjust our market
            penetration; and

        -   maintaining a conservative capital structure to provide continuous
            access to cost-effective capital.

We believe that we can generally implement these strategies best by developing,
redeveloping, acquiring and managing upscale assets in supply-constrained
markets while maintaining the financial discipline to ensure balance sheet
flexibility.






Development Strategy. We carefully select land for development and follow
established procedures that we believe minimize both the cost and the risks of
development. As one of the largest developers of multifamily apartment
communities in high barrier-to-entry markets of the United States, we identify
development opportunities through local market presence and access to local
market information achieved through our regional offices. In addition to our
principal executive offices in Alexandria, Virginia, we also maintain regional
offices and administrative or specialty offices in or near the following cities:

        -   Boston, Massachusetts;

        -   Chicago, Illinois;

        -   Newport Beach, California;

        -   New York, New York;

        -   San Jose, California;

        -   Wilton, Connecticut;

        -   Woodbridge, New Jersey; and

        -   Seattle, Washington

After selecting a target site, we usually negotiate for the right to acquire the
site either through an option or a long-term conditional contract. Options and
long-term conditional contracts generally enable us to acquire the target site
shortly before the start of construction, which reduces development-related
risks as well as preserves capital. After we acquire land, we generally shift
our focus to construction. Except for certain mid-rise and high-rise apartment
communities where we may elect to use third-party general contractors or
construction managers, we act as our own general contractor and construction
manager. We believe this enables us to achieve higher construction quality,
greater control over construction schedules and significant cost savings. Our
development and property management teams monitor construction progress to
ensure high quality workmanship and a smooth and timely transition into the
leasing and operational phase.

Redevelopment Strategy. When we undertake the redevelopment of a community, our
goal is to generally renovate and/or rebuild an existing community so that our
total investment is significantly below replacement cost and the community is
the highest quality apartment community or best rental value for an upscale
apartment community in its local area. We have established procedures to
minimize both the cost and risks of redevelopment. Our redevelopment teams,
which include key redevelopment, construction and property management personnel,
monitor redevelopment progress. We believe we achieve significant cost savings
by acting as our own general contractor. More importantly, this helps to ensure
high quality design and workmanship and a smooth and timely transition into the
lease-up and restabilization phase.

Disposition Strategy. To optimize our concentration of communities in selected
high barrier-to-entry markets, we sell assets that do not meet our long-term
investment criteria when market conditions are favorable and redeploy the
proceeds from those sales to develop and redevelop communities under
construction or reconstruction. This disposition strategy acts as a source of
capital because we are able to redeploy the net proceeds from our dispositions
in lieu of raising that amount of capital externally. When we decide to sell a
community, we solicit competing bids from unrelated parties for these individual
assets and consider the sales price and tax ramifications of each proposal. In
connection with this disposition program, we disposed of a total of seven
communities since January 1, 2001. The net proceeds from the sale of these
assets were approximately $239,000,000. However, we cannot provide assurance
that we will be able to continue our current disposition strategy or that assets
we identify for sale can be sold on terms that are satisfactory to us. For 2002,
we plan to significantly curtail disposition activity in response to the current
capital and real estate markets.

Acquisition Strategy. Our core competencies in development and redevelopment
discussed above allow us to be selective in the acquisitions we target. Between
January 1, 2001 and March 1, 2002, we acquired three communities containing 995
apartment homes. These communities were acquired in connection with a forward
purchase contract agreed to in 1997. This expansion is consistent with our
strategy to achieve long-term earnings growth by providing a high quality
platform for expansion while also providing additional economic and geographic
diversity. The acquisition of these presale communities was designed to achieve
rapid penetration into markets that are generally





supply constrained and in which we had no significant presence. We have one
presale commitment provided for under a separate agreement which is expected to
close in the second quarter of 2002.

Property Management Strategy. We intend to increase operating income through
innovative, proactive property management that will result in higher revenue
with controlled operating expenses from communities.

Our principle strategies to maximize revenue include:

        -   strong focus on resident satisfaction;

        -   staggering lease terms based on vacancy exposure by apartment type,
            so that lease expirations are better matched to each community's
            traffic patterns;

        -   increasing rents as market conditions permit;

        -   managing community occupancy for optimal rental revenue levels; and

        -   applying new technology to optimize revenue from each community.

Controlling operating expenses is another way in which we intend to increase
earnings growth. Growth in our portfolio and the resulting increase in revenue
allows for fixed operating costs to be spread over a larger volume of revenue,
thereby increasing operating margins. We aggressively pursue real estate tax
appeals and control operating expenses as follows:

        -   record invoices on-site to ensure careful monitoring of budgeted
            versus actual expenses;

        -   purchase supplies in bulk where possible;

        -   bid third-party contracts on a volume basis;

        -   strive to retain residents through high levels of service in order
            to eliminate the cost of preparing an apartment home for a new
            resident and to reduce marketing and vacant apartment utility costs;

        -   perform turnover work in-house or hire third-parties, generally
            depending upon the least costly alternative; and

        -   undertake preventive maintenance regularly to maximize resident
            satisfaction and property and equipment life.

On-site property management teams receive bonuses based largely upon the net
operating income produced at their respective communities. We are also pursuing
ancillary services which could provide additional revenue sources. On a limited
basis, we also manage properties for third parties, believing that doing so will
provide information about new markets or provide an acquisition opportunity,
thereby enhancing opportunities for growth.

Technology Strategy. We believe that an innovative management information system
infrastructure will be an important element in managing our future growth. This
is because timely and accurate collection of financial and resident profile data
will enable us to maximize revenue through careful leasing decisions and
financial management. We currently employ a company-wide intranet using a
digital network with high-speed digital lines. This network connects all of our
communities and offices to central servers in Alexandria, Virginia, providing
access to our associates and to AvalonBay's corporate information throughout the
country from all locations.

We have invested in five technology companies in the belief that the development
and application of their technology and services will improve the operating
performance of our real estate holdings. Our most significant technology
investment is in Realeum, Inc. Realeum is engaged in the development of an
on-site property management system and leasing automation system to enable
management to capture, review and analyze data to a greater extent than is
possible using existing commercial software. To help monitor this investment,
Thomas J. Sargeant, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, is
a director of Realeum. We are also a member of Constellation Real Technologies
LLC, an entity formed by a number of real estate investment trusts and real
estate operating companies for the purpose of investing in multi-sector real
estate technology opportunities. Our original commitment to Constellation was
$4,000,000 and we have contributed $959,000 to date. Constellation has proposed
a reduction in the aggregate amount of capital commitments from its members. If
that proposal is accepted, our revised commitment would fall to $2,600,000. The
aggregate carrying value of all of our technology investments, including Realeum
and Constellation, at March 1, 2002 was $4,800,000.





Financing Strategy. We have consistently maintained, and intend to continue to
maintain, a conservative capital structure, largely comprised of common equity.
At December 31, 2001, our debt-to-total market capitalization (i.e., the
aggregate of the market value of common stock, the liquidation preference of
preferred stock and the principle amount of debt) was 37.1%, and our permanent
long-term floating rate debt, not including borrowings under the unsecured
credit facility, was only 1.2% of total market capitalization.

Before planned construction or reconstruction activity begins, we intend to
arrange adequate capital sources to complete such undertakings, although we
cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such financing. During 2001,
substantially all of our construction and reconstruction activities were funded
by issuance of unsecured debt securities, asset sales, through nontaxable
like-kind exchanges, and retained operating cash. In the event that financing
cannot be obtained, we may have to abandon planned development activities,
write-off associated pursuit costs and/or forego reconstruction activity. In
such instances, we will not realize the increased revenues and earnings that we
expected from such pursuits, and the related write-off of costs will increase
current period expenses.

We estimate that a portion of our short-term liquidity needs will be met from
retained operating cash and borrowings under our $500,000,000 variable rate
unsecured credit facility. At March 1, 2002, zero was outstanding, $85,820,000
was used to provide letters of credit and $414,180,000 was available for
borrowing under the unsecured credit facility.

If required, to meet the balance of our liquidity needs we will need to arrange
additional capacity under our existing unsecured credit facility, sell
additional existing communities and/or issue additional debt or equity
securities. While we believe we have the financial position to expand our
short-term credit capacity and access the capital markets as needed, we cannot
assure you that we will be successful in completing these arrangements, sales or
offerings. The failure to complete these transactions on a cost-effective basis
could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial
condition, including the abandonment of deferred development costs and a
resultant charge to earnings.

Inflation and Tax Matters

Substantially all of our leases are for a term of one year or less, which may
enable us to realize increased rents upon renewal of existing leases or the
beginning of new leases. Such short-term leases generally minimize the risk to
us of the adverse effects of inflation, although as a general rule these leases
permit residents to leave at the end of the lease term without penalty. Our
current policy is generally to permit residents to terminate leases upon an
agreed advance written notice and a lease termination payment, as provided for
in the resident's lease. Short-term leases combined with relatively consistent
demand have allowed rents, and therefore cash flow from the portfolio, to
provide an attractive inflation hedge.

We filed an election with our initial federal income tax return to be taxed as a
REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and intend to maintain
our qualification as a REIT in the future. As a qualified REIT, with limited
exceptions, we will not be taxed under federal and certain state income tax laws
at the corporate level on our net income to the extent net income is distributed
to our stockholders. We expect to make sufficient distributions to avoid income
tax at the corporate level.

Environmental Matters

Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and
regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be
required, in many instances regardless of knowledge or responsibility, to
investigate and remediate the effects of hazardous or toxic substances or
petroleum product releases at such property. The owner or operator may be held
liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage and for
investigation and remediation costs incurred by such parties in connection with
the contamination, which may be substantial. The presence of such substances, or
the failure to properly remediate the contamination, may adversely affect the
owner's ability to borrow against, sell or rent such property. In addition, some
environmental





laws create a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for
damages and costs it incurs in connection with the contamination.

Certain federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances govern the
removal, encapsulation or disturbance of asbestos-containing materials, or ACMs,
when such materials are in poor condition or in the event of construction,
remodeling, renovation or demolition of a building. Such laws may impose
liability for release of ACMs and may provide for third parties to seek recovery
from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury associated with
ACMs. In connection with our ownership and operation of apartment communities,
we potentially may be liable for such costs. We are not aware that any ACMs were
used in connection with the construction of the communities developed by us.
However, we are aware that ACMs were used in connection with the construction of
certain communities acquired by us. We do not anticipate that we will incur any
material liabilities in connection with the presence of ACMs at these
communities. We currently have an operations and maintenance program for ACMs at
each of the communities at which ACMs have been detected.

When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold
growth may occur, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or
is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds may produce toxins or
irritants. Concern about indoor exposure to mold has been increasing as exposure
to mold may cause a variety of health effects and symptoms, including allergic
or other reactions. As a result, the presence of significant mold at a community
owned by us could require us to undertake a costly remediation program to
contain or remove the mold from the affected community. In addition, the
presence of significant mold could expose us to liability from residents and
others if property damage or health concerns arise.

We are also aware that certain communities have lead paint and we are
undertaking or intend to undertake appropriate remediation.

All of our stabilized operating communities, and all of the communities that we
are currently developing or redeveloping, have been subjected to at least a
Phase I or similar environmental assessment which generally does not involve
invasive techniques such as soil or ground water sampling. These assessments
have not revealed any environmental conditions that we believe will have a
material adverse effect on our business, assets, financial condition or results
of operations. We are not aware of any other environmental conditions which
would have such a material adverse effect.

However, we are aware that the migration of contamination from an upgradient
landowner near a community owned by us (Avalon at Silicon Valley, formerly known
as Toscana) has affected the groundwater there. The upgradient landowner is
undertaking remedial response actions and a ground water treatment system has
been installed. We expect that the upgradient landowner will take all necessary
remediation actions and ensure the ongoing operation and maintenance of the
ground water treatment system. The upgradient landowner has also provided an
indemnity that runs to current and future owners of the property and upon which
we may be able to rely if environmental liability arises from the groundwater
contamination.

Additionally, prior to 1994, we had occasionally been involved in developing,
managing, leasing and operating various properties for third parties.
Consequently, we may be considered to have been an operator of such properties
and, therefore, potentially liable for removal or remediation costs or other
potential costs which could relate to hazardous or toxic substances. We are not
aware of any material environmental liabilities with respect to properties that
we managed or developed for such third parties.





We cannot provide assurance that:

        -   the environmental assessments identified all potential environmental
            liabilities;

        -   no prior owner created any material environmental condition not
            known to us or the consultants who prepared the assessments;

        -   no environmental liabilities developed since such environmental
            assessments were prepared;

        -   the condition of land or operations in the vicinity of our
            communities, such as the presence of underground storage tanks, will
            not affect the environmental condition of such communities;

        -   future uses or conditions, including, without limitation, changes in
            applicable environmental laws and regulations, will not result in
            the imposition of environmental liability; or

        -   no environmental liabilities will develop at communities that have
            been sold pursuant to our disposition strategy for which we may have
            liability.

ITEM 2.         COMMUNITIES

Our real estate investments consist of current operating apartment communities,
communities in various stages of development, and land or land options held for
development. The following is a description of each category:

Current Communities are categorized as Established, Other Stabilized, Lease-Up,
or Redevelopment according to the following:

    -   Established Communities (also known as Same Store Communities) are
        communities where a comparison of operating results from the prior year
        to the current year is meaningful, as these communities were owned and
        had stabilized operating costs as of the beginning of the prior year. We
        determine which of our communities fall into the Established Communities
        category annually on January 1 of each year and maintain that
        classification throughout the year. For the year 2001, the Established
        Communities were communities that had stabilized operating costs as of
        January 1, 2000.

    -   Other Stabilized Communities are all other completed communities that
        have stabilized occupancy and are not undergoing or planning
        redevelopment activities. We consider a community to have stabilized
        occupancy at the earlier of (i) attainment of 95% occupancy or (ii) the
        one-year anniversary of completion of development or redevelopment. For
        the year 2001, Other Stabilized Communities therefore include
        communities that were either acquired or achieved stabilization after
        January 1, 2000 and that were not undergoing or planning redevelopment
        activities.

    -   Lease-Up Communities are communities where construction has been
        complete for less than one year and where occupancy has not reached 95%.

    -   Redevelopment Communities are communities where substantial
        redevelopment is in progress or is planned to take place during the
        current year. Redevelopment is considered substantial when capital
        invested during the reconstruction effort exceeds the lesser of
        $5,000,000 or 10% of the community's acquisition cost.

Development Communities are communities that are under construction and for
which a final certificate of occupancy has not been received. These communities
may be partially complete and operating.

Development Rights are development opportunities in the early phase of the
development process for which we have an option to acquire land, a leasehold
interest, for which we are the buyer under a long-term conditional contract to
purchase land or where we own land to develop a new community. We capitalize all
related pre-development costs incurred in pursuit of these new developments.





As of December 31, 2001, our communities were classified as follows:





Our holdings under each of the above categories are discussed on the following
pages.

Current Communities

The Current Communities are primarily garden-style apartment communities
consisting of two and three-story buildings in landscaped settings. The Current
Communities, as of March 1, 2002, include 100 garden-style, 15 high-rise and 11
mid-rise apartment communities. The Current Communities offer many attractive
amenities including some or all of the following:

        -   vaulted ceilings;

        -   lofts;

        -   fireplaces;

        -   patios/decks; and

        -   modern appliances.

Other features at various communities may include:

        -   swimming pools;

        -   fitness centers;

        -   tennis courts; and

        -   business centers.


We also have an extensive and ongoing maintenance program to keep all
communities and apartment homes substantially free of deferred maintenance and,
where vacant, available for immediate occupancy. We believe that





the aesthetic appeal of our communities and a service oriented property
management team focused on the specific needs of residents enhances market
appeal to discriminating residents. We believe this will ultimately achieve
higher rental rates and occupancy levels while minimizing resident turnover and
operating expenses. These Current Communities are located in the following
geographic markets:




We manage and operate all of the Current Communities. During the year ended
December 31, 2001, we completed construction of 1,656 apartment homes in six
communities for a total cost of $274,000,000. The average age of the Current
Communities, on a weighted average basis according to number of apartment homes,
is 6.9 years.





Of the Current Communities, as of March 1, 2002, we own:

        -   a fee simple, or absolute, ownership interest in 103 operating
            communities, one of which is on land subject to a 149 year land
            lease;

        -   a general partnership interest in four partnerships that each own a
            fee simple interest in an operating community;

        -   a general partnership interest in four partnerships structured as
            "DownREITs," as described more fully below, that own an aggregate of
            17 communities;

        -   a 100% interest in a senior participating mortgage note secured by
            one community, which allows us to share in part of the rental income
            or resale proceeds of the community; and

        -   a membership interest in a limited liability company that holds a
            fee simple interest in one Redevelopment community.

We also hold a fee simple ownership interest in eleven of the Development
Communities and a membership interest in a limited liability company that holds
a fee simple interest in one Development Community.

In each of the four partnerships structured as DownREITs, either we or one of
our wholly-owned subsidiaries is the general partner, and there are one or more
limited partners whose interest in the partnership is represented by units of
limited partnership interest. For each DownREIT partnership, limited partners
are entitled to receive distributions before any distribution is made to the
general partner. Although the partnership agreements for each of the DownREITs
are different, generally the distributions paid to the holders of units of
limited partnership interests approximate the current AvalonBay common stock
dividend amount. Each DownREIT partnership has been structured so that it is
unlikely the limited partners will be entitled to a distribution greater than
the initial distribution provided for in the partnership agreement. The holders
of units of limited partnership interest have the right to present each unit of
limited partnership interest for redemption for cash equal to the fair market
value of a share of our common stock on the date of redemption. In lieu of cash,
we may elect to acquire any unit presented for redemption for one share of our
common stock. As of December 31, 2001, there were 905,946 units outstanding. The
DownREIT partnerships are consolidated for financial reporting purposes.






                 PROFILE OF CURRENT AND DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITIES
             (Dollars in thousands, except per apartment home data)







                 PROFILE OF CURRENT AND DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITIES
             (Dollars in thousands, except per apartment home data)





                 PROFILE OF CURRENT AND DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITIES
             (Dollars in thousands, except per apartment home data)





                 PROFILE OF CURRENT AND DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITIES
             (Dollars in thousands, except per apartment home data)



(1) For the purpose of this table, Current Communities excludes communities held
    by unconsolidated real estate joint ventures.

(2) Represents community which was under redevelopment during the year,
    resulting in lower average economic occupancy and average rental rate per
    square foot for the year.

(3) Represents community that completed development or was purchased during the
    year, which could result in lower average economic occupancy and average
    rental rate per square foot for the year.

(4) Represents the average rental revenue per occupied apartment home.

(5) Costs are presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting
    principles. For current Development Communities, cost represents total costs
    incurred through December 31, 2001.








    FEATURES AND RECREATIONAL AMENITIES - CURRENT AND DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITIES





    FEATURES AND RECREATIONAL AMENITIES - CURRENT AND DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITIES





    FEATURES AND RECREATIONAL AMENITIES - CURRENT AND DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITIES







    FEATURES AND RECREATIONAL AMENITIES - CURRENT AND DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITIES




    FEATURES AND RECREATIONAL AMENITIES - CURRENT AND DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITIES
                                  (CONTINUED)









    FEATURES AND RECREATIONAL AMENITIES - CURRENT AND DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITIES
                                  (CONTINUED)





    FEATURES AND RECREATIONAL AMENITIES - CURRENT AND DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITIES
                                  (CONTINUED)







    FEATURES AND RECREATIONAL AMENITIES - CURRENT AND DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITIES
                                  (CONTINUED)



(1) For the purpose of this table, Current Communities excludes communities
    held by unconsolidated real estate joint ventures.



Development Communities

As of March 1, 2002, we had 15 Development Communities under construction. We
expect these Development Communities, when completed, to add a total of 3,963
apartment homes to our portfolio for a total capitalized cost, including land
acquisition costs, of approximately $750,300,000. Statements regarding the
future development or performance of the Development Communities are
forward-looking statements. We cannot assure you that:

        -   we will complete the Development Communities;

        -   our budgeted costs or estimates of occupancy rates will be realized;

        -   our schedule of leasing start dates or construction completion dates
            will be achieved; or

        -  future developments will realize returns comparable to our past
           developments.

You should carefully review the discussion under "Risks of Development and
Redevelopment" included elsewhere in this Item 2.





The following table presents a summary of the Development Communities. We hold a
direct or indirect fee simple ownership interest in these communities except
where noted.




(1)  Total budgeted cost includes all capitalized costs projected to be incurred
     to develop the respective Development Community, including land acquisition
     costs, construction costs, real estate taxes, capitalized interest and loan
     fees, permits, professional fees, allocated development overhead and other
     regulatory fees determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting
     principles.

(2)  Future initial occupancy dates are estimates.

(3)  Stabilized operations is defined as the first full quarter of 95% or
     greater occupancy after completion of construction.

(4)  The land for this community is currently owned by a limited partnership in
     which we are a majority partner. It is currently anticipated that the land
     seller will retain a minority limited partner interest. The budgeted cost
     reflected above excludes construction and management fees due to AvalonBay.

(5)  The total budgeted cost for this community excludes approximately $4
     million of proceeds that the Company estimates it will receive upon a sale
     of transferable development rights associated with the development of the
     community. These rights do not become transferable until construction
     completion and there can be no assurance that the projected amount of
     proceeds will be achieved.





Redevelopment Communities

As of March 1, 2002, we had three communities under redevelopment. We expect the
total budgeted cost to complete these Redevelopment Communities, including the
cost of acquisition and redevelopment, to be approximately $290,800,000, of
which approximately $64,100,000 is the additional capital invested or expected
to be invested above the original purchase cost. Statements regarding the future
redevelopment or performance of the Redevelopment Communities are
forward-looking statements. We have found that the cost to redevelop an existing
apartment community is more difficult to budget and estimate than the cost to
develop a new community. Accordingly, we expect that actual costs may vary from
our budget by a wider range than for a new development community. We cannot
assure you that we will meet our schedules for reconstruction completion, or
that we will meet our budgeted costs, either individually or in the aggregate.
See the discussion under "Risks of Development and Redevelopment" indcluded
elsewhere in this Item 2.

The following presents a summary of Redevelopment Communities:




(1)  Total budgeted cost includes all capitalized costs projected to be incurred
     to redevelop the respective Redevelopment Community, including costs to
     acquire the community, reconstruction costs, real estate taxes, capitalized
     interest and loan fees, permits, professional fees, allocated redevelopment
     overhead and other regulatory fees determined in accordance with GAAP.

(2)  Reconstruction completion dates are estimates.

(3)  Restabilized operations is defined as the first full quarter of 95% or
     greater occupancy after completion of reconstruction.

(4)  This community is being redeveloped in a joint venture structure with third
     party financing. Our portion of the equity contribution for this
     unconsolidated joint venture is projected to be $9.6 million.


Development Rights

As of March 1, 2002, we are considering the development of 30 new apartment
communities on land that is either owned by us, under contract, subject to a
leasehold interest, or for which we hold a purchase option. These Development
Rights range from those beginning design and architectural planning to those
that have completed site plans and drawings and can begin construction almost
immediately. We estimate that the successful completion of all of these
communities would ultimately add 8,918 upscale apartment homes to our portfolio.
At December 31, 2001, the cumulative capitalized costs incurred in pursuit of
the 30 Development Rights was approximately $29,800,000, net of land acquisition
costs associated with nine of the Development Rights. Substantially all of these
apartment homes will offer features like those offered by the communities we
currently own.

We generally hold Development Rights through options to acquire land. The
properties comprising the Development Rights are in different stages of the due
diligence and regulatory approval process. The decisions as to which of the
Development Rights to pursue, if any, or to continue to pursue once an
investment in a Development Right is made, are business judgments that we make
after we perform financial, demographic and other analyses. Finally, we
currently intend to limit the percentage of debt used to finance new
developments in order to maintain our general historical practice with respect
to the proportion of debt in our capital structure. Therefore, other financing
alternatives may be required to finance the development of those Development
Rights scheduled to start construction after January 1, 2002. Although the
development of any particular Development Right cannot be





assured, we believe that the Development Rights, in the aggregate, present
attractive potential opportunities for future development and growth of our
long-term stockholder value.

Statements regarding the future development of the Development Rights are
forward-looking statements. We cannot assure you that:

        -   we will succeed in obtaining zoning and other necessary governmental
            approvals or the financing required to develop these communities, or
            that we will decide to develop any particular community; or

        -   if we undertake construction of any particular community, that we
            will complete construction at the total budgeted cost assumed in the
            financial projections below.

The following presents a summary of the 30 Development Rights we are currently
pursuing:




(1)  This develoment right is owned by a DownREIT partnership. The partnership
     owns the land, but construction has not yet begun.

(2)  Land is owned, but construction has not begun.





Risks of Development and Redevelopment

We intend to continue to pursue the development and redevelopment of apartment
home communities. Our development and redevelopment activities may be exposed to
the following:

        -   we may abandon opportunities we have already begun to explore based
            on further review of, or changes in, financial, demographic,
            environmental or other factors;

        -   we may encounter liquidity constraints, including the unavailability
            of financing on favorable terms for the development or redevelopment
            of a community;

        -   we may be unable to obtain, or we may experience delays in
            obtaining, all necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy, and
            other required governmental permits and authorizations;

        -   we may incur construction or reconstruction costs for a community
            that exceed our original estimates due to increased materials, labor
            or other expenses, which could make completion or redevelopment of
            the community uneconomical;

        -   occupancy rates and rents at a newly completed or redevelopment
            community may fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including
            market and general economic conditions, and may not be sufficient to
            make the community profitable; and

        -   we may be unable to complete construction and lease-up on schedule,
            resulting in increased debt service expense and construction costs.

The occurrence of any of the events described above could adversely affect our
ability to achieve our projected yields on communities under development or
redevelopment and could affect our payment of distributions to our stockholders.

Construction costs are projected by us based on market conditions prevailing in
the community's market at the time our budgets are prepared and reflect changes
to those market conditions that we anticipated at that time. Although we attempt
to anticipate changes in market conditions, we cannot predict with certainty
what those changes will be. Construction costs have been increasing and, for
some of our Development Communities, the total construction costs have been or
are expected to be higher than the original budget. Total budgeted cost includes
all capitalized costs projected to be incurred to develop the respective
Development or Redevelopment Community, including:

        -   land and/or property acquisition costs;

        -   construction or reconstruction costs;

        -   real estate taxes;

        -   capitalized interest;

        -   loan fees;

        -   permits;

        -   professional fees;

        -   allocated development or redevelopment overhead; and

        -   other regulatory fees determined in accordance with generally
            accepted accounting principles.

We believe that, in the aggregate, we will still achieve our targeted projected
yield (i.e., return on invested capital) for those communities experiencing
costs in excess of the original budget because of increases in prevailing market
rents. Costs to redevelop communities that have been acquired have, in some
cases, exceeded our original estimates and similar increases in costs may be
experienced in the future. We cannot assure you that market rents in effect at
the time new development communities or redeveloped communities complete
lease-up will be sufficient to fully offset the effects of any increased
construction or reconstruction costs.





Capitalized Interest

In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we capitalize
interest expense during construction or reconstruction until a community or
portion of a community obtains a certificate of occupancy. Thereafter, the
interest allocated to that community or portion of a community is expensed.
Capitalized interest during the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000 totaled
$27,635,000 and $18,328,000, respectively.

Acquisition Activities and Other Recent Developments

Acquisitions of Existing Communities. We have acquired three communities
containing 995 apartment homes since January 1, 2001 for an acquisition price of
approximately $129,300,000. Each of these communities was acquired pursuant to a
forward purchase contract agreed to in 1997 with an unaffiliated party.

One DownREIT partnership was formed since January 1, 2001 in conjunction with
the acquisition of land by that partnership.

Sales of Existing Communities. We seek to increase our geographical
concentration in selected high barrier-to-entry markets where we believe we can:

        -   apply sufficient market and management presence to enhance revenue
            growth;

        -   reduce operating expenses; and

        -   leverage management talent.

To achieve this increased concentration, we sell assets that do not meet our
long term investment criteria and redeploy the proceeds from those sales to
develop and redevelop communities. Pending such redeployment, we will generally
use the proceeds from the sale of these communities to reduce amounts
outstanding under our variable rate unsecured credit facility. On occasion, we
will set aside the proceeds from the sale of communities into a cash escrow
account to facilitate a nontaxable like-kind exchange transaction. Accordingly,
we sold seven communities, totaling 2,551 apartment homes, since January 1,
2001. Net proceeds from the sales of these assets totaled $230,400,000.





Land Acquisitions and Leases for New Developments. We carefully select land for
development and follow established procedures that we believe minimize both the
cost and the risks of development. During 2001, we acquired the following land
parcels for future development:




(1)  Total budgeted cost includes all capitalized costs projected to be incurred
     to develop the respective Development Community, including land acquisition
     costs, construction costs, real estate taxes, capitalized interest and loan
     fees, permits, professional fees allocated development overhead and other
     regulatory fees determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting
     principles.

(2)  Future construction start and completion dates are estimates.

(3)  In October 2001, the Company annnounced that it was deferring development
     of Avalon Madison until economic conditions improve.

Natural Disasters

Many of our West Coast communities are located in the general vicinity of active
earthquake faults. A large concentration of AvalonBay communities lies near, and
thus is susceptible to, the major fault lines in the San Francisco Bay Area,
including the San Andreas fault and Hayward fault. We cannot assure you that an
earthquake would not cause damage or losses greater than insured levels.

In November 2001, we renewed our earthquake insurance. For any single
occurrence, and in the aggregate, we have in place with respect to communities
located in California, $67,000,000 of coverage with a deductible per building
equal to five percent of the value of that building. The five percent deductible
is subject to a minimum of $100,000 per occurrence. Earthquake coverage outside
of California, with the exception of Washington State, is subject to a
$100,000,000 limit and a $100,000 deductible per location. In addition, up to an
aggregate of $2,000,000, the next $400,000 of loss per occurrence will be
treated as an additional deductible. Coverage in Washington State is subject to
a $65,000,000 limit, with the same deductible. Our general liability and
property insurance program provides coverage for public liability and fire
damage. In the event an uninsured disaster or a loss in excess of insured limits
were to occur, we could lose our capital invested in the affected community, as
well as anticipated future revenue from that community. We would also continue
to be obligated to repay any mortgage indebtedness or other obligations related
to the community. Any such loss could materially and adversely affect our
business and our financial condition and results of operations.

Americans with Disabilities Act

The apartment communities we own and any apartment communities that we acquire
must comply with Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act to the extent
that such properties are "public accommodations" and/or "commercial facilities"
as defined by the Americans with Disabilities Act. Compliance with the Americans
with Disabilities Act requirements could require removal of structural barriers
to handicapped access in certain public areas of our properties





where such removal is readily achievable. The Americans with Disabilities Act
does not, however, consider residential properties, such as apartment
communities, to be public accommodations or commercial facilities, except to the
extent portions of such facilities, such as leasing offices, are open to the
public. We believe our properties comply in all material respects with all
present requirements under the Americans with Disabilities Act and applicable
state laws. Noncompliance could result in imposition of fines or an award of
damages to private litigants.

ITEM 3.         LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

AvalonBay is from time to time subject to claims and administrative proceedings
arising in the ordinary course of business. Some of these claims and proceedings
are expected to be covered by liability insurance. The following matter, for
which we believe we have meritorious defenses and are therefore vigorously
defending against, is not covered by liability insurance. However, outstanding
litigation matters, individually and in the aggregate, including the matter
described below, are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our
business or financial condition.

AvalonBay is currently involved in litigation with York Hunter Construction,
Inc. and National Union Fire Insurance Company. The action arises from our
October 1999 termination of York Hunter as construction manager under a contract
relating to construction of the Avalon Willow community in Mamaroneck, New York,
because of alleged failures and deficiencies by York Hunter and its
subcontractors in performing under the contract. York Hunter initiated the
litigation in October 1999 by filing a complaint against us and other defendants
claiming more than $15,000,000 in damages. We have filed counterclaims against
York Hunter seeking more than $9,000,000 in compensatory damages, including lost
rental income and costs to complete the community. We have also filed a claim
against National Union Fire Insurance, which furnished construction and
performance bonds to us on behalf of York Hunter. We believe that we have
meritorious defenses against all of York Hunter's claims and are vigorously
contesting those claims. We also intend to pursue our counterclaims against York
Hunter and National Union Fire Insurance aggressively. The litigation is pending
in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, County of Westchester. A trial
date has not been set.

ITEM 4.         SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF STOCKHOLDERS

No matter was submitted to a vote of our security holders during the fourth
quarter of 2001.






                                   PART II

ITEM 5.   MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
          MATTERS

Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and the
Pacific Exchange (PCX) under the ticker symbol AVB. The following table sets
forth the quarterly high and low sales prices per share of our common stock on
the NYSE for the years 2001 and 2000, as reported by the NYSE. On March 1,
2002 there were 617 holders of record of an aggregate of 68,780,976 shares of
our outstanding common stock. The number of holders does not include
individuals or entities who beneficially own shares but whose shares are held
of record by a broker or clearing agency, but does include each such broker or
clearing agency as one recordholder.





We expect to continue our policy of paying regular quarterly cash dividends.
However, dividend distributions will be declared at the discretion of the
Board of Directors and will depend on actual cash from operations, our
financial condition, capital requirements, the annual distribution
requirements under the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and other
factors as the Board of Directors may consider relevant. The Board of
Directors may modify our dividend policy from time to time.









ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The following table provides historical consolidated financial, operating and
other data for AvalonBay Communities, Inc. You should read the table with our
Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes included in this report.
Dollars in thousands, except per share information.











Notes to Selected Financial Data
- ---------------------------------



(1) Gross EBITDA represents earnings before interest, income taxes,
    depreciation and amortization, non-recurring items, gain on sale of
    communities and extraordinary items. Gross EBITDA is relevant to an
    understanding of the economics of AvalonBay because it is one indication
    of cash flow available from continuing operations to service fixed
    obligations. Gross EBITDA should not be considered as an alternative to
    operating income (as determined in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles, or "GAAP"), as an indicator of our operating
    performance, or to cash flows from operating activities (as determined in
    accordance with GAAP) as a measure of liquidity. Our calculation of gross
    EBITDA may not be comparable to gross EBITDA as calculated by other
    companies.

(2) We generally consider Funds from Operations, or FFO, to be an appropriate
    measure of our operating performance because it helps investors understand
    our ability to incur and service debt and to make capital expenditures. We
    believe that to gain a clear understanding of our operating results, FFO
    should be examined with net income as presented in the Consolidated
    Statements of Operations included elsewhere in this report. FFO is
    determined based on a definition adopted by the Board of Governors of the
    National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts(R) and is defined
    as:

           -   net income or loss computed in accordance with GAAP, except
               that excluded from net income or loss are gains or losses on
               sales of property and extraordinary (as defined by GAAP) gains
               and losses on debt restructuring;

           -   plus depreciation of real estate assets; and

           -   after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint
               ventures.






    FFO does not represent cash generated from operating activities in
    accordance with GAAP. Therefore it should not be considered as an
    alternative to net income as an indication of performance. FFO should also
    not be considered an alternative to net cash flows from operating
    activities, as determined by GAAP, or as a measure of liquidity.
    Additionally, it is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund
    cash needs. Further, FFO as calculated by other REITs may not be
    comparable to our calculation of FFO. Calculations for FFO are presented
    below:






(3) Current Communities consist of all communities other than those which are
    still under construction and have not received a final certificate of
    occupancy.







ITEM 7.   MANAGMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
          AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Forward-Looking Statements

This Form 10-K, including the footnotes to our Consolidated Financial
Statements which immediately follows, contains "forward-looking statements" as
that term is defined under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995. You can identify forward-looking statements by our use of the words
"believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "estimate," "assume," "project,"
and other similar expressions in this Form 10-K, that predict or indicate
future events and trends or that do not report historical matters. In
addition, information concerning the following are forward-looking statements:

      -    the timing and cost of completion of apartment communities under
           construction, reconstruction, development or redevelopment;

      -    the timing of lease-up and occupancy of apartment communities;

      -    the pursuit of land on which we are considering future development;

      -    cost, yield and earnings estimates; and

      -    the development of management information systems by companies in
           which we have an investment and our implementation and use of those
           systems.

We cannot assure the future results or outcome of the matters described in
these statements; rather, these statements merely reflect our current
expectations of the approximate outcomes of the matters discussed. You should
not rely on forward-looking statements because they involve known and unknown
risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are beyond our control.
These risks, uncertainties and other factors may cause our actual results,
performance or achievements to differ materially from the anticipated future
results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these
forward-looking statements. Some of the factors that could cause our actual
results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed
or implied by these forward-looking statements include, but are not limited
to, the following:

      -    we may fail to secure development opportunities due to an inability
           to reach agreements with third parties or to obtain desired zoning
           and other local approvals;

      -    we may abandon or defer development opportunities for a number of
           reasons, including changes in local market conditions which make
           development less desirable, increases in costs of development and
           increases in the cost of capital;

      -    construction costs of a community may exceed our original
           estimates;

      -    we may not complete construction and lease-up of communities under
           development or redevelopment on schedule, resulting in increased
           interest expense and construction costs and reduced rental
           revenues;

      -    occupancy rates and market rents may be adversely affected by local
           economic and market conditions which are beyond our control;

      -    financing may not be available on favorable terms or at all, and
           our cash flow from operations and access to cost effective capital
           may be insufficient for the development of our pipeline and could
           limit our pursuit of opportunities;

      -    our cash flow may be insufficient to meet required payments of
           principal and interest, and we may be unable to refinance existing
           indebtedness or the terms of such refinancing may not be as
           favorable as the terms of existing indebtedness;

      -    we may be unsuccessful in managing our current growth in the number
           of apartment communities; and






      -    software applications and ancillary services being developed by
           companies in which we have invested may be unsuccessful in
           achieving their business plans or unsuccessful in obtaining
           additional funding, which could lead to a partial or complete loss
           of our investment in these companies.

You should read our Consolidated Financial Statements and notes included in
this report in conjunction with the following discussion. These
forward-looking statements represent our estimates and assumptions only as of
the date of this report. We do not undertake to update these forward-looking
statements, and you should not rely upon them after the date of this report.

Business Description and Community Information

AvalonBay is a Maryland corporation that has elected to be treated as a real
estate investment trust, or REIT, for federal income tax purposes. We focus on
the ownership and operation of upscale apartment communities (which generally
command among the highest rents in their submarkets) in high barrier-to-entry
markets of the United States. This is because we believe that, long term, the
limited new supply of upscale apartment homes in these markets will result in
larger increases in cash flows relative to other markets. These
barriers-to-entry generally include a difficult and lengthy entitlement
process with local jurisdictions and dense in-fill locations where zoned and
entitled land is in limited supply. These markets are located in the
Northeast, Mid-Atlantic, Midwest, Pacific Northwest, and Northern and Southern
California regions of the United States.

We are a fully-integrated real estate organization with in-house expertise in
the following areas:

      -    development and redevelopment;

      -    construction and reconstruction;

      -    leasing and management;

      -    acquisition and disposition;

      -    financing;

      -    marketing; and

      -    information technologies.

We believe apartment communities present an attractive investment opportunity
compared to other real estate investments because a broad potential resident
base results in relatively stable demand during all phases of a real estate
cycle. With our expertise and in-house capabilities, we believe we are
well-positioned to continue to pursue opportunities to develop and acquire
upscale apartment homes in our target markets. Our ability to identify or
pursue attractive opportunities, however, is affected by capital market
conditions, including prevailing interest rates, and by the availability of
attractively priced opportunities. Given current capital market and real
estate market conditions, we are carefully considering the appropriate
allocation of capital investment among development and redevelopment
communities as well as the acquisition of established communities. We intend
to pursue these investments in markets where constraints to new supply exist
and where new household formations have out-paced multifamily permit activity
in recent years.

Our real estate investments consist primarily of current operating apartment
communities, communities in various stages of development, and development
rights (i.e., land or land options held for development). Our current
operating communities are further distinguished as Established, Other
Stabilized, and Redevelopment. A description of these categories and operating
performance information can be found in Note 9, "Segment Reporting," in our
Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report.






On December 31, 2001, we owned or had an ownership interest in these categories
as follows:











Results of Operations and Funds From Operations

A comparison of our operating results for the years 2001, 2000, and 1999
follows (dollars in thousands):











Net income available to common stockholders increases in 2001 and 2000 over
the prior years are primarily attributable to gain on sale of communities,
additional net operating income from newly developed and redeveloped
communities as well as growth in operating income from Established
Communities. Net operating income from newly developed and redeveloped
communities exceeded the corresponding cost of capital (primarily debt) used
to develop or redevelop these communities.

During each of the last three years, we have funded a portion of our
development and redevelopment activities through the sale of assets that did
not meet our long-term investment criteria. The short-term effect of a sale of
a community is that net operating income will be negatively impacted because
that community's contribution to net operating income has been eliminated and
the development or redevelopment community in which the proceeds from the sale
are being invested is not yet complete. There will also be less interest
expense than would otherwise be incurred as the proceeds from the sale of
communities are initially used to repay amounts outstanding on our unsecured
credit facility. We believe that, once stabilized, the net operating income
generated by the newly developed and redeveloped communities will be higher
than the net operating income from the assets sold.







Net operating income increases generated in 2001 and 2000 over the prior years
resulted from changes in the following categories:







These net operating income increases were largely due to the relatively high
occupancy and market rents experienced in 2000, which were carried into 2001.
As we begin to experience the full effects of the recession, we expect net
operating income from Established Communities to decline during the first half
of 2002, while total net operating income will increase modestly. If the
economy recovers as anticipated in the second half of 2002, we expect to
experience modest net operating income growth from Established Communities
during that period.

Rental income increases in 2001 and 2000 over the prior year are primarily due
to an increase in the weighted average monthly rental income per occupied
apartment home and an increase in the weighted average number of occupied
apartment homes.

    Overall Portfolio - The weighted average number of occupied apartment
    homes increased to 34,417 apartment homes for 2001 compared to 33,976
    apartment homes for 2000 and 33,726 in 1999. These changes are primarily
    the result of development, redevelopment and acquisition of new
    communities partially offset by (i) the sale of communities and (ii) for
    2001, occupancy declines related to the national recession and softening
    conditions in certain of our markets. The weighted average monthly revenue
    per occupied apartment home increased to $1,543 in 2001 compared to $1,402
    in 2000 and $1,242 in 1999. Monthly revenue per occupied apartment home
    and occupancy levels may decline in 2002 as our portfolio is affected by
    the national recession.

    Established Communities - Rental revenue increased $26,268,000 (6.6%) in
    2001 and $25,911,000 (8.9%) in 2000. The increase in 2001 is due to market
    conditions during the past year that allowed for higher average rents
    partially offset by lower economic occupancy levels. Economic occupancy
    takes into account the fact that apartment homes of different sizes and
    locations have different economic impacts on a community's gross revenue
    and measures the percentage impact on gross revenue that the vacant
    apartments would have if the community were otherwise fully leased at
    current market rents. For 2001, the weighted average monthly revenue per
    occupied apartment home increased $130 (9.1%) to $1,558 compared to $1,432
    for 2000. The average economic occupancy decreased from 97.6% in 2000 to
    95.4% for 2001.

Although most of our markets have been affected by the current recession, we
have observed the most volatility in market rents and occupancy in certain
Northern California sub-markets over the past two years, which accounts for
approximately 37.2% of current Established Community rental revenue. This
volatility in rents and occupancy was partially related to volatility in the
technology sector that comprises a significant portion of the Northern
California economy. While market rental rates increased substantially in 2000,
we have experienced a 22.0% decline in market rental rates for that region
during 2001. Economic occupancy decreased in the Northern California region,
from 97.8% for 2000 to 93.9% for 2001. We could see further declines in
occupancy and market rents as this market resets to more sustainable levels.
Also in 2001, we experienced greater volatility in occupancy related to our
corporate and furnished







apartment homes throughout our portfolio, partially due to reduced business
travel. Our exposure to these homes fell from a peak of approximately 7.0% to
approximately 4.5% of our current portfolio at year end.

Operating expenses, excluding property taxes increased primarily due to the
addition of newly developed, redeveloped and acquired apartment homes. In
2001, separation costs of $2,493,000 due to the departure of a senior
executive during the first quarter contributed to the increase for that year.
Maintenance, insurance and other costs associated with Development and
Redevelopment Communities go from being capitalized when the community is
under construction to expensed when and as homes within the community receive
a certificate of occupancy. Insurance expense has increased over the past two
years, particularly during 2001 as the insurance and reinsurance markets
deteriorated, resulting in higher insurance costs for the entire real estate
sector. We renewed our general liability policy on August 1, 2001 and our
property coverage on November 1, 2001. While the terms of our insurance
coverage has not materially changed, the level of our deductible and premium
costs increased significantly. We expect that our insurance costs will
increase in 2002 by approximately $9.2 million (of which $4 million is for the
primary layer of property coverage) including the cost of deductible
allocations, which now represents uninsured losses that previously would have
been covered by insurance. The remaining $5.2 million increase is for the
upper layers of property coverage and casualty coverage.

    For Established Communities, 2001 operating expenses, excluding property
    taxes and unallocated overhead expenses, increased $3,559,000 (4.8%) to
    $76,995,000 due to increases in insurance, utilities, marketing and office
    and administration expenses. During 2000, operating expenses increased
    $2,754,000 (4.7%) due to higher payroll, insurance, decorating and
    maintenance costs which were partially offset by lower utility and
    marketing costs.

Property taxes increased due to higher assessments and the addition of newly
developed, redeveloped or acquired apartment homes, partially offset by the
sale of communities. Property taxes on Development and Redevelopment
Communities are capitalized while the community is under construction. We
begin to expense these costs as homes within the community receive a
certificate of occupancy.

    For Established Communities, the increase in property taxes in 2001 of
    $969,000 was primarily due to higher assessments throughout all regions.
    The increase in 2000 was primarily due to an adjustment made in 1999 to
    eliminate accrued but unassessed taxes and payments made in 2000 to settle
    prior year assessments.

Interest expense increased in 2001 primarily due to the issuance of
$350,000,000 of unsecured notes during the second half of 2000 and the
issuance of $300,000,000 of unsecured notes in September 2001. The increase in
interest expense in 2000 compared to 1999 was due to the issuance of unsecured
notes, an increase in short term interest rates and a decrease in capitalized
interest. We expect to issue $200,000,000 or more of unsecured debt in 2002,
of which $100,000,000 will be used to refinance maturing unsecured debt.

Depreciation expense changes are primarily related to the timing of asset
sales, acquisitions and completion of development or redevelopment activities.
Depreciation expense increased $7,469,000 and $12,851,000 in 2001 and 2000,
respectively. We expect that depreciation expense will continue to increase
during 2002 as we anticipate a reduction in asset sales compared to prior
years.

General and administrative expense increased in 2001 primarily due to an
increase in office personnel and related payroll costs and compensation
expense of $784,000 related to the retirement of a senior executive.
Contributing to the increase in 2000, there was an increase in compensation
expense for a senior officer, whose salary was expensed in 2000 but
capitalized in 1999 while he served the company in a different capacity and
consulting costs related to services provided by a former senior officer.







Equity in income of unconsolidated joint ventures represents our share of net
income or loss from joint ventures. The decrease in 2001 related primarily to
our pro rata share of net losses from a technology investment accounted for
under the equity method as well as a valuation allowance of $934,000 for an
investment in a technology company accounted for under the cost method.

Interest income during 2001 increased due to higher average cash balances
invested. The decrease in interest income during 2000 related primarily to the
sale of the Fairlane Woods participating mortgage note in the fourth quarter of
1999.

Gain on sale of communities of $62,852,000, $40,779,000, and $47,093,000 were
realized in 2001, 2000, and 1999, respectively. These gains are the result of
our strategy to sell communities that do not meet our long-term strategic
objectives and redeploy the proceeds to current Development and Redevelopment
Communities. The amount of gains realized depend on many factors, including the
number of communities sold, the size and carrying value of those communities,
and the market conditions in the local area. In 2002, we expect to decrease our
disposition activity compared to recent years.

Funds from Operations

We consider Funds from Operations ("FFO") to be an appropriate measure of our
operating performance because it helps investors understand our ability to incur
and service debt and to make capital expenditures. We believe that to understand
our operating results, FFO should be examined with net income as presented in
the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income included
elsewhere in this report. FFO is determined in accordance with a definition
adopted by the Board of Governors of the National Association of Real Estate
Investment Trusts(R), and is defined as:

        -       net income or loss computed in accordance with generally
                accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), except that excluded
                from net income or loss are gains or losses on sales of property
                and extraordinary (as defined by GAAP) gains or losses on debt
                restructuring;
        -       plus depreciation of real estate assets; and
        -       after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint
                ventures.

FFO does not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance
with GAAP. Therefore it should not be considered an alternative to net income as
an indication of our performance. FFO should also not be considered an
alternative to net cash flows from operating activities, as determined by GAAP,
or as a measure of liquidity. Additionally, it is not necessarily indicative of
cash available to fund cash needs. Further, FFO as calculated by other REITs may
not be comparable to our calculation of FFO. The following is a reconciliation
of net income to FFO and a presentation of GAAP based cash flow metrics (dollars
in thousands):











Capitalization of Fixed Assets and Community Improvements

Our policy with respect to capital expenditures is generally to capitalize only
non-recurring expenditures. We capitalize improvements and upgrades only if the
item:

        -       exceeds $15,000;
        -       extends the useful life of the asset; and
        -       is not related to making an apartment home ready for the next
                resident.

Under this policy, virtually all capitalized costs are non-recurring, as
recurring make-ready costs are expensed as incurred. Recurring make-ready costs
include the following:

        -       carpet and appliance replacements;
        -       floor coverings;
        -       interior painting; and
        -       other redecorating costs.

We capitalize purchases of personal property, such as computers and furniture,
only if the item is a new addition and the item exceeds $2,500. We generally
expense purchases of personal property made for replacement purposes. For
Established and Other Stabilized Communities, we recorded non-revenue generating
capitalized expenditures of approximately $251 per apartment home in 2001 and
$225 per apartment home in 2000. The average maintenance expense, including
carpet and appliance replacements, related to these communities was $1,196 per
apartment home in 2001 and $1,145 in 2000. We anticipate that capitalized costs
per apartment home will gradually increase as the average age of our communities
increases.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Liquidity. The primary source of liquidity is our cash flows from operations.
Operating cash flows have historically been determined by:

        -       the number of apartment homes;

        -       rental rates;

        -       occupancy levels; and

        -       our expenses with respect to these apartment homes.


The timing, source and amount of cash flows provided by financing activities and
used in investing activities are sensitive to the capital markets environment,
particularly to changes in interest rates. Changes in the capital markets
environment affect our plans for undertaking construction and development as
well as acquisition activity.

Cash and cash equivalents totaled $72,986,000 on December 31, 2001, an increase
of $15,752,000 for the year. The following discussion relates to changes in cash
due to operating, investing and financing activities, which are presented in our
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows included in this report.

Operating Activities - Net cash provided by operating activities increased to
$308,723,000 in 2001 from $296,462,000 in 2000 primarily due to additional
operating income from newly developed and redeveloped communities as well as
growth in operating income from Established Communities, partially offset by the
loss of operating income from communities sold.








Investing Activities - Net cash used in investing activities of $259,391,000 in
2001 related to investments in assets through development and redevelopment of
apartment communities partially offset by proceeds from the sales of apartment
communities.

     During 2001, we invested $484,604,000 in the purchase and development of
     real estate.

     -    We began the development of nine new communities. These communities
          are expected to contain a total of 2,135 apartment homes upon
          completion, and the total investment, including land acquisition
          costs, is projected to be approximately $362,000,000. Also, we
          completed the development of six new communities containing a total of
          1,656 apartment homes for a total investment of $274,000,000.


     -    We acquired six land parcels during 2001 on which construction has not
          yet commenced. If developed in the manner expected, we expect that the
          six new communities developed on these parcels would contain a total
          of 1,615 apartment homes at an investment, including land acquisition
          costs of $52,110,000, of approximately $331,000,000. In addition, we
          continue to hold three parcels of land purchased prior to January 2001
          that if developed in the manner expected would contain three new
          communities with a total of 537 apartment homes. Total land held for
          future development, including carrying cost, totals $66,608,000.


     -    We completed the redevelopment of one community containing 294
          apartment homes during 2001 for a total investment in redevelopment
          (i.e. excluding acquisition costs) of $24,400,000.


     -    We acquired three communities, containing 995 apartment homes, for
          approximately $129,300,000. We acquired these communities in
          connection with a fixed price forward purchase agreement signed in
          1997 with an unaffiliated party.

     The development and redevelopment of communities involves risks that the
     investment will fail to perform in accordance with expectations. See "Risks
     of Development and Redevelopment" in Item 2 of this report for our
     discussion of these and other risks inherent in developing or redeveloping
     communities.

     We sold seven apartment communities during 2001 as we seek to optimize the
     level of our geographical concentration in selected high barrier-to-entry
     markets when market conditions are favorable. The net proceeds of
     $238,545,000 generated by these sales are being used to develop and
     redevelop communities currently under construction or reconstruction. We
     deposited the proceeds from two of these sales into a cash escrow account
     to facilitate a like-kind exchange transaction. The remaining proceeds were
     invested or used to reduce amounts outstanding under our variable rate
     unsecured credit facility until needed to fund development or redevelopment
     activities.

Financing Activities - Net cash used in financing activities totaled $33,580,000
for the year ended December 31, 2001, primarily due to dividends paid and the
redemption of our Series F and Series G Preferred Stock, partially offset by the
proceeds from the issuance of $300,000,000 of unsecured notes in September 2001.
See Note 3 "Notes Payable, Unsecured Notes and Credit Facility" and Note 4
"Stockholders Equity" in our Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional
information.

We regularly review our short and long-term liquidity needs, the adequacy of
Funds from Operations, as defined above, and other expected liquidity sources to
meet these needs. We believe our principal short-term liquidity needs are to
fund:

     -    normal recurring operating expenses;

     -    debt service payments;

     -    the distributions required with respect to preferred stock;









     -    the minimum dividend payments required to maintain our REIT
          qualification under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986;

     -    opportunities for the acquisition of improved property; and

     -    development and redevelopment activity in which we are currently
          engaged.

We anticipate that we can fully satisfy these needs from a combination of cash
flows provided by operating activities and capacity under the unsecured credit
facility.

One of our principal long-term liquidity needs is the repayment of medium and
long-term debt at the time at which such debt matures. For unsecured senior
notes, we anticipate that no significant portion of the principal of these notes
will be repaid prior to maturity. If we do not have funds on hand sufficient to
repay our indebtedness, it will be necessary for us to refinance this debt. This
refinancing may be accomplished by additional debt financing that is
collateralized by mortgages on individual communities or groups of communities,
by uncollateralized private or public debt offerings or by additional equity
offerings. We also anticipate having significant retained cash flow in each year
so that when a debt obligation matures, some or all of each maturity can be
satisfied from this retained cash. Although we believe we will have the capacity
to meet our long-term liquidity needs, we cannot assure you that additional debt
financing or debt or equity offerings will be available or, if available, that
they will be on terms we consider satisfactory.

Capital Resources. We intend to match the long-term nature of our real estate
assets with long-term cost effective capital to the extent permitted by
prevailing market conditions. Since January 1, 2000, external sources of debt
capital used to fund investment activities totaled $650,000,000, representing
issuances of ten year unsecured debt. During this same two year period, cash
flow from operating activities exceeded dividends paid by $216,000,000. We
expect both sources of capital to remain available to meet our capital needs for
the foreseeable future.

Variable Rate Unsecured Credit Facility

Our unsecured revolving credit facility is furnished by a consortium of banks
and provides $500,000,000 in short-term credit. Under the terms of the credit
facility, if the Company elects to increase the facility up to $650,000,000, the
consortium of banks cannot prohibit such an increase of the facility and the
increased lending commitment could be provided by one or more banks (from the
consortium or otherwise) to the extent they choose to commit to lend additional
funds. We pay participating banks an annual facility fee of $750,000 in equal
quarterly installments. The unsecured credit facility bears interest at varying
levels tied to the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) based on ratings levels
achieved on our unsecured notes and on a maturity schedule selected by us. The
current stated pricing is LIBOR plus 0.60% per annum (2.5% on March 1, 2002). A
competitive bid option is available for borrowings of up to $400,000,000. This
option allows banks that are part of the lender consortium to bid to provide us
loans at a rate that is lower than the stated pricing provided by the unsecured
credit facility. The competitive bid option may result in lower pricing if
market conditions allow. Pricing under the competitive bid option resulted in
average pricing of LIBOR plus 0.43% for amounts most recently borrowed under the
competitive bid option. At March 1, 2002, zero was outstanding, $85,820,000 was
used to provide letters of credit and $414,180,000 was available for borrowing
under the unsecured credit facility.

Interest Rate Protection Agreements

We are not a party to any long-term interest rate agreements, other than
interest rate protection and swap agreements on approximately $167,000,000 of
our variable rate tax-exempt indebtedness. We intend, however, to evaluate the
need for long-term interest rate protection agreements as interest rate market
conditions dictate, and we have engaged a consultant to assist in managing our
interest rate risks and exposure.











Future Financing and Capital Needs

As of December 31, 2001, we had 15 new communities under construction. Also, one
additional community is being built by an unaffiliated third party with whom we
have entered into a fixed price forward purchase commitment. As of December 31,
2001, a total estimated cost of $404,682,000 remained to be invested in these
communities. In addition, we had three other communities under reconstruction,
for which an estimated $10,191,000 remained to be invested.

Substantially all of the capital expenditures necessary to complete the
communities currently under construction and reconstruction will be funded from:

     -    the remaining capacity under our current $500,000,000 unsecured credit
          facility;

     -    the net proceeds from sales of existing communities;

     -    retained operating cash; and/or

     -    the issuance of debt or equity securities.

We expect to continue to fund development costs related to pursuing Development
Rights from retained operating cash and borrowings under the unsecured credit
facility. We believe these sources of capital will be adequate to take the
proposed communities to the point in the development cycle where construction
can begin. Before planned reconstruction activity or the construction of a
Development Right begins, we intend to arrange adequate financing to complete
these undertakings, although we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain
such financing. In the event that financing cannot be obtained, we may have to
abandon Development Rights, write-off associated pursuit costs that were
capitalized and/or forego reconstruction activity. In such instances, we will
not realize the increased revenues and earnings that we expected from such
pursuits, and the related write-off of costs will increase current period
expenses.

Our liquidity could be adversely impacted by expanding development and
acquisition activities and/or reduced capital (as compared to prior years)
available from asset sales. To meet the balance of our liquidity needs under
such conditions, we would need to arrange additional capacity under our existing
unsecured credit facility, sell additional existing communities and/or issue
additional debt or equity securities. While we believe we have the financial
position to expand our short-term credit capacity and support our capital
markets activity, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in completing
these arrangements, sales or offerings. The failure to complete these
transactions on a cost-effective basis could have a material adverse impact on
our operating results and financial condition, including the abandonment of
development pursuits and a resulting charge to earnings.

It is our policy to sell assets that do not meet our long-term investment
criteria when market conditions are favorable, and to redeploy the proceeds.
Under our disposition program, we solicit competing bids from unrelated parties
for these individual assets and consider the sales price and tax ramifications
of each proposal. We intend to actively seek buyers for communities that we
determine to hold for sale. However, we cannot assure you that the assets can be
sold on terms that we consider satisfactory. We expect to significantly curtail
our disposition program in 2002 in response to anticipated real estate and
capital markets conditions.

We have minority interest investments in five technology companies, including
Constellation Real Technologies LLC, an entity formed by a number of real estate
investment trusts and real estate operating companies for the purpose of
investing in multi-sector real estate technology opportunities. Our original
commitment to Constellation was $4 million. Constellation has proposed a
reduction in the aggregate amount of capital commitments from its members. If
that proposal is accepted, our revised commitment would fall to $2.6 million. As
of March 1, 2002, we have contributed approximately $959,000. In January 2002,
we invested an additional $2.3 million in Realeum, Inc., a company involved in
the development and deployment of a property management and leasing automation
system. Pursuant to an agreement with Realeum, Inc., we will utilize the
property management and leasing automation system in exchange for









payments under a licensing arrangement. Realeum, Inc. is negotiating licensing
arrangements with other real estate companies unaffiliated with AvalonBay. As of
March 1, 2002, the total remaining carrying value of our investments in the five
technology companies was $4.8 million. We have no obligation to contribute
additional funds, other than the commitment to Constellation described above.

Debt Maturities

The following table details debt maturities for the next five years, excluding
the unsecured credit facility:






- -----------------------
(1)         Includes credit enhancement fees, facility fees, trustees, etc.

(2)         Financed by variable rate tax exempt debt, but interest rate is
            effectively fixed at the rate indicated through a swap agreement.
            The weighted average maturity of these swap agreements is 4.5 years.

(3)         The remaining loan balance was repaid in connection with the
            disposition of the community during 2001.






Redemption of Preferred Stock

In June 2001, we redeemed all 4,455,000 outstanding shares of our 9.00% Series F
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock at a price of $25.00 per share, plus
$0.1625 in accrued and unpaid dividends, for an aggregate redemption price of
$25.1625 per share. In October 2001, we redeemed all 4,300,000 outstanding
shares of our 8.96% Series G Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock at a price of
$25.00 per share, plus $0.4418 in accrued and unpaid dividends, for an aggregate
redemption price of $25.4418 per share. We currently have other series of
redeemable preferred stock outstanding having an aggregate stated value of
$239,192,500. These series become redeemable at our option at various times over
the next seven years. As such series become redeemable, we will evaluate the
requirements necessary for such redemptions as well as the cost-effectiveness
based on the existing market conditions. The following preferred stock series
remain outstanding:




Inflation

Substantially all of our leases are for a term of one year or less. This may
enable us to realize increased rents upon renewal of existing leases or the
beginning of new leases. Short-term leases generally minimize our risk from the
adverse effects of inflation, although these leases generally permit residents
to leave at the end of the lease term without penalty. We believe that
short-term leases, combined with relatively consistent demand, results in rents
and cash flow which provide an attractive inflation hedge.

Critical Accounting Policies

Our accounting policies are in conformity with GAAP. The preparation of
financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to use judgment
in the application of accounting policies, including making estimates and
assumptions. These judgments affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of
the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during
the reporting periods. If our judgment or interpretation of the facts and
circumstances relating to various transactions had been different, it is
possible that different accounting policies would have been applied resulting in
a different presentation of our financial statements. Below is a discussion of
accounting policies which we consider critical in that they may require complex
judgment in their application or require estimates about matters which are
inherently uncertain. Additional discussion of accounting policies which we
consider significant, including further discussion of the critical accounting
policies described below, can be found in the notes to our Consolidated
Financial Statements.

Real Estate Development Rights

With few exceptions, we capitalize pre-development costs incurred in pursuit of
new development opportunities. These costs include legal fees, design fees and
related overhead costs. The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements
include a charge to expense to provide an allowance for unrecoverable







capitalized pre-development costs that may be written off if we determine that a
pre-development community is unlikely to be developed.

Real Estate

If there is an event or change in circumstance that indicates an impairment in
the value of a community, our policy is to assess the impairment by making a
comparison of the current and projected operating cash flows of the community
over its remaining useful life, on an undiscounted basis, to the carrying amount
of the community. If the carrying amount is in excess of the estimated projected
operating cash flows of the community, we would recognize an impairment loss
equivalent to an amount required to adjust the carrying amount to its estimated
fair market value. We have not recognized an impairment loss in 2001, 2000 or
1999 on any real estate.

Investments in Technology Companies

The Company has minority interest investments in five technology companies. As
of March 1, 2002, the total remaining carrying value of these investments, net
of an allowance of $934,000, was $4,819,000. If there is an event or change in
circumstance that indicates a loss in the value of an investment, our policy is
to record the loss and reduce the value of the investment to its fair value. A
loss in value would be indicated if we could not recover the carrying value of
the investment or if the investee could not sustain an earnings capacity that
would justify the carrying amount of the investment. Due to the nature of these
investments, an impairment in value can be difficult to determine.

Legal Contingencies

We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in the
ordinary course of business. These matters are frequently covered by insurance.
While the resolution of these matters cannot be predicted with certainty, we
believe the final outcome of such matters will not have a material adverse
effect on our financial position or the results of operations. Once it has been
determined that a loss is probable to occur, the estimated amount of the loss is
recorded in the financial statements. Both the amount of the loss and the point
at which its occurrence is considered probable can be difficult to determine.


ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

We are exposed to certain financial market risks, the most predominant being
fluctuations in interest rates. Interest rate fluctuations are monitored by us
as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which recognizes the
unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to reduce the potentially
adverse effect on our results of operations. The effect of interest rate
fluctuations historically has been small relative to other factors affecting
operating results, such as rental rates and occupancy. The specific market risks
and the potential impact on our operating results are described below.

Our operating results are affected by changes in interest rates as a result of
borrowings under our variable rate unsecured credit facility as well as
outstanding bonds with variable interest rates. We had $125,274,000 and
$67,960,000 in variable rate debt outstanding as of December 31, 2001 and 2000,
respectively. If interest rates on the variable rate debt had been 100 basis
points higher throughout 2001 and 2000, our annual interest costs would have
increased by approximately $1,500,000 and $2,500,000, respectively, based on
balances outstanding during the applicable years.







We currently use interest rate swap agreements to reduce the impact of interest
rate fluctuations on certain variable rate indebtedness. Under swap agreements,

     -    we agree to pay to a counterparty the interest that would have been
          incurred on a fixed principal amount at a fixed interest rate
          (generally, the interest rate on a particular treasury bond on the
          date the agreement is entered into, plus a fixed increment), and

     -    the counterparty agrees to pay to us the interest that would have been
          incurred on the same principal amount at an assumed floating interest
          rate tied to a particular market index.

As of December 31, 2001, the effect of swap agreements is to fix the interest
rate on approximately $167,272,000 of our variable rate tax-exempt debt.
Furthermore, swap agreements fix the interest rate on approximately $23,500,000
of unconsolidated variable rate debt as of December 31, 2001. The swap
agreements were not electively entered into by us but, rather, were a
requirement of either the bond issuer or the credit enhancement provider related
to certain of our tax-exempt bond financings. Because the counterparties
providing the swap agreements are major financial institutions which have an A+
or better credit rating by the Standard & Poor's Ratings Group and the interest
rates fixed by the swap agreements are significantly higher than current market
rates for such agreements, we do not believe there is exposure at this time to a
default by a counterparty provider.







ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The response to this Item 8 is included as a separate section of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
          FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF REGISTRANT

Information pertaining to directors and executive officers of the registrant is
incorporated herein by reference to the registrant's Proxy Statement to be filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the
year covered by this Form 10-K with respect to the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held on May 7, 2002.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Information pertaining to executive compensation is incorporated herein by
reference to the registrant's Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the year covered by
this Form 10-K with respect to the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on
May 7, 2002.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

Information pertaining to security ownership of management and certain
beneficial owners of the registrant's Common Stock is incorporated herein by
reference to the registrant's Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the year covered by
this Form 10-K with respect to the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on
May 7, 2002.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

Information pertaining to certain relationships and related transactions is
incorporated herein by reference to the registrant's Proxy Statement to be filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the
year covered by this Form 10-K with respect to the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held on May 7, 2002.






                                     PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

14(a)(1) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Consolidated Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule:

Report of Independent Accountants                                            F-1

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2001 and 2000                 F-2

Consolidated Statements of Operations and Other Comprehensive Income for
       the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999                      F-3

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for
       the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999                      F-4

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for
       the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999                      F-5

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                                   F-7

14(a)(2)   FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

Schedule III - Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation                     F-25

14(a)(3)   EXHIBITS

The exhibits listed on the accompanying Index to Exhibits are filed as a part of
this report.

14(b)      REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

On October 9, 2001, the Company filed a Report on Form 8-K for the purpose of
disclosing a letter sent to holders of the Company's common and preferred stock
to announce the suspension of the Company's Dividend Reinvestment and Stock
Purchase Plan until further notice.







                                INDEX TO EXHIBITS

EXHIBIT
NO.                          DESCRIPTION


3(i).1  -   Articles of Amendment and Restatement of Articles of Incorporation
            of the Company, dated as of June 4, 1998. (Incorporated by reference
            to Exhibit 3(i).1 to Form 10-Q of the Company filed August 14,
            1998.)

3(i).2  -   Articles of Amendment, dated as of October 2, 1998. (Incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 3.1(ii) to the Company's Current Report on
            Form 8-K filed October 6, 1998.)

3(i).3  -   Articles Supplementary, dated as of October 13, 1998, relating to
            the 8.70% Series H Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock.
            (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1 to Form 8-A of the Company
            filed October 14, 1998.)

3(ii).1 -   Bylaws of the Company, as amended and restated, dated as of July
            24, 1998. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(ii).1 to Form 10-Q
            of the Company filed August 14, 1998.)

3(ii).2 -   Amendment to Bylaws of the Company, dated February 10, 1999.
            (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(ii).2 to Form 10-K of the
            Company filed March 31, 1999.)

3(ii).3 -   Amendment to Bylaws of the Company, dated May 5, 1999. (Incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 3(ii).3 to Form 10-Q of the Company filed
            August 16, 1999.)

4.1     -   Indenture of Avalon Properties, Inc. (hereinafter referred to as
            "Avalon Properties") dated as of September 18, 1995. (Incorporated
            by reference to Avalon Properties' Registration Statement on Form
            S-3(33-95412), filed on August 4, 1995.)

4.2     -   First Supplemental Indenture of Avalon Properties dated as of
            September 18, 1995. (Filed herewith.)


4.3     -   Second Supplemental Indenture of Avalon Properties dated as of
            December 16, 1997. (Incorporated by reference to Avalon Properties'
            Current Report on Form 8-K filed January 26, 1998.)

4.4     -   Third Supplemental Indenture of Avalon Properties dated as of
            January 22, 1998. (Incorporated by reference to Avalon Properties'
            Current Report on Form 8-K filed January 26, 1998.)



EXHIBIT
NO.         DESCRIPTION

4.5     -   Indenture, dated as of January 16, 1998, between the Company and
            State Street Bank and Trust Company, as Trustee. (Incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K
            filed January 21, 1998.)

4.6     -   First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of January 20, 1998,
            between the Company and the Trustee. (Incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 4.2 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed
            January 21, 1998.)

4.7     -   Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of July 7, 1998, between
            the Company and the Trustee. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            4.2 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed July 9, 1998.)

4.8     -   Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 21, 1998
            between the Company and the Trustee, including forms of Floating
            Rate Note and Fixed Rate Note (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            4.4 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 21,
            1998.)

4.9     -   Amended and Restated Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of
            July 10, 2000 between the Company and the Trustee, including forms
            of Floating Rate Note and Fixed Rate Note. (Incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 4.4 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K
            filed July 11, 2000.)

4.10    -   Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan of the Company
            filed September 14, 1999. (Incorporated by reference to Form S-3 of
            the Company, File No. 333-87063.)

4.11    -   Amendment to the Company's Dividend Reinvestment and Stock
            Purchase Plan filed on December 17, 1999. (Incorporated by reference
            to the Prospectus Supplement filed pursuant to Rule 424(b)(2) of the
            Securities Act of 1933 on December 17, 1999.)

4.12    -   Shareholder Rights Agreement, dated March 9, 1998 (the "Rights
            Agreement"), between the Company and First Union National Bank (as
            successor to American Stock Transfer and Trust Company) as Rights
            Agent (including the form of Rights Certificate as Exhibit B).
            (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Form 8-A of the Company
            filed March 11, 1998.)

4.13    -   Amendment No. 1 to the Rights Agreement, dated as of February 28,
            2000, between the Company and the Rights Agent. (Incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Form 8-A/A of the Company filed February
            28, 2000.)

4.14    -   Amendment No.2 to the Rights Agreement, dated January 4, 2002,
            between the Company and the Rights Agent. (Incorporated by reference
            to Exhibit 4.3 to Form 8-K of the Company filed January 7, 2002.)

10.1    -   Distribution Agreement, dated December 21, 1998, among AvalonBay
            Communities, Inc. (the "Company") and the Agents, including
            Administrative Procedures, relating to the MTNs. (Incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 4.4 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K
            filed December 21, 1998.)

10.2    -   First Amendment, dated as of June 27, 2000, to Distribution
            Agreement, dated December 21, 1998, among the Company and the
            Agents. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.2 to the Company's
            Current Report on Form 8-K filed July 11, 2000.)

10.3    -   Second Amendment, dated as of August 31, 2001, to Distribution
            Agreement, dated December 21, 1998, among the Company and the
            Agents. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.3 to the Company's
            Current Report on Form 8-K filed September 4, 2001.)

10.4+   -   Employment Agreement, dated as of March 9, 1998, between the
            Company and Richard L. Michaux (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            10.1 to Form 10-Q of the Company filed August 14, 1998) and
            Amendment, dated as of July 30, 1999, to Employment Agreement, dated
            as of March 9, 1998, between the Company and Richard L. Michaux.
            (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Form 10-Q of the
            Company filed August 16, 1999.)

10.5+   -   Employment Agreement, dated as of March 9, 1998, between the
            Company and Thomas J. Sargeant. (Incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 10.4 to Form 10-Q of the Company filed August 14, 1998.)

10.6+   -   Employment Agreement, dated as of March 9, 1998, between the
            Company and Bryce Blair (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5
            to Form 10-Q of the Company filed August 14, 1998)









+ Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed
or incorporated by reference as an exhibit to this Form 10-K pursuant to Item
14(c) of Form 10-K.





                                  SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.












                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS


To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of
AvalonBay Communities, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of AvalonBay
Communities, Inc. (a Maryland corporation, the "Company") and subsidiaries as of
December 31, 2001 and 2000, and the related consolidated statements of
operations and comprehensive income, stockholders' equity and cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2001. These
consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted
in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free
of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of AvalonBay
Communities, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2001 and 2000, and the
results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 2001 in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States.

As explained in Note 5 to the financial statements, effective January 1, 2001,
the Company changed its method of accounting for derivative instruments and
hedging activities.

Our audit was made for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic financial
statements taken as a whole. The Schedule of Real Estate and Accumulated
Depreciation is presented for purposes of complying with the rules of the
Securities and Exchange Commission and is not a required part of the basic
financial statements. This schedule has been subjected to the auditing
procedures applied in our audit of the basic financial statements and, in our
opinion, is fairly stated in all material respects in relation to the basic
financial statements taken as a whole.


                                                         /s/ ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP






Vienna, Virginia
January 22, 2002


                                       F-1



                                 AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.
                                  CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                        (Dollars in thousands, except per share data)



          See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


                                       F-2



                                 AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.
                             CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                                   AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
                        (Dollars in thousands, except per share data)



          See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


                                       F-3



                           AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                    (Dollars in thousands, except share data)








          See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

                                       F-4



                           AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                             (Dollars in thousands)



          See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



                                       F-5



Supplemental disclosures of non-cash investing and financing activities (dollars
in thousands):

During the year ended December 31, 2001:

   -  762 units of limited partnership, valued at $36, were presented for
      redemption to the DownREIT partnership that issued such units and were
      acquired by the Company in exchange for an equal number of shares of the
      Company's common stock.

   -  the Company issued 619 units of limited partnership in DownREIT
      partnerships valued at $30 as consideration for acquisitions of apartment
      communities that were acquired pursuant to the terms of a forward purchase
      contract agreed to in 1997 with an unaffiliated party. In addition, the
      Company issued 256,940 units of limited partnership in a DownREIT
      partnership valued at $12,274 in connection with the formation of a
      DownREIT partnership and the acquisition by that partnership of land.

   -  186,877 shares of restricted common stock were issued at a value of $8,570
      and 19,646 shares of restricted stock were forfeited at a value of $235.

   -  $67 of deferred stock units were converted into 1,803 shares of common
      stock.

   -  the Company recorded a liability and a corresponding charge to Other
      comprehensive loss of $8,483 to adjust the Company's Swap Agreements (as
      defined in Note 5 of the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements)
      to their fair value.

   -  Common and preferred dividends declared but not paid were $49,007.

During the year ended December 31, 2000:

   -  1,520 units of limited partnership in DownREIT partnerships, valued at
      $60, were issued in connection with an acquisition for cash and units
      pursuant to a forward purchase contract agreed to in 1997 with an
      unaffiliated party.

   -  304,602 units of limited partnership in DownREIT partnerships, valued at
      $10,926, were exchanged for an equal number of shares of the Company's
      common stock.

   -  139,336 shares of restricted common stock were issued at a value of $4,703
      and 50,310 shares of restricted stock were forfeited at a value of $1,668.

   -  Real estate assets valued at $5,394 were contributed to a limited
      liability company in exchange for a 25% membership interest.

   -  Common and preferred dividends declared but not paid totaled $47,572.

During the year ended December 31, 1999:

   -  117,178 units of limited partnership in DownREIT partnerships, valued at
      $4,614, were issued in connection with an acquisition for cash and units
      pursuant to a forward purchase contract agreed to in 1997 with an
      unaffiliated party.

   -  22,623 units of limited partnership in DownREIT partnerships, valued at
      $868, were exchanged for an equal number of shares of the Company's common
      stock.

   -  97,456 shares of restricted common stock were issued at a value of $3,167.

   -  Common and preferred dividends declared but not paid totaled $44,139.


                                       F-6



                           AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                  (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

1.  Organization and Significant Accounting Policies

Organization

AvalonBay Communities, Inc. (the "Company," which term, unless the context
otherwise requires, refers to AvalonBay Communities, Inc. together with its
subsidiaries) is a Maryland corporation that has elected to be taxed as a real
estate investment trust ("REIT") under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended. The Company focuses on the ownership and operation of upscale apartment
communities in high barrier-to-entry markets of the United States. These markets
are located in the Northeast, Mid-Atlantic, Midwest, Pacific Northwest, and
Northern and Southern California regions of the country.

At December 31, 2001, the Company owned or held a direct or indirect ownership
interest in 126 operating apartment communities containing 37,228 apartment
homes in eleven states and the District of Columbia, of which three communities
containing 1,896 apartment homes were under reconstruction. In addition, the
Company owned 15 communities with 3,963 apartment homes under construction and
rights to develop an additional 30 communities that, if developed as expected,
will contain an estimated 8,918 apartment homes.

Principles of Consolidation

The Company is the surviving corporation from the merger (the "Merger") of Bay
Apartment Communities, Inc. ("Bay") and Avalon Properties, Inc. ("Avalon") on
June 4, 1998, where Avalon shareholders received a 0.7683 share of common stock
of the Company for each share owned of Avalon common stock. The Merger was
accounted for under the purchase method of accounting, with the historical
financial statements for Avalon presented prior to the Merger. At that time,
Avalon ceased to legally exist, and Bay as the surviving legal entity adopted
the historical financial statements of Avalon. Consequently, Bay's assets were
recorded in the historical financial statements of Avalon at an amount equal to
Bay's debt outstanding at that time plus the value of capital stock retained by
the Bay stockholders, which approximates fair value. In connection with the
Merger, the Company changed its name from Bay Apartment Communities, Inc. to
AvalonBay Communities, Inc.

The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of the
Company and its wholly-owned partnerships and certain joint venture partnerships
in addition to subsidiary partnerships structured as DownREITs. All significant
intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

In each of the partnerships structured as DownREITs, either the Company or one
of the Company's wholly-owned subsidiaries is the general partner, and there are
one or more limited partners whose interest in the partnership is represented by
units of limited partnership interest. For each DownREIT partnership, limited
partners are entitled to receive distributions before any distribution is made
to the general partner. Although the partnership agreements for each of the
DownREITs are different, generally the distributions per unit paid to the
holders of units of limited partnership interests have approximated the
Company's current common stock dividend per share. Each DownREIT partnership has
been structured so that it is unlikely the limited partners will be entitled to
a distribution greater than the initial distribution provided for in the
partnership agreement. The holders of units of limited partnership interest have
the right to present each unit of limited partnership interest for redemption
for cash equal to the fair market value of a share of the Company's common stock
on the date of redemption. In lieu of a cash redemption of a limited partner's
unit, the Company may elect to acquire any unit presented for redemption for one
share of common stock.

The Company has minority interest investments in five technology companies. The
Company accounts for these unconsolidated entities in accordance with Accounting
Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 18, "The Equity Method of Accounting for
Investments in Common Stock." In 2001, the Company applied the equity method of
accounting to its investment in Realeum, Inc., a company involved in the
development and deployment of a property management and leasing automation
system. The remaining investments are accounted for under the cost


                                       F-7



method of accounting. As of December 31, 2001, the aggregate carrying value of
our investment in these five companies, net of an allowance of $934, was $2,519.
If there is an event or change in circumstance that indicates a loss in the
value of an investment, the Company's policy is to record the loss and reduce
the value of the investment to its fair value. A loss in value would be
indicated if the Company could not recover the carrying value of the investment
or if the investee could not sustain an earnings capacity that would justify the
carrying amount of the investment.

Revenue Recognition

Rental income related to leases is recognized on an accrual basis when due from
residents in accordance with SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101, "Revenue
Recognition in Financial Statements." In accordance with the Company's standard
lease terms, rental payments are generally due on a monthly basis. Any cash
concessions given at the inception of the lease are amortized over the life of
the lease - generally one year.

The following reconciles total revenue in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles ("GAAP") to total revenue adjusted to state concessions on
a cash basis for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999:



Real Estate

Significant expenditures which improve or extend the life of an asset are
capitalized. The operating real estate assets are stated at cost and consist of
land, buildings and improvements, furniture, fixtures and equipment, and other
costs incurred during their development, redevelopment and acquisition.
Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to operations as incurred.

The Company's policy with respect to capital expenditures is generally to
capitalize only non-recurring expenditures. Improvements and upgrades are
capitalized only if the item exceeds $15, extends the useful life of the asset
and is not related to making an apartment home ready for the next resident.
Purchases of personal property, such as computers and furniture, are capitalized
only if the item is a new addition. The Company generally expenses purchases of
personal property made for replacement purposes.

The capitalization of costs during the development of assets (including interest
and related loan fees, property taxes and other direct and indirect costs)
begins when active development commences and ends when the asset is delivered
and a final certificate of occupancy is issued. Cost capitalization during
redevelopment of apartment homes (including interest and related loan fees,
property taxes and other direct and indirect costs) begins when an apartment
home is taken out-of-service for redevelopment and ends when the apartment home
redevelopment is completed and the apartment home is placed in-service.

In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 67,
"Accounting for Costs and Initial Rental Operations of Real Estate Projects,"
the Company capitalizes pre-development costs incurred in pursuit of new
development opportunities for which the Company currently believes future
development is probable. Future development of these communities is dependent
upon various factors, including zoning and regulatory approval, rental market
conditions, construction costs and availability of capital. The accompanying


                                       F-8



Consolidated Financial Statements include a charge to expense to provide an
allowance for unrecoverable deferred development costs related to
pre-development communities that are unlikely to be developed.

Depreciation is calculated on buildings and improvements using the straight-line
method over their estimated useful lives, which range from seven to thirty
years. Furniture, fixtures and equipment are generally depreciated using the
straight-line method over their estimated useful lives, which range from three
years (primarily computer related equipment) to seven years.

Lease terms for apartment homes are generally one year or less. Rental income
and operating costs incurred during the initial lease-up or post-redevelopment
lease-up period are fully recognized as they accrue.

If there is an event or change in circumstance that indicates an impairment in
the value of a community, the Company's policy is to assess any impairment in
value by making a comparison of the current and projected operating cash flows
of the community over its remaining useful life, on an undiscounted basis, to
the carrying amount of the community. If such carrying amounts are in excess of
the estimated projected operating cash flows of the community, the Company would
recognize an impairment loss equivalent to an amount required to adjust the
carrying amount to its estimated fair market value. The Company has not
recognized an impairment loss in 2001, 2000 or 1999 on any of its real estate.

Income Taxes

The Company elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended, for the year ended December 31, 1994 and has not revoked such
election. A corporate REIT is a legal entity which holds real estate interests
and must meet a number of organizational and operational requirements, including
a requirement that it currently distribute at least 90% of its adjusted taxable
income to stockholders. As a REIT, the Company generally will not be subject to
corporate level federal income tax on taxable income it distributes currently to
its stockholders. Management believes that all such conditions for the avoidance
of income taxes have been met for the periods presented. Accordingly, no
provision for federal and state income taxes has been made. If the Company fails
to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, it will be subject to federal income
taxes at regular corporate rates (including any applicable alternative minimum
tax) and may not be able to qualify as a REIT for four subsequent taxable years.
Even if the Company qualifies for taxation as a REIT, the Company may be subject
to certain state and local taxes on its income and property, and to federal
income and excise taxes on its undistributed taxable income. In addition,
taxable income from non-REIT activities managed through taxable REIT
subsidiaries is subject to federal, state and local income taxes. The following
reconciles net income available to common stockholders to taxable net income for
the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999:




                                       F-9



The following summarizes the tax components of the Company's common and
preferred dividends declared for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and
1999:



Deferred Financing Costs

Deferred financing costs include fees and costs incurred to obtain debt
financing and are amortized on a straight-line basis, which approximates the
effective interest method, over the shorter of the term of the loan or the
related credit enhancement facility, if applicable. Unamortized financing costs
are written-off when debt is retired before the maturity date. Accumulated
amortization of deferred financing costs were $11,916 and $8,200 at December 31,
2001 and 2000, respectively.

Cash, Cash Equivalents and Cash in Escrow

Cash and cash equivalents include all cash and liquid investments with an
original maturity of three months or less from the date acquired. The majority
of the Company's cash, cash equivalents and cash in escrows is held at major
commercial banks.

                                      F-10



Earnings per Common Share

In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 128, "Earnings per Share," basic
earnings per share is computed by dividing earnings available to common
shareholders by the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the
period. Other potentially dilutive common shares, and the related impact to
earnings, are considered when calculating earnings per share on a diluted basis.
The Company's earnings per common share are determined as follows:



For each of the years presented, certain options to purchase shares of common
stock were outstanding but were not included in the computation of diluted
earnings per share because the options' exercise prices were greater than the
average market price of the common shares for the period. The number of options
not included totaled 18,269 in 2001, 7,500 in 2000 and 2,282,192 for 1999.

Executive Separation Costs

In February 2001, the Company announced certain management changes including the
departure of a senior executive who became entitled to severance benefits in
accordance with the terms of his employment agreement with the Company. The
Company recorded a charge of approximately $2,500 in the first quarter of 2001
related to the expected costs associated with such departure.

In December 2001, a senior executive of the Company retired from his management
position. Upon retirement, the Company recognized compensation expense of
approximately $784, relating to the accelerated vesting of restricted stock
grants.

                                      F-11



Recently Issued Accounting Standards

In August of 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 144,
"Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets." This
pronouncement establishes accounting and reporting standards requiring that
long-lived assets held for sale be classified as discontinued operations. These
assets will continue to be measured at the lower of the carrying amount or the
fair value less the cost to sell. Operations, including the gain or loss on
sale, for both the current and prior periods shall be reported in discontinued
operations. The statement becomes effective for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 2001. The Company will adopt this pronouncement beginning January
1, 2002. In the opinion of management, the adoption of this statement will not
have a material effect on the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires
management to make certain estimates and assumptions. These estimates and
assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure
of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the financial statements
and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting periods.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Reclassifications

Certain reclassifications have been made to amounts in prior years' financial
statements to conform with current year presentations.

2.  Interest Capitalized

Capitalized interest associated with communities under development or
redevelopment totaled $27,635, $18,328 and $21,888 for the years ended December
31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

3.  Notes Payable, Unsecured Notes and Credit Facility

Mortgage notes payable are collateralized by certain apartment communities and
mature at various dates from March 2002 through February 2041. The weighted
average interest rate of the Company's variable rate notes and unsecured credit
facility, including certain financing related fees, was 3.1% at December 31,
2001. The weighted average interest rate of the Company's fixed rate mortgage
notes (conventional and tax-exempt) was 6.7% at December 31, 2001. The Company's
notes payable, unsecured notes payable and credit facility are summarized as
follows:




                                      F-12



Scheduled payments and maturities of notes payable and unsecured notes are as
follows:




The Company's unsecured notes contain a number of financial and other covenants
with which the Company must comply, including, but not limited to, limits on the
aggregate amount of total and secured indebtedness the Company may have on a
consolidated basis and limits on the Company's required debt service payments.

The Company has a $500,000 variable rate unsecured credit facility with J.P.
Morgan Chase and Fleet National Bank serving as co-agents for a syndicate of
commercial banks, which had zero outstanding on December 31, 2001. Under the
terms of the unsecured credit facility, if the Company elects to increase the
facility up to $650,000, the consortium of banks cannot prohibit such an
increase of the facility and the increased lending commitment could be provided
by one or more banks (from the consortium or otherwise) to the extent they
choose to commit to lend additional funds. The unsecured credit facility bears
interest at a spread over the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") based on
rating levels achieved on the Company's unsecured notes and on a maturity
schedule selected by the Company. The current stated pricing is LIBOR plus 0.6%
per annum (2.5% on December 31, 2001). In addition, the unsecured credit
facility includes a competitive bid option, which allows banks that are part of
the lender consortium to bid to make loans to the Company at a rate that is
lower than the stated rate provided by the unsecured credit facility for up to
$400,000. The Company is subject to certain customary covenants under the
unsecured credit facility, including, but not limited to, maintaining certain
maximum leverage ratios, a minimum fixed charges coverage ratio, minimum
unencumbered assets and equity levels and restrictions on paying dividends in
amounts that exceed 95% of the Company's Funds from Operations, as defined
therein. The existing facility matures in May 2005 after application of a one
year renewal option by the Company.

                                      F-13



4. Stockholders Equity

As of both December 31, 2001 and 2000, the Company had authorized for issuance
140,000,000 and 50,000,000 of Common and Preferred Stock, respectively.
Dividends on all series of issued Preferred Stock are cumulative from the date
of original issue and are payable quarterly in arrears on or before the 15th day
of each month as stated in the table below. None of the series of Preferred
Stock are redeemable prior to the date stated in the table below, but on or
after the stated date, may be redeemed for cash at the option of the Company in
whole or in part at a redemption price of $25.00 per share, plus all accrued and
unpaid dividends, if any. In June 2001, the Company redeemed all 4,455,000
outstanding shares of its 9.00% Series F Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock
at a price of $25.00 per share, plus $0.1625 in accrued and unpaid dividends. In
October 2001, the Company redeemed all 4,300,000 outstanding shares of its 8.96%
Series G Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock at a price of $25.00 per share,
plus $0.4418 in accrued and unpaid dividends. The series of Preferred Stock
outstanding have no stated maturity and are not subject to any sinking fund or
mandatory redemptions. Preferred Stock outstanding as of December 31, 2001 were
as follows:



The Company also has 1,000,000 shares of Series E Junior Participating
Cumulative Preferred Stock authorized for issuance pursuant to the Company's
Shareholder Rights Agreement. As of December 31, 2001, there were no shares of
Series E Preferred Stock outstanding and the Company has amended its Shareholder
Rights Agreement so that it will expire effective March 31, 2002.

Dividends per common share for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999
were $2.56, $2.24 and $2.06, respectively. In 2001, dividends per preferred
share for shares redeemed during the year were $1.41 and dividends per share for
all non-redeemed preferred shares were $2.10. Dividends per preferred share were
$2.17 in both 2000 and 1999.

5. Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities

In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 133,
"Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." SFAS No. 133, as
amended by SFAS No. 137, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities - Deferral of the Effective Date of SFAS No. 133," and SFAS No. 138,
"Accounting for Certain Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities, an amendment
of Statement 133," was adopted by the Company on January 1, 2001. SFAS No. 133,
as amended, establishes accounting and reporting standards requiring that every
derivative instrument be recorded on the balance sheet as either an asset or
liability measured at its fair value. SFAS No. 133 also requires that a change
in the derivative's fair value be recognized currently in earnings unless
specific hedge accounting criteria are met. For fair value hedge transactions,
changes in the fair value of the derivative instrument and changes in the fair
value of the hedged item due to the risk being hedged are recorded through the
income statement. For cash flow hedge transactions, changes in the fair value of
the derivative instrument are reported in other comprehensive income. For hedges
where the changes in the fair value of the derivative exceeds the change in fair
value of the hedged item, the ineffective portion is recognized in current
period earnings. Derivatives which are not part of a hedge relationship are
recorded at fair value through earnings.

The Company has historically used interest rate swap agreements (the "Swap
Agreements") to reduce the impact of interest rate fluctuations on its variable
rate tax-exempt bonds. The Company has not entered into any interest rate hedge
agreements or treasury locks for its conventional unsecured debt. The Swap
Agreements are not held for trading



                                      F-14


or other speculative purposes. As of December 31, 2001, the effect of these Swap
Agreements is to fix $167,272 of the Company's tax-exempt debt at a weighted
average interest rate of 6.0% with an average maturity of 4.5 years. By using
derivative financial instruments to hedge exposures to changes in interest
rates, the Company exposes itself to credit risk and market risk.

The credit risk is the risk of a counterparty not performing under the terms of
the Swap Agreement. The counterparties to these Swap Agreements are major
financial institutions which have an A+ or better credit rating by the Standard
& Poor's Ratings Group. The Company monitors the credit ratings of
counterparties and the amount of the Company's debt subject to Swap Agreements
with any one party. Therefore, the Company believes the likelihood of realizing
material losses from counterparty non-performance is remote.

Market risk is the adverse effect of the value of financial instruments that
results from a change in interest rates. The market risk associated with
interest-rate contracts is managed by the establishment and monitoring of
parameters that limit the types and degree of market risk that may be
undertaken. These risks are managed by the Company's Chief Financial Officer and
Vice President of Finance.

The Company has determined that its Swap Agreements qualify as effective
cash-flow hedges under SFAS No. 133. When entering into hedging transactions,
the Company documents the relationships between hedging instruments and hedged
items, as well as the risk management objective and strategy. The Company
assesses, both at inception and on an on-going basis, the effectiveness of all
hedges in offsetting cash flows of hedged items. In accordance with SFAS No.
133, the Company records all changes in the fair value of the Swap Agreements in
other comprehensive income. Amounts recorded in other comprehensive income will
be reclassified into earnings in the period in which earnings are affected by
the hedged cash flows. For example, the reduction in fair value on a cash flow
hedge due to the periodic payment of interest under the Swap Agreements is
recorded in earnings each period. The combination of this expense with the lower
interest expense we expect to pay on the underlying floating rate debt should
result in overall interest expense equal to the contractually fixed amount
resulting from the fixed rate swaps. In all situations where hedge accounting is
discontinued, the derivative will be carried at fair value with changes in its
fair value recognized in income. Upon the termination of a hedging relationship,
the amount in other comprehensive income will be amortized over the remaining
life of the hedged cash flows.

At January 1, 2001, in accordance with the transition provisions of SFAS No.
133, the Company recorded a cumulative effect adjustment of $6,412 to other
comprehensive loss to recognize at fair value all of the derivatives that are
designated as cash flow hedging instruments. Through December 31, 2001, the
Company recorded additional unrealized losses to other comprehensive loss of
$2,599 to adjust the Swap Agreements to their fair value. In connection with the
sale of a community during the first quarter of 2001, a Swap Agreement with a
fair value of $528 was transferred to the new owner. Hedge ineffectiveness did
not have a material impact on earnings and the Company does not anticipate that
it will have a material effect in the future. The Swap Agreements are included
in accrued expenses and other liabilities on the accompanying Consolidated
Balance Sheets.

6. Investments in Unconsolidated Real Estate Entities

The Company accounts for investments in unconsolidated real estate entities in
accordance with Statement of Position ("SOP") 78-9, "Accounting for Investments
in Real Estate Ventures" and APB Opinion No. 18. The Company applies the equity
method of accounting to an investment in an entity if it owns greater than 20%
or the equity value or has significant and disproportionate influence over that
entity. At December 31, 2001, the Company's investments in unconsolidated real
estate entities accounted for under the equity method of accounting consisted
of:

        -       a 50% limited liability company membership interest in a limited
                liability company that owns the Falkland Chase community;

        -       a 49% general partnership interest in a partnership that owns
                the Avalon Run community;

        -       a 50% limited liability company membership interest in a limited
                liability company that owns the Avalon Grove community; and

        -       a 50% limited liability company membership interest in a limited
                liability company that owns the Avalon Terrace community.


                                      F-15


The following is a combined summary of the financial position of these entities
as of the dates presented:



The following is a combined summary of the operating results of these entities
for the periods presented:



The Company also holds an investment in a real estate entity which is accounted
for under the cost method of accounting. In addition, the Company holds a 25%
limited liability company membership interest in the limited liability company
that owns Avalon on the Sound, which is presented on a consolidated basis in the
financial statements in accordance with GAAP due to the Company's control over
that entity.

7. Communities Held for Sale

The Company has a policy of disposing of assets that are not consistent with its
long-term investment criteria when market conditions are favorable. In
connection with this strategy, the Company solicits competing bids from
unrelated parties for individual assets, and considers the sales price and tax
ramifications of each proposal.



                                      F-16


The communities sold during 2001 and the respective sales price and net proceeds
are summarized below:



There were no communities held for sale as of December 31, 2001, however, the
Company will continue to evaluate market conditions and will dispose of
communities to optimize its concentration of assets when conditions are
favorable.

8. Commitments and Contingencies

Presale Commitments

The Company occasionally enters into fixed price forward purchase commitments
with unrelated third parties, which allow the Company to purchase communities
upon completion of construction. The Company has an agreement to purchase a
community with an estimated 306 apartment homes for an aggregate purchase price
of approximately $70,000. The Company expects the acquisition to close in the
second quarter of 2002. However, there can be no assurance that such acquisition
will be consummated on the terms currently contemplated or at all, or on the
schedule currently contemplated.

Insured Fire at Development Community

During 2000, a fire occurred at one of the Company's development communities,
which was under construction and unoccupied at the time. The book value of the
destroyed assets was reduced to zero from a balance of approximately $13,900 at
the time of the fire. The Company recorded an insurance receivable for the same
amount which was subsequently collected from the insurance company. The Company
has property damage and business interruption insurance and prepared an
insurance claim for the cost of replacing the destroyed assets as well as for
business interruption losses. The Company does not anticipate this event will
have a material adverse impact on the financial condition or results of
operations of the Company. At December 31, 2001, the Company had an insurance
receivable balance of $2,500 for business interruption through December 31,
2001. Income of $2,500 relating to the business interruption insurance claim is
recorded in Other income in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of
Operations and Other Comprehensive Income for 2001. In 2002, the Company expects
to finalize the settlement of its insurance claim related to this fire and to
recognize additional income from business interruption insurance which cannot be
reasonably estimated at this time.

Employment Agreements and Arrangements

As of December 31, 2001, the Company has employment agreements with two
executive officers that it entered into in 1998. In addition, during 2000 and
2001, six other senior officers entered into employment agreements, which are
generally similar in structure to those entered into in 1998 but which generally
do not provide for the same level of severance payments. The employment
agreements provide for severance payments and generally also provide for
accelerated vesting of stock options and restricted stock in the event of a
termination of employment (except for



                                      F-17


a termination by the Company with cause or a voluntary termination by the
employee). The current term of these agreements ends on dates that vary between
March 2003 and April 2004. The employment agreements provide for one-year
automatic renewals after the initial term unless an advance notice of
non-renewal is provided by either party. Under five of the agreements, upon a
notice of non-renewal by the Company, the officer may terminate his employment
and receive a severance payment. Upon a change in control, the agreements
provide for an automatic extension of up to three years from the date of the
change in control. The employment agreements provide for base salary and
incentive compensation in the form of cash awards, stock options and stock
grants subject to the discretion of, and attainment of performance goals
established by, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.

During the fourth quarter of 1999, the Company adopted an Officer Severance
Program (the "Program") for the benefit of those officers of the Company who do
not have employment agreements. Under the Program, in the event an officer who
is not otherwise covered by a severance arrangement is terminated without cause
in connection with a change in control (as defined) of the Company, such officer
will generally receive a cash lump sum payment equal to the amount of such
officer's base salary and cash bonus as well as accelerated vesting of stock
options and restricted stock.

Legal Contingencies

The Company is subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in the
ordinary course of business. These matters are frequently covered by insurance.
If it has been determined that a loss is probable to occur, the estimated amount
of the loss is expensed in the financial statements. While the resolution of
these matters cannot be predicted with certainty, management believes the final
outcome of such matters will not have a material adverse effect on the financial
position or results of operations of the Company.

9. Segment Reporting

The Company's reportable operating segments include Established Communities,
Other Stabilized Communities, and Development/Redevelopment Communities.
Annually on January 1st, the Company determines which of its communities fall
into each of these categories and maintains that classification throughout the
year for the purpose of reporting segment operations.

        -       Established Communities (also known as Same Store Communities)
                are communities where a comparison of operating results from the
                prior year to the current year is meaningful, as these
                communities were owned and had stabilized occupancy and costs as
                of the beginning of the prior year. These communities are
                divided into geographic regions. For the year 2001, the
                Established Communities were communities that had stabilized
                occupancy and costs as of January 1, 2000. A community is
                considered to have stabilized occupancy at the earlier of (i)
                attainment of 95% occupancy or (ii) the one-year anniversary of
                completion of development or redevelopment.

        -       Other Stabilized includes all other completed communities that
                have stabilized occupancy, as defined above, and communities
                held for sale.

        -       Development/Redevelopment consists of communities that are under
                construction and have not received a final certificate of
                occupancy and communities where substantial redevelopment is in
                progress or is planned to take place during the current year.

The primary financial measure for Established and Other Stabilized Communities
is Net Operating Income ("NOI"), which represents total revenue less operating
expenses and property taxes. The primary performance measure for communities
under development or redevelopment depends on the stage of completion. While
under development, management monitors actual construction costs against
budgeted costs as well as economic occupancy. While under lease-up, the primary
performance measures for these assets are lease-up pace compared to budget and
rent levels compared to budget.



                                      F-18






                                      F-19


The segments are classified based on the individual community's status as of the
beginning of the given calendar year. Therefore, each year the composition of
communities within each business segment is adjusted. Accordingly, the amounts
between years are not directly comparable. The accounting policies applicable to
the operating segments described above are the same as those described in the
summary of significant accounting policies.

Operating expenses as reflected on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and
Comprehensive Income include $32,967, $28,111 and $22,786 for the years ended
December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively, of property management overhead
costs that are not allocated to individual communities. These costs are not
reflected in NOI as shown in the above tables. While there were no communities
held for sale at December 31, 2001, the amount reflected for "Communities held
for sale" on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2000 is net of
$19,965 for accumulated depreciation.

10. Stock-Based Compensation Plans

The Company has adopted the 1994 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated
on March 31, 2001 (the "1994 Plan"), for the purpose of encouraging and enabling
the Company's officers, associates and directors to acquire a proprietary
interest in the Company and as a means of aligning management and stockholder
interests and as a retention incentive for key associates. Individuals who are
eligible to participate in the 1994 Plan include officers, other associates,
outside directors and other key persons of the Company and its subsidiaries who
are responsible for or contribute to the management, growth or profitability of
the Company and its subsidiaries. The 1994 Plan authorizes (i) the grant of
stock options that qualify as incentive stock options under Section 422 of the
Internal Revenue Code ("ISOs"), (ii) the grant of stock options that do not so
qualify, (iii) grants of shares of restricted and unrestricted Common Stock,
(iv) grants of deferred stock awards, (v) performance share awards entitling the
recipient to acquire shares of Common Stock and (vi) dividend equivalent rights.

Under the 1994 Plan, a maximum of 6,576,859 shares of Common Stock, plus upon
the passing of each December 31st starting with December 31, 2001, up to 1.0% of
the total number of shares of common stock and DownREIT units actually
outstanding on such date, may be issued. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
maximum number of shares of stock for which ISOs may be issued under the 1994
Plan shall not exceed 2,500,000 and no awards shall be granted under the 1994
Plan after May 11, 2011. For purposes of this limitation, shares of Common Stock
which are forfeited, canceled and reacquired by the Company, satisfied without
the issuance of Common Stock or otherwise terminated (other than by exercise)
shall be added back to the shares of Common Stock available for issuance under
the 1994 Plan. Stock Options with respect to no more than 300,000 shares of
stock may be granted to any one individual participant during any one calendar
year period. Options granted to officers and employees under the 1994 Plan vest
over periods (and may be subject to accelerated vesting under certain
circumstances) as determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of
Directors and must expire no later than ten years from the date of grant.
Options granted to non-employee directors under the 1994 Plan are subject to
accelerated vesting under certain limited circumstances, become exercisable on
the first anniversary of the date of grant, and expire ten years from the date
of grant. Restricted stock granted to officers and employees under the 1994 Plan
vest over periods (and may be subject to accelerated vesting under certain
circumstances) as determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of
Directors. Generally, the restricted stock grants that have been awarded to
officers and employees vest over four years, with 20% vesting immediately on the
grant date and the remaining 80% vesting equally over the next four years from
the date of grant. Restricted stock granted to non-employee directors vests 20%
on the date of issuance and 20% on each of the first four anniversaries of the
date of issuance. Options to purchase 2,780,757, 3,123,713, and 3,637,724 shares
of Common Stock were available for grant under the 1994 Plan at December 31,
2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

Before the Merger, Avalon had adopted its 1995 Equity Incentive Plan (the
"Avalon 1995 Incentive Plan"). Under the Avalon 1995 Incentive Plan, a maximum
number of 3,315,054 shares (or 2,546,956 shares as adjusted for the Merger) of
Common Stock were issuable, plus any shares of Common Stock represented by
awards under Avalon's 1993 Stock Option and Incentive Plan (the "Avalon 1993
Plan") that were forfeited, canceled, reacquired by Avalon, satisfied without
the issuance of Common Stock or otherwise terminated (other than by exercise).
Options granted to officers, non-employee directors and associates under the
Avalon 1995 Incentive Plan generally vested



                                      F-20


over a three-year term, expire ten years from the date of grant and are
exercisable at the market price on the date of grant.

In connection with the Merger, the exercise prices and the number of options
under the Avalon 1995 Incentive Plan and the Avalon 1993 Plan were adjusted to
reflect the equivalent Bay shares and exercise prices based on the 0.7683 share
conversion ratio used in the Merger. Officers, non-employee directors and
associates with Avalon 1995 Incentive Plan or Avalon 1993 Plan options may
exercise their adjusted number of options for the Company's Common Stock at the
adjusted exercise price. As of June 4, 1998, the date of the Merger, options and
other awards ceased to be granted under the Avalon 1993 Plan or the Avalon 1995
Incentive Plan. Accordingly, there were no options to purchase shares of Common
Stock available for grant under the Avalon 1995 Incentive Plan or the Avalon
1993 Plan at December 31, 2001, 2000 or 1999.

Information with respect to stock options granted under the 1994 Plan, the
Avalon 1995 Incentive Plan and the Avalon 1993 Plan is as follows:




For options outstanding at December 31, 2001 for the 1994 plan, 246,666 options
had exercise prices ranging between $18.37 and $29.99 and a weighted average
contractual life of 3.1 years, 1,692,300 options had exercise prices ranging
between $30.00 and $39.99 and a weighted average contractual life of 7.1 years,
and 954,312 options had exercise prices ranging between $40.00 and $47.50 and a
weighted average contractual life of 9.1 years. Options outstanding at December
31, 2001 for the Avalon 1993 and Avalon 1995 plans had exercise prices ranging
from $26.68 to $39.86 and a weighted average contractual life of 5.3 years.

The Company applies APB Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees," and related interpretations in accounting for its Plans.
Accordingly, no compensation expense has been recognized for the stock option
portion of the stock-based compensation plan.



                                      F-21


Had compensation expense for the Company's stock option plan been determined
based on the fair value at the grant date for awards under the Plan consistent
with the methodology prescribed under SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation," the Company's net income and earnings per share would have been
reduced to the following pro forma amounts (unaudited):



The fair value of the options granted during 2001 is estimated at $4.83 per
share on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the
following assumptions: dividend yield of 5.58%, volatility of 16.47%, risk-free
interest rates of 5.07%, actual number of forfeitures, and an expected life of
approximately 3 years. The fair value of the options granted during 2000 is
estimated at $3.76 per share on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option
pricing model with the following assumptions: dividend yield of 6.51%,
volatility of 15.93%, risk-free interest rates of 6.61%, actual number of
forfeitures, and an expected life of approximately 3 years. The fair value of
the options granted during 1999 is estimated at $3.40 per share on the date of
grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following
assumptions: dividend yield of 6.10%, volatility of 17.04%, risk-free interest
rates of 5.54%, actual number of forfeitures, and an expected life of
approximately 3 years.

In connection with the Merger, the Company adopted the 1996 Non-Qualified
Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended and restated (the "1996 ESP Plan"). The
primary purpose of the 1996 ESP Plan is to encourage Common Stock ownership by
eligible directors, officers and associates (the "Participants") in the belief
that such ownership will increase each Participant's interest in the success of
the Company. Until January 1, 2000, the 1996 ESP Plan provided for two purchase
periods per year. A purchase period was a six month period beginning each
January 1 and July 1 and ending each June 30 and December 31, respectively.
Starting January 1, 2000, there is one purchase period per year, which begins
May 1 and ends October 31. Participants may contribute portions of their
compensation during a purchase period and purchase Common Stock at the end
thereof. One million shares of Common Stock were initially reserved for issuance
under the 1996 ESP Plan. Participation in the 1996 ESP Plan entitles each
Participant to purchase Common Stock at a price which is equal to the lesser of
85% of the closing price for a share of stock on the first day of such purchase
period or 85% of the closing price on the last day of such purchase period. The
Company issued 14,917, 34,055 and 35,408 shares under the 1996 ESP Plan for
2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

11. Fair Value of Financial Instruments

Cash and cash equivalent balances are held with various financial institutions
and may at times exceed the applicable Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
limit. The Company monitors credit ratings of these financial institutions and
the concentration of cash and cash equivalent balances with any one financial
institution and believes the likelihood of realizing material losses from the
excess of cash and cash equivalent balances over insurance limits is remote.

The following estimated fair values of financial instruments were determined by
management using available market information and established valuation
methodologies, including discounted cash flows. Accordingly, the estimates
presented are not necessarily indicative of the amounts the Company could
realize on disposition of the financial instruments. The use of different market
assumptions and/or estimation methodologies may have a material effect on the
estimated fair value amounts.

        -       Cash equivalents, rents receivable, accounts payable and accrued
                expenses, and other liabilities are carried at their face
                amounts, which reasonably approximate their fair values.



                                      F-22


        -       Bond indebtedness and notes payable with an aggregate carrying
                value of $2,082,769 and $1,729,924 had an estimated aggregate
                fair value of $2,191,115 and $1,765,402 at December 31, 2001 and
                2000, respectively.

12. Related Party Arrangements

Purchase of Mortgage Loan

An executive officer and former executive officer of the Company are partners of
an entity that is the general partner of Arbor Commons Associates Limited
Partnership ("Arbor Commons Associates"). Concurrently with Avalon's initial
public offering in November 1993, Avalon purchased an existing participating
mortgage loan made to Arbor Commons Associates that was originated by CIGNA
Investments, Inc. The mortgage loan is secured by the borrower's interests in
the Avalon Arbor community. This loan accrues interest at a fixed rate of 10.2%
per annum, payable at 9% per annum. The balance of the note receivable at both
December 31, 2001 and 2000 was $21,483. The balance of accrued interest on the
note receivable as of December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively, was $5,231 and
$4,450. Related interest income of $3,081, $3,009 and $2,943 was recorded for
2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. Under the terms of the loan, the Company (as
successor to Avalon) receives (as contingent interest) 50% of the cash flow
after the 10.2% accrual rate is paid and 50% of the residual profits upon the
sale of the community.

Sublease of San Jose Office Space to Greenbriar Homes

From September 1, 1999 to August 31, 2001, the Company subleased approximately
8,500 square feet of space in its San Jose office to Greenbriar Homes, for
approximately $20,552 per month. A director of the Company holds a controlling
interest in Greenbriar Homes. The lease has expired and Greenbriar no longer
subleases office space from the Company.

Unconsolidated entities

The Company manages several unconsolidated entities for which it receives
management fee revenue. From these entities the Company received management fee
revenue of $1,011, $691 and $612 in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

Indebtedness of Management

The Company has adopted a recourse loan program under which the Company lends
amounts to or on behalf of employees ("Stock Loans") equivalent to the estimated
employees' tax withholding liabilities related to the vesting of restricted
stock under the 1994 Plan. The balance of the extended Stock Loans to employees
was $1,133 and $770 as of December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The balance
of accrued interest on the notes receivable was $100 and $59 as of December 31,
2001 and 2000, respectively. Interest income on the notes of $62, $76, and $38
was recorded for 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

Pursuant to a Promissory Note and Pledge and Security Agreement dated June 15,
2000, the Company advanced a senior officer $457. Until the fifth anniversary of
this loan, the loan bears interest at the rate of 6.49%, which was the Long Term
Applicable Federal Rate in effect at the time the loan was made. After the fifth
anniversary, the loan will bear interest at 6.49%, or, if the prevailing Short
Term Applicable Federal Rate then in effect is greater than 10.49% or less than
2.49%, then at the prevailing Short Term Applicable Federal Rate thereafter in
effect from time to time. This is a full recourse loan, and in addition is
secured by Common Stock and rights to employee stock options owned by the
officer. Dividends on the Common Stock securing the loan are applied to payment
of interest and principal on the loan. The outstanding balance of the loan,
including accrued interest, was $428 and $448 as of December 31, 2001 and 2000,
respectively. Interest income of $28 and $14 relating to the loan was recorded
for 2001 and 2000, respectively. If this loan is not repaid in full by June 15,
2005, then at any time thereafter the Company in its sole discretion may demand
repayment. In addition, the officer will be required to repay the loan in full
within sixty days following his termination of employment with the Company for
any reason.



                                      F-23


Consulting Agreement with Mr. Meyer

In March 2000, the Company and Mr. Meyer announced that Mr. Meyer would retire
as Executive Chairman of the Company in May 2000. Although Mr. Meyer ceased his
day-to-day involvement with the Company as an executive officer, he continues to
serve as a director. In addition, pursuant to a consulting agreement, Mr. Meyer
agreed to serve as a consultant to the Company for three years following his
retirement for an annual fee of $1,395. In such capacity he assists with respect
to transitional matters that may arise in connection with his retirement, he
responds to requests for assistance or information concerning business matters
with which he became familiar while employed, and he provides business advice
and counsel to the Company with respect to business strategies and acquisitions,
dispositions, development and redevelopment of multifamily rental properties.

Director Compensation

A director of the Company who is also an employee receives no additional
compensation for his services as a director. Under the Stock Incentive Plan, on
the fifth business day following each annual meeting of stockholders, each of
the Company's non-employee directors automatically receives options to purchase
7,000 shares of Common Stock at the last reported sale price of the Common Stock
on the NYSE on such date, and a restricted stock (or deferred stock award) grant
of 2,500 shares of Common Stock. Subject to accelerated vesting under certain
limited circumstances, all of such stock options will become exercisable one
year after the date of grant and will expire ten years after the date of grant,
and such shares of restricted stock (or deferred stock awards) granted to
non-employee directors will vest at the rate of 20% on the date of issuance and
on each of the first four anniversaries of the date of issuance. If a director
elects to receive a deferred stock award in lieu of restricted stock, then at
the time of such election, the director also elects at what time in the future
he or she will receive shares of stock in respect of the vested portion of the
deferred stock award. The Company recorded compensation expense relating to
these awards in the amount of $624, $525 and $438 in 2001, 2000 and 1999,
respectively. Deferred compensation relating to the Board of Directors was $688
and $507 on December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

13. Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)

The following summary represents the quarterly results of operations for the
years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000:







14. Subsequent Events

In January 2002, the Company invested an additional $2,300 in Realeum, Inc., a
company involved in the development and deployment of a property management and
leasing automation system.



                                      F-24


                           AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                December 31, 2001
                             (Dollars in thousands)







                                      F-25


                           AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                December 31, 2001
                             (Dollars in thousands)







                                      F-26


                           AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                December 31, 2001
                             (Dollars in thousands)







                                      F-27


                           AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                December 31, 2001
                             (Dollars in thousands)







                                      F-28



                           AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                December 31, 2001
                             (Dollars in thousands)

Depreciation of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. building, improvements, upgrades and
furniture, fixtures and equipment (FF&E) is calculated over the following useful
lives, on a straight line basis:

Building - 30 years
Improvements, upgrades and FF&E - not to exceed 7 years

The aggregate cost of total real estate for Federal income tax purposes was
approximately $4.8 billion  at December 31, 2001.

The changes in total real estate assets for the years ended December 31, 2001,
2000 and 1999 are as follows:




The changes in accumulated depreciation for the years ended December 31, 2001,
2000 and 1999, are as follows:




                                      F-29




