
10-K405
IDEXX LABORATORIES, INC. FORM 10-K



 
================================================================================
 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
[X]   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
      ACT OF 1934
       FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996
 
                                       OR
 
[   ]   TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
        EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
       FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM __________ TO __________.
                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 0-19271
 
                            IDEXX LABORATORIES, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 

 
                                 (207) 856-0300
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:
                                      NONE
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:
                    Common Stock, $0.10 par value per share
                        Preferred Stock Purchase Rights
                                (Title of Class)
 
     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes  X   No ____
 
     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  X
 
     Based on the closing sale price on February 28, 1997, the aggregate market
value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the registrant was
$1,379,979,629. For these purposes, the registrant considers all of its
Directors and executive officers and The Jackson Laboratory to be its only
affiliates.
 
     The number of shares outstanding of the registrant's Common Stock was
38,060,871 on March 3, 1996.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 

 
================================================================================

 
ITEM 1.  BUSINESS
 
     IDEXX Laboratories, Inc. (the "Company" or "IDEXX", which include
wholly-owned subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires) develops,
manufactures and distributes detection and diagnostic products for animal
health, food, hygiene and environmental testing applications, and provides
laboratory testing and consulting services to veterinarians. The Company is a
developer, manufacturer and distributor of biology-based detection systems, a
developer and distributor of chemistry-based detection systems and a provider of
certain veterinary laboratory testing and specialized consulting services. The
substantial majority of the Company's revenue is currently derived from the sale
of products for animal health diagnostic applications, where the Company
believes it holds a leading market position. Building upon its expertise
developed in the animal health diagnostic market, IDEXX continues to expand its
product offerings in the food, hygiene and environmental markets. The Company
was incorporated in Delaware in 1983.
 
     The Company currently offers more than 400 products to customers in more
than 50 countries. These products range from single-use, hand-held test kits to
laboratory instrument systems designed to produce quantitative readings from
hundreds of samples during a single test procedure to approximately 300
dehydrated culture media products. The Company's veterinary products are used to
detect and monitor diseases, physiologic disorders, immune status, hormone and
enzyme levels, blood chemistry, electrolyte levels, blood cell counts and other
substances or conditions in animals. The veterinary testing services provided by
the Company include laboratory testing services provided in the United States,
the United Kingdom and Japan and consulting services of board-certified
veterinary medical specialists. The Company's food, hygiene and environmental
testing products are used to detect various contaminants in food, food
processing environments and water.
 
     IDEXX has developed leading positions in selected markets by determining
user needs for a particular application and by developing products which meet
those needs in a cost-effective manner. The Company's customer base includes
veterinarians, animal health laboratory managers, technicians and laboratory
officials for its veterinary products, and quality control personnel, food
processors and water laboratory personnel for its food, hygiene and
environmental products. Customers' purchasing decisions for IDEXX products and
services generally are based on relative accuracy, speed, convenience and cost.
The importance of these factors varies according to the specific application for
which the product or service is used. For some applications, the customer
requires a test which simply yields a positive or negative result or confirms
the presence or absence of the substance being tested. For other applications,
the customer requires a detection system that can quickly perform a large number
of tests and can provide quantitative information as to the levels of infection,
contaminant or other substance along with assistance in interpretation of the
test result.
 
INDUSTRY BACKGROUND
 
     Detection and diagnostic systems are used in a broad range of applications,
including animal health, food, hygiene and environmental testing. Diagnostic
testing for animal health purposes includes the detection and monitoring of
diseases, physiologic disorders, immune status, hormone and enzyme levels, blood
chemistry, electrolyte levels and other conditions. This testing is generally
conducted, for both companion and commercial animals, at either veterinary
clinics or commercial laboratories.
 
     The Company believes that the market for diagnostic products and services
for veterinary clinics is growing as a result of a number of trends. Advances in
biochemistry, immunochemistry, and cellular and molecular biology have led to
the development of point-of-care systems that permit on-site detection and
monitoring of diseases. Veterinarians are increasingly utilizing point-of-care
testing products for certain applications because such testing can provide
advantages in speed, accuracy, cost-effectiveness and customer convenience. For
example, the availability of test information during the office visit may allow
the veterinarian to initiate therapy immediately, which often results in
improved service. Additionally, the Company believes there is a trend in
veterinary medicine, as in human medicine, toward preventative care, including
more frequent veterinary visits not associated with a specific health problem
and tests for a broader range of diseases and conditions.
 

 
     IDEXX(R), Bind(R), Cardiopet(R), CITE(R), Colilert(R), Defined Substrate
Technology(R), DiaSystems(TM), DST(R), Enterolert(TM), Environetics(R),
FlockChek(R), HerdChek(R), IDEXX VetLab(TM), LacTek(TM), Lightning(R),
Parallux(TM), PetChek(R), Probe(R), Quanti-Tray(R), Screen Machine(TM), SNAP(R),
SimPlate(TM), VetLyte(R) and VetTest(R) are trademarks of the Company.
Autoread(TM), QBC(R) and VetAutoread(TM) are trademarks of Becton Dickinson and
Company.
 
     Food, hygiene and environmental testing includes the detection of
contaminants, residues and toxins in various types of food, food processing
plants, water and other environments. Factors influencing the growth of the
market for these types of testing products include the trend toward total
quality control in manufacturing processes, which is resulting in more intensive
testing of food, food processing environments and other environmental
conditions. In addition, technological advances in this market are leading to
the development and increased use of commercial test kits that are easier to
use, provide quicker test results and can offer potential cost savings.
 
IDEXX STRATEGY
 
     The Company's objective is to offer detection products and services for
animal health, food, hygiene, environmental and complementary markets in which
it believes it will be able to achieve a leading market position. IDEXX's
strategy to achieve this objective includes the following components:
 
     Adapt Existing Technologies to Needs of Target Markets.  An important
element in the Company's success has been its ability to adapt for its target
markets technologies that have been developed and commercialized by others in
human diagnostic markets or other applications. The Company has also expanded
its product lines by adapting biological or chemical technologies that the
Company has already successfully commercialized in its markets to new
applications or new markets. IDEXX has utilized these approaches to expand its
product line for animal health diagnostic applications and to extend its
diagnostic technologies to the food, hygiene and environmental markets.
 
     Provide Broad Line of Products and Services.  IDEXX believes that the
breadth of its product line and services has been an important factor in the
Company's success to date. The Company currently offers more than 400 products
within its markets. A broad product and service offering not only makes the
Company a more attractive vendor to its customers, but also enables IDEXX to
attain operating efficiencies by leveraging its distribution and service
capabilities, customer base and brand name. The Company plans to further expand
its product and service offerings in its animal health, food, hygiene and
environmental markets.
 
     Expand Recurring Revenue Base From Consumable Products.  The Company seeks
to develop and commercialize products that offer the opportunity to generate
repeat sales of consumable products to the Company's customers. Consumable
products currently offered by the Company include single-use tests, as well as
testing slides, hematology tubes and reagents used in connection with the
Company's instruments. In 1996, more than 60% of the Company's total revenue was
derived from the sale of consumable products.
 
     Expand Through Acquisitions and Strategic Alliances.  The Company has
expanded its product and service offerings and technology base through a number
of strategic acquisitions, including the acquisition of:
 
        - the VetTest S.A. veterinary clinical chemistry business in 1992;
 
        - the Environetics, Inc. Colilert water testing product line in 1993;
 
        - the AMIS International Co., KK ("AMIS") veterinary laboratory business
          in Japan in 1994;
 
        - the Cardiopet Incorporated ("Cardiopet") veterinary consulting service
          business in 1995;
 
        - the VetLab, Inc., Grange Laboratories Ltd., Veterinary Services, Inc.
          and Consolidated Veterinary Diagnostics, Inc. ("CVD") veterinary
          laboratory businesses, the Ubitech Aktiebolag animal diagnostic
          products business, and the Idetek, Inc. ("Idetek") food product
          testing business in 1996; and
 
        - the Acumedia Manufacturers, Inc. ("Acumedia") dehydrated culture media
          business in January 1997.
 

 
     IDEXX has also entered into a number of strategic licensing and
distribution arrangements to enhance its internal development capabilities and
broaden its product lines. For example, the Company distributes a veterinary
hematology system under a relationship with Becton Dickinson and Company
("Becton") and has licensed rights to polymerase chain reaction ("PCR")
technology used in its DNA probe test kits from Roche Molecular Systems, Inc.
("Roche"). IDEXX plans to continue to aggressively pursue strategic acquisitions
and licensing and distribution arrangements in the future to enhance its
position in its existing markets and possibly to extend its business into
complementary markets.
 
     Continue Commitment to Research and Development.  The Company believes that
the continued enhancement of its current product and service offerings and the
introduction of new products and services through its research and development
efforts are critical elements of its future success. The Company plans to
leverage its internal research and development efforts through strategic
relationships with other organizations. During 1996, research and development
personnel have been involved in more than 20 separate projects, ranging from
improvements in reagents, software and instruments to the development of new
products.
 
     Tailor Distribution Methods to Markets.  The Company seeks to achieve
significant distribution strength and efficiencies within its markets by
tailoring its distribution methods to best fit the characteristics of the
various types of customers that it serves. IDEXX currently has a total direct
field sales force of approximately 155 persons based in North America and
approximately 85 persons abroad. The Company believes it has the world's largest
direct sales force specifically addressing the market for veterinary diagnostic
test kits, instruments and services. The Company's direct sales force also
includes salespeople for both the food and hygiene and the environmental
markets. The Company also utilizes approximately 100 independent distributors
and other resellers worldwide for product sales as well as lead generation and
order fulfillment.
 
     Increase Penetration of International Markets.  The Company believes that
there are significant opportunities for growth in international markets.
International revenue has increased from $6.5 million, or 21% of total revenue,
in 1991, to $91.5 million, or 34% of total revenue, in 1996. To support its
international growth, IDEXX has established sales offices in Australia, Canada,
France, Italy, Germany, Japan, New Zealand, The Netherlands, Spain and the
United Kingdom.
 
     Emphasize Customer Service and Technical Support.  The Company seeks to
differentiate itself from competitors by offering superior technical support to
assist its customers in using its products and services and interpreting test
results. IDEXX currently employs more than 50 technical service personnel. The
Company believes that its technical support is critical both in solving
technical problems associated with its products and services and in educating
customers regarding improved diagnostic and testing practices.
 
THE COMPANY'S MARKETS
 
     The Company's products and services address the following markets:
 
     Veterinary Clinics.  The Company sells a broad range of point-of-care
diagnostic and detection products, for use by veterinarians in testing for a
variety of animal diseases and health conditions. IDEXX introduced its first
product for this market in 1986. In addition, the Company provides commercial
veterinary laboratory testing, consultation and advisory services for use by
veterinarians in a wide range of areas including pathology, virology, radiology
and cardiology. IDEXX first began providing services for this market in 1994.
 
     Food and Hygiene.  The Company sells detection systems and dehydrated
culture media for use by government agencies and businesses in testing for
certain contaminants, residues and toxins in various types of foods and food
processing environments. IDEXX began offering products for this market in 1985.
 
     Environmental.  IDEXX sells tests for use by government agencies and
businesses in detecting certain contaminants in drinking water. The Company
introduced its first product for this market in 1993.
 
     The chart on the following pages briefly describes each of these markets,
IDEXX's principal products in each market and the technologies and delivery
systems used by the Company in each market.
 

 

 

 
PRODUCTS
 
 -  ANIMAL HEALTH PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
 
  Veterinary Clinic Products
 
     The Company provides a range of testing products that enable veterinarians
to look at broad health indicators such as blood composition for indications of
anemia and infection to tests for specific viral and parasitic infections. The
Company markets a line of single-use, hand-held test kits, under the SNAP, CITE
Probe and CITE trademarks, to veterinary clinics and animal hospitals for the
detection of diseases and other conditions in dogs, cats, horses and cattle.
SNAP, CITE Probe and CITE test kits are designed to allow quick (in most cases,
less than ten minutes), accurate and convenient testing without the need for
laboratory equipment. These products enable veterinarians to provide improved
service to animal owners by delivering test results almost immediately, allowing
the veterinarians to initiate therapy during the office visit, if required.
 
     The Company offers SNAP, CITE Probe and CITE veterinary products to detect
feline leukemia ("FeLV") and feline immunodeficiency virus ("FIV") (which
resembles the human AIDS virus) in cats and heartworm disease in dogs and cats.
Other small animal assays include tests for Lyme disease in dogs, thyroid
hormone levels in dogs and cats, and parvovirus, which causes a gastrointestinal
disease in dogs. The Company's equine products test for immunity levels in
newborn foals, as well as for equine infectious anemia, a regulated disease in
the U.S. for which horses must be tested before they are allowed to cross state
lines.
 
     The Company has also developed a combination test, the SNAP Combo FeLV/FIV,
which enables veterinarians to test simultaneously for the FeLV and FIV viruses.
European and Canadian patents have issued and patent applications are pending in
the U.S. and Japan for this dual analyte test format.
 
     The Company also markets a line of enzyme immunoassay ("EIA")
microwell-based test kits, under the PetChek name, for testing in larger clinics
and independent laboratories serving the veterinary market. PetChek tests offer
accuracy, ease of use and cost advantages to high-volume customers. The Company
currently sells PetChek tests for feline leukemia virus, feline immunodeficiency
virus and heartworm disease.
 
     The Company markets several immunoassay test kits under the DiaSystems
trade name. These include microwell-based tests for feline infectious
peritonitis and equine infectious anemia, and an agar gel immunodiffusion test
for equine infectious anemia.
 
     The Company markets four instrument systems for use in veterinary clinics.
One of these systems, the VetTest blood chemistry analyzer, is used to measure
levels of certain enzymes and other substances in blood in order to assist the
veterinarian in diagnosing physiologic disorders. Twenty-one separate blood
chemistry tests can be performed on the VetTest system. The system is capable of
running up to 12 tests at a time on a single sample, and the Company also offers
prepackaged general health profiles which include 12 frequently used chemistries
and pre-anesthetic panels for young animals consisting of six chemistries each.
Commonly run tests include glucose, alkaline phosphate, albumin, creatinine,
urea and total protein. The second instrument sold by IDEXX is the VetLyte
system for measuring three electrolytes -- sodium, potassium and chloride --
which is useful in evaluating water and electrolyte balances and assessing
plasma condition. The third instrument is a hematology system used to evaluate
the components of the blood. This system and its proprietary reagents are
purchased from Becton. The fourth instrument, the VetTest SNAP Reader, allows
the veterinarian to obtain quantitative measurement of total T4 and cortisol
hormones. These measurements assist the veterinarian in diagnosing and
monitoring the treatment of certain endocrine diseases. The Company also
provides computer software which facilitates the integration of results obtained
on these four systems. This linkage of the four instrument systems as part of
the IDEXX VetLab allows the veterinarian to produce a report containing the same
types of information in a more timely manner than would typically be provided by
commercial laboratories performing the same tests.
 
  Veterinary Services
 
     During 1996, the Company, through its wholly-owned subsidiary IDEXX
Veterinary Services, Inc., acquired three commercial veterinary laboratory
businesses in the U.S., VetLab, Inc., Veterinary Services, Inc. and CVD. In
addition, the Company, through its wholly-owned subsidiary IDEXX Laboratories,
Limited
 

 
in the United Kingdom, acquired the assets of Grange Laboratories Ltd., a
commercial veterinary laboratory, in the United Kingdom. As a result of these
acquisitions, the Company provides a broad range of veterinary testing services
to approximately 4,000 veterinary clinics in the U.S. through facilities located
principally in California, Colorado, Illinois, Oregon and Texas and to more than
1,200 veterinary clinics in the United Kingdom through a facility located in
Wetherby, England. Veterinarians use the Company's services by submitting
samples by overnight delivery or courier to the appropriate Company facility
based on location, type of sample and workload at the facility.
 
     In 1994, the Company acquired the AMIS commercial veterinary laboratory in
Japan, which was originally established in 1987 by Japanese veterinary
specialists. This laboratory provides a broad range of testing services to more
than 2,600 veterinary clinics. Veterinary clinics submit samples by mail or
courier, and analyses are performed at the Company's offices in Tokyo.
 
     The Company intends to further expand into the veterinary laboratory
services business in the U.S. and other parts of the world through the opening
of additional locations and possible acquisitions.
 
     The Company also provides to veterinarians certain specialized consultation
and advisory services. Cardiopet, which was acquired by the Company in May 1995,
was originally established in 1979 by veterinarians to facilitate the provision
of electrocardiographic ("ECG") consulting services by board-certified
veterinarians. Since its founding, Cardiopet has expanded into areas such as
radiology, internal medicine, dermatology and ultrasound consulting. Cardiopet's
ECG and radiology services permit subscribing veterinarians to obtain readings
and interpretations of test results transmitted by telephone from the
veterinarian's offices on a fee-for-service basis. Such consulting services can
be provided during the course of a visit, thereby giving veterinarians immediate
access to experts in cardiology and radiology, as well as internal medicine and
dermatology consulting, by telephone. Cardiopet employs or retains as
consultants approximately 25 board-certified or board-eligible specialists, who
handle over 75,000 cases per year for over 6,500 veterinary clinics and
hospitals in the U.S., Canada and approximately 11 other countries.
 
  Laboratory Products
 
     The Company's instrument-based detection systems are used by government and
industry laboratories to test large numbers of samples simultaneously.
Applications include disease surveillance and health monitoring in poultry and
livestock and the diagnosis of diseases in dogs and cats. Accurate disease
testing can facilitate government and industry disease eradication programs and
enhance poultry and livestock production efficiency.
 
     The Company provides computer software with most of its laboratory test
systems to help veterinarians, laboratory professionals and government officials
analyze and use the data generated by IDEXX laboratory tests. For disease
surveillance and health monitoring programs, software helps users track
infection status at the individual herd level and at the state, regional and
national levels. For poultry production management applications, software
enables correlation of test results with specific health management programs
such as vaccinations, so that appropriate program changes may be made to improve
health and production efficiency.
 
     The Company's particle concentration fluorescence immunoassay ("PCFIA")
based systems are used in eradication programs for bovine brucellosis, a highly
contagious and economically significant bacterial disease in cattle. The
proprietary immunoassay reagents and other disposables supplied by IDEXX for the
brucellosis test are used with either a fully-automated Screen Machine system or
the lower-priced, semi-automated fluorescence concentration analyzer ("FCA")
instrument.
 
     The Company's HerdChek product line consists of several immunoassay kits
and related instruments which detect diseases in swine and cattle, including an
often fatal, highly contagious disease in swine caused by pseudorabies virus
("PRV") and a disease in cattle caused by infectious bovine rhinotracheitis
("IBR"). The disease caused by PRV is a target of eradication by state and
federal governments and in many countries worldwide. The HerdChek products
include tests that can distinguish antibody levels caused by certain genetically
engineered vaccines from antibody levels produced by the field strains of PRV
and IBR. The product line also includes a test for porcine reproductive
respiratory syndrome, a swine disease that has been
 

 
shown to have a severe health impact on infected herds, and for a cattle disease
known as bovine leukemia virus.
 
     The Company also has three test kits based on DNA probe technology,
marketed under the name IDEXX DNA Probe, for the diagnosis of Johne's disease
(Mycobacterium paratuberculosis) in cattle, and Mycoplasma gallisepticum ("MG")
and Mycoplasma synoviae ("MS") infections in poultry. Johne's disease causes
significant economic loss for cattle producers and is thus a target for disease
control efforts by producers, veterinarians and certain government agencies. The
IDEXX DNA Probe test for Johne's disease facilitates surveillance by providing
test results in days, rather than the months required by the traditional culture
method. Respiratory infections caused by MG or MS cause significant economic
loss for poultry breeders. The Company believes that its DNA Probe tests provide
more rapid and accurate results than culture methodologies.
 
     The Company's FlockChek product line currently consists of 18 enzyme
immunoassay test kits and related instrumentation and software used in poultry
health management programs. Extensive testing in breeder flocks, which produce
progeny flocks for egg and meat production, permits better management of vaccine
and therapeutic programs designed to enhance production efficiency. Kits in the
FlockChek product line are used to test for immunity to leading avian pathogens,
including Newcastle disease virus, infectious bursal disease virus, infectious
bronchitis virus, reovirus, mycoplasma and Salmonella enteriditis.
 
- -  FOOD, HYGIENE AND ENVIRONMENTAL PRODUCTS
 
     Detection products help assure the safety and wholesomeness of water and
food such as drinking water, dairy products, poultry and meat. Detection targets
include microbial contaminants such as total coliforms, E. coli, enterococci,
pathogenic bacteria such as Salmonella, toxins such as aflatoxin, and other
contaminants such as food and antibiotic residues.
 
     The Company currently offers several enzyme immunoassay test kits in the
SNAP, LacTek, CITE Probe and CITE formats which are used by food companies,
government laboratories and dairy producers to test for contaminants such as
antibiotic residues and aflatoxin in milk. These tests are used by dairy farmers
and food producers for incoming quality assurance of raw milk, and by government
and food quality managers for ongoing surveillance of food safety. IDEXX dairy
and food quality tests are designed for convenience in field and laboratory
testing applications and are calibrated for detection at specific levels of
sensitivity. While many of these tests are read visually, the Company's reader
instrumentation also enables users to obtain confirmation and a printed record
of test results of antibiotic residues in milk. The Company has received
Association of Official Analytical Chemists Research Institute ("AOAC-RI")
approval for its SNAP and LacTek tests kits for the detection of antibiotic
residues in milk.
 
     The Company also offers a fluorescent immunoassay technology called
Parallux which the Company expects to be used by food companies and government
laboratories to test for contaminants in milk and meat products. The Parallux
system includes the Parallux processor instrument and disposable test
cartridges. The Parallux system has been designed for ease of use in performing
and reading multiple analyte tests at one time.
 
     The Company's Colilert test is a Defined Substrate Technology medium which
simultaneously detects total coliforms and E. coli in drinking water. These
organisms are broadly used as indicators of microbial contamination. Colilert
serves as a rapid method for determining the presence or absence of both total
coliforms and E. coli, with results available in 24 hours. Colilert tests are
used by government laboratories, water utilities and private certified
laboratories to test drinking water in compliance with U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency ("US EPA") standards. The test is also used in evaluating
water used in production processes and in evaluating bottled water, recreational
water and water from private wells.
 
     The Company's Colilert-18 test is an optimized version of the Colilert
medium and provides results within 18 hours. The Company's Enterolert product is
also based on the Defined Substrate Technology and detects enterococci in
recreational waters with results available in 24 hours. The Quanti-Tray device,
when used in conjunction with the Company's Colilert, Colilert-18 or Enterolert
products, enables users to test for
 

 
microbiological contamination, and to obtain quantitative results without the
time-consuming steps associated with traditional methods.
 
     The Company's Colilert, Colilert-18, and Quanti-Tray products have been
approved by the US EPA. In addition, the Colilert test has also been approved in
Japan and Brazil and is under evaluation by regulatory agencies in Europe and
certain other countries in South America.
 
     The Company's hygiene products, which were introduced in May 1995 and are
marketed under the Lightning trade name, are designed for rapid and convenient
testing of cleaning effectiveness in food processing plants. The Lightning
system consists of a unit dose testing device, which is used to swab processing
and other surfaces to measure levels of adenosine triphosphate ("ATP"), and a
portable luminometer used to read test results. Results may be obtained within
one minute after a surface is swabbed. The luminometer also may be easily linked
to a printer or computer to enable users to maintain records of test results.
 
     The Company's new SimPlate product line consists of proprietary media and
an auto-aliquoting incubation vessel which detects and quantifies total
coliforms and E. coli or total bacteria concentration in food. The SimPlate
device is used with the Company's Defined Substrate Technology or Multiple
Enzyme Technology media, with results available in 24 hours. The SimPlate
product line was introduced in 1996 and is used by food quality managers for
ongoing surveillance of food safety.
 
     In January 1997, the Company acquired Acumedia, which produces a line of
dehydrated culture media products. Acumedia supplies more than 300 products
primarily used for bacteria detection in the food industry. The Company intends
to integrate the Acumedia products with its own test kits and instruments to
offer a broader range of diagnostic products primarily to the food and water
industry.
 
TECHNOLOGIES AND DELIVERY SYSTEMS
 
     The Company employs a wide range of technologies in the development and
support of its detection products. The performance of an immunoassay, a
microbiological test, a DNA probe test, or a blood biochemical, hematological,
electrolyte or hormone analysis requires a delivery system which is tailored to
the requirements of a particular application. The Company applies electrical,
mechanical and systems engineering technologies to design, develop, or adapt
delivery systems for each application. Each delivery system is capable of
detecting a range of analytes depending on the reagents and other chemicals
employed with a particular test. In addition, the Company develops software to
allow test data to be automatically analyzed for the customer and to integrate
the performance of its veterinary instruments.
 
- -  DETECTION TECHNOLOGIES
 
  Immunoassays
 
     Many IDEXX products incorporate immunoassay technology. Immunoassays are
tests based on antibody-antigen reactions. Antibodies are produced as a result
of an immune response, a biological mechanism that enables certain animals to
recognize and respond to substances foreign to the body, called antigens. Immune
system proteins, called antibodies, are provided by the immune system
specifically to bind to these antigens and also signal other immune system cells
to assist in eliminating the antigen. Antigens include viruses, bacteria,
parasites, and hormones. Immunoassays are most commonly used for diagnostic
applications where the presence or absence of a specific analyte is being
evaluated. Levels of detection are as low as one part per billion.
 
     In immunoassay-based tests, a sample containing an unknown quantity of the
analyte is mixed with one or more reagents. Certain of these reagents contain
either antibodies or antigens that bind in a highly specific manner to the
analyte. Certain reagents are labeled with an indicator chemical, which
identifies the presence or absence of the analyte. In some cases results can be
read visually; in others, instruments are used to determine the results.
 
     The Company has expertise in using two basic types of immunoassay labels --
enzyme labels and fluorescent labels. In EIAs, enzymes are used as labels, and
the test results are measured through a color
 

 
change. The presence or absence of an analyte is indicated by the development of
color in proportion to the amount of the analyte present in the sample. EIA
labels allow for simple visual interpretation of test results. The Company has
developed or adapted proprietary delivery systems for each of its immunoassay
products. In fluorescent immunoassays, the presence of an analyte is indicated
by fluorescence emitted by a fluorescent label and measured at certain
wavelengths by an instrument. The Company has used a licensed PCFIA technology
and a solid-phase fluorescence immunoassay ("SPFIA") technology to develop
fluorescence-based immunoassay tests. PCFIA- and SPFIA-based products are
capable of simultaneously performing tests for multiple analytes in a single
sample by using different fluorescent labels for each analyte.
 
  Immunoassay Delivery Systems
 
     SNAP and SNAP Image Reader.  The SNAP test device was developed by the
Company and introduced in 1992. The SNAP device incorporates reversible sample
flow and sequential release of on-board reagents which allow for a true
"hands-off" test protocol. This device is capable of performing
semi-quantitative and multiple analyte tests while requiring substantially less
user attended time than either CITE or CITE Probe. The Company also has
developed and markets the SNAP Image Reader, an instrument that reads and stores
results for certain SNAP antibiotic residue tests.
 
     CITE.  This single-use test, designed for veterinary clinics, quality
control laboratories and in-field testing, employs disposable single-sample CITE
(concentration immunoassay technology) test devices. The CITE device is a
plastic hand-held cylinder into which the user introduces appropriate quantities
of the test sample and various reagents. This device performs enzyme immunoassay
tests by using proprietary membrane filter technology based in part on
technology licensed from Hybritech Incorporated ("Hybritech"). IDEXX has
enhanced this technology by adding internal controls, which improve test
accuracy, and a prefilter, which permits the use of whole blood or other raw
samples and thereby minimizes time-consuming sample preparation requirements.
IDEXX has also applied this format to semi-quantitative and multiple-analyte
applications.
 
     CITE Probe.  CITE was the first immunoassay device to be widely accepted in
veterinary clinics. In response to customer needs, the Company has also
internally developed a membrane filter assay device, the CITE Probe, in which
test reagents are pre-measured and loaded into a reagent tray included with the
assay device. This eliminates the need for bottles and reagent mixing, thus
improving ease of use and reducing the opportunity for testing error. This
delivery device is particularly useful for customers who require a high degree
of convenience for single-sample testing. Like the initial CITE device, the CITE
Probe is capable of performing semi-quantitative and multiple-analyte testing.
 
     Microwell Systems.  The Company's EIA systems for medium-volume laboratory
applications consist of microwell-based test kits, instrumentation and software.
Samples and reagents are introduced into and washed from individual wells with
pipetters and washing systems. The color-based results are read either visually
or with a spectrophotometer, which provides semi-quantitative or quantitative
results. Proprietary software programs are used for data collection, analysis
and database applications. Major users are government laboratories, private
commercial laboratories and private livestock producers.
 
     Screen Machine.  The Company's Screen Machine, designed for high-volume
users, is a self-contained, fully automated instrument system capable of testing
approximately 1,000 samples in a two-hour test procedure. Reagents are loaded
separately into the Screen Machine in either liquid or coated-particle form and
are dispensed automatically as the test progresses. The Screen Machine uses
PCFIA technology to detect the presence and quantity of the target analyte or
analytes and uses proprietary software to present the results in a manner that
is highly specific and easily interpreted by the user. This instrument is
utilized in high-volume screening applications in the veterinary field, as well
as in biomedical research in pharmaceutical development and cancer research
applications.
 
     - FCA Instrument.  The Company's semi-automated FCA instrument, designed
for medium-volume laboratory users, also uses PCFIA detection technology.
Samples and reagents are introduced into and washed from individual microwells
with pipetters and washing systems. Although less automated than the Screen
 

 
Machine, FCA systems are capable of providing highly specific data for
approximately 90 samples tested in a single run.
 
     - LacTek.  The LacTek product line was acquired by the Company in August
1996. LacTek tests are designed for use by food quality assurance personnel to
detect drug residues in milk. These products are enzyme-linked immunosorbent
assays in which the drug residues in milk compete with an enzyme tracer for
antibody binding sites on the tube wall resulting in decreased color development
if the target drug is present. The results are obtained by running a standard
and reading the tubes with the LacTek Reader/Printer Instrument.
 
     - Parallux System.  The Parallux system was acquired by the Company in
August 1996. The system uses competitive SPFIA technology intended for the rapid
detection of specific analytes. The Parallux system consists of disposable test
cartridges to detect multiple analytes in conjunction with the Parallux
processor instrument. The sample is pipetted on to the test cartridge containing
the reagents and the instrument then performs the assay and displays and prints
the results.
 
  DNA Probes
 
     The Company currently has three products which incorporate DNA probe
technology. Unlike immunoassays, which are based upon the specific binding
capabilities of antigens and antibodies, DNA probes offer a direct means of
detecting the presence of certain organisms through the recognition of specific
DNA sequences unique to each organism. This technology is particularly effective
in differentiating closely related organisms which cannot be adequately
distinguished by current immunoassay technology. In a DNA probe assay, a
single-stranded, labeled DNA molecule called a probe, designed to be
complementary to a unique DNA sequence of the target organism, is introduced
into a test sample. The double-stranded DNA helix of the target is unwound at
elevated temperatures. If the target organism is present, the probe will
interact with the unique DNA sequences of that organism, forming stable,
double-stranded hybrids. The presence of the labeled probe, bound to the
complementary sequence of the target, is detected visually or with the aid of an
instrument. The Company's current DNA probe products utilize the patented PCR
technology licensed from Roche, which amplifies target DNA sequences several
million-fold and thereby facilitates the detection of minute amounts of DNA in a
sample. PCR technology also dramatically shortens the time needed for
traditional culture-based tests, which rely on the growth rate of the target
organism to reach to results compared to measurable levels.
 
  Blood Biochemistry
 
     Dry Slide Chemistry/VetTest Chemistry Analyzer.  The Company markets
products based on proprietary dry chemistry technology for the biochemical
analysis and measurement of certain substances in blood. The measurement of such
substances utilizing dry chemistry technology involves the reaction of a small
sample of serum or plasma with specific substances coated in layered film on a
small disposable slide. The levels of a target substance are indicated by color
changes created through biochemical reactions within the slide, and these color
changes are then measured and converted to clinically meaningful numeric values
using the IDEXX VetTest instrument system. The dry chemistry slides are supplied
by Johnson & Johnson Clinical Diagnostics, Inc. ("J&J") for use in the VetTest
instrument system for animal health applications. See "Business -- Production."
 
     The Company's VetTest chemistry analyzer can measure blood levels of 21
different substances associated with various organ functions and health
conditions. These substances include alanine aminotransferase, which is affected
by kidney and liver disorders; glucose, which is affected by diabetic
conditions; and creatine kinase, which is indicative of damage to the heart or
other muscles. The VetTest instrument system is semi-automated and capable of
running up to 12 different biochemical tests on a single sample in less than six
minutes. Disposable dry chemistry slides are loaded into the instrument and are
identified, through bar-coding, as to type of slide, manufacturing lot and other
parameters. Samples are applied to each slide by an integral fluid metering
probe. Assays are run and measured automatically and the test results are then
displayed or printed along with reference ranges and certain diagnostic
information.
 

 
  Ion-Specific Electrodes
 
     VetLyte Instrument.  IDEXX markets products for the measurement of certain
electrolytes in blood. These electrolytes (sodium, potassium and chloride) are
measured by ion-specific electrodes in a small semi-automated instrument, called
VetLyte. The monitoring of electrolyte levels with this technology can be
helpful in diagnosing certain disease conditions, dehydration and health
disorders that result from electrolyte imbalances.
 
     The Company distributes the VetLyte instrument which is manufactured for
IDEXX by AVL Scientific Corporation. Samples are introduced to the instrument
through a probe. The assay operation, including the addition of reagents from an
enclosed solution pack, is performed automatically. Test results are available
in less than one minute after sample introduction and are either displayed on
the VetLyte instrument or downloaded to the VetTest instrument. The VetLyte
system is self-calibrating.
 
  Centrifugal Hematology
 
     QBC(R) VetAutoread(TM) and QBC(R) V Systems.  IDEXX distributes, under an
OEM relationship with Becton, blood analyzers for veterinary applications known
as the QBC(R) VetAutoread(TM) and the QBC(R) V Systems. These hematology
instruments are based on Quantitative Buffy Coat technology, which uses
centrifugal force to separate a blood sample into its key components. The blood
sample is spun at high speed in a proprietary test device, and the different
components of the blood separate by density. The QBC(R) VetAutoread(TM)
instrument scans the blood tube, quantifies the different components and
calculates parameters. The QBC(R) V instrument requires the user to visually
scan the tube to quantify the blood components. These values are then compared
to normal ranges contained in the software of the instrument, which assists the
veterinarian in determining if there are disease states indicated that require
further investigation. Key components evaluated are red blood cells
(anemia/internal bleeding), white blood cells (infection, immunosuppression,
allergy), and platelets (clotting capability). The QBC(R) VetAutoread(TM)
instrument is based on the Becton QBC(R) Autoread(TM) System sold to physicians
in private practices for human applications.
 
  Quantitative Immunoassay Analyzer
 
     VetTest SNAP Reader.  IDEXX markets products for the measurement of total
T4 and cortisol hormones. IDEXX's quantitative immunoassay analyzer, known as
the VetTest SNAP Reader, provides quantitative measurement of total T4 and
cortisol hormones, which assists the veterinarian in diagnosing certain
endocrine diseases, such as hyper- and hypo-thyroidism, Cushing's syndrome and
Addison's disease. In addition, the analyzer allows the veterinarian to monitor
the effect of treatment on these diseases.
 
     The VetTest SNAP Reader is a module which can be integrated into the
VetTest chemistry analyzer. Samples and reagents are introduced to the
instrument using the Company's SNAP device. The quantitative measurement is
performed automatically with results available for interpretation in less than
15 minutes after sample introduction. The results are either displayed on the
VetTest SNAP Reader or downloaded to the VetTest analyzer.
 
  Defined Substrate Technology (DST)
 
     The Company markets products based on a microbiological technology that can
detect a single viable microbe in a sample. The Company's DST products utilize
indicator-nutrients which produce a change in color or fluorescence when
metabolized by target microbes in the sample. The specificity of the test is due
to the fact that only the organism of interest metabolizes the indicator
nutrient, thereby both indicating and confirming its presence. The first
application of DST is the Colilert test which is a US EPA approved test for
simultaneously detecting the presence or absence of total coliforms and E. coli
in drinking water. The Company has also introduced the Enterolert test for
enterococci, which is another indicator of fecal contamination in water. The
Company continues to pursue other microbiologically-based tests for the food and
environmental markets.
 
     The Company recently introduced a DST-based media which detects total
coliforms and E. coli in food. The media and food sample are dispensed into the
Company's SimPlate device, which is incubated for 24
 

 
hours, and the number of positive wells then counted and compared to a most
probable number table to determine the number of total coliforms and E. coli
present in the sample.
 
  Multiple Enzyme Technology (MET)
 
     The Company also has introduced MET media for use with the SimPlate device.
The MET product correlates enzyme activity to the presence of viable bacteria in
food using multiple enzyme substrates which fluoresce when hydrolyzed by
bacterial enzymes. Reading and quantification of total viable bacteria is
achieved by incubating the media with the food sample in the SimPlate device for
24 hours and then counting the fluorescent wells. The total count of fluorescent
wells is then compared against a most probable number table to determine the
number of bacteria present in the sample.
 
  Hygiene Monitoring
 
     The Company's Lightning product line, introduced in May 1995, employs a
unit dose test device to swab food production surfaces. The Lightning swab
device is then used to release sequentially on-board reagents to determine the
presence and level of ATP, which is present in food residues. Detection of ATP
is accomplished by bioluminescence, the production of light by the reaction
between the swab reagents and ATP. A luminometer instrument reads the test
result and detects the presence and level of ATP on the swabbed surface.
 
- - Other Technologies
 
     IDEXX has developed and applied other core technologies to enhance its
diagnostic products, to facilitate their manufacture, and to extend product
dating. These technologies include: the development and production of monoclonal
antibodies used in test reagents; the synthesis, cloning and sequencing of DNA;
the expression of recombinant proteins; the isolation, production and
purification of various viral and bacterial pathogens used to detect antibodies;
the synthesis, modification and conjugation of organic molecules such as drugs;
the modification and conjugation of synthetic DNA and large protein molecules;
the chemical modification of materials used in test delivery formats for optimum
test performance; and the development of software-based "diagnostic systems" and
communication protocols to link various IDEXX instrument systems together.
 
MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION
 
     IDEXX markets, sells and services its products in more than 50 countries
through a marketing, sales and technical service group as well as through
approximately 100 independent distributors and other resellers, including more
than 85 independent distributors outside of the U.S. Since the beginning of
1996, the Company has increased its field sales organization and related
personnel from 364 to 452 people in order to provide better product marketing
capabilities and customer service.
 
     The Company selects the appropriate distribution channel for its products
based on the type of product, technical service requirements, number and
concentration of customers, regulatory requirements and other factors. The
Company markets its livestock and poultry monitoring products directly to
laboratories and other customers through IDEXX salespeople located in the U.S.,
Europe, Japan, Canada and Australia. Those products are also sold through
distributors in Japan and several other countries. The Company markets its
veterinary clinic products (including the VetTest and hematology product lines)
to veterinarians both directly and through independent veterinary distributors
in the U.S., with most instruments sold directly by IDEXX sales personnel and
reagents supplied both via the distribution channel and directly. Outside the
U.S., IDEXX sells its veterinary clinic products through independent
distributors and other resellers and, in certain European countries, Australia,
Japan and Canada, through its direct sales force. The Company markets its water
testing, food quality control and research products primarily through its direct
sales force in the U.S. and Canada. Outside the U.S. and Canada, IDEXX markets
these products through its direct sales force and through selected independent
distributors in certain markets. In addition, IDEXX markets its veterinary
laboratory services through its direct sales force in the U.S., the United
Kingdom and Japan.
 

 
     IDEXX consumable products generally are sold as either "test kits" or
reagent systems specific to instruments that the Company markets. Test kits
include specialized immunoassay reagents, microbiological reagents, or DNA
probes, designed to test for a specific disease, contaminant or condition. The
Company's visually read tests usually are sold in packs consisting of disposable
tests or devices and reagents sufficient to conduct from five to 200 tests. The
Company's test kits for instrument systems typically include disposable test
plates, slides, hematology tubes, hygiene swabs or reagents sufficient to
conduct from 24 to 10,000 tests. The Company also markets the instruments, data
processing equipment, computer software and certain other supplies needed for
its testing systems.
 
     The list prices of the Company's test kits range from approximately $25 to
$4,000 per kit. The list prices of the Company's test instruments range in price
from approximately $1,000 to more than $70,000. Users of the Company's
instrument-based test systems typically purchase on a recurring basis the
reagents, slides, tubes and other disposables used with the system, along with
service and maintenance contracts.
 
     The Company maintains sales offices outside the U.S. in Australia, France,
Germany, Italy, Japan, New Zealand, The Netherlands, Spain, and the United
Kingdom. Each of the sales offices purchases products from the Company at an
established transfer price and manages its own selling and order processing
functions. The Company's Japanese office also supports both direct sales of its
products and marketing by its distributors, as well as providing commercial
veterinary laboratory services. In addition, the Company's Cardiopet subsidiary,
which is based in New Jersey, provides specialized consultation services to
veterinarians. The Company supports the marketing of its veterinary laboratory
services business from its facility located in Westbrook, Maine.
 
     In 1994, 1995 and 1996, 27%, 34%, and 34% respectively, of the Company's
revenue was attributable to sales of products and services to customers outside
the U.S. Risks associated with foreign operations include the need for
additional regulatory approvals, possible disruptions in transportation of the
Company's products, the differing product needs of foreign customers,
difficulties in building and managing foreign operations, fluctuations in the
value of foreign currencies, import/export duties and quotas, and unexpected
regulatory, economic or political changes in foreign markets. The Company
engages in limited hedging activities to reduce the effect of foreign currency
fluctuations on its earnings.
 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
 
     The Company's research and development activities are focused on the
enhancement of its existing detection systems, the development of new test kits
for additional diagnostic applications, and the development of new types of
detection systems incorporating advances in immunology, cell and molecular
biology, microbiology, DNA probes and other technologies.
 
     The Company seeks to enhance its competitive position in each of its
markets by continually developing new products to meet evolving customer needs.
These new products constitute both enhancements of existing products and the
introduction of products based on new technologies or delivery systems. Since
1985, the Company has developed and introduced approximately 100 test kits and
other products, including ten new test kits in 1996. During 1996, research and
development personnel have been involved in more than 20 separate projects,
ranging from improvements in reagents, software and instruments to the
development of entirely new products.
 
     IDEXX had 83 employees as of December 31, 1996 in research and development,
including 36 scientists with doctoral degrees. The Company's research and
development expenses were approximately $8.2 million, $10.2 million and $12.2
million in 1994, 1995 and 1996, respectively.
 
PATENTS AND LICENSES
 
     The Company holds 12 U.S. patents and has filed patent applications for 17
other processes or products. The Company also holds three foreign patents and
has filed 16 foreign patent applications which correspond to U.S. patents and
patent applications of the Company.
 

 
     The Company also has pursued a strategy of licensing patents and
technologies from third parties to provide it with competitive advantages in its
selected markets and to accelerate new product introductions. These licenses
include an exclusive royalty-bearing license for diagnostic products for the
feline immunodeficiency virus from The Regents of the University of California,
and an exclusive royalty-bearing license for the Defined Substrate Technology
utilized in the Colilert test.
 
     The Company currently licenses certain technologies used in its products
from third parties, and expects to continue to do so in the future. Moreover, to
the extent the Company's products embody technologies protected by patents,
copyrights or trade secrets of others, the Company may be required to obtain
licenses to such technologies in order to continue to sell such products. There
can be no assurance that any technology licenses which the Company desires or is
required to obtain will be available on commercially reasonable terms. The
failure to obtain any such licenses may delay or prevent the sale by the Company
of certain new or existing products.
 
     From time to time the Company receives notices from third parties alleging
that the Company's products infringe the proprietary rights of third parties. In
May 1995, The Jewish Hospital of St. Louis filed suit against the Company
alleging that the Company's canine heartworm products infringe a patent owned by
the hospital for the diagnosis of heartworm infection in dogs. In addition, the
Company has brought a patent infringement suit against Millipore Corporation
relating to patents for the Colilert product. See "Legal Proceedings."
 
PRODUCTION
 
     The Company's test kits consist of the components required to perform a
specific test in a reproducible and uniform manner. These components typically
include antibodies, antigens or DNA probes, specialized chemical reagents,
reference standards required to measure the test results, certain other supplies
and appropriate packaging. The Company designs and assembles these kits in a
production process subject to quality control procedures. In addition, the
Company undertakes clinical testing or field trials of new tests before they are
marketed.
 
     The Company's assay delivery systems include automated and semi-automated
instrument systems, proprietary computer software and related immunoassay test
plates, and disposable devices and the DST and MET product lines.
 
     Certain components of the Company's products are available from only one
source. The Company purchases all of its CITE devices from Hybritech. The
colorimetric enzyme readout of the Company's SNAP product line is only available
from one supplier. The Company purchases all of its VetTest slides from J&J and
all of its hematology components from Becton. In addition, certain key
components of the Colilert product are only available from a single source. The
Company purchases the components of its Lightning devices and luminometers from
single sources. The Company also purchases certain of the components for its
LacTek Reader/Printer instrument from single sources. While the Company does not
anticipate difficulties in obtaining the components used in its products, the
loss of any of these sources of supply would have a material adverse effect on
the Company. The Company has contractual commitments or outstanding purchase
orders with J&J, Sanyo Electric Co., Ltd. ("Sanyo") and Becton covering its
anticipated 1997 requirements for slides, VetTest analyzers, hematology reagents
and instruments.
 
     The Company has a Supply Agreement with J&J, as assignee of Eastman Kodak
Company (as amended, the "J&J Agreement"), relating to the manufacture and sale
by J&J of slides (the "VetTest Slides") designed for use in the VetTest
analyzer. The J&J Agreement provides for J&J to sell the VetTest Slides,
packaged both as single chemistries, as general health profiles and as
pre-anesthetic panels for young animals, to the Company in amounts based on
forecasts provided by the Company from time to time. The Company is required to
purchase all of its requirements for slides from J&J to the extent available. In
addition, the Company has committed to minimum annual purchase volumes of single
chemistry VetTest Slides during the term of the J&J Agreement. The J&J Agreement
does not prohibit J&J from selling comparable slides or licensing its slide
technology for use in veterinary applications and J&J currently sells comparable
slides for use in its own analyzer, which is primarily designed for human
applications but is also used in the veterinary market. Although the Company
does not believe sales by J&J in the veterinary market currently have a
 

 
material adverse effect on the business of the Company, there can be no
assurance that such sales will not have such a material adverse effect in the
future. The J&J Agreement expires on December 31, 2006 and contains provisions
for the negotiation of a renewal term of five years.
 
     The Company has an agreement with Sanyo for the supply of VetTest analyzers
(the "Sanyo Agreement"). The Sanyo Agreement provides for Sanyo to manufacture
VetTest analyzers for the Company in quantities the Company designates from time
to time. The Sanyo Agreement is in effect through December 31, 1997, and
continues to renew automatically for one-year periods unless either party
notifies the other of its decision not to renew.
 
     The QBC(R) VetAutoread(TM) and QBC(R) V Systems are manufactured for IDEXX
by Becton, and are covered by a development and distribution agreement which
requires Becton to supply instruments to IDEXX through 2001 and reagents through
2003. IDEXX has committed to minimum annual purchases of instruments and
reagents under the agreement.
 
     Substantially all of the Company's revenue in each quarter results from
orders booked in that quarter. Accordingly, the Company maintains no significant
backlog and believes that its backlog at any particular date is not indicative
of future sales.
 
COMPETITION
 
     Competition in the Company's markets is intense. IDEXX competes with a
large number of companies ranging from very small businesses to large health
care and other companies, many of which have substantially greater financial,
manufacturing, marketing and product and service research resources than the
Company. In general, the particular companies with which IDEXX competes vary
with the Company's different markets. The Company competes primarily on the
basis of the ease of use, speed, accuracy and other performance characteristics
of its products, the breadth of its product line, the effectiveness of its sales
and distribution channels, customer service and pricing.
 
     Academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private
research organizations are also conducting research activities and may
commercialize products on their own or through joint ventures. The existence of
competing products, services or procedures that may be developed in the future
may adversely affect the marketability of products and services developed by the
Company. The Company's competitive position will also depend on its ability to
attract and retain qualified scientific and other personnel, develop effective
proprietary products, implement production and marketing plans, obtain patent
protection and obtain adequate capital resources.
 
GOVERNMENT REGULATION
 
     Most diagnostic tests for animal health applications are regulated in the
U.S. by the Center for Veterinary Biologics within the U.S. Department of
Agriculture's ("USDA") Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service ("APHIS"). The
APHIS regulatory process involves the submission of product performance data and
manufacturing documentation. Subsequent to regulatory approval to market a
product, APHIS requires that each lot of product be submitted for review prior
to release to customers. In addition, APHIS requires special approval for
marketing products where test results are used in part for government-mandated
disease management programs. A number of foreign governments accept APHIS
approval as part of their separate regulatory approvals. However, compliance
with an extensive regulatory process is required in connection with marketing
products in Japan, Germany, The Netherlands and many other countries.
 
     The Company also is required to have a facility license from APHIS to
manufacture USDA-licensed products at its facility. The Company has obtained
such a license for its current manufacturing facility.
 
     The Company also submits certain of its products for government or industry
certification which is not legally required in order to market the product but
which may be required by customers purchasing the product.
 
     Certain non-diagnostic products of the Company are used in animal health
applications but do not currently require licensing by APHIS or most foreign
governments. From time to time other federal agencies
 

 
and Congressional committees have indicated an interest in implementing further
regulation of the biotechnology industry. The Company is unable to predict
whether any such regulations will be adopted or whether, if adopted, such
regulations will adversely affect the Company's business.
 
     The Colilert product has been approved by the US EPA and the Japanese
Ministry of Health and Welfare for drinking water testing. The Company has also
received Association of Official Analytical Chemists ("AOAC") approval for the
use of Colilert for testing water used as an ingredient in food or in the
production of food. The Company's Colilert-18 product has been approved by the
US EPA and submitted to United Kingdom regulatory authorities for approval. Use
of this technology for other applications may require regulatory approval from
those agencies, as well as the USDA and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
(the "US FDA"). In addition, the Company's SimPlate product used in conjunction
with the Defined Substrate Technology and the Multiple Enzyme Technology has
been approved by the AOAC for their use in food testing.
 
     The US FDA has recommended certification requirements for certain test kits
used in dairy applications. The Company is in compliance with the recommended
requirements and has received AOAC-RI approval for its SNAP and LacTek
Beta-Lactam test kits. It is expected that the US FDA will impose further
requirements in this area.
 
     Any acquisitions of new products and technologies may subject the Company
to additional areas of government regulation. These may involve food, drug and
water quality regulations of the US FDA, the US EPA and the USDA, as well as
state, local and foreign governments.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
     As of December 31, 1996, IDEXX had 1515 full-time and part-time employees,
including 452 in marketing and sales, 83 in research and development, 762 in
manufacturing and distribution and 218 in corporate and administration. The
Company is not a party to any collective bargaining agreement and believes that
relations with its employees are good.
 
ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES
 
     IDEXX leases approximately 232,000 square feet of industrial space in
Westbrook, Maine, which lease expires in 2008. IDEXX also leases approximately
75,000 square feet of industrial space in Memphis, Tennessee for use as a
distribution facility. The lease for the Tennessee facility expires in 2007.
IDEXX also leases smaller office, manufacturing and warehouse spaces in the U.S.
and elsewhere in the world, including 15,000 square feet in Cergy, France which
serves as an office and distribution facility for Europe and 20,000 square feet
in Sunnyvale, California which serves as additional research and development
space. In addition, the Company owns or leases approximately 75,000 square feet
of space in the U.S. and the United Kingdom for use as veterinary reference
laboratories and office space for its veterinary consulting services. Of this
space, 50,000 square feet is owned by the Company and the remaining amount is
leased, which leases have varying expiration dates up to the year 1999.
 
ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
     On February 4, 1993, the Company acquired Environetics, Inc.
("Environetics"), which brought a patent infringement suit with Stephen Edberg,
Ph.D. against Millipore Corporation ("Millipore") in the U.S. District Court for
the District of Connecticut on September 30, 1992 (the "Millipore I suit"). The
complaint in the Millipore I suit was subsequently amended to add as additional
plaintiffs Access Medical Systems, Inc., a subsidiary of the Company ("Access"),
and Stephen C. Wardlaw, M.D. The primary relief sought by the plaintiffs is an
injunction against Millipore which would prevent Millipore from selling a
competitive product that the plaintiffs believe infringes U.S. Patent No.
4,925,789 (the "'789 Patent") covering the Company's Colilert product, under
which Access and Environetics have an exclusive license from Drs. Edberg and
Wardlaw. Millipore has filed a counterclaim alleging that the patent is invalid
or not infringed.
 
     In addition, on July 26, 1995 the Company, Environetics, Access and Drs.
Edberg and Wardlaw brought a second patent infringement suit against Millipore
in the U.S. District Court for the District of Connecticut
 

 
(the "Millipore II suit"). The principal relief sought by the plaintiffs in the
Millipore II suit is an injunction against Millipore which would prevent
Millipore from selling a product which the plaintiffs believe infringes U.S.
Patent No. 5,429,933 (the " '933 Patent"), which also covers the Colilert
product. The '933 Patent, which is related to the '789 Patent, was issued in
July 1995 to Dr. Edberg. Access and Environetics have an exclusive license under
the '933 Patent from Drs. Edberg and Wardlaw. Millipore has filed a counterclaim
alleging that the '933 Patent is invalid or not infringed and is seeking to add
a counterclaim alleging misappropriation of trade secrets. If the plaintiffs do
not prevail in the Millipore I and Millipore II suits, the Company anticipates
that the Colilert product would encounter increased competition, which could
adversely affect sales of the Colilert product.
 
     On February 24, 1995, CDC Technologies, Inc. ("CDC Technologies") filed
suit against the Company in the U.S. District Court for the District of
Connecticut. In its complaint, CDC Technologies alleges that the Company's
conduct in, and its relationships with its distributors in connection with, the
distribution of the Company's hematology products (i) violate federal and state
antitrust statutes, (ii) violate Connecticut statutes regarding unfair trade
practices, and (iii) constitute a civil conspiracy and interfere with CDC
Technologies' business relations. The relief sought by CDC Technologies includes
treble damages for antitrust violations, as well as compensatory and punitive
damages, and an injunction to prevent the Company from interfering with CDC
Technologies' relations with distributors. The Company has filed an answer
denying the allegations in CDC Technologies' complaint. The Company is unable to
assess the likelihood of an adverse result or estimate the amount of any damages
the Company may be required to pay. Any adverse outcome resulting in the payment
of damages would adversely affect the Company's results of operations.
 
     On May 26, 1995, The Jewish Hospital of St. Louis (the "Hospital") brought
a suit against the Company which is currently pending in the U.S. District Court
for the District of Maine for infringement of U.S. Patent No. 4,839,275 issued
June 13, 1989 (the " '275 Patent"). The '275 Patent, which is owned by the
Hospital, claims certain methods and compositions for the diagnosis of canine
heartworm infection. The primary relief sought by the Hospital is an injunction
against the Company which would prevent the Company from selling canine
heartworm diagnostic products which infringe the '275 Patent, as well as treble
damages for past infringement. While the Company believes that it has
meritorious defenses in this matter, the Company is unable to assess the
likelihood of an adverse result or estimate the amount of any damages the
Company may be required to pay. If the Company is precluded from selling canine
heartworm diagnostic products or required to pay damages or make additional
royalty or other payments with respect to such sales, the Company's business and
results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.
 
     On September 18, 1995, Purisys Inc. ("Purisys"), a producer of home
pollution test kits, and certain of its employees filed suit against the Company
in the Supreme Court of the state of New York. In their complaint, the
plaintiffs allege that the Company has breached promises and made negligent
misrepresentations, and has breached fiduciary and other duties. The plaintiffs
are seeking damages in excess of $50.0 million. The Company purchased a 15%
equity interest in Purisys in August 1994 for $616,000, and the Company
subsequently advanced additional amounts to Purisys to purchase certain
international distribution rights. In March 1995, the Company ceased advancing
funds to Purisys, which filed for protection under the Bankruptcy Code in July
1995. While the Company believes it has meritorious defenses, the Company is
unable to assess the likelihood of an adverse result or estimate the amount of
any damages which the Company may be required to pay. Any adverse outcome
resulting in the payment of damages would adversely affect the Company's results
of operations.
 
ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
     No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report.
 

 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY
 
     The executive officers of the Company are as follows:
 

 
     Mr. Shaw founded the Company in 1983, has served as its Chief Executive
Officer since 1983, and served as its President from 1983 until October 1993.
Prior to founding the Company, he was a Vice President of Agribusiness
Associates, Inc., an international management consulting firm.
 
     Dr. Workman joined the Company in July 1984. He became President and a
Director of the Company in October 1993. Before joining the Company, he was
Manager of Research and Development for the Hepatitis and AIDS Business Unit
within the diagnostic division of Abbott Laboratories.
 
     Mr. Carlton joined the Company in February 1997 as Senior Vice President,
Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Carlton was a Senior
Vice President with the investment banking firm of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette,
from March 1995 until he joined the Company. From 1986 to March 1995, he was
with the investment banking firm of Goldman, Sachs & Co., where he served in
various capacities, the most recent being as a Vice President.
 
     Mr. Bachofner joined the Company in April 1996 as a Vice President, with
responsibility for European operations. From 1988 through February 1996, he was
the Chief Executive Officer of Industrial Innovation Management S.A., a venture
capital business in Nyon, Switzerland.
 
     Mr. Bobe joined the Company in November 1996 as a Vice President, with
responsibility for corporate development. From 1977 through October 1996, he was
employed by Fermenta Animal Health Company, Inc., a veterinary animal products
manufacturer, where he served in various capacities, the most recent being as
President, Chief Executive Officer and a director of the company.
 
     Mr. MacKinnon became a Vice President of the Company and President and
General Manager of the Company's Veterinary Products Division in December 1994.
Since joining the Company in 1987, Mr. MacKinnon has held a variety of positions
in veterinary products marketing, and was most recently a Divisional Vice
President for Corporate Development from July 1993 through December 1994. Prior
to joining the Company, he was with Proctor & Gamble from 1985 to 1987.
 
     Mr. Pollock became a Vice President of the Company in December 1994 and is
President and General Manager of the Company's Food and Environmental Division.
Mr. Pollock joined the Company in 1986 and served in positions of increasing
responsibility in veterinary products sales management prior to serving as
President of the Company's International Division from December 1994 to March
1996. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Pollock was employed in various sales
and marketing positions with Abbott Laboratories.
 
     Ms. Raines joined the Company in 1985 as Controller and served as Director
of Finance from 1988 until March 1995, when she was promoted to Division Vice
President, Finance. She assumed her present position in May 1995.
 

 
PART II.
 
ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS
 
     The Common Stock is quoted on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol
IDXX. The following table sets forth for the periods indicated the high and low
closing sales prices per share of the Common Stock as reported on the Nasdaq
National Market.
 

 
     As of December 31, 1996, there were 1,333 holders of record of the
Company's Common Stock.
 
     The Company has never paid any cash dividends on its Common Stock and does
not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The Company
currently intends to retain future earnings to fund the development and growth
of its business.
 
     In August 1996, in connection with the merger of Idetek into a wholly-owned
subsidiary of the Company, the Company issued 436,804 shares of its Common Stock
to the shareholders of Idetek in exchange for all of the outstanding capital
stock of Idetek. The Common Stock issued by the Company in the merger was exempt
from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities
Act"), in reliance upon Section 3(a)(10) of the Securities Act and a Permit
issued by the California Department of Corporations pursuant to Section 25121 of
the California Corporations Securities Law of 1968.
 
     In July 1996, in connection with the acquisition of CVD, the Company issued
a three-year unsecured note payable for approximately $3 million bearing
interest at an annual rate of 8% to CVD. The note issued by the Company was
exempt from registration under the Securities Act in reliance upon Section 4(2)
of the Securities Act.
 

 
ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
     The following table sets forth selected consolidated financial data of the
Company for each of the years ended December 31, 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995 and
1996. The selected consolidated financial data presented below for the five-year
period ended December 31, 1996 have been derived from the Company's consolidated
financial statements, which have been audited by Arthur Andersen LLP,
independent public accountants. These financial data should be read in
conjunction with the consolidated financial statements, related notes and other
financial information appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-K.
 

 

 
- ---------------
 
(1) The statement of operations data reflect the Company's acquisition of ETI
    Corporation ("ETI") in February 1993, which was accounted for as a pooling
    of interests; accordingly, the results of operations for ETI have been
    included in the results of operations for all periods presented.
 

 
ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS
 
[] RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
  1996 Compared to 1995
 
     Revenue for 1996 increased 42% to $267.7 million from $188.6 million in
1995. The increase in revenue was principally attributable to increased sales of
veterinary clinical chemistry consumables, veterinary laboratory services
resulting from acquisitions of veterinary reference laboratories, canine test
products, and a quantitative thyroid instrument introduced in the first quarter
of 1996. Price increases in the veterinary clinical products also contributed to
the increase in revenue.
 
     International revenue increased 41% to $91.5 million in 1996 compared to
$65.0 million in 1995. Increased revenue in Europe, which included revenue of
Grange Laboratories Ltd. and Ubitech Aktiebolag acquired during 1996, accounted
for 44% of the increase in international revenue and increased revenue in Japan
accounted for 33% of the increase in international revenue for 1996 compared to
1995. The remaining increase was primarily attributable to increased revenues in
Canada, Asia and Australia. Revenue of the Company's European subsidiaries,
transacted in local currencies, increased 28% in 1996 compared to 1995. In U.S.
dollars, the European revenue increase was 24% to $59.9 million in 1996 compared
to $48.2 million for 1995.
 
     Gross profit as a percentage of revenue was 58% for 1996 compared to 57%
for 1995. Operating and purchasing efficiencies and higher selling prices of
certain veterinary clinical chemistry products exceeded the unfavorable impact
of product mix, which resulted principally from lower margins generated by the
acquisitions of veterinary reference laboratories in 1996.
 
     Sales and marketing expenses were 25% of revenue in 1996 and 1995. The
dollar increase of $19.5 million was principally attributable to additional
personnel in sales functions worldwide.
 
     Research and development expenses were 5% of revenue in 1996 and 1995. The
dollar increase of $2.0 million reflected additional resources and related
overhead to support product development.
 
     General and administrative expenses were 11% and 9% of revenue in 1996 and
1995, respectively. The increase as a percentage of revenue and the dollar
increase of $11.2 million were principally attributable to additional operating
expenses and acquisition costs associated with acquisitions and higher legal
expenses in 1996.
 
     Net interest income was $8.3 million in 1996 compared to $4.1 million in
1995. The increase in interest income was due to higher invested cash balances
outstanding during 1996 versus 1995, due in large part to a public stock
offering completed in September 1995 that generated approximately $153.0 million
in net proceeds.
 
     The Company's effective tax rate was 41% in 1996 compared to 42% in 1995.
The decrease in the effective tax rate was principally attributable to income
generated in states with lower income tax rates.
 
  1995 Compared to 1994
 
     Total revenue for 1995 increased 49% to $188.6 million from $126.4 million
for 1994. The increase in total revenue was principally attributable to
increased unit sales of veterinary clinical chemistry and hematology consumables
and instruments, test kits for feline viruses, canine heartworm, and other
applications. Other important contributors to revenue growth included tests to
detect contaminants in food, food processing plants and drinking water. Price
increases in the veterinary clinic products also contributed to the increase in
revenue.
 
     International revenue increased 89% to $65.0 million compared to $34.3
million in 1994. Increased revenue in Europe accounted for 67% of the increase
in international revenue for 1995. The remaining increase was primarily
attributable to increased revenue in Canada, Japan and Australia. Revenue of the
Company's three European subsidiaries, transacted in local currencies, increased
60% in 1995 compared to 1994. In U.S. dollars, the European revenue increase was
75% to $48.2 million in 1995 compared to $27.5 million in 1994.
 

 
     Gross profit as a percentage of revenue was 57% for 1995 compared to 58%
for 1994. Operating efficiencies and higher selling prices for certain
instruments and consumables were more than offset by the impact of product mix,
as revenue growth of lower margin instruments, consumables and services exceeded
the revenue growth in higher margin diagnostic kit products.
 
     Sales and marketing expenses were 25% of revenue in 1995 as compared to 23%
in 1994. The increase as a percentage of revenue and the dollar increase of
$18.4 million were attributable principally to additional sales personnel in
sales functions worldwide and increased expenses for marketing programs related
to the Company's veterinary clinic products.
 
     Research and development expenses were 5% of revenues in 1995 compared to
7% in 1994. In dollars, such expenses increased 24% in 1995, reflecting
additional resources and related overhead to support product development.
 
     General and administrative expenses declined from 10% in 1994 to 9% of
total revenue in 1995, as a result of increased efficiencies in administrative
functions.
 
     Net interest income was $4.1 million in 1995 as compared to $1.6 million in
1994. The increase in interest income over the prior year was due to higher
invested cash balances, due in part to a public stock offering in September 1995
that generated approximately $153.0 million in net proceeds, at higher interest
rates.
 
     The Company's effective tax rate was 42% for 1995 and 1994.
 
 -  LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
 
     At December 31, 1996, the Company had $173.6 million of cash, cash
equivalents, and short-term investments and $250.6 million of working capital.
 
     The Company's total capital budget for 1997 is approximately $25 million.
Under the terms of certain supply agreements with suppliers of the Company's
hematology instruments and consumables, slides for its VetTest instruments and
certain raw materials, the Company has aggregate commitments to purchase
approximately $35.2 million of products in 1997.
 
     The Company believes that current cash and short-term investments, which
include net proceeds from the offering of the Company's Common Stock in 1995,
and funds generated from operations, will be sufficient to fund the Company's
operations for the foreseeable future.
 
 -  FUTURE OPERATING RESULTS
 
     The future operating results of the Company are subject to a number of
factors, including without limitation the following:
 
     The Company's business has grown significantly over the past several years
as a result of both internal growth and acquisitions of products and businesses.
The Company has consummated a number of acquisitions since 1992, including six
acquisitions in 1996, and plans to make additional acquisitions. Identifying and
pursuing acquisition opportunities, integrating acquired products and
businesses, and managing growth requires a significant amount of management time
and skill. There can be no assurance that the Company will be effective in
identifying and effecting attractive acquisitions, assimilating acquisitions or
managing future growth.
 
     The Company has experienced and may experience in the future significant
fluctuations in its quarterly operating results. Factors such as the
introduction and market acceptance of new products and services, the mix of
products and services sold and the mix of domestic versus international revenue
could contribute to this quarterly variability. The Company operates with
relatively little backlog and has few long-term customer contracts and
substantially all of its product and service revenue in each quarter results
from orders received in that quarter, which makes the Company's financial
performance more susceptible to an unexpected downturn in business and more
unpredictable. In addition, the Company's expense levels are based in part on
expectations of future revenue levels, and a shortfall in expected revenue could
therefore result in a disproportionate decrease in the Company's net income.
 

 
     The markets in which the Company competes are subject to rapid and
substantial technological change. The Company encounters, and expects to
continue to encounter, intense competition in the sale of its current and future
products and services. Many of the Company's competitors and potential
competitors have substantially greater capital, manufacturing, marketing, and
research and development resources than the Company.
 
     The Company's future success will depend in part on its ability to continue
to develop new products and services both for its existing markets and for any
new markets the Company may enter in the future. The Company believes that it
has established a leading position in many of the markets for its animal health
diagnostic products and services, and the maintenance and any future growth of
its position in these markets is dependent upon the successful development and
introduction of new products and services. The Company also plans to devote
significant resources to the growth of its veterinary laboratory business and
its business in the food, hygiene and environmental markets and to the
development of an animal pharmaceutical product business, where the Company's
operating experience and product and technology base are more limited than in
its animal health diagnostic product markets. There can be no assurance that the
Company will successfully complete the development and commercialization of
products and services for existing and new businesses.
 
     The Company's success is heavily dependent upon its proprietary
technologies. The Company relies on a combination of patent, trade secret,
trademark and copyright law to protect its proprietary rights. There can be no
assurance that patent applications filed by the Company will result in patents
being issued, that any patents of the Company will afford protection against
competitors with similar technologies, or that the Company's non-disclosure
agreements will provide meaningful protection for the Company's trade secrets
and other proprietary information. Moreover, in the absence of patent
protection, the Company's business may be adversely affected by competitors who
independently develop substantially equivalent technologies. In addition, the
Company licenses certain technologies used in its products from third parties,
and the Company may be required to obtain licenses to additional technologies in
order to continue to sell certain products. There can be no assurance that any
technology licenses which the Company desires or is required to obtain will be
available on commercially reasonable terms.
 
     From time to time the Company receives notices alleging that the Company's
products infringe third party proprietary rights. Patent litigation frequently
is complex and expensive and the outcome of patent litigation can be difficult
to predict. There can be no assurance that the Company will prevail in any
infringement proceedings that have been or may be commenced against the Company,
and an adverse outcome may preclude the Company from selling certain products or
require the Company to pay damages or make additional royalty or other payments
with respect to such sales. In addition, from time to time other types of
lawsuits are brought against the Company, wherein an adverse outcome could
adversely affect the Company's results of operations. See "Legal Proceedings."
 
     Certain components used in the Company's products are currently available
from only one source and others are available from only a limited number of
sources. The Company's inability to develop alternative sources if and as
required in the future, or to obtain sufficient sole or limited source
components as required, could result in cost increases or reductions or delays
in product shipments. Certain technologies licensed by the Company and
incorporated into its products are also available from a single source, and the
Company's business may be adversely affected by the expiration or termination of
any such licenses or any challenges to the technology rights underlying such
licenses. In addition, the Company currently purchases or is contractually
required to purchase certain of the products that it sells from one source.
Failure of such sources to supply product to the Company may have a material
adverse effect on the Company's business.
 
     In 1996, international revenue increased 41% over 1995 to $91.5 million, or
34% of total revenue, and the Company expects that its international business
will continue to account for a significant portion of its total revenue. Foreign
regulatory bodies often establish product standards different from those in the
United States, and designing products in compliance with such foreign standards
may be difficult or expensive. Other risks associated with foreign operations
include possible disruptions in transportation of the Company's products, the
differing product and service needs of foreign customers, difficulties in
building and managing foreign operations, fluctuations in the value of foreign
currencies, import/export duties and quotas, and unexpected regulatory, economic
or political changes in foreign markets.
 

 
     The development, manufacturing, distribution and marketing of certain of
the Company's products and provision of its services, both in the United States
and abroad, are subject to regulation by various domestic and foreign
governmental agencies. Delays in obtaining, or the failure to obtain, any
necessary regulatory approvals could have a material adverse effect on the
Company's future product and service sales and operations. Any acquisitions of
new products, services and technologies may subject the Company to additional
areas of government regulations.
 
     The development, manufacture, distribution and marketing of the Company's
products and provision of its services involve an inherent risk of product
liability claims and associated adverse publicity. Although the Company
currently maintains liability insurance, there can be no assurance that the
coverage limits of the Company's insurance policies will be adequate. Such
insurance is expensive, difficult to obtain and may not be available in the
future on acceptable terms or at all.
 

 
ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE
 

 

 
                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
 
To IDEXX Laboratories, Inc.:
 
     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of IDEXX
Laboratories, Inc. (a Delaware corporation) and subsidiaries as of December 31,
1995 and 1996, and the related consolidated statements of operations,
stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 1996. These consolidated financial statements and the
schedule referred to below are the responsibility of the Company's management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial
statements based on our audits.
 
     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
     In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of IDEXX
Laboratories, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1995 and 1996, and the
results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 1996, in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles.
 
     Our audits were made for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic
consolidated financial statements taken as a whole. The schedule listed in the
index to consolidated financial statements is presented for purposes of
complying with the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and is not part of
the basic consolidated financial statements. The schedule has been subjected to
the auditing procedures applied in the audits of the basic consolidated
financial statements and, in our opinion, fairly states, in all material
respects, the financial data required to be set forth therein in relation to the
basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole.
 
                                            ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
 
Boston, Massachusetts
February 13, 1997
 

 
                   IDEXX LABORATORIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 

 
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.
 

 
                   IDEXX LABORATORIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 

 
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.
 

 
                   IDEXX LABORATORIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
 

 
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.
 

 
                   IDEXX LABORATORIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 

 
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.
 

 
                   IDEXX LABORATORIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
(1) OPERATIONS AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
     IDEXX Laboratories, Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") develops,
manufactures and distributes detection and diagnostic products for animal
health, food, hygiene and environmental testing applications, and provides
laboratory testing and consulting services to veterinarians. The Company is a
developer, manufacturer and distributor of biology-based detection systems, a
developer and distributor of chemistry-based detection systems and a provider of
certain veterinary laboratory testing and specialized consulting services. The
Company's animal health, food, hygiene and environmental detection products and
services are sold worldwide.
 
     The accompanying consolidated financial statements reflect the application
of certain significant accounting policies, as discussed below and elsewhere in
the notes to the consolidated financial statements. The preparation of these
consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the
financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during
the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
  (a) Consolidation
 
     The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. All material intercompany
transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
 
  (b) Inventories
 
     Inventories include material, labor and overhead, and are stated at the
lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or market. The components of inventories are
as follows:
 

 
  (c) Depreciation and Amortization
 
     The Company provides for depreciation and amortization using the
declining-balance and straight-line methods by charges to operations in amounts
that allocate the cost of property and equipment over their estimated useful
lives as follows:
 

 

 
                   IDEXX LABORATORIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
  (d) Other Assets
 
     Other assets are as follows:
 

 
     Substantially all of the patents and trademarks were acquired in connection
with the acquisition of a product line of VetTest S.A. ("VetTest") in 1992.
Goodwill primarily results from acquisitions (see Note 15). Other assets include
subscriber lists, prepaid royalties and organization costs. Amortization of
other assets was $1.5 million, $2.0 million and $3.4 million for the years ended
December 31, 1994, 1995 and 1996, respectively. The Company has assessed the
realizability of these assets in accordance with the Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 121, Accounting for the Impairment of
Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed of.
 
  (e) Stock-Based Compensation Plans
 
     The Company accounts for stock-based compensation plans under the
provisions of SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation. Under SFAS
No. 123, the Company elected the disclosure method and will continue to account
for stock-based compensation plans under Accounting Principles Board ("APB")
Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees. See Note 8 for related
disclosures.
 
  (f) Income Taxes
 
     The Company accounts for income taxes under SFAS No. 109, Accounting for
Income Taxes. This statement requires that the Company recognize a current tax
liability or asset for current taxes payable or refundable and a deferred tax
liability or asset for the estimated future tax effects of temporary differences
and carryforwards to the extent they are realizable.
 
  (g) Revenue Recognition
 
     The Company recognizes product revenue at the time of shipment. Service
revenue, which is less than 10% of total revenue, is recognized at the time the
service is performed. Service and maintenance revenue, which is less than 10% of
total revenue, is billed in advance and recognized over the life of the
contracts, usually one year.
 
  (h) Research and Development and Software Development Costs
 
     In accordance with SFAS No. 86, Accounting for the Costs of Computer
Software to be Sold, Leased or Otherwise Marketed, the Company has evaluated the
establishment of technological feasibility of its various products during the
development phase. Due to the dynamic changes in the market, the Company has
concluded that it cannot determine technological feasibility until the
development phase of the project is nearly complete. The Company charges all
research and development expenses to operations in the period incurred as the
costs from the point of technological feasibility to first product manufacture
are immaterial.
 

 
                   IDEXX LABORATORIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
  (i) Foreign Currency Translation and Foreign Exchange Contracts
 
     Assets and liabilities of the Company's foreign subsidiaries are translated
using the exchange rate in effect at the balance sheet date. Revenue and expense
accounts are translated using a weighted average of exchange rates in effect
during the period. Cumulative translation gains and losses are shown in the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets as a separate component of
stockholders' equity. Exchange gains and losses arising from transactions
denominated in foreign currencies are included in current operations. Included
in general and administrative expenses are foreign currency transaction losses
of $318,000, $359,000 and gains of $369,000 for the years ended December 31,
1994, 1995 and 1996, respectively.
 
     The Company enters into foreign currency forward contracts for its
intercompany and third party inventory purchases for the next 12 months in order
to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on these transactions.
As these are firm foreign currency commitments, market value gains and losses
are deferred until the contract matures, which is the period the related
obligation is settled. The Company purchases these contracts from large
financial institutions for terms that do not exceed 12 months. At December 31,
1996, the Company had no outstanding forward contracts to exchange major foreign
currencies for U.S. dollars.
 
  (j) Disclosure of Fair Value of Financial Instruments and Concentration of
Credit Risk
 
     Financial instruments, which potentially expose the Company to
concentrations of credit risk, consist mainly of cash and cash equivalents,
accounts receivable and accounts payable. The Company does not believe
significant credit risk exists at December 31, 1996. The carrying amounts of the
Company's financial instruments approximate fair market value.
 
  (k) Net Income per Common and Common Equivalent Share
 
     Net income per common and common equivalent share is based on the weighted
average number of common and common equivalent shares outstanding during the
period, computed in accordance with the treasury stock method. Fully diluted net
income per common and common equivalent share has not been presented as it is
not significantly different.
 
  (l) Reclassifications
 
     Reclassifications have been made in the consolidated financial statements
to conform with the current year's presentation.
 

 
                   IDEXX LABORATORIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
(2) INCOME TAXES
 
     The income tax provision for the years ended December 31, 1994, 1995 and
1996 is comprised of the following:
 

 
     The provision for income taxes differs from the amount computed by applying
the statutory federal income tax rate as follows:
 

 
     The components of the net deferred tax asset included in other current
assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets are as follows:
 

 
     At December 31, 1996, the Company had net operating losses of approximately
$4.7 million available to offset future taxable income. Net operating loss
carryforwards expire at various dates from 1999 to 2010. The Tax Reform Act of
1986 contains provisions that limit annual availability of the net operating
loss carry forwards due to a more than 50% change in ownership that occurred
upon the acquisition of certain companies. Due to the uncertainty surrounding
the realization of the benefits from certain of these favorable tax attributes
described above, the Company has placed a valuation allowance against a portion
of these net deferred tax assets.
 

 
                   IDEXX LABORATORIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
(3) CASH EQUIVALENTS, SHORT-TERM AND LONG-TERM INVESTMENTS
 
     The Company accounts for investments under SFAS No. 115, Accounting for
Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities. Accordingly, the Company's
cash equivalents, short-term and long-term investments are classified as
held-to-maturity and are recorded at amortized cost which approximates fair
market value.
 
     Cash equivalents are short-term, highly liquid investments with original
maturities of less than three months. Short-term investments are investment
securities with original maturities of greater than three months but less than
one year and consist of the following:
 

 
     Long-term investments are investment securities with original maturities of
greater than one year and consist of the following:
 

 
(4) NOTES PAYABLE
 
     In connection with the Cardiopet Incorporated ("Cardiopet") acquisition
(see Note 15(c)), the Company issued unsecured notes payable, of which
approximately $1.7 million was outstanding at December 31, 1995. The notes bore
interest at 9% and were repaid in full in February 1996.
 
     In connection with the Consolidated Veterinary Diagnostics, Inc. ("CVD")
acquisition (see Note 15(d)), the Company issued an unsecured note payable of
which $3.0 million was outstanding at December 31, 1996. The note bears interest
at 8%.
 
     In connection with the merger of Idetek, Inc. ("Idetek") (see Note 15(f)),
the Company assumed a note payable in the amount of $200,000. The note was paid
in full in September 1996.
 
(5) COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
 
     The Company leases its facilities under operating leases which expire
through 2008. In addition, the Company is responsible for the real estate taxes
and operating expenses related to these facilities. Minimum annual rental
payments under these agreements are as follows:
 

 

 
                   IDEXX LABORATORIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     Rent expense charged to operations under operating leases was approximately
$1.1 million, $2.1 million and $3.2 million for the years ended December 31,
1994, 1995 and 1996, respectively.
 
     Under the terms of certain supply agreements with suppliers of the
Company's hematology instruments and consumables, slides for its VetTest
instruments, and certain raw materials, the Company has aggregate commitments to
purchase approximately $35.2 million of products in 1997.
 
     From time to time the Company has received notices alleging that the
Company's products infringe third-party proprietary rights. In particular, the
Company has received notices claiming that certain of the Company's immunoassay
products infringe third-party patents. Except as noted below with respect to the
patent infringement suit brought by The Jewish Hospital of St. Louis, no
litigation has been brought against the Company with respect to such claims.
Patent litigation frequently is complex and expensive, and the outcome of patent
litigation can be difficult to predict. There can be no assurance that the
Company will prevail in any infringement proceedings that have been or may be
commenced against the Company. A significant portion of the Company's revenue in
1996 was attributable to products incorporating certain immunoassay technologies
and products relating to the diagnosis of canine heartworm infection. If the
Company were to be precluded from selling such products or required to pay
damages or make additional royalty or other payments with respect to such sales,
the Company's business and results of operations could be materially and
adversely affected.
 
     On February 4, 1993, the Company acquired Environetics, Inc.
("Environetics"), which brought a patent infringement suit with Stephen Edberg,
Ph.D. against Millipore Corporation ("Millipore") in the U.S. District Court for
the District of Connecticut on September 30, 1992 (the "Millipore I suit"). The
complaint in the Millipore I suit was subsequently amended to add as additional
plaintiffs Access Medical Systems, Inc., a subsidiary of the Company ("Access"),
and Stephen C. Wardlaw, M.D. The primary relief sought by the plaintiffs is an
injunction against Millipore which would prevent Millipore from selling a
competitive product that the plaintiffs believe infringes U.S. Patent No.
4,925,789 (the "'789 Patent") covering the Company's Colilert product, under
which Access and Environetics have an exclusive license from Drs. Edberg and
Wardlaw. Millipore has filed a counterclaim alleging that the '789 Patent is
invalid or not infringed.
 
     In addition, on July 26, 1995, the Company, Environetics, Access and Drs.
Edberg and Wardlaw brought a second patent infringement suit against Millipore
in the U.S. District Court for the District of Connecticut (the "Millipore II
Suit"). The principal relief sought by the plaintiffs in the Millipore II suit
is an injunction against Millipore which would prevent Millipore from selling a
product which the plaintiffs believe infringes U.S. Patent No. 5,429,933 (the "
'933 Patent"), which also covers the Colilert product. The '933 Patent, which is
related to the '789 Patent, was issued in July 1995 to Dr. Edberg. Access and
Environetics have an exclusive license under the '933 Patent from Drs. Edberg
and Wardlaw. Millipore has filed a counterclaim alleging that the '933 Patent is
invalid or not infringed and is seeking to add a counterclaim alleging
misappropriation of trade secrets. If the plaintiffs do not prevail in the
Millipore I and Millipore II suits, the Company anticipates that the Colilert
product would encounter increased competition, which could adversely affect
sales of the Colilert product.
 
     On February 24, 1995, CDC Technologies, Inc. ("CDC Technologies") filed
suit against the Company in the U.S. District Court for the District of
Connecticut. In its complaint, CDC Technologies alleges that the Company's
conduct in, and its relationships with its distributors in connection with, the
distribution of the Company's hematology products (i) violate federal and state
antitrust statutes, (ii) violate Connecticut statutes regarding unfair trade
practices, and (iii) constitute a civil conspiracy and interfere with CDC
Technologies' business relations. The relief sought by CDC Technologies includes
treble damages for antitrust violations as well as compensatory and punitive
damages, and an injunction to prevent the Company from interfering with CDC
Technologies' relations with distributors. The Company has filed an answer
denying the allegations in CDC's complaint. The Company is unable to assess the
likelihood of an adverse result or
 

 
                   IDEXX LABORATORIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
estimate the amount of any damages which the Company may be required to pay. Any
adverse outcome resulting in the payment of damages would adversely affect the
Company's results of operations.
 
     On May 26, 1995, The Jewish Hospital of St. Louis (the "Hospital") brought
a suit against the Company which is currently pending in the U.S. District Court
for the District of Maine for infringement of U.S. Patent No. 4,839,275 issued
June 13, 1989 (the " '275 Patent"). The '275 Patent, which is owned by the
Hospital, claims certain methods and compositions for the diagnosis of canine
heartworm infection. The primary relief sought by the Hospital is an injunction
against the Company which would prevent the Company from selling canine
heartworm diagnostic products which infringe the '275 Patent, as well as treble
damages for past infringement. While the Company believes that it has
meritorious defenses in this matter, the Company is unable to assess the
likelihood of an adverse result or estimate the amount of any damages which the
Company may be required to pay. If the Company is precluded from selling canine
heartworm diagnostic products or required to pay damages or make additional
royalty or other payments with respect to such sales, the Company's business and
results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.
 
     On September 18, 1995, Purisys Inc. ("Purisys"), a producer of home
pollution test kits, and certain of its employees filed suit against the Company
in the Supreme Court of the state of New York. In their complaint, the
plaintiffs allege that the Company has breached promises and made negligent
misrepresentations, and has breached fiduciary and other duties. The plaintiffs
are seeking damages in excess of $50.0 million. The Company purchased a 15%
equity interest in Purisys in August 1994 for $616,000, and the Company
subsequently advanced additional amounts to Purisys to purchase certain
international distribution rights (see Note 15(a)). In March 1995, the Company
ceased advancing funds to Purisys, which filed for protection under the
Bankruptcy Code in July 1995. While the Company believes it has meritorious
defenses, the Company is unable to assess the likelihood of an adverse result or
estimate the amount of any damages which the Company may be required to pay. Any
adverse outcome resulting in the payment of damages would adversely affect the
Company's results of operations.
 
(6) ARBITRATION CHARGE
 
     In August 1994, the Company paid approximately $1.5 million to satisfy an
arbitration award against VetTest, S.A. In conjunction with the Company's
acquisition of certain assets of VetTest, S.A. in 1992, the Company agreed to
indemnify VetTest, S.A. against such an award. The arbitration involved a claim
for approximately $5.0 million in damages by a former supplier of electrolyte
equipment to VetTest, S.A.
 
(7) STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
  (a) Preferred Stock
 
     The Board of Directors is authorized, subject to any limitations prescribed
by law, without further stockholder approval, to issue from time to time up to
500,000 shares of Preferred Stock, $1.00 par value per share ("Preferred
Stock"), in one or more series. Each such series of Preferred Stock shall have
such number of shares, designations, preferences, voting powers, qualifications
and special or relative rights or privileges as shall be determined by the Board
of Directors, which may include, among others, dividend rights, voting rights,
redemption and sinking fund provisions, liquidation preferences, conversion
rights and preemptive rights.
 
  (b) Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock
 
     On December 17, 1996, the Company designated 100,000 shares of Preferred
Stock as Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock ("Series A Stock") in
connection with its Shareholder Rights Plan (see Note 9). In general, each share
of Series A Stock will: (i) be entitled to a minimum preferential quarterly
dividend of $10 per share and to an aggregate dividend of 1000 times the
dividend declared per share of Common Stock, (ii) in the event of liquidation,
be entitled to a minimum preferential liquidation payment of $1000 per share
(plus accrued and unpaid dividends) and to an aggregate payment of 1000 times
the payment made per
 

 
                   IDEXX LABORATORIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
share of Common Stock, (iii) have 1000 votes, voting together with the Common
Stock, (iv) in the event of any merger, consolidation or other transaction in
which Common Stock is exchanged, be entitled to receive 1000 times the amount
received per share of Common Stock and (v) not be redeemable. These rights are
protected by customary antidilution provisions.
 
  (c) Stock Split
 
     The accompanying consolidated financial statements and related notes for
all periods presented have been adjusted to reflect a two-for-one stock split of
its Common Stock, effected in the form of a stock dividend, on June 5, 1995.
 
(8) STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS
 
     At December 31, 1996, the Company has nine stock-based compensation plans,
which are described below. The Company accounts for these plans under the
provisions SFAS No. 123. Under SFAS No. 123 the Company elected the disclosure
method and will continue to account for stock-based compensation plans under APB
Opinion No. 25. Accordingly, no compensation cost has been recognized for these
plans. Had compensation cost for the Company's nine stock-based compensation
plans been determined consistent with the provisions of SFAS No. 123, the
Company's net income and net income per common and common equivalent share would
have been reduced to the following pro forma amounts:
 

 
     Because the SFAS No. 123 method of accounting has not been applied to
options granted prior to January 1, 1995, the resulting pro forma compensation
cost may not be representative of that to be expected in future years.
 
  (a) The 1984 Plan
 
     During 1984, the Company established a stock option plan (the "1984 Plan"),
under which key employees were granted options to purchase Common Stock at
exercise prices not less than the fair market value as of the date of grant, as
determined by the Board of Directors. On April 24, 1991, the Board of Directors
terminated the 1984 Plan such that no further options may be granted under the
Plan.
 
  (b) The 1991 Plan
 
     During 1991, the Board of Directors approved the 1991 Stock Option Plan
which, as amended, provides for grants up to 6,475,000 incentive and
nonqualified stock options at the discretion of the Compensation Committee of
the Board of Directors. Incentive stock options are granted at the fair market
value on the date of grant and expire 10 years from date of grant. Incentive
stock options for greater than 10% shareholders are granted at 110% of the fair
market value and expire five years from the date of grant. Nonqualified options
may be granted at no less than 100% of the fair market value on the date of
grant. Income tax benefits attributable to certain exercised stock options are
credited to additional paid-in capital. The vesting schedule of all options is
determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors at the time
of grant.
 

 
                   IDEXX LABORATORIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
  (c) The 1991 Director Option Plan
 
     During 1991, the Board of Directors approved the 1991 Director Option Plan
(as amended, the "1991 Director Plan") pursuant to which Directors who are not
officers or employees of the Company may receive nonstatutory options to
purchase shares of the Company's Common Stock. A total of 500,000 shares of
Common Stock may be issued under the 1991 Director Plan.
 
  (d) ETI Corporation Plan
 
     During 1991, the Board of Directors of ETI approved a Stock Option Plan
(the "ETI Plan"). The ETI Plan provided for the grant of up to 100,000
nonqualified stock options at the discretion of the Board of Directors of ETI.
Options were granted at the fair market value on the date of grant and expire
five years from the date of grant. The options vest over a four-year period from
the date of grant.
 
     In connection with the merger of ETI and the Company, all outstanding ETI
options became exercisable, in accordance with their original vesting schedule,
for shares of the Company's Common Stock at the same rate at which outstanding
shares of ETI common stock were exchanged for shares of the Company's Common
Stock in the merger. In addition, the exercise price for the options was
proportionately adjusted in accordance with the adjustment to the number of
shares.
 
  (e) Idetek, Inc. Plans
 
     During 1986, the Board of Directors of Idetek approved the 1985 Incentive
Stock Option Plan (the "1985 Idetek Plan"). Options were granted at the fair
market value on the date of grant and expire 10 years from the date of grant.
Options for greater than 10% shareholders were granted at no less than 110% of
the fair market value and expire five years from the date of grant. The 1985
Idetek Plan was terminated by the Board of Directors of Idetek as to future
grants.
 
     During 1987, the Board of Directors of Idetek approved the 1987 Stock
Option Plan (the "1987 Idetek Plan"), which provides for the grant of both
incentive and nonqualified stock options. Incentive stock options were granted
at the fair market value on the date of grant and expire 10 years from the date
of grant. Incentive stock options for greater than 10% shareholders were granted
110% of the fair market value and expire five years from the date of grant.
Nonqualified options were granted at 85% of the fair market value on the date of
grant and expire five years from the date of grant. The Company does not intend
to grant any options under the 1987 Idetek Plan in excess of the options
currently outstanding.
 
     In February 1996, the Board of Directors of Idetek approved two separate,
single participant fixed term incentive stock option agreements with certain of
its key executive officers. Options were granted to the individual participant
named in the agreement at prices established by the Board of Directors of Idetek
and such options expire 10 years from the date of grant.
 
     In connection with the merger of Idetek and the Company, all outstanding
Idetek options became exercisable, in accordance with their original vesting
schedule or terms, for shares of the Company's Common Stock at the same rate at
which outstanding shares of Idetek common stock were exchanged for shares of the
Company's Common Stock in the merger. In addition, the exercise price for the
options was proportionately adjusted in accordance with the adjustment to the
number of shares.
 

 
                   IDEXX LABORATORIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     A summary of the status of the Company's stock option plans as of December
31, 1994, 1995 and 1996 and changes during the years then ended is presented in
the table and narrative below:
 

 
     The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using
the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted-average
assumptions used for the grants in 1995, and 1996, respectively: no dividend
yield for all years; expected volatility of 44.98 percent; risk-free interest
rates of 6.38 percent and 6.18 percent, respectively; and expected lives of 5.48
years.
 
     At December 31, 1996, the options outstanding have the following
characteristics:
 

 
  (f) 1994 Employee Stock Purchase Plan
 
     During 1994, the Board of Directors approved the 1994 Employee Stock
Purchase Plan (the "1994 ESP Plan") whereby the Company has reserved and may
issue up to an aggregate of 300,000 shares of Common Stock in semiannual
offerings over a three-year period. Stock is sold at 85% of fair market value,
as defined. Shares subscribed to and issued under the 1994 ESP Plan were 19,100
in 1994, 35,961 in 1995 and 33,281 in 1996. The 1994 ESP Plan replaced the 1991
Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "1991 ESP Plan"), which
 

 
                   IDEXX LABORATORIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
operated under similar terms from August 1991 through June 1994. The 1991 ESP
Plan expired on June 30, 1994. Shares subscribed to and issued under the 1991
ESP Plan in 1994 were 16,024.
 
     Under SFAS 123, pro forma compensation cost is recognized for the fair
value of the employees' purchase rights, which was estimated using the
Black-Scholes model with the following assumptions for 1995, and 1996,
respectively: no dividend yield for all years; an expected life of one year for
all years; expected volatility of 44.98 percent; and risk-free interest rates of
6.38 percent and 6.18 percent, respectively. The weighted-average fair value of
those purchase rights granted in 1995 and 1996 was $7.98 and $10.63 per share,
respectively.
 
(9) PREFERRED STOCK PURCHASE RIGHTS
 
     On December 17, 1996, the Company adopted a Shareholder Rights Plan and
declared a dividend of one preferred stock purchase right for each outstanding
share of Common Stock to stockholders of record at the close of business on
December 30, 1996. Under certain conditions, each right may be exercised to
purchase one one-thousandth of a share of Series A Stock at a purchase price of
$200. The rights will be exercisable only if a person or group has acquired
beneficial ownership of 20% or more of the Common Stock or commenced a tender or
exchange offer that would result in such a person or group owning 30% or more of
the Common Stock. The Company generally will be entitled to redeem the rights,
in whole, but not in part, at a price of $.01 per right at any time until the
tenth business day following a public announcement that a 20% stock position has
been acquired and in certain other circumstances.
 
     If any person or group becomes a beneficial owner of 20% or more of the
Common Stock (except pursuant to a tender or exchange offer for all shares at a
fair price as determined by the outside members of the Company's Board of
Directors), each right not owned by a 20% stockholder will enable its holder to
purchase such number of shares of Common Stock as is equal to the exercise price
of the right divided by one-half of the current market price of the Common Stock
on the date of the occurrence of the event. In addition, if the Company
thereafter is acquired in a merger or other business combination with another
person or group in which it is not the surviving corporation or in connection
with which its Common Stock is changed or converted, or if the Company sells or
transfers 50% or more of its assets or earning power to another person, each
right that has not previously been exercised will entitle its holder to purchase
such number of shares of common stock of such other person as is equal to the
exercise price of the right divided by one-half of the current market price of
such common stock on the date of the occurrence of the event.
 
(10) IDEXX RETIREMENT AND INCENTIVE SAVINGS PLAN
 
     The Company has established the IDEXX Retirement and Incentive Savings Plan
(the "401(k) Plan"). Employees eligible to participate in the 401(k) Plan may
contribute specified percentages of their salaries, a portion of which will be
matched by the Company. In addition, the Company may make contributions to the
401(k) Plan at the discretion of the Board of Directors. There were no
discretionary contributions in 1994, 1995 or 1996.
 
(11) SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMERS
 
     During each of the years ended December 31, 1995 and 1996 one customer
accounted for 11% and 12%, respectively, of the Company's revenue. The
significant customer in each year was a wholesale distributor of the Company's
products. During the year ended December 31, 1994, no single customer accounted
for more than 10% of the Company's revenue.
 

 
                   IDEXX LABORATORIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
(12) EXPORT SALES
 
     Domestic and export sales as a percentage of total revenue are as follows:
 

 
(13) GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION
 
     Revenue, net income and identifiable assets for the Company's U.S.,
European and other operations for each of the three years ended December 31,
1996 are summarized as follows:
 

 

 

 

 
                   IDEXX LABORATORIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
(14) ACCRUED EXPENSES
 
     Accrued expenses consist of the following:
 

 
(15) ACQUISITIONS
 
  (a) Purisys Inc.
 
     On August 19, 1994, the Company acquired a 15% equity interest in Purisys
for approximately $616,000. Purisys is a development-stage company specializing
in the development and commercialization of home pollution test kits. In
connection with its investment in Purisys, the Company began acquiring
international distribution rights to Purisys products for additional fees. In
March 1995, the Company discontinued making cash advances under the
international distribution agreements to Purisys, which filed for protection
under the Bankruptcy Code in July 1995. Investments made during 1994 were fully
reserved for at December 31, 1994. The Company recognized a charge during 1995
for the final cash advances made during 1995.
 
  (b) AMIS International Co., KK
 
     On September 20, 1994, the Company acquired AMIS International Co., KK
("AMIS") for approximately $1.0 million, and in September 1995, AMIS was merged
into IDEXX Laboratories, KK, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. The
Company has accounted for the acquisition using the purchase method of
accounting. The results of operations related to AMIS have been included with
those of the Company since October 1, 1994. Pro forma information has not been
presented because of immateriality.
 
  (c) Cardiopet Incorporated
 
     On May 11, 1995, the Company acquired Cardiopet for approximately $3.5
million in cash, notes and assumed debt. Cardiopet is a New Jersey-based company
offering cardiology, internal medicine, ultrasound, dermatology and radiology
consulting services to veterinarians. The Company has accounted for this
acquisition using the purchase method of accounting. The results of operations
have been included with those of the Company since May 12, 1995. Pro forma
information has not been presented because of immateriality.
 
  (d) Veterinary Reference Laboratories
 
     The Company's consolidated results of operations include the results of
operations of four veterinary reference laboratory businesses acquired in 1996.
These businesses were acquired by the Company for aggregate purchase prices
equaling approximately $19.3 million in cash and the assumption of certain
liabilities.
 
     In connection with the acquisitions, the Company entered into non-compete
agreements for a period of up to five years with certain of the entities,
stockholders or former stockholders, and may become obligated to pay additional
amounts to management of these companies based on achieving certain operating
results. The Company has accounted for these acquisitions under the purchase
method of accounting. The results of operations of each of these businesses has
been included in the Company's consolidated results of operations since each of
their respective dates of acquisition. The Company has not presented pro forma
financial information relating to any of these acquisitions because of
immateriality. These acquisitions are as follows:
 

 
                   IDEXX LABORATORIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
        - On March 29, 1996, the Company acquired all of the capital stock of
          VetLab, Inc. which operated two veterinary reference laboratories in
          Texas.
 
        - On April 2, 1996, the Company, through its wholly-owned subsidiary,
          IDEXX Laboratories, Limited, acquired substantially all of the assets
          and assumed certain of the liabilities of Grange Laboratories Ltd.,
          which operated veterinary reference laboratories in the United
          Kingdom.
 
        - On May 15, 1996, the Company acquired all of the capital stock of
          Veterinary Services, Inc., which operated veterinary reference
          laboratories in Colorado, Illinois and Oklahoma.
 
        - On July 12, 1996, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets
          and assumed certain of the liabilities of CVD, which operated
          veterinary reference laboratories in Northern California, Oregon and
          Nevada.
 
     The VetLab, VSI and CVD businesses are a part of IDEXX Veterinary Services,
Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.
 
  (e) Ubitech Aktiebolag
 
     On July 18, 1996, the Company acquired all of the capital stock of Ubitech
Aktiebolag ("Ubitech") for $400,000 plus the assumption of certain liabilities.
Ubitech, located in Uppsala, Sweden, manufactures and distributes diagnostic
test kits for the livestock industry. The Company has accounted for this
acquisition under the purchase method of accounting. The results of operations
of Ubitech have been included in the Company's consolidated results of
operations since the date of acquisition. Pro forma information has not been
presented because of immateriality.
 
  (f) Idetek, Inc.
 
     On August 29, 1996, the Company acquired by merger Idetek by issuing
436,804 shares of its Common Stock, of which approximately 10% are held in
escrow, in exchange for all of the outstanding capital stock of Idetek. In
addition, outstanding options to purchase shares of Idetek capital stock became
options to acquire 110,191 shares of the Company's Common Stock at prices
ranging from $3.13 to $78.14. The value of the shares of the Company's Common
Stock issued or reserved for issuance as a result of the merger totaled
approximately $20 million. Idetek, previously located in Sunnyvale, California,
manufactured and distributed detection tests for the food, agricultural and
environmental industries. The Company has accounted for this acquisition by
merger as a "pooling-of-interests". The results of operations of Idetek have
been included in the Company's consolidated results of operations since the date
of the merger. The Company has not restated its financial statements because of
immateriality.
 
(16) SUMMARY OF QUARTERLY DATA (UNAUDITED)
 
     A summary of quarterly data follows (in thousands, except per share data):
 

 

 
                   IDEXX LABORATORIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 

 

 
                                                                     SCHEDULE II
 
                   IDEXX LABORATORIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
 

 

 
ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
     None.
 
                                    PART III
 
ITEMS 10-13.
 
     Except as indicated below, the information required by Part III is omitted
from this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and, pursuant to Regulation 14A of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is incorporated herein by reference
to the definitive proxy statement with respect to the Company's 1997 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders to be filed by the Company with the Securities and
Exchange Commission not later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year
covered by this report. The information required by Part III will appear under
the headings "Beneficial Ownership of Common Stock," "ELECTION OF DIRECTORS --
Nominees," "-- Board and Committee Meetings," "-- Directors' Compensation" and
"-- Executive Compensation." Information regarding executive officers of the
Company is furnished in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the
heading "Executive Officers of the Company."
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 

 

 
                                   SIGNATURES
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized:
 
                                            IDEXX LABORATORIES, INC.
 
                                            BY: /s/ DAVID E. SHAW
                                              ----------------------------------
                                              David E. Shaw
                                              Chief Executive Officer
 
                                              March 28, 1997
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:
 

 

 
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
 

 

 

 
- ---------------
 
 (1)  Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits to the Company's Registration
      Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 33-40447).
 
 (2)  Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits to the Company's Registration
      Statement on Form 8-A dated December 24, 1996 (File No. 0-19271).
 
 (3)  Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits to the Company's Annual Report
      on Form 10-K dated March 30, 1994.
 
 (4)  Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits to the Company's Quarterly
      Report on Form 10-Q dated November 12, 1993.
 
 (5)  Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits to the Company's Annual Report
      on Form 10-K dated March 30, 1993.
 
 (6)  Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits to the Company's Current Report
      on Form 8-K dated January 30, 1992.
 
 (7)  Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits to the Company's Amendment No. 1
      on Form 8 dated February 14, 1992 to the Company's Current Report on Form
      8-K dated January 20, 1992.
 
 (8)  Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits to the Company's Quarterly
      Report on Form 10-Q dated May 11, 1994.
 
 (9)  Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits to the Company's Current Report
      on Form 8-K dated February 12, 1993.
 
(10)  Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits to the Company's Quarterly
      Report on Form 10-Q dated August 15, 1994.
 
(11)  Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits to the Company's Annual Report
      on Form 10-K dated March 29, 1995.
 
(12)  Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits to the Company's Quarterly
      Report on Form 10-Q dated November 14, 1994.
 
(13)  Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits to the Company's Quarterly
      Report on Form 10-Q dated July 26, 1996.
 

 
(14)  Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits to the Company's Annual Report
      on Form 10-K dated March 25, 1996.
 
 *  Confidential treatment previously granted as to certain portions.
 
**  Confidential treatment requested as to certain portions.
 
 -  Management contract or compensation plan or arrangement required to be filed
    as an exhibit pursuant to Item 14(c) of Form 10-K.
 

