Item 1. Business.

T. Rowe Price Group is a financial services holding company that derives its consolidated revenues
and net income primarily from investment advisory services that its subsidiaries provide to
individual and institutional investors in the sponsored T. Rowe Price mutual funds and other
investment portfolios. Our investment advisory revenues depend largely on the total value and
composition of assets under our management. Accordingly, fluctuations in financial markets and in
the composition of assets under management impact our revenues and results of operations.

The late Thomas Rowe Price, Jr., began our advisory business in 1937, and the common stock of T.
Rowe Price Associates was first offered to the public in 1986. The T. Rowe Price Group corporate
holding company structure was established in 2000.

We operate our investment advisory business through our subsidiary companies, primarily T. Rowe
Price Associates, Inc., T. Rowe Price International, Inc., and T. Rowe Price Global Investment
Services Limited. Following the close of business on December 31, 2010, we completed an
international reorganization to realize additional operational efficiencies whereby all our
international operations were consolidated under one entity, T. Rowe Price Global Investment
Services Limited. As part of the reorganization, the operations of our existing Hong Kong and
Singapore branches were transferred to two newly incorporated investment advisers, T. Rowe Price
Hong Kong Limited and T. Rowe Price Singapore Private Ltd. We also dissolved T. Rowe Price
International, Inc. and renamed T. Rowe Price Global Investment Services Limited to T. Rowe Price
International Ltd.

Our assets under management are accumulated from a diversified client base across four primary
distribution channels: third-party financial intermediaries that distribute our managed investment
portfolios in the U.S. and other countries; individual U.S. investors on a direct basis; U.S.
defined contribution retirement plans; and institutional investors in the U.S. and other countries.

We manage a broad range of U.S. and international stock, blended asset, bond, and money market
mutual funds and other investment portfolios that are designed to meet the varied and changing
needs and objectives of individual and institutional investors. Mutual fund shareholders can
exchange balances among mutual funds as permitted when economic and market conditions and their
investment needs change.

From time to time, we introduce new funds and other investment portfolios to complement and expand
our investment offerings, respond to competitive developments in the financial marketplace, and
meet the changing needs of our investment advisory clients. We will open a new mutual fund or
investment portfolio if we believe that we have the appropriate investment management expertise and
that its objective will be useful for investors over a long period. Conversely, we may also limit
new investments into a mutual fund or investment mandate in order to maintain the integrity of the
investment strategy and to protect the interests of its existing fund shareholders and investors.
At present, the following funds are closed to all new investors.

FundDate ClosedInstitutional Mid-Cap Equity GrowthDecember 8, 2003Institutional Small-Cap StockFebruary 20, 2004Mid-Cap GrowthMay 31, 2010Mid-Cap ValueMay 31, 2010

Investment objectives for our managed investment portfolios, including the Price funds, accommodate
a variety of strategies. Investors select from among the mutual funds based on the distinct
objective that is described in each fund’s prospectus. Investment management of other client
portfolios includes approaches similar to those employed in the Price funds. Equity investment
strategies may emphasize large-cap, mid-cap or small-cap investing; growth, value or core
investing; and U.S., global, or international investing. We also offer systematic, tax-efficient,
and blended equity and asset allocation investment strategies including target retirement-date
investment portfolios, as well as active, systematic and municipal tax-free management strategies
for fixed income investments. Our specialized advisory services include management of stable value
investment contracts and a distribution management service for the disposition of equity securities
received from third-party venture capital investment pools.

We employ fundamental and quantitative security analyses in the performance of the investment
advisory function. We maintain substantial internal equity and fixed income investment research
capabilities. We perform original industry and company research using such sources as inspection
of corporate activities, management interviews, company-published financial and other information,
financial newspapers and magazines, corporate rating services, and field checks with suppliers and
competitors in the same industry and particular business sector.

- 2 -





Our research staff operates
primarily from offices located in the United States and England with additional staff resident in
Argentina, Hong Kong, Japan, and Singapore. We also use research provided by brokerage firms and
security analysts in a supportive capacity and information received from private economists,
political observers, commentators, government experts, and market analysts. Our stock selection
process for some investment portfolios is based on quantitative analyses using computerized data
modeling.

We also provide certain administrative services as ancillary services to our investment advisory
clients. These administrative services are provided by several of our subsidiaries and include
mutual fund transfer agent, accounting, and shareholder services; participant recordkeeping and
transfer agent services for defined contribution retirement plans investing in our sponsored mutual
funds; recordkeeping services for defined contribution retirement plans investing in mutual funds
outside the T. Rowe Price complex; brokerage; and trust services. Approximately 90% of our
administrative revenues in 2010 were determined based generally on the recovery of our related
costs to provide the administrative services. Changes in our administrative revenues and related
expenses, therefore, do not significantly affect our net operating income or net income.

Information concerning our revenues, results of operations and total assets, and our investment
assets under management during the past three years is contained in our consolidated financial
statements and in note 2 thereto, which are both included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

2010 DEVELOPMENTS. Total assets under our management increased $90.7 billion over the course of
2010 and ended the year at a record $482.0 billion, a substantial recovery from the $276.3 billion
at the end of 2008 and an increase of 21% from the previous record year-end high of $400.0 billion
at the end of 2007. Our year-end assets under management include $360.6 billion in equity and
blended asset investment portfolios and $121.4 billion in fixed income investment portfolios. The
investment portfolios that we manage consist of $282.6 billion in the T. Rowe Price mutual funds
distributed in the United States and $199.4 billion in other investment portfolios, including
separately managed accounts for institutional and individual investors, subadvised funds, and other
sponsored investment funds offered to investors outside the U.S. and through variable annuity life
insurance plans in the U.S. Retirement accounts and variable annuity investment portfolios account
for $293.3 billion of our year-end assets under management. Non-U.S. dollar denominated securities
account for about $70 billion of the total.

The firm’s long-term investment advisory results relative to our peers remain very strong, with 86%
of the T. Rowe Price funds across their share classes surpassing their comparable Lipper averages
on a total return basis for the three-year period ended December 31, 2010, 88% outperforming for
the five-year period, 84% outperforming for the 10-year period, and 74% outperforming for the
one-year period. In addition, T. Rowe Price stock, bond and blended asset funds that ended the
quarter with an overall rating of four or five stars from Morningstar account for more than 70% of
our rated funds’ assets under management.

Our strong relative investment performance and brand awareness contributed significantly to
attracting net inflows of $30.3 billion to our management in 2010. Third-party financial
intermediaries, institutional investors around the world, and our target-date retirement portfolios
were the most significant sources of these net inflows. Market appreciation and income added $60.4
billion in 2010.

Assets under management in our target-date retirement portfolios increased nearly 36% or $15.7
billion during 2010 to total $59.4 billion, or 12% of our managed assets at year-end.

Six Price funds — Growth Stock, Equity Income, Mid-Cap Growth, Blue Chip Growth, Value, and Capital
Appreciation — accounted for 25% of our investment advisory revenues in 2010 and 21% of our assets
under management at December 31, 2010.

Our international clients account for 12.5% of our total assets under management at December 31,
2010, up from nearly 12% at the beginning of the year.

On January 20, 2010, we completed the purchase of a 26% equity interest in UTI Asset Management
Company and an affiliate from existing stockholders for 6.5 billion Indian rupees (INR), or $142.4
million, plus transaction costs of $3.2 million of which a portion was paid in 2009. We
repurchased 5.0 million shares of our common stock for $240 million in 2010. We funded the
investment in UTI and the share repurchases with existing cash balances and cash generated from
operations.

- 3 -





We made a one-time contribution of $16.4 million in November 2010, to certain of our sponsored
money market mutual funds to offset the effect of cumulative net losses realized by those funds in
past years in order to allay any fund shareholder concerns that might arise because of new SEC
disclosure rules. The charge associated with this one-time contribution is included in other
operating expenses.

See the Background section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations in Item 7 of this report for more information on the 2010 market environment
in which we operated.

PRICE FUNDS. We provide investment advisory, distribution and other administrative services to the
Price funds under various agreements. Investment advisory services are provided to each fund under
individual investment management agreements that grant the fund the right to use the T. Rowe Price
name. The boards of the respective funds, including a majority of directors who are not interested
persons of the funds or of T. Rowe Price Group (as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940),
must approve the investment management agreements annually. Fund shareholders must approve
material changes to these investment management agreements. Each agreement
automatically terminates in the event of its assignment (as defined in the Investment Company Act)
and, generally, either party may terminate the agreement without penalty after a 60-day notice.
The termination of one or more of these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our
results of operations.

Advisory Services.Investment advisory revenues are determined daily based on the net
assets managed in each fund. Additional revenues are earned for advisory-related administrative
services as discussed below. Independent directors and trustees of the Price funds regularly
review our fee structures.

The advisory fee paid monthly by each of the Price funds is computed on a daily basis by
multiplying a fund’s net assets by a specific fee rate. For the majority of the Price funds, the
fee rate is equal to the sum of a tiered group rate that is set based on the aggregate net assets
of nearly all of the Price funds and an individual fund rate that is set based on the fund’s
specific investment objective.

The effective group rate when combined net assets exceed $220 billion is calculated based on a
weighted-average fee across pricing tiers of 30.0 basis points for the first $220 billion of net
assets plus 28.5 basis points for net assets in excess of $220 billion. To the extent that the
combined net assets of the funds increase, the group charge component of a fund’s advisory fee
rate, and therefore the advisory fee rate paid by each fund, will decrease. Each individual fund
charge for four of our five largest funds — Growth Stock, Mid-Cap Growth, Equity Income, and Blue
Chip Growth — is a weighted average determined by applying a 15% reduction for net assets in
excess of $15 billion to the base individual fund rate.

Our calendar-year 2010 fees determined in the above manner for stock and bond funds that incurred
advisory fees of at least $5 million in 2010 varied from a low of 40 basis points for the Tax-Free
Short-Intermediate and Maryland Tax-Free Bond funds to a high of 105 basis points for the Emerging
Europe & Mediterranean, International Discovery, Latin America, and Emerging Markets Stock funds.
Details of each fund’s fee arrangement are available in its prospectus.

Several of the Price funds, including the Index and Summit funds, instead have individual advisory
fees or single, all-inclusive fees that cover both investment management and ordinary operating
expenses. Each of the funds in the series of Spectrum Funds and in the series of target-date
Retirement Funds invest in a broadly diversified portfolio of other Price funds and have no
separate investment advisory fee. However, they indirectly bear the expenses of the funds in which
they invest. Mutual funds for institutional investors each have a separate advisory fee
arrangement.

Because of the low interest rate environment continuing throughout 2010, we voluntarily waived
money market advisory fees of $25.1 million to maintain a zero or positive yield for fund
investors. We began waiving our money market advisory fees during the second half of 2009 and
anticipate these fee waivers will continue into 2011. These 2010 fee waivers lowered the money
market advisory fee rates from a low of five basis points for the U.S. Treasury Money and
California Tax-Free Money funds to a high of 28 basis points for the Summit Cash Reserves fund.

Each of the Price funds has a distinct investment objective that has been developed as part of our
strategy to provide a broad, comprehensive selection of investing opportunities. The Investor
class of all Price funds can be purchased in the United States on a no-load basis, without a sales
commission or 12b-1 fee. No-load mutual fund shares offer investors a low-cost and relatively easy
method of directly investing in a variety of stock and bond portfolios.

- 4 -





Certain of the Price funds also offer Advisor and R classes of shares that are distributed to
mutual fund shareholders and defined contribution retirement plans, respectively, through
third-party financial intermediaries. These share classes incur 12b-1 fees of 25 and 50 basis
points, respectively, for distribution, administration, and personal services. Our subsidiary, T.
Rowe Price Investment Services, is the principal distributor of the Price funds and enters into
agreements with each intermediary. Payment of 12b-1 fees is made by each fund directly to the
applicable intermediaries.

In accounting for 12b-1 fees, the applicable mutual fund share classes incur the related expense
and we recognize the corresponding administrative revenue in our consolidated statement of income.
We also recognize, as part of our other operating expenses in the consolidated statement of income,
the corresponding payment of these fees from each fund to the third-party financial intermediaries.
The revenue that we recognize from the funds and the expense that we recognize for the fees paid
to third party intermediaries are equal in amount and, therefore, do not impact our net operating
income.

We believe that our lower fund cost structure, distribution methods, and fund shareholder and
administrative services help promote the stability of our fund assets under management through
market cycles.

Each Price fund typically bears all expenses associated with its operation and the issuance and
redemption of its securities. In particular, each fund pays investment advisory fees; shareholder
servicing fees and expenses; fund accounting fees and expenses; transfer agent fees; custodian fees
and expenses; legal and auditing fees; expenses of preparing, printing and mailing prospectuses and
shareholder reports to existing shareholders; registration fees and expenses; proxy and annual
meeting expenses; and independent trustee or director fees and expenses.

We usually provide that a newly organized fund’s expenses will not exceed a specified percentage of
its net assets during an initial operating period. Generally, during the earlier portion of the
period, we will waive advisory fees and absorb other mutual fund expenses in excess of the
self-imposed limits. During the latter portion of the period, we may recover some or all of the
waived fees and absorbed costs.

Except as noted above for 12b-1 fees, we bear all advertising and promotion expenses associated
with our distribution of the Price funds. These costs are recognized currently, and include
advertising and direct mail communications to potential fund shareholders as well as substantial
staff and communications capabilities to respond to investor inquiries. Marketing and promotional
efforts are focused in the print media, television, and the Internet. In addition, we direct
considerable marketing efforts to defined contribution plans that invest in mutual funds.
Advertising and promotion expenditures vary over time based on investor interest, market
conditions, new investment offerings, and the development and expansion of new marketing
initiatives, including enhancements to our website.

Administrative Services.We provide advisory-related administrative services to the Price
funds through our subsidiaries. T. Rowe Price Services provides mutual fund transfer agency and
shareholder services, including maintenance of staff, facilities, and technology and other
equipment to respond to inquiries from fund shareholders. T. Rowe Price Associates provides mutual
fund accounting services, including maintenance of financial records, preparation of financial
statements and reports, daily valuation of portfolio securities and computation of daily net asset
values per share. T. Rowe Price Retirement Plan Services provides participant accounting, plan
administration and
transfer agent services for defined contribution retirement plans that invest in the Price funds.
Plan sponsors and participants compensate us for some services while the Price funds compensate us
for maintaining and administering the individual participant accounts for those plans that invest
in the funds.

Our trustee services are provided by another subsidiary, T. Rowe Price Trust Company. Through this
Maryland-chartered limited-service trust company, we offer common trust funds for investment by
qualified retirement plans and serve as trustee for retirement plans and IRAs.T. Rowe Price Trust
Company may not accept deposits and cannot make personal or commercial loans. Another subsidiary,
T. Rowe Price Savings Bank, issues federally insured certificates of deposit.

We also provide non-discretionary advisory planning services to fund shareholders and potential
investors through our subsidiary T. Rowe Price Advisory Services. These services are limited in
scope and include retirement planning services, such as saving for retirement, transitioning into
retirement, and income in retirement. An investment portfolio evaluation service is an integral
part of these services. An ongoing checkup service is also available to assist an investor in
remaining on track to achieve their financial goals.

Fund Assets.At December 31, 2010, assets under our management in the Price funds
aggregated $282.6 billion, an increase of 21.4% or $49.9 billion from the beginning of the year.
The following table presents the net assets (in billions) of our largest funds (net assets in
excess of $.7 billion at December 31) and the year each fund was started. The Spectrum and
Retirement series of funds are not presented in the table because their assets are already included
in their underlying fund holdings.

- 5 -








Stock funds:

Balanced (1991)$2.5$2.9

Blue Chip Growth (1993)10.311.9

Capital Appreciation (1986)9.110.4

Dividend Growth (1992)1.01.7

Emerging Europe & Mediterranean (2000).7.8

Emerging Markets Stock (1995)4.75.5

Equity Income (1985)17.220.4

Equity Index 500 (1990)11.313.2

European Stock (1990).7.7

Global Stock (1995).8.8

Growth & Income (1982)1.01.1

Growth Stock (1950)20.824.8

Health Sciences (1995)2.22.5

Institutional Emerging Markets Equity (2002).4.7

Institutional Large-Cap Growth (2001)1.72.6

Institutional Mid-Cap Equity Growth (1996).5.8

International Discovery (1988)2.22.7

International Growth & Income (1998)3.03.6

International Stock (1980)5.96.5

Latin America (1993)3.03.2

Media & Telecommunications (1993)1.51.9

Mid-Cap Growth (1992)15.520.3

Mid-Cap Value (1996)7.49.3

New America Growth (1985).91.3

New Asia (1990)4.15.2

New Era (1969)5.15.8

New Horizons (1960)5.67.7

Overseas Stock (2006)2.12.5

Personal Strategy Balanced (1994)1.21.4

Personal Strategy Growth (1994).91.0

Personal Strategy Income (1994).7.7

Real Assets (2010)—1.6

Real Estate (1997)2.32.6

Science & Technology (1987)2.83.1

Small-Cap Stock (1992)5.16.8

Small-Cap Value (1988)5.67.1

Value (1994)8.811.8

Other stock and blended asset funds4.15.5



172.7212.4





Bond and money market funds:

Corporate Income (1995).5.7

Emerging Markets Bond (1994)1.82.7

GNMA (1985)1.51.6

High Yield (1984)6.98.2

Inflation Focused Bond (2006)1.82.4

Institutional Floating Rate (2008).81.0

Institutional High Yield (2002)1.31.3

International Bond (1986)3.94.9

Maryland Tax-Free Bond (1987)1.71.8

New Income (1973)9.612.6

Prime Reserve (1976)5.95.6

Short-Term Bond (1984)4.25.7

Summit Cash Reserves (1993)5.65.5

Summit Municipal Intermediate (1993)1.21.7

Tax-Exempt Money (1981).9.9

Tax-Free High Yield (1985)1.71.7

Tax-Free Income (1976)2.32.9

Tax-Free Short-Intermediate (1983)1.11.4

U.S. Treasury Money (1982)1.81.9

Virginia Tax-Free Bond (1991).8.8

Other bond and money market funds4.74.9



60.070.2



$232.7$282.6



Our operating subsidiaries invest in many of the T. Rowe Price funds.

- 6 -





OTHER INVESTMENT PORTFOLIOS. We managed $199.4 billion at December 31, 2010, in other client
investment portfolios, up $40.8 billion from the beginning of the year.

We provide investment
advisory services to these clients through our subsidiaries on a separately managed or subadvised
account basis and through sponsored investment portfolios, such as common trust funds,
Luxembourg-based mutual funds, and variable annuity life insurance plans. At December 31, these
portfolios included the following investment assets:

20092010U.S. stocks$90.8$114.0International stocks26.934.2Stable value assets15.616.7Bonds and money market securities25.334.5$158.6$199.4

Our fees for managing these investment portfolios are computed using the value of assets under our
management. In 2010, 49% of these advisory fees were recognized based on daily portfolio
valuations. The balance of our managed investment portfolios are generally billed quarterly, with
month-end average values during the billing period and end of billing period values accounting for
30% and 20%, respectively, of our 2010 revenues.

We charge fees for investment management to these clients based on, among
other things, the specific investment services to be provided. Our standard form of investment
advisory agreement for client accounts provides that the agreement may be terminated at any time
and that any unearned fees paid in advance will be refunded.

Our largest client account relationship outside the T. Rowe Price funds is with a third-party
financial intermediary that accounted for about 3% of our investment advisory revenues in 2010.

REGULATION. T. Rowe Price Associates, T. Rowe Price International Ltd, T. Rowe Price (Canada), T.
Rowe Price Hong Kong Limited,     T. Rowe Price Singapore Private Ltd., and T. Rowe Price Advisory
Services are registered with the SEC as investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act of
1940. T. Rowe Price International Ltd is also regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA)
in the United Kingdom and, in certain cases, by other foreign regulators. The Securities and
Futures Commission and Monetary Authority of Singapore also regulate T. Rowe Price Hong Kong
Limited and T. Rowe Price Singapore Private Ltd., respectively. Our transfer agent services
subsidiaries are registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and our trust company is
regulated by the State of Maryland, Commissioner of Financial Regulation. T. Rowe Price Savings
Bank is regulated by the Office of Thrift Supervision, U.S. Department of the Treasury. T. Rowe
Price (Canada) is also registered with several of the provincial securities commissions in Canada.

T. Rowe Price Investment Services is a registered broker-dealer and member of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) and the Securities Investor Protection Corporation. We
provide brokerage services through this subsidiary primarily to complement the other services
provided to shareholders of the Price funds. Pershing, a third-party clearing broker and affiliate
of the Bank of New York, maintains our brokerage’s customer accounts and clears all transactions.

All aspects of our business are subject to extensive federal, state and foreign laws and
regulations. These laws and regulations are primarily intended to benefit or protect our clients
and the Price funds’ shareholders. They generally grant supervisory agencies and bodies broad
administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the conduct of our business in the
event that we fail to comply with laws and regulations. Possible sanctions that may be imposed on
us in the event that we fail to comply include the suspension of individual employees, limitations
on engaging in certain business activities for specified periods of time, revocation of our
investment adviser and other registrations, censures, and fines.

Certain of our subsidiaries are subject to net capital requirements including those of various
federal, state, and foreign regulatory agencies. Our subsidiaries’ net capital, as defined, meets
or exceeds all minimum requirements.

COMPETITION. As a member of the financial services industry, we are subject to substantial
competition in all aspects of our business. A significant number of proprietary and other
sponsors’ mutual funds are sold to the public by other investment management firms, broker-dealers,
mutual fund companies, banks and insurance companies. We compete with brokerage and investment
banking firms, insurance companies, banks, and other financial institutions in all aspects of our
business and in every country in which we offer our advisory services. Many of these financial
institutions have substantially greater resources than we do. We compete with other providers of
investment advisory services primarily based on the availability and objectives of the investment
portfolios offered, investment performance, and the scope and quality of investment advice and
other client services. In order to maintain and enhance our competitive position, we may review
acquisition and venture opportunities and, if appropriate, engage in discussions and negotiations that could lead to the
acquisition of a new equity or other financial relationship.

EMPLOYEES. At December 31, 2010, we employed 5,052 associates, up 5.2% from the 4,802 associates
employed at the end of 2009. We may add additional temporary and part-time personnel to our staff
from time to time to meet periodic and special project demands, primarily for technology and mutual
fund administrative services.

- 7 -





SEC FILINGS. We make available free of charge through our Internet web site our annual report on
Form   10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those
reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably
practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange
Commission. To obtain any of this information, access our web page athttp://trow.client.shareholder.com/financials.cfm. We also make our financial statement
information from our periodic SEC filings available on our website in the form of XBRL data files
that may be used to facilitate computer-assisted investor analysis.

