Item 1. Business.

T. Rowe Price Group is a financial services holding company that derives its consolidated revenues
and net income primarily from investment advisory services that its subsidiaries provide to
individual and institutional investors in the sponsored T. Rowe Price mutual funds and other
investment portfolios. Our investment advisory revenues depend largely on the total value and
composition of assets under our management. Accordingly, fluctuations in financial markets and in
the composition of assets under management impact our revenues and results of operations.

We operate our investment advisory business through our subsidiary companies, primarily T. Rowe
Price Associates, T. Rowe Price International, and T. Rowe Price Global Investment Services. The
late Thomas Rowe Price, Jr., began our advisory business in 1937, and the common stock of T. Rowe
Price Associates was first offered to the public in 1986. The T. Rowe Price Group corporate
holding company structure was established in 2000.

Our assets under management are accumulated from a diversified client base across four primary
distribution channels: third-party financial intermediaries that distribute our managed investment
portfolios in the U.S. and other countries; individual U.S. investors on a direct basis; U.S.
defined contribution retirement plans; and institutional investors in the U.S. and other countries.

We manage a broad range of U.S. and international stock, blended asset, bond, and money market
mutual funds and other investment portfolios that are designed to meet the varied and changing
needs and objectives of individual and institutional investors. Mutual fund shareholders can
exchange balances among mutual funds as permitted when economic and market conditions and their
investment needs change.

From time to time, we introduce new funds and other investment portfolios to complement and expand
our investment offerings, respond to competitive developments in the financial marketplace, and
meet the changing needs of our investment advisory clients. We will open a new mutual fund or
investment portfolio if we believe that we have the appropriate investment management expertise and
that its objective will be useful for investors over a long period. Conversely, we may also limit
new investments into a mutual fund or investment mandate in order to maintain the integrity of the
investment strategy and to protect the interests of its existing fund shareholders and investors.
At present, the following funds are closed to all new investors.

FundDate ClosedInstitutional Mid-Cap Equity GrowthDecember 8, 2003Institutional Small-Cap StockFebruary 20, 2004

Investment objectives for our managed investment portfolios, including the Price funds, accommodate
a variety of strategies. Investors select from among the mutual funds based on the distinct
objective that is described in each fund’s prospectus. Investment management of other client
portfolios includes approaches similar to those employed in the Price funds. Equity investment
strategies may emphasize large-cap, mid-cap or small-cap investing; growth, value or core
investing; and U.S., global, or international investing. We also offer systematic, tax-efficient,
and blended equity and asset allocation investment strategies including target retirement-date
investment portfolios, as well as active, systematic and municipal tax-free management strategies
for fixed income investments. Our specialized advisory services include management of stable value
investment contracts and a distribution management service for the disposition of equity securities
received from third-party venture capital investment pools.

We employ fundamental and quantitative security analyses in the performance of the investment
advisory function. We maintain substantial internal equity and fixed income investment research
capabilities. We perform original industry and company research using such sources as inspection
of corporate activities, management interviews, company-published financial and other information,
financial newspapers and magazines, corporate rating services, and field checks with suppliers and
competitors in the same industry and particular business sector. Our research staff operates
primarily from offices located in the United States and Great Britain with additional staff
resident in Argentina, Hong Kong, Japan, and Singapore. We also use research provided by brokerage
firms and security analysts in a supportive capacity and information received from private
economists, political observers, commentators, government experts, and market analysts. Our stock
selection process for some investment portfolios is based on quantitative analyses using
computerized data modeling.

We also provide certain administrative services as ancillary services to our investment advisory
clients. These administrative services are provided by several of our subsidiaries and include
mutual fund transfer agent, accounting, and shareholder services; participant recordkeeping and
transfer agent services for defined contribution retirement plans investing in our sponsored mutual
funds; discount brokerage; and trust services. Approximately 90% of our administrative revenues in
2009 were determined based generally on the recovery of our related costs to provide the
administrative services. Changes in our administrative revenues and related expenses, therefore,
do not significantly affect our net operating income or net income.

Information concerning our revenues, results of operations and total assets, and our investment
assets under management during the past three years is contained in our consolidated financial
statements and in note 2 thereto, which are both included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.



- 2 -





2009 DEVELOPMENTS. Total assets under our management ended 2009 at $391.3 billion, a substantial recovery from $276.3
billion at the end of 2008 to a level approaching the historical period-end high of $400.0 billion
at December 31, 2007. Retirement accounts and variable annuity investment portfolios account for
$249.0 billion of the total. Our year-end assets under management include $290.4 billion in equity
and blended asset investment portfolios and $100.9 billion in fixed income investment portfolios.
The investment portfolios that we manage consist of $232.7 billion in the T. Rowe Price mutual
funds distributed in the United States and $158.6 billion in other investment portfolios, including
separately managed accounts for institutional and individual investors, subadvised funds, and
other sponsored investment funds offered to investors outside the U.S. and through variable annuity
life insurance plans in the U.S. Non-U.S. dollar denominated securities account for about $55
billion of our year-end assets under management.

Six Price funds — Growth Stock, Equity Income, Mid-Cap Growth, Blue Chip Growth, Value, and Capital
Appreciation — accounted for 26% of our investment advisory revenues in 2009 and 21% of our assets
under management at December 31, 2009.

Our international clients account for nearly 12% of our total assets under management at December
31, 2009, up from nearly 10% at the beginning of the year.

The firm’s long-term investment advisory results relative to our peers remain strong, with 89% of
the T. Rowe Price funds across their share classes surpassing their comparable Lipper averages on a
total return basis for the five-year period ended December 31, 2009, at least 79% outperforming the
average for the three- and 10-year periods, and 73% outperforming for the one-year period. In
addition, T. Rowe Price stock, bond and blended asset funds that ended the quarter with an overall
rating of four or five stars from Morningstar account for more than 73% of our rated funds’ assets
under management.

Our strong relative investment performance and brand awareness contributed significantly to
attracting net inflows of $22.7 billion to our management in 2009, including $14.7 billion that
originated during the second half of the year as financial markets were recovering. Higher market
valuations and income added $92.3 billion in 2009.

While we are always vigilant in controlling our operating expenses, we began a series of cost
reduction and avoidance initiatives in late 2007 to get ahead of deteriorating market conditions.
These efforts were heightened through the last two years, especially with the equity market’s steep
decline in the fourth quarter of 2008 and first quarter of 2009, and included a 5.5% reduction of
our workforce in April 2009. Overall, our 2009 operating expenses were $102 million less than in
2008, and $66 million lower than in 2007.

On January 20, 2010, we completed the previously announced acquisition of a 26% equity interest in
UTI Asset Management Company and an affiliate from existing stockholders for 6.5 billion Indian
rupees or $142.4 million, plus transaction costs of about $3.5 million. UTI Asset Management
Company is an unlisted company in India with approximately $17.8 billion in average assets under
management in December 2009. We will account for this investment using the equity method of
accounting.

See the Background section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations in Item 7 of this report for more information on the 2009 market environment
in which we operated.

PRICE FUNDS. We provide investment advisory, distribution and other administrative services to the
Price funds under various agreements. Investment advisory services are provided to each fund under
individual investment management agreements that grant the fund the right to use the T. Rowe Price
name. The boards of the respective funds, including a majority of directors who are not interested
persons of the funds or of T. Rowe Price Group (as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940),
must approve the investment management agreements annually. Fund shareholders must approve
material changes to these investment management agreements. Each agreement automatically
terminates in the event of its assignment (as defined in the Investment Company Act) and,
generally, either party may terminate the agreement without penalty after a 60-day notice. The
termination of one or more of these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our results
of operations.

Advisory Services.Investment advisory revenues are determined daily based on the net
assets managed in each fund. Additional revenues are earned for advisory-related administrative
services as discussed below. Independent directors and trustees of the Price funds regularly
review our fee structures.

The advisory fee paid monthly by each of the Price funds is generally computed on a daily basis by
multiplying a fund’s net assets by a specific fee rate. For the majority of the Price funds, the
fee is equal to the sum of an individual fund charge that is set based on the fund’s specific
investment objective and a group charge that is set based on the aggregate net assets of those
funds.

The individual fund charge for each of our four largest funds — Growth Stock, Equity Income,
Mid-Cap Growth, and Blue Chip Growth – is a weighted average determined by applying a 15% reduction
for net assets in excess of $15 billion to the base individual fund rate. The group charge is
derived from a tiered fee schedule. The effective group charge when combined net assets exceed
$220 billion is calculated based on a weighted-average fee across pricing tiers of nearly 30.5
basis points for the first $220 billion of net assets plus 28.5 basis points for net assets in
excess of $220 billion. To the extent that the combined net assets of the funds increase, the
group charge component of a fund’s advisory fee rate, and therefore the advisory fee rate paid by
each fund, will decrease. Near zero percent yields on very short-term securities in 2009
significantly reduced the yield on money market funds across the mutual fund industry. As a
result, we voluntarily reduced our money market advisory fees during the second half of 2009 in
order to maintain yields at or above 0% to fund investors. These fee reductions are continuing
presently into 2010.

Our calendar-year 2009 fees determined in the above manner for funds that incurred advisory fees of
at least $4 million in 2009 varied from a

- 3 -





low of 22 basis points for the U.S. Treasury money fund
to a high of 106 basis points for the Emerging Markets Stock, International Discovery, and Latin
America funds. Details of each fund’s fee arrangement are available in its prospectus.

Each of the Price funds has a distinct investment objective that has been developed as part of our
strategy to provide a broad, comprehensive selection of investing opportunities. The Investor
class of all Price funds can be purchased in the United States on a no-load basis, without a sales
commission or 12b-1 fee. No-load mutual fund shares offer investors a low-cost and relatively easy
method of directly investing in a variety of stock and bond portfolios.

Certain of the T. Rowe Price mutual funds also offer Advisor and R classes of shares that are
distributed to mutual fund shareholders and defined contribution retirement plans, respectively,
through third-party financial intermediaries. These share classes incur 12b-1 fees of 25 and 50
basis points, respectively, for distribution, administration, and personal services. Our
subsidiary, T. Rowe Price Investment Services, is the principal distributor of the T. Rowe Price
mutual funds and enters into agreements with each intermediary. Payment of 12b-1 fees is made by
each fund directly to the applicable intermediaries.

In accounting for 12b-1 fees, the applicable mutual fund share classes incur the related expense
and we recognize the corresponding administrative revenue in our consolidated statement of income.
We also recognize, as part of our other operating expenses in the consolidated statement of income,
the corresponding payment of these fees from each fund to the third-party financial intermediaries.
The revenue that we recognize from the funds and the expense that we recognize for the fees paid
to third party intermediaries are equal in amount and, therefore, do not impact our net operating
income.

We believe that our lower fund cost structure, distribution methods, and fund shareholder and
administrative services help promote the stability of our fund assets under management through
market cycles.

Each Price fund typically bears all expenses associated with its operation and the issuance and
redemption of its securities. In particular, each fund pays investment advisory fees; shareholder
servicing fees and expenses; fund accounting fees and expenses; transfer agent fees; custodian fees
and expenses; legal and auditing fees; expenses of preparing, printing and mailing prospectuses and
shareholder reports to existing shareholders; registration fees and expenses; proxy and annual
meeting expenses; and independent trustee or director fees and expenses.

Several of the Price funds, including the Index and Summit funds, instead have individual advisory
fees or single, all-inclusive fees that cover both investment management and operating expenses.
Each of the funds in the series of Spectrum Funds and in the series of target-date Retirement Funds
invest in a broadly diversified portfolio of other Price funds and have no separate investment
advisory fee. However, they indirectly bear the expenses of the funds in which they invest.
Mutual funds for institutional investors each have separate advisory fee arrangements.

We usually provide that a newly organized fund’s expenses will not exceed a specified percentage of
its net assets during an initial operating period. Generally, during the earlier portion of the
period, we will waive advisory fees and absorb other mutual fund expenses in excess of the
self-imposed limits. During the latter portion of the period, we may recover some or all of the
waived fees and absorbed costs.

Except as noted above for 12b-1 fees, we bear all advertising and promotion expenses associated
with our distribution of the Price funds. These costs are recognized currently, and include
advertising and direct mail communications to potential fund shareholders as well as substantial
staff and communications capabilities to respond to investor inquiries. Marketing and promotional
efforts are focused in the print media, television, and the Internet. In addition, we direct
considerable marketing efforts to defined contribution plans that invest in mutual funds.
Advertising and promotion expenditures vary over time based on investor interest, market
conditions, new investment offerings, and the development and expansion of new marketing
initiatives, including enhancements to our website.

Administrative Services.We provide advisory-related administrative services to the Price
funds through our subsidiaries. T. Rowe Price Services provides mutual fund transfer agency and
shareholder services, including maintenance of staff, facilities, and technology and other
equipment to respond to inquiries from fund shareholders. T. Rowe Price Associates provides mutual
fund accounting services, including maintenance of financial records, preparation of financial
statements and reports, daily valuation of portfolio securities and computation of daily net asset
values per share. T. Rowe Price Retirement Plan Services provides participant accounting, plan
administration and transfer agent services for defined contribution retirement plans that invest in
the Price funds. Plan sponsors and participants compensate us for some services while the Price
funds compensate us for maintaining and administering the individual participant accounts for those
plans that invest in the funds.

Our trustee services are provided by another subsidiary, T. Rowe Price Trust Company. Through this
Maryland-chartered limited-service trust company, we offer common trust funds for investment by
qualified retirement plans and serve as trustee for retirement plans and IRAs.T. RowePrice Trust
Company may not accept deposits and cannot make personal or commercial loans. Another subsidiary,
T. Rowe Price Savings Bank, issues federally insured certificates of deposit.

We also provide non-discretionary advisory planning services to fund shareholders and potential
investors through our subsidiary T. Rowe Price Advisory Services. These services are limited in
scope and include retirement planning services, such as saving for retirement, transitioning into
retirement, and income in retirement. An investment portfolio evaluation service is an integral
part of these services. An ongoing checkup service is also available to assist an investor in
remaining on track to achieve their financial goals.

Fund Assets.At December 31, 2009, assets under our management in the Price funds
aggregated $232.7 billion, an increase of 41.5% or $68.3 billion from the beginning of the year.
The following table presents the net assets (in billions) of our largest funds (net assets in
excess of $.5 billion at December 31) and the year each fund was started. The Spectrum and
Retirement series of funds are not presented in the table because their assets are already included
in the underlying funds.

- 4 -








Stock funds:

Balanced (1991)$2.0$2.5

Blue Chip Growth (1993)7.510.3

Capital Appreciation (1986)6.79.1

Dividend Growth (1992).71.0

Emerging Europe & Mediterranean (2000).3.7

Emerging Markets Stock (1995)2.34.7

Equity Income (1985)13.917.2

Equity Index 500 (1990)7.611.3

European Stock (1990).6.7

Global Stock (1995).6.8

Growth & Income (1982).81.0

Growth Stock (1950)14.820.8

Health Sciences (1995)1.72.2

Institutional Large-Cap Growth (2001)1.01.7

International Discovery (1988)1.32.2

International Growth & Income (1998)2.03.0

International Stock (1980)3.85.9

Latin America (1993)1.33.0

Media & Telecommunications (1993).91.5

Mid-Cap Growth (1992)9.815.5

Mid-Cap Value (1996)4.57.4

New America Growth (1985).5.9

New Asia (1990)1.84.1

New Era (1969)3.25.1

New Horizons (1960)4.15.6

Overseas Stock (2006)1.32.1

Personal Strategy Balanced (1994)1.01.2

Personal Strategy Growth (1994).7.9

Personal Strategy Income (1994).6.7

Real Estate (1997)1.62.3

Science & Technology (1987)1.62.8

Small-Cap Stock (1992)3.85.1

Small-Cap Value (1988)4.05.6

Total Equity Market Index (1998).4.5

Value (1994)5.98.8

Other funds3.34.5



117.9172.7



Bond and money market funds:

Corporate Income (1995).3.5

Emerging Markets Bond (1994).51.8

GNMA (1985)1.41.5

High Yield (1984)4.36.9

Institutional Floating Rate (2008).6.8

Institutional High Yield (2002).61.3

International Bond (1986)2.63.9

Maryland Tax-Free Bond (1987)1.31.7

New Income (1973)6.79.6

Prime Reserve (1976)6.75.9

Short-Term Bond (1984)1.94.2

Short-Term Income (2006)1.21.8

Summit Cash Reserves (1993)6.45.6

Summit Municipal Intermediate (1993).81.2

Tax-Exempt Money (1981)1.0.9

Tax-Free High Yield (1985)1.11.7

Tax-Free Income (1976)1.72.3

Tax-Free Short-Intermediate (1983).61.1

U.S. Treasury Intermediate (1989).7.5

U.S. Treasury Money (1982)2.21.8

Virginia Tax-Free Bond (1991).6.8

Other funds3.34.2



46.560.0



$164.4$232.7



- 5 -





Our operating subsidiaries invest in many of the T. Rowe Price funds.

OTHER INVESTMENT PORTFOLIOS. We managed $158.6 billion at December 31, 2009, in other client
investment portfolios, up $46.7 billion from the beginning of the year. We provide investment
advisory services to these clients through our subsidiaries on a separately managed or subadvised
account basis and through sponsored investment portfolios, such as common trust funds,
Luxembourg-based mutual funds, and variable annuity life insurance plans. At December 31, these
portfolios included the following investment assets:

20082009U.S. stocks$62.4$90.8International stocks16.626.9Stable value assets15.715.6Bonds and money market securities17.225.3$111.9$158.6

Our fees for managing these investment portfolios are computed using the value of assets under our
management. In 2009, 49% of these advisory fees were recognized based on daily portfolio
valuations. The balance of our managed investment portfolios are generally billed quarterly, with
end of billing period values and month-end average values during the billing period accounting for
26% and 21%, respectively, of our 2009 revenues.

We charge fees for investment management to these clients based on, among other things, the
specific investment services to be provided. Our standard form of investment advisory agreement
for client accounts provides that the agreement may be terminated at any time and that any unearned
fees paid in advance will be refunded.

Our largest client account relationship outside the T. Rowe Price funds is with a third-party
financial intermediary that accounted for about 3% of our investment advisory revenues in 2009.

REGULATION. T. Rowe Price Associates, T. Rowe Price International, T. Rowe Price Global Investment
Services, T. Rowe Price (Canada), and T. Rowe Price Advisory Services are registered with the SEC
as investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. T. Rowe Price Global Investment
Services and T. Rowe Price International are regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in
Great Britain and, in certain cases, by other foreign regulators. Our transfer agent services
subsidiaries are registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and our trust company is
regulated by the State of Maryland, Commissioner of Financial Regulation. T. Rowe Price Savings
Bank is regulated by the Office of Thrift Supervision, U.S. Department of the Treasury. T. Rowe
Price (Canada) is also registered with several of the provincial securities commissions in Canada.

T. Rowe Price Investment Services is a registered broker-dealer and member of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) and the Securities Investor Protection Corporation. We
provide discount brokerage services through this subsidiary primarily to complement the other
services provided to shareholders of the Price funds. Pershing, a third-party clearing broker and
affiliate of the Bank of New York, maintains our discount brokerage’s customer accounts and clears
all transactions.

All aspects of our business are subject to extensive federal, state and foreign laws and
regulations. These laws and regulations are primarily intended to benefit or protect our clients
and the Price funds’ shareholders. They generally grant supervisory agencies and bodies broad
administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the conduct of our business in the
event that we fail to comply with laws and regulations. Possible sanctions that may be imposed on
us in the event that we fail to comply include the suspension of individual employees, limitations
on engaging in certain business activities for specified periods of time, revocation of our
investment adviser and other registrations, censures, and fines.

Certain of our subsidiaries are subject to net capital requirements including those of various
federal, state, and foreign regulatory agencies. Our subsidiaries’ net capital, as defined, meets
or exceeds all minimum requirements.

COMPETITION. As a member of the financial services industry, we are subject to substantial
competition in all aspects of our business. A significant number of proprietary and other
sponsors’ mutual funds are sold to the public by other investment management firms, broker-dealers,
mutual fund companies, banks and insurance companies. We compete with brokerage and investment
banking firms, insurance companies, banks, and other financial institutions in all aspects of our
business and in every country in which we offer our advisory services. Many of these financial
institutions have substantially greater resources than we do. We compete with other providers of
investment advisory services primarily based on the availability and objectives of the investment
portfolios offered, investment performance, and the scope and quality of investment advice and
other client services. In order to maintain and enhance our competitive position, we may review
acquisition and venture opportunities and, if appropriate, engage in discussions and negotiations
that could lead to the acquisition of a new equity or other financial relationship.

EMPLOYEES. At December 31, 2009, we employed 4,802 associates, down 10.8% from the end of 2008 due
to attrition, retirements, and the 5.5% workforce reduction that we initiated in April 2009. We
may add additional temporary and part-time personnel to our staff from time to time to meet
periodic and special project demands, primarily for technology and mutual fund administrative
services.

- 6 -





SEC FILINGS. We make available free of charge through our Internet web site our annual report on
Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those
reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably
practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange
Commission. To obtain any of this information, access our web page athttp://trow.client.shareholder.com/financials.cfm. We also make our financial statement
information from our periodic SEC filings available on our website in the form of XBRL data files
that may be used to facilitate computer-assisted investor analysis.

