
10-K
VIACOM INC.





                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                            ------------------------
                                    FORM 10-K
                            ------------------------
                                  ANNUAL REPORT
                     PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
    FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995 COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-9553
                            ------------------------

                                   VIACOM INC.
             (Exact Name Of Registrant As Specified In Its Charter)
                            ------------------------

                      Delaware                         04-2949533
          (State or Other Jurisdiction of          (I.R.S. Employer
          Incorporation Or Organization)          Identification No.)

                        1515 Broadway, New York, NY 10036
               (Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code)

        Registrant's telephone number, including area code (212) 258-6000
                            ------------------------
           Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(B) of the Act:

          Title of Each Class Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered
     -----------------------------------------------------------------------
Class A Common Stock, $0.01 par value                   American Stock Exchange
Class B Common Stock, $0.01 par value                   American Stock Exchange
Warrants Expiring on July 7, 1997                       American Stock Exchange
Warrants Expiring on July 7, 1999                       American Stock Exchange
6.625% Senior Notes due 1998                            New York Stock Exchange
6.75% Senior Notes due 2003                             American Stock Exchange
7.75% Senior Notes due 2005                             American Stock Exchange
8% Exchangeable Subordinated Debentures due 2006        American Stock Exchange
7.625% Senior Debentures due 2016                       American Stock Exchange

           Securities Registered Pursuant To Section 12(G) of the Act:
                                      None
                                (Title Of Class)

        Indicate by check mark whether registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X No

        Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. X

        As of March 22, 1996, 75,099,274 shares of Viacom Inc. Class A Common
Stock, $0.01 par value ("Class A Common Stock"), and 294,853,114 shares of
Viacom Inc. Class B Common Stock, $0.01 par value ("Class B Common Stock"), were
outstanding. The aggregate market value of the shares of Class A Common Stock
(based upon the closing price of $40.875 per share as reported by the American
Stock Exchange on that date) held by non-affiliates was approximately
$1,207,943,150 and the aggregate market value of the shares of the Class B
Common Stock (based upon the closing price of $41.75 per share as reported by
the American Stock Exchange on that date) held by non-affiliates was
approximately $10,366,032,214.


                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

        The Definitive Proxy of the Registrant for the 1996 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders (Part III to the extent described herein).



                                     Part I

Item 1.   Business.
Background

        Viacom Inc. (together with its subsidiaries and divisions, unless the
context otherwise requires, the "Company") is a diversified entertainment and
publishing company with operations in five segments: (i) Networks and
Broadcasting, (ii) Entertainment, (iii) Video and Music/Theme Parks, (iv)
Publishing, and (v) Cable Television. Through the Networks and Broadcasting
segment, the Company operates MTV: MUSIC TELEVISION(R), SHOWTIME(R),
NICKELODEON(R)/NICK AT NITE(R) and VH1 MUSIC FIRST(TM), among other program
services, and 12 broadcast television stations and 12 radio stations. Through
the Entertainment segment, which includes PARAMOUNT PICTURES(R) and the
Company's approximately 75%-owned subsidiary SPELLING ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC.
("SPELLING"), the Company produces and distributes theatrical motion pictures
and television programming. Through the Video and Music/Theme Parks segment,
which includes the BLOCKBUSTER(R) family of businesses and PARAMOUNT PARKS(R),
the Company is the leading worldwide owner, operator and franchiser of
videocassette rental and sales stores and a leading owner and operator of music
stores in the U.S. In addition, PARAMOUNT PARKS owns and operates five theme
parks and one water park in the U.S. and Canada. Through the Publishing segment,
which includes SIMON & SCHUSTER(R), MACMILLAN PUBLISHING USA(TM) and PRENTICE
HALL(R), the Company publishes and distributes educational, consumer, business,
technical and professional books, and audio-video software products. Through the
Cable Television segment, the Company operates cable television systems serving
approximately 1.2 million customers.

        The Company was organized in Delaware in 1986 for the purpose of
acquiring Viacom International Inc. ("Viacom International"). On March 11, 1994,
the Company acquired a majority of outstanding shares of Paramount
Communications Inc. ("Paramount Communications") by tender offer; on July 7,
1994, Paramount Communications became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company,
and, on January 3, 1995, Paramount Communications was merged into Viacom
International. On September 29, 1994, Blockbuster Entertainment Corporation
merged with and into the Company (the "Blockbuster Merger"). During July 1995,
the Company announced an agreement to split-off its cable systems to its
shareholders through a "dutch auction" exchange offer and the subsequent
investment in and acquisition of all of the common stock of such entity by a
subsidiary of Tele-Communications, Inc. immediately following the split-off. The
exchange offer and related transactions are subject to several conditions,
including regulatory approvals, receipt of a tax ruling and consummation of the
exchange offer. The Company is currently exploring the sale of SPELLING and the
related purchase of SPELLING's subsidiary, VIRGIN INTERACTIVE ENTERTAINMENT
LIMITED ("VIRGIN INTERACTIVE"). On March 10, 1995, the Company sold Madison
Square Garden Corporation for closing proceeds of approximately $1.009 billion,
representing the sale price of approximately $1.075 billion, less an
approximately $66 million working capital adjustment. The net after-tax proceeds
of the sale were used to repay indebtedness.

        As of March 1, 1996, National Amusements, Inc. ("NAI"), a closely held
corporation that owns and operates more than 1,000 movie screens in the U.S. and



the U.K., owned approximately 61% of the Company's voting Class A Common Stock
("Class A Common Stock"), and approximately 25% of the Company's outstanding
Class A Common Stock and non-voting Class B Common Stock ("Class B Common
Stock") on a combined basis. NAI is not subject to the informational filing
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Sumner M.
Redstone, the controlling shareholder of NAI, is the Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer of the Company.

        The Company's principal offices are located at 1515 Broadway, New York,
New York 10036 (telephone 212/258-6000). At December 31, 1995, the Company and
its affiliated companies employed approximately 81,700 people, of which
approximately 36,500 were full-time salaried employees.


Business

Networks and Broadcasting

        Networks. The Company owns and operates advertiser-supported basic cable
television program services and premium subscription television program services
in the U.S. and internationally. The MTV Networks division ("MTVN") includes
such owned and operated program services as MTV: MUSIC TELEVISION(R) ("MTV") in
the U.S., MTV(TM) in Europe ("MTV EUROPE") and in Latin America ("MTV LATINO"),
NICKELODEON(R), NICK AT NITE(R), VH1 MUSIC FIRST(TM) (in the U.S., "VH1"), and
VH-1(TM) in the U.K., as well as program services in which MTVN participates as
a joint venturer, including MTV(TM) in ASIA ("MTV ASIA"), NICKELODEON(TM) and
THE PARAMOUNT CHANNEL(TM) in the U.K., NICKELODEON(TM) in Australia
("NICKELODEON AUSTRALIA"), and NICKELODEON(TM) and VH-1(TM) in Germany. Showtime
Networks Inc. ("SNI") owns and operates SHOWTIME(R), THE MOVIE CHANNEL(TM) and
FLIX(TM), and participates as a joint venturer in SUNDANCE CHANNEL(TM), a
premium subscription television program service which launched on February 29,
1996. Additionally, the Company participates as a joint venturer in four
advertiser-supported basic cable program services: USA NETWORK(TM) and the
SCI-FI CHANNEL(TM) (both of which are operated by USA Networks), COMEDY
CENTRAL(TM), and ALL NEWS CHANNEL(TM). The Company also packages
satellite-delivered program services for distribution to TVRO subscribers in the
U.S. through SHOWTIME SATELLITE NETWORKS(TM).

        Generally, the Company's Networks are offered to customers of cable
television operators, distributors of direct-to-home satellite services ("DTH")
and other multichannel distributors. DTH distributors provide service by either
low-powered C-Band satellite technology (received by large satellite dishes at
customers' premises, "TVRO") or mid-to high-powered K-Band satellite technology
(received by smaller satellite dishes at customers' premises, "DBS") (TVRO and
DBS, together, "DTH"). Cable television operators are currently the predominant
distributors of the Company's Networks in the U.S. Internationally, the
predominant distribution technology varies territory by territory.

        MTV Networks. MTV targets viewers from the ages of 12 to 34 with
programming that consists primarily of music videos and concerts, augmented by



music and general lifestyle information, comedy and dramatic series, news
specials, interviews, documentaries and other youth-oriented programming.
Additionally, international MTV program services are regionally customized to
suit the local tastes of their young adult viewers by the inclusion of local
music, programming, and on-air personalities, and use of the local language.

        MTV has expanded its business opportunities based on its programming to
include, among other enterprises, MTV ONLINE(TM) which provides promotional
opportunities for MTV and its programming; the MTV RADIO NETWORK(TM), which MTV
licenses to Westwood One Entertainment for syndication in the U.S. and which
features exclusive concert simulcasts, music information and MTV shows; an MTV
line of home videos, merchandise, interactive products and books, and electronic
retailing programs. MTV also pursues broadcast network and first-run syndication
television opportunities and motion picture development and production through
its MTV Productions business unit. The first two motion pictures produced
through MTV Productions are to be released in 1996, JOE'S APARTMENT(TM) which is
based on MTV programming and is to be released through Geffen Pictures/Warner
Bros., and a film featuring MTV's Beavis & Butt-Head characters to be released
through PARAMOUNT PICTURES. MTV has joined with POCKET BOOKS(TM), a division of
SIMON & SCHUSTER, in a venture under which books are published under an MTV
BOOKS imprint for the youth market. MTV has reintroduced its "Choose or Lose"
political awareness campaign for the 1996 presidential election, consisting of
news specials, interviews with the candidates and weekly coverage of the primary
season, designed to educate and inform young viewers about the political
process.

        MTV was licensed to approximately 59.6 million domestic subscribers at
December 31, 1995 (based on subscriber counts provided by each distributor of
the service). According to the December 1995 sample reports issued by the A.C.
Nielsen Company (the "Nielsen Report"), MTV reached approximately 63.2 million
domestic subscriber households.

        MTV EUROPE is designed to particularly attract the European youth market
by providing a high percentage of European-sourced youth programming, featuring
music videos, and including coverage of fashion, movies, news, trends and social
issues. MTV EUROPE is distributed in Europe and certain countries in the former
Soviet Union and the Middle East. Based on subscriber counts provided by
distributors of the service, MTV EUROPE reached approximately 51.5 million
subscribers at December 31, 1995. In 1995, MTV encrypted its service in Europe
in order to maximize subscription revenues.

        MTV LATINO is customized for Spanish-speaking viewers in approximately
20 countries in Latin America and in the U.S. MTV LATINO was distributed to
approximately 6.5 million subscribers, including 668,000 U.S. subscribers at
December 31, 1995 (based on subscriber counts provided by each distributor of
the service).

        MTV ASIA is operated by a joint venture of the Company and PolyGram Asia
L.L.C., which was launched in the second quarter of 1995, and reached
approximately 29.5 million subscribers throughout Asia at December 31, 1995
(based on subscriber counts provided by each distributor of the service). MTV
ASIA consists of two separate satellite feeds, one primarily in Mandarin, the
other primarily in English.



        MTVN has licensing arrangements covering the distribution of
regionally-specific program services in Brazil and Japan. MTVN also licenses MTV
programs, merchandise and format rights worldwide. The Company has also entered
into a joint venture agreement for the development and launch of DTH programming
packages anticipated to be available in the Middle East in April 1996, including
programming from MTV, VH-1, NICKELODEON, THE PARAMOUNT CHANNEL (described
below), and a new premium subscription movie-based program service managed by
SNI called THE MOVIE CHANNEL, among other services.

        NICKELODEON combines acquired and originally produced programs in a
pro-social, non-violent format comprising two distinct program units tailored to
age-specific demographic audiences: NICKELODEON, targeted to audiences ages 2 to
14 (which includes NICK JR.(TM), a program block designed for 2 to 5 year olds),
features live-action, animation and original children's game shows; and NICK AT
NITE, which primarily attracts audiences ages 18 to 49 and offers "Classic
TV"(TM) shows from various eras, including THE DICK VAN DYKE SHOW, THE MARY
TYLER MOORE SHOW and TAXI. At December 31, 1995, NICKELODEON/NICK AT NITE was
licensed to approximately 61.7 million domestic subscribers (based on subscriber
counts provided by each distributor of the service). According to the Nielsen
Report, NICKELODEON and NICK AT NITE each reached approximately 65 million
subscriber households. In 1996, the Company plans to launch NICK AT NITE'S TV
LAND(TM), a 24-hour, seven-days-a-week program service comprised of a broad
range of well-known television programs from various genres. Upon launch, NICK
AT NITE'S TV LAND will feature a wide range of genres including comedies,
dramas, westerns, variety and other formats from the 1950s through the 1980s
while NICK AT NITE programs will remain primarily comedies. NICKELODEON conducts
its brand and character licensing programs in the U.S. and international markets
by entering into merchandising agreements throughout the world. Additionally,
the Company publishes a monthly NICKELODEON MAGAZINE, which had approximately
481,000 subscribers at December 31, 1995; launched NICKELODEON ONLINE(TM) which
offers original content for children including live events, games and
videoclips; launched NICK AT NITE ONLINE(TM), an online resource regarding
classic television and pop culture; and created NICKELODEON MOVIES(TM), a new
unit, which is developing a mix of story and character-driven projects based on
original ideas and NICKELODEON programming, including the upcoming feature film,
HARRIET THE SPY(TM), which is being co-produced with PARAMOUNT PICTURES and is
expected to be released in 1996.

        NICKELODEON in the U.K. is a joint venture of the Company and British
Sky Broadcasting Limited ("BSkyB") and is a 13-hour weekday and 12-hour weekend,
satellite-delivered children's television program service. On November 1, 1995,
PARAMOUNT PICTURES and NICKELODEON, in a joint venture with BSkyB, launched THE
PARAMOUNT CHANNEL in the U.K., which features comedies, dramas, light
documentaries and films during the daypart following the NICKELODEON in the
U.K. program segment. NICKELODEON in Australia is operated by a joint venture of
the Company and XYZ Entertainment Pty Ltd. (which is owned by Foxtel, Century
Communications Corp. and United International Holdings Inc.) and is a
subscription television program service which launched in October 1995.
NICKELODEON in Germany, which launched in July 1995, is a joint venture of the
Company, The Bear Stearns Companies Inc. ("Bear Stearns") and Ravensburger Film



& TV GmbH. This joint venture has required the receipt of certain regulatory
approvals. The international NICKELODEON services deliver children's programming
which generally includes U.S. NICKELODEON programming, acquired programming
(including locally produced programs) and original programming produced by
NICKELODEON and the applicable joint venture.

        VH1 presents music videos, long-form music-based series and specials,
original concerts, music-based news and information, artist interviews and
fashion, and targets an audience from the ages of 25 to 44. At December 31,
1995, VH1 was licensed to approximately 51 million domestic subscribers (based
on subscriber counts provided by each distributor of the service). According to
the Nielsen Report, VH1 reached approximately 53.2 million domestic subscriber
households. In 1995, VH1 launched VH1 ONLINE(TM) giving viewers the opportunity
to go behind the scenes at VH1 special events, chat with VH1 artists and learn
more about VH1 programming. VH-1 in the U.K. was launched in September 1994 and
was distributed to approximately 4.3 million viewers in the U.K. and Ireland as
of December 31, 1995 (based on subscriber counts provided by each distributor of
the service). VH-1 in Germany, launched in March 1995, is a joint venture of the
Company and Bear Stearns. This joint venture has required the receipt of certain
regulatory approvals.

        MTVN, in exchange for cash and advertising time or for promotional
consideration only, licenses from record companies music videos for exhibition
on MTV, VH1 and other MTVN program services. The agreements generally provide
for a license period of three to five years, and in the U.S., that videos are
available for debut by MTVN and are subject to exclusive exhibition periods on
MTV. MTVN has entered into multi-year global music video licensing agreements
with certain record companies. MTVN also has shorter term and regional clip
licensing arrangements with other record companies. MTVN is negotiating and
expects to conclude additional license agreements with independent labels and
additional global music video license agreements with major international
labels. However, there can be no assurance that such agreements can be concluded
on favorable terms. MTVN is continuing to take measures to assure access to
music videos worldwide. (See "Business--Competition--Networks")

        MTVN derives revenues principally from two sources: the sale of time on
its own networks to advertisers and the license of the networks to cable
television operators, DTH and other distributors. The sale of MTVN advertising
time is affected by viewer demographics, viewer ratings and market conditions
for advertising time. Adverse changes in general market conditions for
advertising may affect MTVN's revenues. (See "Business--Competition--Networks")

        Showtime Networks Inc. SNI operates three commercial-free, premium
subscription television program services: SHOWTIME, offering recently released
theatrical feature films, drama and comedy series, boxing events, and original
movies; THE MOVIE CHANNEL, offering recently released theatrical films and
related programming including film festivals; and FLIX, an added-value program
service featuring theatrical movies primarily from the 1960s, 70s and 80s. At
December 31, 1995, SHOWTIME, THE MOVIE CHANNEL and FLIX, in the aggregate, had
approximately 14.8 million cable and other subscribers in 50 states and certain
U.S. territories. SUNDANCE CHANNEL, a joint venture among SNI, an affiliate of
Robert Redford and an affiliate of PolyGram Filmed Entertainment Distribution



Inc., which is managed and operated by SNI, launched on February 29, 1996.
SUNDANCE CHANNEL is a commercial-free 24-hour, seven-days-a-week premium
subscription service, dedicated to independent film, featuring top-quality
American independent films, documentaries, foreign and classic art films, shorts
and animation, with an emphasis on recently released premium titles. The Company
has also entered into a joint venture agreement for the development and launch
of DTH programming packages anticipated to be available in the Middle East in
April 1996, including a new premium subscription movie-based program service
called THE MOVIE CHANNEL, which is managed by SNI, and programming from MTV
EUROPE, VH-1, NICKELODEON and THE PARAMOUNT CHANNEL, among other services.

        SNI also provides special events, such as sports events, to licensees on
a pay-per-view basis. In March 1995, SNI entered into an exclusive multi-year
agreement with former heavyweight champion Mike Tyson and Don King Productions,
Inc. for SHOWTIME EVENT TELEVISION's pay-per-view marketing and distribution of
Mike Tyson's fights over three years. SHOWTIME EVENT TELEVISION(TM) is a
pay-per-view distributor of special events, including boxing events. In
addition, SNI, through its subsidiary, SHOWTIME SATELLITE NETWORKS INC.,
packages for distribution to TVRO viewers the Company's wholly owned program
services, as well as COMEDY CENTRAL, USA NETWORK, the SCI-FI CHANNEL, and
certain third-party program services.

        In order to exhibit theatrical motion pictures on premium subscription
television, SNI enters into commitments to acquire rights, with an emphasis on
acquiring exclusive rights for SHOWTIME and THE MOVIE CHANNEL, from major or
independent motion picture producers and other distributors. SNI's exhibition
rights cover the U.S. and may, on a contract-by-contract basis, cover additional
territories. In addition to SNI's other theatrical motion picture license
agreements, SNI recently entered into agreements with PolyGram Filmed
Entertainment Distribution Inc. under which SNI will acquire the exclusive U.S.
premium television rights to up to 100 of PolyGram's feature titles initially
theatrically released in the U.S. through the year 2001; with PARAMOUNT PICTURES
to acquire the exclusive U.S. premium television rights to up to 196 of
PARAMOUNT PICTURES' feature films, commencing with feature films initially
theatrically released in the U.S. in 1998 for a minimum seven-year period, as
well as 300 titles from its film library (see "Business--Entertainment"); and
with Phoenix Pictures, a new feature film production and distribution company
headed by Mike Medavoy, to acquire the exclusive U.S. premium television rights
to up to 40 of Phoenix Pictures' films initially theatrically released in the
U.S. through the end of 2002, and to acquire an approximate 11% equity
investment in Phoenix Pictures. Theatrical motion pictures are generally
exhibited first on SHOWTIME and THE MOVIE CHANNEL after an initial period for
theatrical, home video and pay-per-view exhibition and before the period has
commenced for standard broadcast television and basic cable television
exhibition. Many of the motion pictures which appear on FLIX have been
previously available for standard broadcast and other exhibitions.

        SNI also arranges for the development, production and, in many cases,
distribution of original programs and motion pictures. These original programs
and motion pictures premiere in the U.S. on SHOWTIME, unless they are previously
theatrically released. Such programming is also exploited in various media
worldwide. As part of its original programming strategy, SNI intends to produce



or acquire approximately 50 SHOWTIME original movies in 1996. SNI has entered
into and plans to continue to enter into co-financing, co-production and/or
distribution arrangements with other parties to reduce the net cost to SNI for
all of its original movies.

        The cost of acquiring premium television rights to programming is the
principal expense of SNI. At December 31, 1995, in addition to program
acquisition commitments reflected in the Company's financial statements, SNI had
commitments to acquire programming rights and original programming commitments
in an aggregate amount of approximately $2 billion, most of which is payable
over the next six years as part of SNI's normal programming expenditures. SNI's
commitments to acquire programming rights are contingent upon delivery of motion
pictures which are not yet available for premium television exhibition and, in
many cases, have not yet been produced.

        Other Joint Ventures. USA Networks, a joint venture of the Company and
MCA, Inc. ("MCA"), operates two advertiser-supported basic cable television
program services in the U.S.: USA NETWORK, a general entertainment and sports
channel, and the SCI-FI CHANNEL, a science fiction channel. Internationally, USA
Networks operates USA NETWORK in Latin America and the SCI-FI CHANNEL in Europe.
COMEDY CENTRAL, a joint venture of the Company and Home Box Office ("HBO"), a
division of Time Warner, is an advertiser-supported basic cable television
comedy program service. ALL NEWS CHANNEL, a joint venture of the Company and
Conus Communications Company Limited Partnership, a limited partnership whose
managing general partner is Hubbard Broadcasting, Inc., consists of national and
international news, weather, sports and business news.

        Broadcasting. The Company owns and operates 12 television stations and
12 radio stations. All of these television and radio stations operate pursuant
to the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (the "Communications Act"), and
licenses granted by the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC"). Under the
Telecommunications Act of 1996 (the "1996 Telecommunications Act") which was
signed into law on February 8, 1996 and, upon its implementation by the FCC,
licenses will be renewable every eight years. Until such implementation,
licenses are renewable every five years in the case of television stations and
every seven years in the case of radio stations.

        The Company's strategy has been to acquire independent television
stations in major U.S. markets to the extent advantageous in conjunction with
the Company's formation of the United Paramount Network(TM) ("UPN") (see
"Business--Entertainment"). The Company acquired WUPA-TV (formerly WVEU-TV),
serving Atlanta, Georgia, on September 1, 1995; WPSG-TV (formerly WGBS-TV),
serving Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, on August 25, 1995; WBFS-TV, serving
Miami-Fort Lauderdale, Florida, on August 3, 1995; and WSBK-TV, serving Boston,
Massachusetts, on March 7, 1995. The Company sold KSLA-TV, a CBS affiliated
station serving Shreveport, Louisiana, on September 1, 1995; WTXF-TV, a Fox
Network affiliated station serving Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, on August 25,
1995; KRRT-TV, a Fox Network affiliated station serving San Antonio, Texas, on
August 3, 1995; and WLFL-TV, a Fox affiliated station serving Raleigh/Durham,
North Carolina, on January 17, 1995. The table below sets forth a list of the 12
television properties owned and operated by the Company at March 1, 1996.



                                                        Network Affiliation and
Station and                        Market               Expiration Date of
Metropolitan Area Served*          Rank      Type       Affiliation Agreement
- -------------------------          ------    ----       -----------------------

WPSG-TV
  Philadelphia, PA                 4         UHF        UPN/January 16, 1998
WSBK-TV
  Boston, MA                       6         UHF        UPN/January 16, 1998
WDCA-TV
  Washington, DC                   7         UHF        UPN/January 16, 1998
KTXA-TV
  Dallas-Ft. Worth, TX             8         UHF        UPN/January 16, 1998
WKBD-TV
  Detroit, MI                      9         UHF        UPN/January 16, 1998
WUPA-TV
  Atlanta, GA                      10        UHF        UPN/January 16, 1998
KTXH-TV
  Houston, TX                      11        UHF        UPN/January 16, 1998
WBFS-TV
  Miami-Ft. Lauderdale, FL         16        UHF        UPN/January 16, 1998
KMOV-TV
  St. Louis, MO                    20        VHF        CBS/December 31, 1996
WVIT-TV
  Hartford-New Haven, CT           26        UHF        NBC/February 1, 2002
WNYT-TV
  Albany-Schenectady-Troy, NY      52        VHF        NBC/February 1, 2002
WHEC-TV
  Rochester, NY                    71        VHF        NBC/February 1, 2002

*Metropolitan Areas Served are A.C. Nielsen Company's Designated Market Areas

        The Company owns and operates the following 12 radio stations: WLTW-FM,
serving New York, New York (Adult Contemporary); KYSR-FM and KXEZ-FM, each
serving Los Angeles, California (Adult Contemporary); WLIT-FM, serving Chicago,
Illinois (Adult Contemporary); WLTI-FM, serving Detroit, Michigan (Adult
Contemporary), WMZQ-AM/FM (Country), WJZW-FM (Jazz) and WBZS-AM (Business News),
each serving Washington, D.C.; KBSG-AM/FM, serving Seattle/Tacoma, Washington
(Oldies); and KNDD-FM, serving Seattle, Washington (Modern Rock). The Company
has undertaken to divest two stations in the Washington, D.C. market as a result
of multiple ownership issues arising from the acquisition of Paramount
Communications (see "Business--Regulation--Broadcasting"). The Company has 
requested a temporary waiver of this obligation from the FCC until such time 
as the FCC completes its pending review of local ownership limitations. 
Depending on the outcome of that review, the Company may request a permanent
waiver of this undertaking. In March 1996, the Company entered into agreements 
which will result in the exchange of KBSG-AM/FM and KNDD-FM for WAXQ-FM, serving
New York, New York. On March 22, 1995, the Company sold KSOL-FM, serving San 
Francisco, California, and KYLZ-FM, serving Santa Cruz/San Jose, California.



Entertainment

        The Entertainment segment's principal businesses are the production and
distribution of motion pictures and television programming as well as movie
theater operations and new media and interactive services.

        Theatrical Motion Pictures. Through PARAMOUNT PICTURES, the Company
produces, finances and distributes feature motion pictures. Motion pictures are
produced by PARAMOUNT PICTURES, produced by independent producers and financed
in whole or in part by PARAMOUNT PICTURES, or produced by others and distributed
by PARAMOUNT PICTURES. Each picture is a separate and distinct product with its
financial success dependent upon many factors, among which cost and public
response are of fundamental importance. The normal distribution cycle of motion
pictures produced or acquired for distribution by PARAMOUNT PICTURES is
exhibition in U.S. and foreign theaters followed by videocassettes and discs,
pay-per-view television, premium subscription television, network television,
and basic cable television and syndicated television exploitation. During 1995,
PARAMOUNT PICTURES theatrically released 14 feature motion pictures in the U.S.,
including, BRAVEHEART, winner of five Academy Awards including "Best Picture",
CONGO, CLUELESS, THE BRADY BUNCH MOVIE and SABRINA. PARAMOUNT PICTURES plans to
release approximately 20 films in 1996, including MISSION: IMPOSSIBLE, STAR TREK
GENERATIONS II, THE GHOST AND THE DARKNESS, PRIMAL FEAR, BEAVIS AND BUTT-HEAD
and HARRIET THE SPY, which is being co-produced with NICKELODEON.

        In seeking to maximize PARAMOUNT PICTURES' output while limiting its
financial exposure, the Company has from time to time entered into agreements to
distribute films produced and/or financed, in whole or in part, with other
parties. For example, entities associated with the Company have agreements with
companies with which Michael Douglas and Steven Reuther are associated for the
production and/or financing of 12 films over a term of no less than four years.
PARAMOUNT PICTURES also has an agreement with Lakeshore Entertainment
Corporation ("Lakeshore") for the distribution by PARAMOUNT PICTURES of 15 films
to be produced by Lakeshore over five years.

        PARAMOUNT PICTURES generally distributes its motion pictures for
theatrical release outside the U.S. and Canada through United International
Pictures ("UIP"), a company owned by entities associated with the Company, MGM
and MCA. PARAMOUNT PICTURES distributes its motion pictures on videocassette and
disc in the U.S. and Canada through PARAMOUNT HOME VIDEO and outside the U.S.
and Canada, generally through Cinema International B.V., a joint venture of
entities associated with the Company and MCA. PARAMOUNT PICTURES has an
exclusive premium subscription television agreement with HBO for exhibition of
PARAMOUNT PICTURES' new releases on U.S. premium subscription television, which
includes new PARAMOUNT PICTURES motion pictures released theatrically through
December 1997. PARAMOUNT PICTURES has licensed to SNI for exhibition on SHOWTIME
and THE MOVIE CHANNEL the exclusive U.S. premium subscription television rights
to up to 196 of PARAMOUNT PICTURES' feature films, commencing with feature films
initially theatrically released in the U.S. in 1998 for a minimum seven-year
period, as well as 300 titles from its film library. PARAMOUNT PICTURES also
distributes its motion pictures for premium subscription television release



outside the U.S. and Canada, in part through UIP, and licenses its motion
pictures to home and hotel/motel pay-per-view, airlines, schools and
universities. In addition, PARAMOUNT PICTURES is a joint venture partner in HBO
Pacific Partners C.V., Latin American Pay Television Service, VOF, Telecine
Programacao de Filmes Ltda., Pay-TV Movies Australia and Star Channel, which are
premium television services in Asia, Spanish-speaking Latin America, Brazil,
Australia and Japan, respectively. UIP and United Cinemas International ("UCI",
as described below) are the subject of governmental inquiries by the Commission
of the European Community ("EC").

        In addition to premium subscription television, most motion pictures are
also licensed for exhibition on broadcast and basic cable television, with fees
generally collected in installments. All of the above license fees for
television exhibition (including international and U.S. premium television and
basic cable television) are recorded as revenue in the year that the films are
available for such exhibition, which, among other reasons, may cause substantial
fluctuation in PARAMOUNT PICTURES' operating results. At December 31, 1995, the
unrecognized revenues attributable to such licensing of completed films from
PARAMOUNT PICTURES' license agreements were approximately $639.3 million.
PARAMOUNT PICTURES has approximately 900 motion pictures in its library.

        Television Production and Syndication. The Company also produces,
acquires and distributes series, miniseries, specials and made-for-television
movies primarily for network television, first-run syndication, and basic cable
television. As a result of the Blockbuster Merger, the Company now owns
approximately 75% of SPELLING, which includes SPELLING TELEVISION(TM), REPUBLIC
PICTURES(TM) and WORLDVISION ENTERPRISES(TM) ("WORLDVISION"). The Company is 
currently exploring the sale of SPELLING and the related purchase of SPELLING's
subsidiary, VIRGIN INTERACTIVE(TM).

        The Company's current network programming includes FRASIER(R),
WINGS(TM), ALMOST PERFECT(TM), THE HOME COURT(TM), LEEZA(TM), SISTER,
SISTER(TM), JAG(TM), DIAGNOSIS MURDER(TM) and GOOD COMPANY(TM), and through
SPELLING, BEVERLY HILLS, 90210(TM), MELROSE PLACE(TM), MALIBU SHORES(TM) and
SAVANNAH(TM). Generally, a network will license a specified number of episodes
for exhibition on the network in the U.S. during the license period. All other
distribution rights, including foreign and off-network syndication rights, are
typically retained by the Company. The episodic license fee is normally less
than the Company's and SPELLING's respective costs of producing each series
episode; however, in many cases, the Company has been successful in obtaining
international sales through its and SPELLING's respective syndication
operations. Foreign sales are generally concurrent with U.S. network runs.
Generally, a series must have a network run of at least four years to be
successfully sold in syndication.

        The Company produces and/or distributes original television programming
for first-run syndication which it sells directly to television stations in the
U.S. on a market-by-market basis. The Company sells its programs to television
stations for cash, advertising time or a combination of both. The Company's
first-run syndicated programming includes such shows as STAR TREK: DEEP SPACE
NINE(R), ENTERTAINMENT TONIGHT(R), HARD COPY(R), SIGHTINGS(R), THE MAURY POVICH
SHOW(R), THE MONTEL WILLIAMS SHOW(TM) and beginning in 1996, REAL TV(TM) and



VIPER. In early 1995, PARAMOUNT PICTURES entered into an agreement with The
Procter & Gamble Company ("P&G") pursuant to which P&G will co-finance certain
network and first-run syndicated programming produced by PARAMOUNT PICTURES
during the three year term of the agreement. Later in 1995, PARAMOUNT PICTURES
and P&G announced a strategic alliance with NBC to develop and produce programs
for network series, first-run syndication and international distribution,
pursuant to which NBC has been granted specific "first-look" rights and has
agreed to multiple series commitments.

        The Company produces original programming, including STAR TREK:
VOYAGER(R) and THE SENTINEL(TM), for UPN. UPN launched on January 16, 1995 in
approximately 96 U.S. television markets, providing its affiliates a two-hour
prime-time programming block two nights a week. At December 31, 1995, UPN had
affiliates in approximately 151 U.S. television markets. On March 6, 1996, UPN
added an additional night of two hours of prime-time programming. UPN is
currently 100% owned by subsidiaries of BHC Communications, Inc. ("BHC"), an
affiliate of Chris Craft Industries, Inc. The Company has an option exercisable
through January 15, 1997 to acquire an interest in UPN equal to that of BHC and
its subsidiaries for a price equivalent to approximately one-half of BHC's
aggregated cash contributions to UPN through the exercise date, plus
market-based interest.

        The Company distributes its television programming to basic cable
program services such as USA NETWORK. On November 1, 1995, PARAMOUNT PICTURES
and NICKELODEON, in a joint venture with BSkyB, launched THE PARAMOUNT CHANNEL
in the U.K., which features comedies, dramas, light documentaries and films
during the daypart following the NICKELODEON in the U.K. program segment.
PARAMOUNT PICTURES is also a joint venture partner in TV1 Australia, a basic
cable channel in Australia.

        The Company distributes or syndicates television series, feature films,
made-for-television movies, miniseries and specials for television exhibition in
domestic and/or international broadcast, cable and other marketplaces. Feature
film and television properties distributed by the Company are produced by the
Company and/or SPELLING or acquired from third parties. Third-party agreements
for the acquisition of distribution rights are generally long-term and exclusive
in nature; such agreements frequently guarantee a minimum recoupable advance
payment to such third parties and generally provide for periodic payment to such
third parties based on the amount of revenues derived from distribution
activities after deduction of the Company's distribution fee, recoupment of
distribution expenses and recoupment of any advance payments.

        The receipt and recognition of revenues for license fees for completed
television programming in syndication and on basic cable is similar to that of
feature films exhibited on television and, consequently, operating results are
subject to substantial fluctuation. At December 31, 1995, the unrecognized
revenues attributable to television program license agreements were
approximately $502.7 million.

        Theatrical Exhibition. The Company's movie theater operations consist
primarily of FAMOUS PLAYERS(R) in Canada, UCI and FILMS PARAMOUNT(TM) in Europe,
and CINAMERICA(TM) in the Western U.S. UCI, a 50%-owned joint venture of



entities associated with the Company and MCA, operates theaters in the U.K.,
Ireland, Germany, Austria and Spain. CINAMERICA, a 50%-owned joint venture of
entities associated with the Company and Time Warner Inc., includes MANN(TM) and
FESTIVAL(TM) Theaters, and operates 371 screens in 66 theaters in California,
Colorado, Arizona and Alaska.

        New Media and Interactive Services. VIACOM INTERACTIVE MEDIA(TM) is
comprised of VIACOM NEW MEDIA(TM) and VIACOM INTERACTIVE SERVICES(TM). VIACOM
NEW MEDIA develops and publishes interactive entertainment software for personal
computers and video game consoles on a wide variety of platforms. VIACOM NEW
MEDIA derives its content from brands and franchises developed by the Company's
business units, including MTV NETWORKS and PARAMOUNT TELEVISION, and also
secures outside licenses and original titles. In 1995, VIACOM NEW MEDIA released
11 titles, some of which were released for multiple platforms; the titles
represent 23 stock keeping units ("sku's"; a title in each platform is a
distinct sku). VIACOM INTERACTIVE SERVICES collaborates with the Company's
various business units to develop their respective on-line and interactive
television environments. In 1995, PARAMOUNT DIGITAL ENTERTAINMENT(TM) was formed
to exploit various PARAMOUNT-owned and other properties on-line, and this unit
entered into an agreement with The Microsoft Network to establish STAR TREK(R)
and ENTERTAINMENT TONIGHT(TM) sites on Microsoft Corporation's on-line service
in 1996. VIRGIN INTERACTIVE, a subsidiary of SPELLING, develops and publishes
interactive entertainment software for personal computers and video game
consoles on a wide variety of platforms, and distributes products in
approximately 30 countries. The Company is currently exploring the purchase of
VIRGIN INTERACTIVE and the related sale of SPELLING. In 1995, VIRGIN INTERACTIVE
released 41 titles, including THE 11th HOUR: THE SEQUEL TO THE 7TH GUEST,
COMMAND & CONQUER, and AGILE WARRIOR: F-111, some of which were released for
multiple platforms. These 1995 titles represent 50 sku's.

Video and Music/Theme Parks

        The Company operates in the home video retailing and rental business and
music retailing business through its BLOCKBUSTER ENTERTAINMENT GROUP
("BLOCKBUSTER").

        Home Video Retailing. BLOCKBUSTER is the leading worldwide owner,
operator and franchiser of videocassette rental and sales stores. BLOCKBUSTER
VIDEO(R) stores range in size from approximately 3,800 square feet to 11,500
square feet, and generally carry a comprehensive selection of 7,000 to 13,000
prerecorded videocassettes, consisting of more than 5,000 titles. BLOCKBUSTER
offers titles primarily for rental and also offers titles for purchase on a
"sell-thru" basis (See "Business--Competition--Video").

        At December 31, 1995, there were 4,513 BLOCKBUSTER VIDEO stores
operating worldwide; 3,180 BLOCKBUSTER VIDEO stores were operating in all 50
U.S. states, 2,537 of which were owned by the Company and 643 of which were
owned by franchisees; and 1,333 BLOCKBUSTER VIDEO stores were operating in 18
foreign markets, 1,117 of which were owned by the Company, 85 were owned by
various joint ventures in which the Company is a partner and 131 of which were



owned by franchisees. At December 31, 1995, 576 of the Company's stores located
in the United Kingdom were operated under the "BLOCKBUSTER VIDEO EXPRESS"(TM)
trade name.

        During 1995, the Company entered into eight new foreign markets and
acquired equity interests in certain foreign franchisees. Franchises to develop,
own and operate BLOCKBUSTER VIDEO stores were granted in Colombia, Ecuador, El
Salvador, Panama, Peru, Portugal and Thailand. In addition, the Company entered
into a joint venture to develop, own and operate BLOCKBUSTER VIDEO stores in
Germany. The Company also increased its participation in three previously
franchised foreign markets during 1995. The Company acquired a 71% interest in
its franchisee in Mexico, a 51% interest in its franchisee in Argentina and a
51% interest in a newly formed joint venture with its franchisee in Spain. The
Company also entered into agreements pursuant to which it will manage the
development and operation of BLOCKBUSTER VIDEO stores in such markets. As a
result, as of December 31, 1995, 81 of the 107 BLOCKBUSTER VIDEO stores located
in Mexico, all 22 BLOCKBUSTER VIDEO stores located in Argentina and all 17
BLOCKBUSTER VIDEO stores located in Spain were managed by the Company. The 26
BLOCKBUSTER VIDEO stores located in Mexico not managed by the Company were
managed by joint venture partners of the Company's franchisee in Mexico.

        The Company's home video business may be affected by a variety of
factors, including but not limited to, general economic trends in the movie and
home video industries including the quality of new release titles available for
rental and sale, acquisitions made by the Company, existing and additional
competition, marketing programs, weather, special or unusual events, changes in
technology, variations in the number of store openings and similar factors that
may affect retailers in general. As compared to other months of the year,
revenue from BLOCKBUSTER VIDEO stores in the U.S. has been, and the Company
believes will continue to be, subject to decline during the months of April and
May, due in part to the change to Daylight Savings Time, and during the months
of September, October and November, due in part to the start of school and the
introduction of new television programs.

        Music Retailing. Through music stores operating under the "BLOCKBUSTER
MUSIC"(TM) trade name, BLOCKBUSTER is among the largest specialty retailers of
prerecorded music in the U.S. At December 31, 1995, BLOCKBUSTER owned
and operated 516 BLOCKBUSTER MUSIC stores in 34 states in the U.S. and six
BLOCKBUSTER MUSIC stores in Australia. During 1995, the Company restructured its
music retail joint ventures with Virgin Retail Group, Ltd. which owned and
operated Virgin Megastores in the U.S., Europe and Australia. As a
result of the restructuring of these joint ventures, BLOCKBUSTER acquired the
four stores developed by the Australian joint venture (which were all converted
to BLOCKBUSTER MUSIC stores during 1995) and retained a 19.9% interest in the
European joint venture, which operated 20 Virgin Megastores at December 31,
1995. BLOCKBUSTER no longer owns any interest in the Virgin Megastores located
in the U.S.

        The Company's music business may be affected by a variety of factors,
including but not limited to, general economic trends and conditions in the
music industry, including the quality of new titles and artists, existing and
additional competition, marketing programs, changes in technology, and similar
factors that may affect retailers in general. The Company's music business is



seasonal, with higher than average monthly revenue experienced during the
Thanksgiving and Christmas seasons, and lower than average monthly revenue
experienced in September and October.

        Theme Parks. The Company, through PARAMOUNT PARKS, owns and operates
five regional theme parks and one water park in the U.S. and Canada: PARAMOUNT'S
CAROWINDS(R), in Charlotte, North Carolina; PARAMOUNT'S GREAT AMERICA(TM), in
Santa Clara, California; PARAMOUNT'S KINGS DOMINION(TM) located near Richmond,
Virginia; PARAMOUNT'S KINGS ISLAND(TM) located near Cincinnati, Ohio; and
PARAMOUNT CANADA'S WONDERLAND(R) located near Toronto, Ontario. In May 1995,
PARAMOUNT PARKS purchased RAGING WATERS(TM), the San Francisco Bay Area's
premier water theme park located in San Jose, California. Each of the theme
parks features attractions based on intellectual properties of the Company.
Substantially all of the theme parks' operating income is generated from May
through September. PARAMOUNT PARKS and Las Vegas Hilton Corporation expect to
launch STAR TREK: THE EXPERIENCE(TM) at the Las Vegas Hilton, a
futuristic-themed, interactive environment in early 1997.

        Other Entertainment. At December 31, 1995, the Company held an equity
interest of approximately 49% of the outstanding common stock of Discovery Zone,
Inc. ("Discovery Zone"). Discovery Zone(R) owns, operates and franchises large
indoor recreational spaces known as FunCenters, and operates Leaps and Bounds
indoor entertainment and fitness facilities. On March 25, 1996, Discovery Zone
filed a voluntary petition with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of
Delaware for protection from its creditors under Chapter 11 of the U.S.
Bankruptcy Code.

Publishing

        The Company, through the SIMON & SCHUSTER family of companies, publishes
and distributes hardcover and paperback books, interactive CD-ROM products,
audio books, educational textbooks and supplemental educational materials,
multimedia curricula, and information and reference materials for businesses and
professionals. SIMON & SCHUSTER also publishes and distributes certain of its
content on the Internet and commercial on-line services. In February 1994, SIMON
& SCHUSTER completed the acquisition of the U.S. publishing assets of Macmillan,
Inc. for approximately $553 million. Simon & Schuster's well-known imprints
include SIMON & SCHUSTER, PRENTICE HALL, THE FREE PRESS(TM), POCKET BOOKS,
MACMILLAN PUBLISHING USA, SCRIBNER(R), QUE(R), SILVER BURDETT GINN(R), MODERN
CURRICULUM(TM), ALLYN & BACON(R), COMPUTER CURRICULUM CORPORATION(TM) and
EDUCATIONAL MANAGEMENT GROUP(TM), among others. Additionally, SIMON & SCHUSTER
develops special imprints and publishes titles based on MTV, NICKELODEON and
PARAMOUNT PICTURES products. SIMON & SCHUSTER distributes its books directly and
through third parties on a retail and wholesale basis.

        Educational Publishing. The Elementary, Secondary, Higher Education and
Educational Technology groups publish elementary, secondary and college
textbooks and related materials, computer-based educational products,
audiovisual products and vocational and technical materials under such imprints
as PRENTICE HALL, SILVER BURDETT GINN, GLOBE FEARON(TM), MODERN CURRICULUM and
ALLYN & BACON, among others. In February 1995, Simon & Schuster acquired all of



the outstanding stock of EDUCATIONAL MANAGEMENT GROUP, INC.(TM), an interactive
educational company that develops and distributes customized instructional
materials and live interactive television program services to schools and
reaches more than one million students in approximately 3,800 schools. COMPUTER
CURRICULUM CORPORATION(TM), a subsidiary of SIMON & SCHUSTER, delivers 
multimedia coursework to approximately 1.5 million students in approximately 
8,000 schools in five countries. The educational marketplace is subject to 
seasonal fluctuations in its business which correlate to the traditional school 
year. SIMON & SCHUSTER sales to elementary and secondary schools are dependent, 
in part, on the "adoption" or selection of instructional materials by designated
state agencies. Twenty-two states and some localities limit the textbooks that
may be purchased with state funds to those books that have been approved by the
adoption authorities.

        Consumer Publishing. The Consumer group publishes and distributes
hardcover, trade paperback, mass-market books, audio books and interactive
products under imprints including SIMON & SCHUSTER, POCKET BOOKS, SCRIBNER, THE
FREE PRESS, SIMON & SCHUSTER TRADE PAPERBACK(TM), which includes FIRESIDE(R),
TOUCHSTONE(R), SCRIBNER PAPERBACK FICTION(TM) and SIMON & SCHUSTER LIBROS EN
ESPANOL(TM), as well as SIMON & SCHUSTER CHILDREN'S PUBLISHING(TM), which
includes ALADDIN PAPERBACKS(TM), ATHENEUM BOOKS FOR YOUNG READERS(TM), LITTLE
SIMON(R), MARGARET K. McELDERRY BOOKS(TM), NICK JR.(TM) and SIMON & SCHUSTER
BOOKS FOR YOUNG READERS(TM). Titles released in 1995 included "Remember Me" and
"The Lottery Winner" (Mary Higgins Clark), "All That Glitters" and "Hidden
Jewel" (V.C. Andrews), "The Children's Book of Virtues" (William J. Bennett) and
"The Christmas Box" (Richard Paul Evans). SIMON & SCHUSTER AUDIO(TM) is the
world's largest publisher of audio books. In 1995, the Consumer Group created
SIMON & SCHUSTER INTERACTIVE, which published 11 titles in 1995 and has 25
CD-ROM titles scheduled for publication in 1996. The consumer marketplace is
subject to increased periods of demand in the summer months and during the
end-of-year holiday season. In March 1995, SIMON & SCHUSTER acquired an
approximately 20% ownership stake in Byron Preiss MultiMedia Corporation, a
leading interactive software developer. SIMON & SCHUSTER ONLINE(TM), formed in
January 1996, will publish original content on the Internet and commercial
on-line services.

        Business and Professional Publishing. Through a wide variety of
imprints, SIMON & SCHUSTER publishes a full range of business, professional
training, and medical and healthcare information products, including books,
newsletters, journals, seminars, videos, loose-leaf series and multimedia
programs, and operates seminars. Operating units include THE NEW YORK INSTITUTE
OF FINANCE(TM), APPLETON & LANGE(R), JOSSEY-BASS(TM), THE BUREAU OF BUSINESS
PRACTICE(TM), AND PRENTICE HALL DIRECT(TM).

        Reference Publishing. MACMILLAN PUBLISHING USA, the umbrella identity of
SIMON & SCHUSTER's reference publishing operations, is the industry leader in
computer book publishing and a leader in home/library reference publishing. The
unit's imprints include MACMILLAN COMPUTER PUBLISHING USA(TM) (QUE(R), SAMS(R),
HAYDEN BOOKS(TM), NEW RIDERS(TM), SAMS.NET(TM), BRADY GAMES(TM) and QUE
EDUCATION & TRAINING(TM)), MACMILLAN REFERENCE USA(TM) (ARCO(TM), BETTY
CROCKER(R), BURPEE(TM), FROMMER'S(TM) TRAVEL GUIDE, HARRAP'S BILINGUAL



DICTIONARIES(TM), HOWELL BOOK HOUSE(TM), MONARCH(R) NOTES, J.K. LASSER(TM), THE
PLACES RATED(R) ALMANAC, THE UNOFFICIAL GUIDES(TM), WEBSTER'S NEW WORLD(R),
WEIGHT WATCHERS(R), ALPHA(TM), MACMILLAN BOOKS(TM), MACMILLAN COOKING AND
GARDENING(TM), MACMILLAN SPECTRUM(TM), THORNDIKE(R), SCHIRMER BOOKS(TM), CHARLES
SCRIBNER SONS(R) REFERENCE, G.K. HALL(TM), MACMILLAN TRAVEL(TM) and MACMILLAN
DIGITAL USA(TM)) and MACMILLAN ONLINE USA(TM), the online presence for MACMILLAN
PUBLISHING both on the Internet and commercial online services such as
CompuServe and America Online. In July 1995, the Company acquired ZIFF-DAVIS
PRESS(TM), the book publishing operation of Ziff-Davis Publishing Company, which
will publish approximately 65 titles in 1996. In January 1996, the Company
acquired the WAITE GROUP, INC.(R), which publishes titles on computer
programming languages and emerging technologies.

        International Publishing. The Company distributes its English language
books originally published in the U.S. worldwide. The Company also expects to
publish approximately 1,200 books in 10 languages and 34 countries outside North
America in 1996, primarily in the areas of academic, computer, English language
training, and professional publishing. The publishing includes local language
translation and adaptation of U.S. product and indigenous publishing. SIMON &
SCHUSTER also maintains co-publishing partnerships in approximately 14
countries, such as Japan (Toppan and Impress) and the People's Republic of
China, where the operations include distribution of U.S. products. In January
1994, the Company acquired German computer book publisher MARKT & TECHNIK(TM),
enhancing the Company's position as the world's largest computer book publisher
and providing greater opportunities for expansion into other European markets,
particularly Eastern Europe.

Cable Television

        Cable Operations. At December 31, 1995, the Company, through Viacom
Cable Television ("Viacom Cable"), was approximately the 12th largest multiple
cable television system operator in the U.S. with approximately 1.2 million
subscribers. During July 1995, the Company announced an agreement to split-off
its cable systems to its shareholders through a "dutch auction" exchange offer
and the subsequent investment in and acquisition of all of the common stock of
such entity by a subsidiary of Tele-Communications, Inc. immediately following
the split-off. The exchange offer and related transactions are subject to
several conditions, including receipt of a tax ruling and consummation of the
exchange offer. Viacom Cable's systems are operated pursuant to non-exclusive
franchises granted by local governing authorities.

        In most of its systems, Viacom Cable offers two tiers of primary (i.e.,
non-premium) service: "Limited Service," which is subject to rate regulation by
local franchise authorities and consists generally of local and distant
broadcast stations, and all public, educational and governmental ("PEG")
channels as may be required by the local franchise authorities; and the
"Satellite Value Package," which, until March 31, 1999, is subject to rate
regulation by the FCC and which provides additional channels of
satellite-delivered cable networks, including the Company's own basic program
services and joint venture services, as well as third-party services. Fees for
these two levels of service constitute the major source of the systems' revenue.
In addition, Viacom Cable offers a third tier of non-premium service which
qualifies as a non-regulated "new product tier" in the following systems:



Nashville, TN; Dayton, OH; Pittsburg, CA; Petaluma, CA; Livermore, CA; Puget
Sound South, WA; and most of Puget Sound North/Central, WA. Each such tier
consists of either five or six channels of advertiser-supported cable networks.

        The Communications Act precludes rate regulation wherever a cable system
faces "effective competition". None of Viacom Cable's systems is presently
subject to "effective competition" and therefore none of such systems is exempt
from such regulation. Pursuant to the 1996 Telecommunications Act, which amends
the Communications Act, regulation of the Satellite Value Package will cease as
of March 31, 1999 (even in the absence of "effective competition"). Regulation
of rates for Limited Service will end only when any cable system becomes subject
to "effective competition". The 1996 Telecommunications Act adds a new
"effective competition" test to the three already included in the Communications
Act. The new test finds effective competition in areas where a local telephone
company, its affiliate, or a multichannel video programming distributor using
the facilities of the telephone company or its affiliate -- irrespective of the
number of subscribers to the service -- offers programming to subscribers by any
means (other than DTH) in the franchise area of the cable system, provided that
the programming so offered is "comparable" to the programming provided by the
cable operator in that area. The new product tiers mentioned above are not rate
regulated at the present time, but the FCC has reserved the right to reopen the
issue of rate regulation for new product tiers in the future.

        Viacom Cable offers premium cable television programming, including the
Company's premium subscription television program services, to its customers for
an additional monthly fee of up to $12.95 per premium service. At December 31,
1995, the Company's cable television systems had approximately 921,000
subscriptions to premium subscription television program services.

        Viacom Cable earns revenues from sources in addition to subscriber fees.
In all of its markets, revenues are generated from advertising sales as well as
from commissions on the sales of products on home shopping services offered by
Viacom Cable to its customers. Viacom also derives revenues, in three of its
markets, from the lease of certain fiber optic capacity to partnerships engaged
in competitive access telephone services. Viacom Cable has equity interests in
each of these partnerships.

        Cable operators require substantial capital expenditures to construct
systems and significant annual expenditures to maintain, rebuild and expand
systems. System construction and operation and quality of equipment used must
conform with federal, state and local electrical and safety codes and certain
regulations of the FCC. Viacom Cable, like many other cable operators, is
analyzing potential business applications for its broadband network, including
interactive video, video on demand, data services and telephony. These
applications, either individually or in combination, may require technological
changes such as the installation of fiber optic cable and the capacity to engage
in digital compression. Although management believes the equipment used in the
cable operations is in good operating condition, except for ordinary wear and
tear, the Company invests significant amounts each year to upgrade, rebuild and
expand its cable systems. During the last five years, Viacom Cable's capital
expenditures were as follows: 1991: $45 million; 1992: $55 million; 1993: $79
million; 1994: $100 million; and 1995: $119 million. The Company expects that
Viacom Cable's capital expenditures in 1996 will be approximately $150 million.



        Viacom Cable has constructed a fiber optic cable system in Castro
Valley, California to provide more channels with significantly better picture
quality, and to accommodate testing of new services including an interactive
on-screen programming guide known as StarSight (in which consolidated affiliates
of the Company currently have an approximately 22.6% equity interest on a
combined basis), other interactive programs with VIACOM INTERACTIVE MEDIA,
multiplexed services, experimental interactive video and data services and
access to on-line computer services and the Internet through a PC-cable modem.
In January 1996, the Castro Valley system began testing full telephone service
over the cable system.












Intellectual Property

        It is the Company's practice to protect its theatrical and television
product, software, publications and its other original and acquired works. The
following logos and trademarks are among those strongly identified with the
product lines they represent and are significant assets of the Company:
VIACOM(R), the BLOCKBUSTER(R) family of marks, MACMILLAN(R), the MTV: MUSIC
TELEVISION(R) family of marks, THE MOVIE CHANNEL(TM), NICK AT NITE(R) and the
NICKELODEON(R) family of marks, NICK AT NITE'S TV LAND(TM), the PARAMOUNT(R)
family of marks, POCKET BOOKS(TM), SIMON & SCHUSTER(R), SHOWTIME(R), the STAR
TREK(R) family of marks and the VH1 MUSIC FIRST(TM) family of marks.

Competition

        All of the Company's segments compete generally with various forms of
leisure, entertainment and recreational activities.


Networks

        MTVN. MTVN services are in competition for available channel space on
existing cable systems and for fees from cable operators and alternative media
distributors, with other cable program services, and nationally distributed and
local independent television stations. MTVN also competes for advertising
revenue with other cable and broadcast television programmers, and radio and
print media. For basic cable television programmers such as MTVN, advertising
revenues derived by each program service depend on the number of households
subscribing to the service through local cable operators and other distributors.
(See "Business --Competition--Entertainment")

        Certain major record companies have either launched or have announced
plans to launch music-based program services in the U.S. Certain major record
companies have also announced plans to launch, or have launched, music-based
program services outside the U.S., including but not limited to: V-Channel which
is jointly owned and operated in Asia by Star TV and four major record labels;
and Viva and Viva 2, German-language music channels distributed in Germany and
owned in large part by four major record labels. MuchMusic, a music service
which originated in Canada, commenced U.S. distribution in spring 1995; and a
MuchMusic service customized for the Latin American market is being distributed
in Mexico and Argentina.

        SNI. Competition among premium subscription television program services
in the U.S. is primarily dependent on: (1) the acquisition and packaging of an
adequate number of recently released quality motion pictures; and (2) the
offering of prices, marketing and advertising support and other incentives to
cable operators and other distributors so as to favorably position and package
SNI's premium subscription television program services to subscribers. HBO is
the dominant company in the U.S. premium subscription television category,
offering two premium subscription television program services, the HBO service
and Cinemax. SNI is second to HBO with a significantly smaller share of the
premium subscription television category. In addition, in February 1994, Encore
Media Corp. (an affiliate of Tele-Communications, Inc.) launched Starz!, a
premium subscription television program service featuring recently released
motion pictures, in competition with SNI's premium program services. (See
"Business--Competition--Entertainment")


Broadcasting

        The principal methods of competition in the television and radio
broadcasting field are the development of audience interest through programming
and promotions. While three of the Company's television stations are affiliated
with NBC and another of the Company's television stations is affiliated with
CBS, the Company's expansion strategy has been to seek to acquire UPN affiliates
or independent stations which will become primary affiliates of UPN. At this
time, UPN has limited programming. Therefore, with respect to the Company's
current UPN affiliated stations, and, to the extent that the Company acquires
independent stations, there will be a need for those stations to acquire
additional programming to a greater extent than would otherwise be required if
the stations were affiliated with the older, more established networks.



Television and radio stations compete for advertising revenues with other
stations in their respective coverage areas as well as with all other
advertising media. Generally, technological advances with respect to the methods
of providing home entertainment alternatives and changing regulatory policies
with respect to the broadcast industry may have an impact upon broadcasting's
future competitive environment. In addition, the 1996 Telecommunications Act
liberalizes television and radio station ownership limits and consequently
allows for increased group ownership or control of stations on both a national
and, with respect to radio, a local market basis. The Company is unable to
predict what impact these changes will have on its businesses in each applicable
market. (See "Business--Regulation--Broadcasting")

        In recent years, competition has arisen from the DBS distribution of
programming which commenced in 1994. Moreover, the FCC has issued rules which
may significantly increase the number of MMDS systems. The FCC has also
authorized video uses of certain frequencies which have not traditionally been
used or permitted for commercial video services and has issued rules which will
increase the number of FM and AM stations. The FCC is also considering
authorizing digital audio broadcasts, which could ultimately permit increased
radio competition by satellite delivery of audio stations directly to the home
(or to cars) and has authorized and is in the process of licensing low-power
television stations ("LPTV stations") that may serve various communities with
coverage areas smaller than those served by full conventional television
stations. Because of their coverage limitations, LPTV stations may be allocated
to communities which cannot accommodate a full-power television station because
of technical requirements.

Entertainment

        The Company competes intensely with other major studios and independent
film producers in the production and distribution of motion pictures and video
cassettes. Similarly, as a producer and distributor of television programs, the
Company competes with other studios and independent producers in the licensing
of television programs to both networks and independent television stations.
PARAMOUNT PICTURES' competitive position primarily depends on the quality of the
product produced, public response and cost. The Company also competes to obtain
creative talents and story properties which are essential to the success of all
of the Company's entertainment businesses.

        In addition to the competitive factors applicable to all areas of the
entertainment industry, the marketplace for interactive entertainment is also
characterized by the rapid evolution of game-playing and distribution
technologies.

        Recently announced transactions, resulting in greater consolidation in
the entertainment and media industries, may also present significant competitive
challenges to several of the Company's businesses, including its theatrical
motion picture division and its basic and premium subscription program services.

Video

        The home video retail business is highly competitive. The Company
believes that the principal competitive factors in the business are title



selection, number of copies of titles available, the quality of customer service
and pricing. The Company believes that the success of its business depends in
part on its large and attractive Company-owned and franchise-owned BLOCKBUSTER
VIDEO stores offering a wide selection of titles and larger and more accessible
inventory than most of its competitors, in addition to more convenient store
locations, faster and more efficient computerized check-in/check-out procedures,
extended operating hours, effective customer service and competitive pricing.

        From time to time, home video companies and distributors offer titles at
a price substantially lower than the range in which titles are ordinarily priced
to home video retailers. These titles, known as "sell-thru" titles because their
lower wholesale price is intended to increase the number of copies sold by
retailers, consist primarily of successful children's movies and other movies
that have unique characteristics or other mass ownership appeal. BLOCKBUSTER
offers these titles both for rental and sale in its stores. The competition for
sales of these titles is greater than "rental-priced products" due to the
participation in this market of mass merchants, grocery stores and other
retailers not engaged in the business of renting videocassettes. Although the
number of sell-thru priced products increased in 1996, the Company believes that
the substantially higher profit margins to movie studios on rental product will
continue to limit the number of sell-thru titles.

        In the retail rental marketplace, the Company and its franchise owners
compete with other national and regional video rental chains, local video rental
stores, grocery stores and several other retailers engaged in the rental of
videocassettes. As noted above, the market for sell-thru product at retail is
significantly broader. The Company and its franchise owners also compete
generally with other feature film distribution media, such as movie theaters and
broadcast, cable and DBS television.

        A significant competitive advantage that the Company and its franchisees
(and all other video retail outlets) currently enjoy over broadcast, cable and
DBS television is a limited exclusive distribution "window". Generally, after
the initial domestic theatrical exhibition of a film, studios make the films
available to video rental outlets on an exclusive basis for a period of time.
The length of this period, however, varies based upon a number of factors
including, but not limited to, the box-office success of the film and license
fee commitments made by pay-per-view distributors, premium subscription program
services and broadcast networks to exhibit the film in such alternative windows.
While certain films had shorter home video windows than historically available
to retailers, the average window for major releases during the year did not
differ materially from prior years and the Company does not expect this window
to differ materially in 1996. However, there can be no assurances that the
studios will not alter the window due to new methods of distribution or other
factors.

        In 1994, several consumer product companies announced plans to introduce
different types of products to exhibit prerecorded filmed entertainment products
on television sets. During 1995, these companies collectively established
uniform technological standards on which all such products would be based. The
product, now commonly referred to as the "digital versatile disc" or "DVD"
player, is based on digital technology and permits a film that is recorded in
digital format on a compact disc to be shown on a standard television set. This
new technology is said to offer significant benefits to consumers by enabling
home video companies and their distributors to produce a lower cost, higher



quality product than videocassettes. Manufacturers are planning to introduce
their DVD products into the U.S. The Company is unable to determine at this time
whether this new format will gain significant consumer acceptance generally or
among the Company's customers. As a result, the Company is unable to determine
the impact, if any, this new format will have on the Company's business. Once
such technology is introduced, the Company will monitor its acceptance by the
market and endeavor to exploit this new medium, both in the rental and sale of
the product.

Music

        Competition among music retailers has intensified greatly over the past
two years with the entry into the business of a number of mass merchants. Many
of these retail chains have significantly reduced their prices on prerecorded
music products (primarily new releases) to attract customers into their stores
and generate sales of other, higher margin products. To protect its market
share, the Company has lowered the prices at which it sells many of its
products, resulting in lower revenue and reduced profit margins. Several other
specialty music retail chains, however, have been unable to compete. Some of
these chains have declared bankruptcy while others have begun closing
unprofitable stores in an attempt to minimize operating losses. The intense
competition in the industry coupled with a generally soft overall retail
environment during 1995, also negatively affected many of the mass merchants.

Theme Parks

        The Company's theme parks compete directly with other theme parks in
their respective geographic regions as well as generally with other forms of
leisure entertainment. The profitability of the leisure-time industry is
influenced by various factors which are not directly controllable, such as
economic conditions, amount of available leisure time, oil and transportation
prices, and weather patterns. The Company believes that its intellectual
properties will enhance existing attractions and facilitate the development of
new attractions to encourage visitors to the PARAMOUNT PARKS theme parks and
water park.

Publishing

        Competition in the elementary, secondary and higher education textbook
and the trade and paperback book fields is intense, with a number of strong
competitors. In addition, the acquisition of publication rights to important
book titles is highly competitive and the Company competes with numerous other
book publishers. In the field of elementary and secondary school textbooks, 22
states and some local jurisdictions limit the textbooks that may be bought by
school systems with state funds to those books that have been approved by
adoption or listing. Competition to be included on state adoption lists is
considerable. In the higher education textbook field, new books compete with
used books. In addition, book piracy affects sales in certain foreign markets. A
large portion of annual sales of educational textbooks is made during the June
to September period. In certain areas of publishing, books are usually sold on a
fully returnable basis resulting in significant product returns to publishers.
In the field of information services to businesses and professionals, there are
numerous organizations that provide competitive materials and services.



Cable Television

        The Company's cable television systems operate pursuant to non-exclusive
franchises granted by local governing authorities (either municipal or county).
The Communications Act prohibits a franchiser from granting exclusive franchises
and from unreasonably refusing to award additional competitive franchises.
Accordingly, other cable operators have been franchised and may continue to
apply for franchises in certain areas served by the Company's cable systems.
However, no new franchises were granted in such areas during 1995.

        The Company's cable systems also may compete for viewers with other
distribution systems which deliver programming by MMDS (multichannel, multipoint
distribution systems via microwave transmission) and SMATV (satellite
transmission to a central receiving facility for distribution to a number of
subscribers) or directly to subscribers via DTH technology (either TVRO or DBS).
The strength of competition depends upon the availability, reliability,
programming and pricing of such alternative distribution systems. Digital
compression may allow cable systems to significantly increase the number of
channels of programming they deliver and thereby help cable systems meet
competition from these other distribution systems.

        In addition, the 1996 Telecommunications Act permits telephone companies
("telcos") to enter the business of distributing programming inside their
respective service areas (telcos were previously permitted to do so outside
their local telephone areas) either as traditional cable operators, as common
carriers, as operators of wireless systems such as MMDS or as operators of a
hybrid common carrier/cable system known as an "open video system" ("OVS") (see
"Business--Regulation--Cable Television"). The 1996 Telecommunications Act also
permits registered utility holding companies to provide cable services under
certain conditions (these utilities were previously prohibited from doing so
under the Public Utilities Holding Company Act) (see
"Business--Regulation--Cable Television").

         Wireless distribution systems such as MMDS generally do not require
local government franchises in order to provide service, nor will telcos require
local franchises if they provide service on a common carrier or OVS basis.

        With respect to the provision of telephony services, the Company is a
general partner in three partnerships that provide commercial competitive access
services. These are services linking business customers to long distance
carriers via private networks. Portions of these networks are owned by the
partnerships and other portions are owned by the Company's local cable system
and leased to the partnerships. These partnership interests will be sold as part
of the proposed split-off of the Company's cable systems.

        The Company views the future success of the cable business in a
competitive environment as being dependent on the supply of additional
programming and new services to its customers and an increase in primary and
premium subscriber penetrations.



Regulation

        The Company's businesses are either subject to or affected by
regulations of federal, state and local governmental authorities. The rules,
regulations, policies and procedures affecting these businesses are constantly
subject to change. The descriptions which follow are summaries and should be
read in conjunction with the texts of the statutes, rules and regulations
described herein. The descriptions do not purport to describe all present and
proposed statutes, rules and regulations affecting the Company's businesses.

Intellectual Property

        The Company conducts many of its businesses through the control and
exploitation of the numerous copyrights and trademarks underlying its products
and licenses; therefore, domestic and international laws affecting intellectual
property have significant importance to the Company. Congress is currently
considering revisions to the Copyright Act of 1976 (the "Copyright Act"),
including extension of the protection term by 20 years. Congress may also
consider legislation to update the Copyright Act to take into account new
technological developments relating to the distribution of copyrighted
materials. On November 1, 1995, the Digital Performance Right in Sound
Recordings Act of 1995 was enacted, which legislation is not expected to have a
material effect on the Company.

        Compulsory Copyright. Cable television and SMATV systems are subject to
the Copyright Act which provides a compulsory license for carriage of broadcast
signals at prescribed rates (the proceeds are divided among the various
copyright holders of the programs carried on distant broadcast signals). No
license fee is payable to any program copyright holder for retransmission of
broadcast signals which are "local" to the communities served by the cable
system. "Open video systems" under the 1996 Telecommunications Act will also be
subject to the compulsory license. (See "Business -- Competition --Cable
Television" above)

        The Copyright Act also provides a similar compulsory license for DTH
services. Legislation adopted by Congress in 1994 extended the DTH compulsory
license for five years, raised the statutory fees paid to carry broadcast
signals, and, beginning in 1996, requires the fees to be set through
negotiations and binding arbitration rather than by law, taking into account
fair market value. Such legislation also includes a provision eliminating the
requirement that cable operators pay compulsory license fees for stations
located more than 35 miles away but within the same "Area of Dominant
Influence".

        First Sale Doctrine. The "First Sale" provision of the Copyright Act
provides that the owner of a legitimate copy of a copyrighted work may rent or
otherwise use or dispose of that copy in such a manner as the owner sees fit.
The First Sale doctrine does not apply to sound recordings or computer software
(other than software made for a limited purpose computer, such as a video game
platform), for which the Copyright Act vests a rental right (i.e., the right to
control the rental of the copy) in the copyright holder. The repeal or
limitation of the First Sale doctrine (or conversely, the creation of a rental
right vested in the copyright holder) for audiovisual works or for computer
software made for limited purpose computers would have an adverse impact on the



Company's home video business; however, no such legislation is pending in
Congress at the present time.

Networks and Broadcasting

Networks

        Communications Act; 1996 Telecommunications Act. (See "Business--
Regulation--Cable Television" below)


Broadcasting

        Television and radio broadcasting are subject to the jurisdiction of the
FCC pursuant to the Communications Act.

        The Communications Act. The Communications Act authorizes the FCC to
issue, renew, revoke or modify broadcast licenses; to regulate the radio
frequency, operating power and location of stations; to approve the transmitting
equipment used by stations; to adopt rules and regulations necessary to carry
out the provisions of the Communications Act; and to impose certain penalties
for violations of the Communications Act and the FCC's regulations governing the
day-to-day operations of television and radio stations.

        Broadcast Licenses. Under the 1996 Telecommunications Act, broadcast
station licenses (both television and radio) will ordinarily be granted for
maximum periods of eight years, and will be renewable for additional eight-year
periods upon application and approval. Prior to this Act, licenses were
renewable and were ordinarily granted for the maximum periods of five years, in
the case of television stations, and seven years, in the case of radio stations.
There is no indication in the 1996 Telecommunications Act as to whether the
eight-year term will apply retroactively or only to those licensees who apply
for renewals in the future. Licenses may be revoked by the FCC for serious
violations of its regulations. Under prior law, competing applications could be
filed against a broadcaster seeking to renew its license, and the FCC was
required to conduct a hearing to consider the comparative merits of the
incumbent and the competing applicant. Although the FCC typically gave the
incumbent a "renewal expectancy" if it had complied with FCC rules and broadcast
a minimum of public affairs and informational programming during the previous
license term, an incumbent nevertheless might have to endure the expense and
uncertainty of the comparative hearing process.

        The 1996 Telecommunications Act eliminates competing applications and
comparative hearings if the renewal applicant has served the public interest and
has not seriously violated the Communications Act or FCC rules, or shown a
pattern of abuse. Only if the FCC finds the licensee failed to satisfy these
requirements, finds there are no mitigating factors to justify imposing a
condition on the license or short-term renewal, and ultimately denies the
renewal, can it accept and consider new applications for the now-vacant channel.



        As in the past, the FCC must decide what factors are relevant to whether
a broadcaster has "served the public interest," and it may use the same factors
it formerly considered or such other factors that it may adapt relevant to a
renewal expectancy. In addition to the broadcaster's record of providing news,
public affairs, and other informational programming, the FCC has also considered
children's programming relevant to television renewals.

        The new renewal schedules pursuant to the 1996 Telecommunications Act
will be set by the FCC. However, under the five and seven-year schedules which
have not yet been revised, the licenses for the Company's television stations
expire as follows: WDCA-TV on October 1, 1996; WBFS-TV on February 1, 1997
WUPA-TV on April 1, 1997; WPSG-TV on August 1, 1997; WKBD-TV on October 1, 1997;
KMOV-TV on February 1, 1998; each of KTXA-TV and KTXH-TV on August 1, 1998; each
of WVIT-TV and WSBK-TV on April 1, 1999; and each of WNYT-TV and WHEC-TV on June
1, 1999. The Company's licenses for its radio stations expire as follows:
WLTI-FM on October 1, 1996; WLIT-FM on December 1, 1996; each of KYSR-FM and 
KXEZ-FM on December 1, 1997; each of KBSG-AM/FM and KNDD-FM on February 1, 1998;
WLTW-FM on June 1, 1998; and each of WMZQ-AM/FM, WBZS-AM and WJZW-FM on October
1, 2002. The Company will apply for renewal of such licenses which expire in 
1996 and expects that such licenses will be renewed.

        The Communications Act prohibits the assignment of a license or the
transfer of control of a license without prior approval of the FCC. The
Communications Act, as amended by the 1996 Telecommunications Act, provides that
no license may be held by a corporation if more than 20% of the voting stock is
owned of record or voted by aliens or is subject to control by aliens. In
addition, no corporation may hold the voting stock of another corporation owning
broadcast licenses if more than 25% of the voting stock of such parent
corporation is owned of record or voted by aliens or is subject to control by
aliens, unless specific FCC authorization is obtained.

        Broadcast signals are presently transmitted in analog rather than
digital form. The FCC is currently considering allotting to broadcasters
additional spectrum in new, digital transmission modes. If the FCC adopts its
proposals, the 1996 Telecommunications Act requires the FCC to also permit
broadcasters to utilize the digitally transmitted signals for various purposes
including for additional channels of programming and services "ancillary and
supplemental" to broadcasting. Full conversion from analog to digital mode, if
it is to occur at all, is expected to occur over the course of a transition
period subsequent to the FCC's adoption of digital standards. Until such
transition is complete, broadcasters may be licensed to transmit on two
channels, one for carriage of the analog transmission and the second for
carriage of the digital signal, which can be used to transmit either a single
"high definition" channel of video programming or, alternatively, up to six
different channels carrying either an enhanced (although not "high definition")
broadcast signal or the aforesaid ancillary and supplemental services (e.g.,
data transmissions or subscription video services). The 1996 Telecommunications
Act requires that if separate analog and digital channels are used
transitionally, one of the two channels used during the transition period must
eventually be returned to the government. However, this legislation does not
establish a time frame for return of the channel nor specify which of the two
channels (i.e., the analog or digital channel) must be returned. To the extent
digital





spectrum is used for any service which generates subscription or usage fees, a
broadcaster must pay the government, at a rate to be determined by the FCC, for
use of the spectrum.

        Despite the 1996 Telecommunications Act's recent passage, Congress is
currently considering the issue of whether the additional spectrum authorized
for broadcasters by the legislation should be auctioned to the highest bidder
(either broadcasters or other users) rather than allotted to incumbent
broadcasters without charge. Congress is also considering whether to require
broadcasters, should they be allotted the spectrum, to convert to full digital
transmission within a specified period of time so that returned channels could
then be auctioned to other users not later than a designated date. A spectrum
auction or a short-term analog-to-digital transition period could have an
adverse effect on the business of broadcasting.

        Must Carry/Retransmission Consent. The Communications Act contains
provisions which grant certain "must carry" rights to commercial broadcast
television stations that are "local" to communities served by a cable system,
including the right to elect either to require a cable operator to carry the
station pursuant to the must carry provisions of the Act or to require that the
cable operator secure the station's "retransmission consent" on a negotiated
basis before the station can be carried (i.e., retransmitted) on the cable
system (see Business-Regulation-"Cable Television" below). All of the Company's 
television stations are carried on cable systems serving the communities in the 
stations' markets. Certain of the stations obtained carriage by asserting must 
carry rights and other stations granted retransmission consent. Failure to be 
carried on cable systems could be detrimental to the business of a television 
station. The application of must carry requirements to additional services which
a broadcaster might transmit over the digital spectrum is to be decided by the
FCC except that the 1996 Telecommunications Act expressly provides that any
"ancillary and supplementary" services provided by broadcasters will not be
entitled to mandatory cable carriage. The must carry rules were challenged by
cable program services and cable system operators. In April 1993, a District of
Columbia three-judge court upheld the rules against a First Amendment challenge.
In June 1994, the U.S. Supreme Court held that the rules were content-neutral
rather than unconstitutional, but nevertheless vacated the District Court's
decision and remanded the case back to the District Court for determination of
the impact of such rules on the broadcast and cable industries. On December 13,
1995, the District Court again upheld the rules in a two-to-one decision. This
decision has been appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court, which has agreed to review
the decision. Oral argument before the U.S. Supreme Court is expected to occur
in the fourth quarter of 1996.

        Restrictions on Broadcast Advertising. In past Congressional sessions,
committees of Congress examined proposals for legislation that would eliminate
or severely restrict advertising of beer and wine either through direct
restrictions on content or through elimination or reduction of the deductibility
of expenses for such advertising under federal tax laws. Such proposals
generated substantial opposition, but, while there is currently no proposal to
do so, it is possible that similar proposals will be reintroduced in Congress.
The elimination of all beer and wine advertising would have an adverse effect on
the revenues of the Company's television and radio stations.



        Ownership Limitations. The 1996 Telecommunications Act increases the
ownership limits on the number of radio and television stations in which one
entity can own an "attributable interest" as defined by the FCC. The Company
currently owns radio and television stations below these limits. Under the new
law, a single entity can have an "attributable" ownership or management interest
in an unlimited number of AM and FM stations nationwide, including multiple AM
and/or FM stations licensed to serve the same market. The limit on the number of
such multiple stations in a particular market in which a single entity may hold
an "attributable interest" depends upon the total number of AM and/or FM
stations in that market. With respect to television, the 1996 Telecommunications
Act limits the maximum number of stations nationwide in which one entity can
have an "attributable interest", to that number which serves up to 35% of U.S.
television households. (FCC rules count only one-half of the households in a
market when determining the household reach of stations which broadcast on a UHF
frequency). That rule is presently under consideration in a pending proceeding
reviewing the television broadcast ownership rules. Subject to waiver, the FCC
currently prohibits a single entity from owning more than one television station
serving the same market or two or more stations which have overlapping signals
with a certain strength. The FCC also permits radio stations to broker the
programming and sales inventories of their stations to other radio stations
within the same area, subject to various restrictions, so long as ultimate
operational control and ownership is retained and exercised by the licensee.
Such brokerage agreements function, as a practical matter, to effect a
consolidation of competitive radio broadcast stations within a market in much
the same manner as would multiple ownership of radio facilities by one entity.
Similar brokerage agreements among television stations are being implemented in
a number of markets and are not now subject to any explicit FCC regulations but
may be affected by pending FCC rulemakings. The recently enacted legislation
prevents the FCC from totally banning such television agreements. The FCC is
currently considering whether to revise its ownership rules as well as redefine
its current standards of what level of ownership or control constitutes an
"attributable interest" under its rules. Moreover, the 1996 Telecommunications
Act requires the FCC to review all of its ownership rules every two years and
modify or repeal those that no longer serve the public interest.

        The FCC's ownership limitations also preclude (except on a grandfathered
basis) common ownership in the same market of (i) television stations and cable
systems; (ii) television or radio stations and newspapers of general
circulation; and (iii) radio and television stations. All such restrictions are
subject to waiver by the FCC on a case-by-case basis and radio-television
cross-ownership prohibitions in particular are routinely granted in the major
television markets so long as at least 30 separately owned and operated radio
television and television stations serve the market. The Company operates two AM
and two FM stations as well as a television station serving Washington, D.C.
Ownership of the television station (WDCA) was obtained when the Company
acquired majority ownership of Paramount Communications on March 11, 1994.
Pursuant to the FCC's order consenting to the transfer of control of the
broadcast licenses of Paramount Communications to the Company, the Company is
obligated to dispose of one AM and one FM radio station serving Washington, D.C.
The Company has requested a waiver of this obligation from the FCC until such
time as the FCC completes its pending review of local ownership limitations.
Depending on the outcome of that review, the Company may request a permanent
waiver of this undertaking. The FCC's previous prohibition on a national



television network's ownership or operation of cable systems has been repealed
by the 1996 Telecommunications Act.

Entertainment

        The Company's first-run, network and other production operations and its
distribution of off-network, first-run and other programs in domestic and
foreign syndication are not directly regulated by legislation. However, existing
and proposed rules and regulations of the FCC applicable to broadcast networks,
individual broadcast stations and cable could affect the Company's Entertainment
businesses.

        Financial Interest and Syndication Rules. The financial interest and
syndication rules ("finsyn rules") which were adopted by the FCC in 1970 expired
in September 1995. These rules significantly limited the role of broadcast
television networks in broadcast television program syndication. The financial
interest rule prohibited a network from acquiring a financial or proprietary
right or interest in the exhibition (other than its own broadcast network
exhibition), distribution or other commercial use in connection with the
broadcasting of any television program of which it is not the sole producer. The
syndication rule prohibited a network from syndicating programming domestically
to television stations for non-network exhibition and precluded a network from
reserving any rights to participate in income derived from domestic broadcast
syndication or from foreign broadcast syndication where the network was not the
sole producer. For the purposes of these rules, a broadcast network was defined
as any entity which offers an interconnected program service on a regular basis
for 15 or more hours per week to at least 25 affiliated television stations in
10 or more states. Elimination of the finsyn rules may have an adverse effect on
the Company's distribution and production of network prime time programming.

        Prime Time Access Rule. The Prime Time Access Rule ("PTAR") will expire
on August 30, 1996. PTAR prohibits network affiliates in the top 50 markets
(designated by the FCC based on survey data) from exhibiting network or
off-network programming during more than three out of the four prime time hours,
with certain limited exceptions. First-run programming produced by a network is
considered network programming for this purpose. Expiration of PTAR could affect
the Company's first-run and other distribution activities and hamper the
development of UPN.

        Antitrust. The Company, through PARAMOUNT PICTURES, is subject to a
consent decree, entered in 1948, which contains restrictions on certain motion
picture trade practices in the U.S.

        European Union Directive. In October 1989, the European Union ("EU",
then the EC and sometimes referred to as the EC) directed each of the 12
European Community member countries to adopt broadcast quota regulations based
on its guidelines by October 3, 1991. In March 1995, the Executive Commission of
the EU approved revisions to the directive which would, if adopted, increase the
discrimination against non-European programming. The EU Council of Ministers
modified the proposed revisions in November 1995. In February 1996, the European
Parliament recommended further modifications, which are now being considered by
both the Executive Commission and the Council of Ministers. At this time, it is
impossible to predict what changes will be adopted by the EU, or to predict



their impact on the Company's theatrical distribution and television syndication
businesses. The Company believes that its program services in Europe are in
compliance with the EU broadcast quotas.

Video and Music Distribution

        Franchising. Certain states, the United States Federal Trade Commission
and certain foreign jurisdictions require a franchiser to transmit specified
disclosure statements to potential owners before issuing a franchise.
Additionally, some states and foreign jurisdictions require the franchiser to
register its franchise before its issuance. The Company believes the offering
circulars used to market its franchises comply with the Federal Trade Commission
guidelines and all applicable laws of states in the United States and foreign
jurisdictions regulating the offering and issuance of franchises. The Company's
home video and music retailing businesses, other than the franchising aspect,
are not generally subject to any government regulation other than customary laws
and local zoning and permit requirements.

Cable Television

Federal Regulation

        Communications Act; 1996 Telecommunications Act. The Communications Act
sets forth the framework under which cable television systems are regulated. On
February 8, 1996, the 1996 Telecommunications Act was enacted. When fully
implemented by the FCC, this legislation will change regulation of the
communications industry, and alter federal, state and local laws and regulations
regarding the provision of cable and telephony services. Among other items, the
1996 Telecommunications Act authorizes entry of cable operators and electric
utilities into the telephone/telecommunications business. It authorizes entry of
telephone companies into the multichannel video distribution business in their
own service areas and, beginning in March 1999, eliminates the regulations of
certain cable rates. The following is a summary of certain significant aspects
of the Communications Act's regulation of cable television, as amended by the
1996 Telecommunications Act:

        Rate Regulation. Rates for two types of cable programming tiers of
service are currently subject to regulation under the Communications Act: basic
service (corresponding to Viacom Cable's "Limited Service" tier) and cable
programming service (corresponding to Viacom Cable's "Satellite Value Package")
(see "Business--Cable Television"). Rates for premium services (such as
SHOWTIME), per-program services (such as pay-per-view events and movies), and
"new product tiers" (a new type of tier authorized by the FCC in 1994 which
offers broad pricing and packaging flexibility) are not regulated. The FCC may
in the future determine to regulate "new product tiers".

        For regulated tiers of service, the FCC established a "benchmark"
formula to set a cable operator's "initial permitted rate." Cable systems whose
rates exceeded the applicable benchmark were required to reduce their rates
either to the benchmark or by 17% from those charged on September 30, 1992,
whichever reduction was less. These regulations also established the prices that
an operator may charge for subscriber equipment and installation services, based



on the operator's actual cost plus an 11.25% return. The FCC has also adopted
standards governing "cost-of service" proceedings pursuant to which a cable
operator may attempt to prove that its costs of providing regulated service
justify initial permitted rates that are higher than those produced under the
benchmark approach.

        Once a cable operator establishes its initial rates under either the
benchmark or cost of service methods, FCC regulations provide for periodic rate
increases on a going-forward basis for certain "external" cost increases
exceeding inflation, providing (among other things) a pass-through of, and 7.5%
mark-up on, increases in an operator's programming expenses. On November 10,
1994, the FCC adopted "going forward" rules (the "Going Forward Regulations")
that increased the mark-up for channels added to regulated tiers (other than the
basic tier). These rules allow operators to pass through to subscribers the
costs, plus a 20-cent per channel mark-up, for channels newly added to regulated
tiers (other than the basic tier). Through 1996, however, operators are subject
to an aggregate cap of $1.50 (no more than $1.20 of which may be mark-up) on the
amount that they may increase their retail rates for cable program service tier
rates due to channel additions. In 1997, operators will be entitled to an
additional 20-cent per channel mark-up and will no longer be subject to a
license fee cap. In addition, the FCC proposed eliminating the current 7.5%
operator mark-up on increases in a program service's license fees. The Company,
along with other cable industry interests, has opposed this proposal.

        Implementation of the FCC's rate regulations has had a negative effect
on the Cable Television segment's revenues and earnings from operations. The
reduction in revenues in 1994 was partially offset by customer growth and
subsequent permitted rate increases. Viacom Cable implemented additional rate
increases in 1995 pursuant to the Going Forward Regulations. These increases and
future increases will continue to mitigate the adverse impact of rate regulation
on revenues of the Cable Television segment. Any adverse revenue impact will be
further mitigated when the rates for tiers such as the Company's "Satellite
Value Package" (i.e., tiers of service other than basic service) are deregulated
commencing March 31, 1999.

        The 1996 Telecommunications Act eliminates rate regulation for all tiers
of regulated service, other than the basic service tier, after March 31, 1999,
or possibly earlier to the extent that any cable system becomes subject to
"effective competition" prior to such date. The 1996 Telecommunications Act adds
a new "effective competition" test to the three already included in the
Communications Act. The new test finds effective competition in areas where a
local telephone company, its affiliate, or a multichannel video programming
distributor using the facilities of the telephone company or its affiliate --
irrespective of the number of subscribers to the service -- offers programming
to subscribers by any means (other than DTH) in the franchise area of the cable
system, provided that the programming so offered is "comparable" to the
programming provided by the cable operator in that area. Basic service tier
regulation will continue without a specific sunset date, but will also end when
any cable system becomes subject to "effective competition". (See
"Business--Cable Television")

        Vertical Integration. Certain pricing and other restrictions (the
"program access rules") are imposed on vertically integrated cable programmers
(such as the Company) with respect to their dealings with multichannel



distributors of programming, such as cable systems, SMATV systems, MMDS
operators and TVRO and DBS distributors (as defined in "Business--Competition--
Cable Television"). The FCC's implementing regulations governing access by
multichannel distributors to the programming of vertically integrated cable
programmers limit the extent to which a vertically integrated cable programmer
can differentiate in pricing or other terms and conditions of carriage between
and among multichannel distributors. Multichannel distributors may file a
complaint with the FCC if they believe that a vertically integrated cable
programmer has not complied with these regulations. To date, no complaints have
been filed against the Company. The 1996 Telecommunications Act extends the
program access rules to (i) telcos and their affiliates providing video
programming to their subscribers by any means and (ii) programmers in which a
telco providing video programming has an attributable interest. The FCC's
implementing regulations also limit the number of channels on a cable system
which may be used to carry the programming of such system's affiliated
(vertically integrated) cable programmers. These regulations provide generally
that no more than 40% of such a system's channels can be used to carry the
programming of the system's affiliated cable programmers. These channel
occupancy limits apply only up to 75 channels of a given system.

        Must Carry/Retransmission Consent. Commercial television stations which
are "local" to communities served by a cable system can elect to require either
Must Carry or Retransmission Consent. In addition, a cable system (or other
multichannel video distributor) may not carry any commercial
non-satellite-delivered television station which is "distant" to communities
served by such system or any radio station without obtaining the consent of such
station for retransmission; however, these "distant" television stations do not
have Must Carry rights. Television stations may require payment in consideration
for Retransmission Consent.

        The initial round of Must Carry/Retransmission Consent elections
occurred in 1993. Pursuant to these elections, the Company has negotiated
retransmission rights for a number of commercial television stations which it
carries. Some of these agreements are on an interim basis and may be canceled by
the stations. The Company carries other television stations pursuant to their
exercise of their Must Carry rights. Local non-commercial television stations
have Must Carry rights, but may not elect Retransmission Consent. Local
commercial television stations must make new Must Carry/Retransmission Consent
elections by October 1, 1996. Cable carriage pursuant to these new elections
commences January 1, 1997.

        Buy-Through to Premium Services. Pursuant to the Communications Act, a
cable system may not require subscribers to purchase any tier of service other
than the basic service tier in order to obtain other tiers of service or
services offered by the cable operator on a per channel (e.g., premium services)
or pay-per-view basis. A cable system which is not now fully addressable and
which cannot utilize other means to facilitate access to all of its programming
will have until 2002 to fully comply with this provision through the
implementation of fully addressable technology. The Company's cable systems have
already substantially implemented compliance.

        Legal Challenges. Lawsuits have been filed challenging various
provisions of the Communications Act including the provisions relating to Must
Carry and Retransmission Consent (see "Business--Regulation--Broadcasting"
above), the pricing and other restrictions imposed on vertically integrated



cable programmers with respect to their dealings with multichannel programming
distributors (see "Business--Regulation--Cable Television--Vertical
Integration"), and the mandated availability of cable channels for leased access
and PEG programming.

        Competitive Entry. The 1996 Telecommunications Act permits telcos to
enter the multichannel video distribution business in their service areas either
as cable operators, as operators of wireless distribution systems (such as
MMDS), as operators of "open video systems" or on a common carrier basis. The
1996 Telecommunications Act further permits registered utility holding companies
(which had previously been prohibited from providing cable service under the
Public Utilities Holding Company Act) to provide cable services. The 1996
Telecommunications Act also generally eliminates state and local entry barriers
which currently either prohibit or restrict an entity's (including a cable
operator's) capacity to offer telecommunications services (including telephone
exchange service) in competition with telcos and to interconnect on a
non-discriminatory basis with telcos and utilize certain telco facilities in
order to provide service in competition with a telco. The FCC is required to
adopt regulations implementing the interconnection and non-discriminatory access
requirements of the 1996 Telecommunications Act, in order to assure that new
entrants such as cable operators have access to network elements of telcos and
other carriers, and that the systems built by all telecommunications carriers
are interoperable. The Company cannot predict the outcome or impact of these
legislative and regulatory efforts, although the Company anticipates that its
program services could benefit from the increased distribution opportunities
afforded by broadened telco entry into multichannel video distribution. Telcos
have stated their general intention to enter the video programming business.

State and Local Regulation

        State and local regulation of cable is exercised primarily through the
franchising process under which a company enters into a franchise agreement with
the appropriate franchising authority ("LFA") and agrees to abide by applicable
ordinances. The Communications Act sets up the basic regulatory framework within
which LFAs can exercise franchising powers. In general, an LFA may exercise its
police power to regulate public rights-of-way and has broad powers with respect
to customer service standards. LFAs may impose franchise fees, subject to a
federal cap, and may elect to regulate the rates for the basic service tier,
subject to compliance with the FCC's benchmark, cost of service and related
rules.

        Under the Communications Act, LFAs may control only cable-related
equipment and facilities requirements and may not require the carriage of
specific program services. However, federal law (as implemented by FCC
regulations) mandates the carriage of both commercial and non-commercial
television broadcast stations "local" to the area in which a cable system is
located. (See "Business--Regulation--Cable Television--Must Carry/Retransmission
Consent" above)

        The Communications Act guarantees cable operators due process rights in
franchise renewal proceedings and provides that franchises will be renewed
unless the cable operator fails to meet one or more enumerated statutory
criteria. The 1996 Telecommunications Act prohibits an LFA from requiring a
cable operator to provide telecommunications service or facilities as a
condition of renewal, and from specifying the type, use or capacity of equipment



or technology employed by a cable operator upon renewal. The Company's current
franchises expire on various dates through 2017. During the five-year period
1996 through 2000, franchises having an aggregate of approximately 292,000
customers (at December 31, 1995) will expire unless renewed. The Company expects
its franchises to be renewed.

Item 2.  Properties.

        The Company maintains its world headquarters at 1515 Broadway, New York,
New York, where it rents approximately one million square feet for executive
offices and certain of its operating divisions. The lease runs to 2010, with
four renewal options for five years each. The lease also grants the Company
options for additional space and a right of first negotiation for other
available space in the building. The Company also leases approximately 484,000
square feet of office space at 1633 Broadway, New York, New York, which lease
runs to 2010, and approximately 237,000 square feet of office space at 1230
Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York, which lease runs to 2009, which
leases contain options to renew. The Company owns the PARAMOUNT PICTURES studio
at 5555 Melrose Avenue, Los Angeles, California, which consists of approximately
380 acres containing sound stages, administrative, technical and dressing room
structures, screening theaters, machinery and equipment facilities, plus a back
lot and parking lots. PARAMOUNT PARKS' operations in the U.S. include
approximately 1,640 acres owned and 295 acres leased and in Canada include
approximately 380 acres owned. The Company owns the Blockbuster Entertainment
Group headquarters at 200 South Andrews Avenue, Fort Lauderdale, Florida, which
consists of approximately 148,000 square feet of office space, supplemented by
another approximately 97,000 square feet of leased office space at 110 East
Broward Avenue, Fort Lauderdale, Florida. The BLOCKBUSTER retail and
distribution operations in the U.S. and Canada consist of approximately 56
owned properties, aggregating approximately 361,000 square feet, and
approximately 3,303 leased locations, aggregating approximately 21.9 million
square feet. Facilities within the Publishing segment (other than executive
offices at 1230 Avenue of the Americas described above) include approximately
7,653,000 square feet of space, of which approximately 5,070,000 square feet
are leased. The facilities are used for warehouse, distribution and
administrative functions. The Company's cable television systems include a
combination of owned and leased premises in California, Ohio, Oregon, Tennessee
and Washington (the location of Viacom Cable's franchises) and each system's
electronic distribution equipment.

        The Company also owns and leases office, studio, retail and warehouse
space in various cities in the U.S., Canada and several countries around the
world for its businesses. The Company considers its properties adequate for its
present needs.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings.

        On August 18, 1994, the District Court in and for Dallas County, Texas
entered a judgment in favor of the plaintiffs in the action Howell v.
Blockbuster Entertainment Corporation, et al. (Cause No. 91-10193-M). The
defendants included Blockbuster Entertainment Corporation ("BEC"), which has
been merged into the Company, and Video Superstores Master Limited Partnership,
a dissolved limited partnership that was indirectly controlled by BEC at the
time of its dissolution. The judgment was based upon plaintiffs' claims of



breach of fiduciary duty, fraud, conspiracy, breach of contract and tortious
interference with contract and claims under Texas partnership law in connection
with the defendants' treatment, and ultimate acquisition, of plaintiffs'
interest in a limited partnership which owned three Blockbuster stores. The
court entered judgment against all defendants, jointly and severally, in the
amount of $14,850,175, including compensatory damages, attorneys fees and
prejudgment interest. In addition, the Court entered judgment totaling
$108,840,030 for exemplary damages. The Howell action was settled in December
1995 with the payment by the Company of an amount without material adverse
effect on its financial condition or result of operations. The settlement
involved the vacation of the judgment and withdrawal of all the Court's findings
of fact and conclusions of law.

        On September 27, 1994, an action captioned Murphy, et al. v. Blockbuster
Entertainment Corporation, et al. (Cause No. 94-10051-M) was filed in the
District Court in and for Dallas County, Texas by plaintiffs representing the
two other limited partners of plaintiff Howell in the litigation described
above. Plaintiffs assert the same basic causes of action as in Howell and have
claimed they are entitled to actual damages in excess of $240 million and
punitive damages in excess of $1 billion. The Company believes that it has
substantial defenses to these claims, including, among others, that the claims
are barred by the statute of limitations and by releases entered into by the
plaintiffs or their predecessors, and intends to vigorously defend the claims.
(While the Company maintained that certain of these defenses were also available
in the Howell litigation, significantly stronger facts support their application
in this litigation.) In addition, the Murphy plaintiffs have stipulated that
they will make no use of the Howell judgment or findings of fact or conclusions
of law in their action.

        Antitrust Matters. On September 23, 1993, the Company filed an action in
the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York styled
Viacom International Inc. v. Tele-Communications, Inc., et al., Case No. 93 Civ
6658. The complaint (as amended on November 9, 1993) alleged violations of
Sections 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act, Section 7 of the Clayton Act, Section 12 of
the Cable Act, and New York's Donnelly Act, and tortious interference, against
all defendants, and a breach of contract claim against certain defendants,
including Tele-Communications, Inc. ("TCI"). The claims for relief in the
complaint are based in significant part on allegations that defendants exert
monopoly power in the U.S. cable industry through their control over
approximately one in four of all cable households in the U.S. In addition to
other relief, the Company seeks injunctive relief against defendants'
anticompetitive conduct and damages in an amount to be determined at trial,
including trebled damages and attorneys' fees.

        The Company has announced that it has provisionally agreed to settle
this action, subject to certain conditions, including, among other things, the
effectiveness of a new affiliation agreement covering TCI's long-term carriage
of SHOWTIME and THE MOVIE CHANNEL and the consummation of the split-off of the
Company's cable television systems (see "Business--Cable Television"). The
action is currently suspended pending satisfaction of certain conditions which,
if satisfied, would lead to settlement of the action.

        Certain subsidiaries of the Company from time to time receive claims
from federal and state environmental regulatory agencies and other entities



asserting that they are or may be liable for environmental cleanup costs and
related damages arising out of former operations. While the outcome of these
claims cannot be predicted with certainty, on the basis of its experience and
the information currently available to it, the Company does not believe that the
claims it has received will have a material adverse effect on its results of
operations financial position or cash flows (see "Item 6. Selected Financial
Data" and "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations
and Financial Condition").

        The Company and various of its subsidiaries are parties to certain other
legal proceedings. However, these proceedings are not likely to result in
judgments that will have a material adverse effect on its results of operations,
financial position or cash flows.


Financial Information About Foreign and Domestic Operations

        Financial information relating to foreign and domestic operations for
each of the last three years ending December 31, is set forth in Notes 13 and 14
to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company included elsewhere
herein.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

        Not Applicable





Executive Officers of the Company

        Set forth below is certain information concerning the current executive
officers of the Company, which information is hereby included in Part I of this
report.

Name                    Age                   Title

Sumner M. Redstone      72    Chairman of the Board of Directors 
                                and Chief Executive Officer
Philippe P. Dauman      42    Deputy Chairman, Executive Vice President, 
                                General Counsel, Chief Administrative Officer 
                                and Secretary and Director
Thomas E. Dooley        39    Deputy Chairman, Executive Vice President--
                                Finance, Corporate Development and 
                                Communications and Director
Vaughn A. Clarke        42    Senior Vice President, Treasurer
Carl D. Folta           38    Senior Vice President, Corporate Relations
Michael D. Fricklas     36    Senior Vice President, Deputy General
                                Counsel
Susan C. Gordon         42    Vice President, Controller and Chief
                                Accounting Officer
Rudolph L. Hertlein     55    Senior Vice President, Corporate Development
Edward D. Horowitz      48    Senior Vice President, Technology of the
                                Company; Chairman, Chief Executive
                                Officer of Viacom Interactive Media
William A. Roskin       53    Senior Vice President, Human Resources and
                                  Administration
George S. Smith, Jr     47    Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
Mark M. Weinstein       53    Senior Vice President, Government Affairs
- ----------


        None of the executive officers of the Company is related to any other
executive officer or director by blood, marriage or adoption except that Brent
D. Redstone and Shari Redstone, Directors of the Company, are the son and
daughter, respectively, of Sumner M. Redstone.


        Mr. Redstone has been a Director of the Company since 1986 and Chairman
of the Board since 1987, acquiring the additional title of Chief Executive
Officer in January 1996. Mr. Redstone has served as President, Chief Executive
Officer of NAI since 1967, and continues to serve in such capacity; he has
also served as the Chairman of the Board of NAI since 1986. Mr. Redstone became
a Director of Spelling in 1994. He served as the first Chairman of the Board of
the National Association of Theatre Owners, and is currently a member of the
Executive Committee of that organization. During the Carter Administration, Mr.
Redstone was appointed a member of the Presidential Advisory Committee on the
Arts for the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts and, in 1984, he was
appointed a Director of the Kennedy Presidential Library Foundation. Since 1982,
Mr. Redstone has been a member of the faculty of Boston University Law School,
where he has lectured in entertainment law, and since 1994, he has been a



Visiting Professor at Brandeis University. In 1944, Mr. Redstone graduated from
Harvard University and, in 1947, received an LL.B. from Harvard University
School of Law. Upon graduation, he served as Law Secretary with the United
States Court of Appeals, and then as a Special Assistant to the United States
Attorney General.

        Mr. Dauman has been a Director of the Company since 1987 and was
appointed Deputy Chairman of the Company in January 1996. In March 1994, he was
elected Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Chief Administrative Officer
and Secretary of the Company. From February 1993 to March 1994, he served as
Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of the Company. Prior to
that, Mr. Dauman was a partner in the law firm of Shearman & Sterling in New
York, which he joined in 1978. Mr. Dauman became a Director of NAI in 1992 and
a Director of Spelling in 1994.

        Mr. Dooley was appointed a Director and Deputy Chairman of the Company
in January 1996 and has been an executive officer of the Company since January
1987. In March 1994, he was elected Executive Vice President--Finance, Corporate
Development and Communications of the Company. From July 1992 to March 1994, Mr.
Dooley served as Senior Vice President, Corporate Development of the Company.
From August 1993 to March 1994, he also served as President, Interactive
Television. Prior to that, he served as Vice President, Treasurer of the Company
since 1987. In December 1990, he was named Vice President, Finance of the
Company. Mr. Dooley joined Viacom International Inc. in 1980 in the corporate
finance area and has held various positions in the corporate and divisional
finance areas.

        Mr. Clarke was elected Senior Vice President, Treasurer of the Company
in July 1994, having joined the Company as Vice President, Treasurer in April
1993. Prior to that, he spent 12 years at Gannett Co., Inc., where he held
various management positions, most recently as Assistant Treasurer.

        Mr. Folta was elected Senior Vice President, Corporate Relations of the
Company in November 1994. Prior to that, he served as Vice President, Corporate
Relations of the Company from April 1994 to November 1994. From 1984 until
joining the Company in April 1994, Mr. Folta held various Corporate
Communications positions at Paramount, serving most recently as Senior Director,
Corporate Communications.

        Mr. Fricklas was elected Senior Vice President, Deputy General Counsel
of the Company in March 1994. From June 1993 to March 1994, he served as Vice
President, Deputy General Counsel of the Company. He served as Vice President,
General Counsel and Secretary of Minorco (U.S.A.) Inc. from 1990 to 1993. Prior
to that, Mr. Fricklas was an attorney in private practice at the law firm of
Shearman & Sterling.

        Ms. Gordon was elected Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting
Officer in April 1995. Prior to that, she served as Vice President, Internal
Audit of the Company since October 1986. From June 1985 to October 1986, Ms.
Gordon served as Controller of Viacom Broadcasting. She joined the Company in
1981 and held various positions in the corporate finance area.





        Mr. Hertlein was elected Senior Vice President of the Company in July
1994. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President and Controller of
Paramount from September 1993 to July 1994 and as Senior Vice President,
Internal Audit and Special Projects of Paramount from September 1992 to
September 1993 and, before that, as Vice President, Internal Audit and Special
Projects of Paramount.

        Mr. Horowitz has been an executive officer of the Company since April
1989. In March 1994, he was elected Senior Vice President, Technology of the
Company and Chairman, Chief Executive Officer of Viacom Interactive Media. Prior
to that, he served as Senior Vice President of the Company from April 1989 and
as Chairman, Chief Executive Officer of Viacom Broadcasting from July 1992 to
March 1994. From 1974 to April 1989, Mr. Horowitz held various positions with
HBO, most recently as Senior Vice President, Technology and Operations. Mr.
Horowitz held several other management positions with HBO, including Senior Vice
President, Network Operations and New Business Development and Vice President,
Affiliate Sales.

        Mr. Roskin has been an executive officer of the Company since April 1988
when he became Vice President, Human Resources and Administration. In July 1992,
Mr. Roskin was elected Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Administration
of the Company. From May 1986 to April 1988, he was Senior Vice President, Human
Resources at Coleco Industries, Inc. From 1976 to 1986, he held various
executive positions at Warner Communications, Inc., serving most recently as
Vice President, Industrial and Labor Relations.

        Mr. Smith has been an executive officer of the Company since May 1985.
In November 1987, he was elected Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
of the Company and he continues to serve in such capacities. In May 1985, Mr.
Smith was elected Vice President, Controller and, in October 1987, he was
elected Vice President, Chief Financial Officer of the Company. From 1983 until
May 1985, he served as Vice President, Finance and Administration of the Viacom
Broadcasting and from 1981 until 1983, he served as Controller of Viacom Radio.
Mr. Smith joined the Company in 1977 in the Corporate Treasurer's office and
until 1981 served in various financial planning capacities.

        Mr. Weinstein has been an executive officer of the Company since January
1986. In February 1993, he was elected Senior Vice President, Government Affairs
of the Company. Prior to that, Mr. Weinstein served as Senior Vice President,
General Counsel and Secretary of the Company since the fall of 1987. In January
1986, Mr. Weinstein was appointed Vice President, General Counsel of the
Company. From 1976 through 1985, he was Deputy General Counsel of Warner
Communications Inc. and in 1980 became Vice President. Previously, Mr. Weinstein
was an attorney in private practice at the law firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind,
Wharton & Garrison.






PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR VIACOM INC.'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED SECURITY HOLDER
        MATTERS.

Viacom Inc. voting Class A Common Stock and Viacom Inc. non-voting Class B
Common Stock are listed and traded on the American Stock Exchange ("AMEX")
under the symbols "VIA" and "VIA B", respectively.

The following table sets forth, for the calendar period indicated, the per share
range of high and low sales prices for Viacom Inc.'s Class A Common Stock and
Class B Common Stock, as reported on the AMEX Composite Tape.


                                      VIACOM CLASS A         VIACOM CLASS B
                                       COMMON STOCK           COMMON STOCK
                                      -------------------------------------
                                      HIGH       LOW         HIGH       LOW
                                      ----       ---         ----       ---
  1st quarter....................  $48 1/4      $41 1/8     $47 3/8    $40 1/4
  2nd quarter....................   49 1/2       41          48 5/8     40 3/4
  3rd quarter....................   54 1/8       44 3/4      54 1/4     44 5/8
  4th quarter....................   50 5/8       44          50 3/4     44 5/8


  1st quarter....................  $49 3/4      $28 1/2     $45        $23 3/4
  2nd quarter....................   34 1/4       24 1/2      32 1/2     21 3/4
  3rd quarter....................   41 3/4       33 7/8      39 3/4     30 1/4
  4th quarter....................   42 1/8       38          41         37 1/8

Viacom Inc. has not declared cash dividends on its common stock and has no
present intention of so doing.

As of March 22, 1996 there were approximately 13,307 holders of Viacom Inc.
Class A Common Stock, and 24,622 holders of Viacom Inc. Class B Common Stock.





                                      II-1






ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.


VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
(Millions of dollars, except per share amounts)




(a) Operating income is defined as net earnings before cumulative effect of
change in accounting principle, extraordinary losses, discontinued operations,
minority interest, equity in earnings (loss) of affiliated companies (net of
tax), income taxes, other items (net), and interest expense.

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on transactions
and accounting classifications which have affected the comparability of the
periods presented above. Viacom Inc. has not declared cash dividends on its
common stock for any of the periods presented above.

                                      II-2


ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND
        FINANCIAL CONDITION.

GENERAL
- -------

Management's discussion and analysis of the combined results of operations and
financial condition of Viacom Inc. (the "Company") should be read in conjunction
with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes. Descriptions of
all documents incorporated by reference herein or included as exhibits hereto
are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of such documents
so incorporated or included.

During 1994, the Company made two significant acquisitions of large and
diversified businesses. Where appropriate the Company has merged the operations
of previously existing and acquired businesses. Comparisons of results of
operations have been significantly affected by such acquisitions and merging of
operations. On March 11, 1994, the Company acquired a majority of the
outstanding shares of Paramount Communications Inc. ("Paramount Communications")
by tender offer; on July 7, 1994, Paramount Communications became a wholly owned
subsidiary of the Company (the "Paramount Merger"); and on January 3, 1995,
Paramount Communications was merged into Viacom International. On September 29,
1994, Blockbuster Entertainment Corporation ("Blockbuster") merged with and into
the Company (the "Blockbuster Merger"). Paramount Communications' and
Blockbuster's results of operations are included commencing March 1, 1994 and
October 1, 1994, respectively.

The Company's consolidated statements of operations reflect five operating
segments:

NETWORKS AND BROADCASTING - Basic Cable and Premium Subscription Television
                            Program Services, Television and Radio Stations.

ENTERTAINMENT - Production and Distribution of Motion Pictures and Television
                Programming as well as Movie Theater Operations, and New Media 
                and Interactive Services.

VIDEO AND MUSIC/THEME PARKS - Home Video and Music Retailing, and Theme Parks.

PUBLISHING - Education; Consumer; Business and Professional; Reference; and
             International Groups.

CABLE TELEVISION - Cable Television  Distribution Systems.  (See Note 3 of 
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)

The following tables set forth revenues, operating income and operating income
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA"), by business
segment, with the year ended December 31, 1994 presented on a pro forma and
historical basis. The pro forma information is provided in addition to
historical information solely to assist in the comparison of results of
operations and is not necessarily indicative of the combined results of
operations of Viacom, Paramount Communications and Blockbuster that would have
occurred if the completion of the Mergers and related transactions had occurred
on January 1, 1994.




                                      II-3




                       MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION



Also included is a comparison of actual EBITDA to pro forma EBITDA, which does
not reflect the effect of significant amounts of amortization of goodwill
related to the Mergers and other business combinations accounted for under the
purchase method of accounting. While many in the financial community consider
EBITDA to be an important measure of comparative operating performance, it
should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for or superior to,
operating income, net earnings, cash flow and other measures of financial
performance prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles.

BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION
(Millions of dollars)



(a) Operating income is defined as net earnings before cumulative effect of
change in accounting principle, extraordinary losses, discontinued operations,
minority interest, equity in earnings (loss) of affiliated companies (net of
tax), income taxes, other items (net), and interest expense.

(b) EBITDA is defined as operating income before depreciation and amortization.

(c) Paramount Communications' and Blockbuster's results of operations are
included commencing March 1, 1994 and October 1, 1994, respectively.




                                      II-4


                       MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION


RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
- ---------------------

1995 VERSUS 1994
- ----------------

Revenues increased to $11.7 billion for 1995 from $7.4 billion for 1994. EBITDA
increased to $2.3 billion for 1995 from $1.1 billion for 1994. Operating income
increased to $1.5 billion for 1995 from $608.3 million for 1994.

The comparability of results of operations for 1995 and 1994 has been affected
by the Mergers and the non-recurring merger-related charges (see Note 2 of Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements). The following discussion of segment
results of operations includes the 1994 results of operations presented on a pro
forma basis, as if the Mergers occurred on January 1, 1994, and are adjusted to
exclude non-recurring merger-related charges.

Revenues increased 15% to $11.7 billion for 1995 from pro forma revenues of
$10.1 billion for 1994. EBITDA increased 29% to $2.3 billion for 1995 from pro
forma EBITDA of $1.8 billion for 1994. Operating income increased 44% to $1.5
billion for 1995 from pro forma operating income of $1.0 billion for 1994.

SEGMENT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - 1995 VERSUS PRO FORMA 1994
- ----------------------------------------------------------

NETWORKS AND BROADCASTING (Basic Cable and Premium Subscription Television
Program Services, Television and Radio Stations)

The Networks and Broadcasting segment is comprised of MTV Networks ("MTVN"),
Showtime Networks Inc. ("SNI"), television stations and radio stations. Revenues
increased 13% to $2.1 billion for 1995 from $1.9 billion for 1994. EBITDA
increased 24% to $678.3 million for 1995 from $549.0 million for 1994. Operating
income increased 26% to $561.3 million for 1995 from $447.0 million for 1994. 
MTVN revenues of $1.0 billion, EBITDA of $410.9 million and operating income of
$355.8 million increased 20%, 26% and 25%, respectively. The increase in MTVN's
revenues was principally attributable to higher advertising revenues due to rate
increases and to a lesser extent increased affiliate revenues. MTVN's EBITDA and
operating income gains were driven by the increased revenues partially offset by
higher operating costs, primarily representing increased programming costs.
SNI's revenues, EBITDA and operating income increased 6%, 44% and 51%,
respectively, reflecting an increase of 1.3 million subscribers from December
31, 1994, partially offset by the absence in 1995 of royalty revenues resulting
from the settlement of a contractual claim with a third party during 1994 and
increased programming costs. The television and radio stations revenues
increased 10%, EBITDA increased 12% and operating income increased 16% primarily
reflecting increased advertising revenues and the Company's acquisition of
television stations in large markets, offset by the disposition of television
stations in smaller markets.


                                      II-5


                       MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION


ENTERTAINMENT (Motion Pictures and Television Programming, Movie Theaters, and
New Media and Interactive Services)

The Entertainment segment is principally comprised of Paramount Pictures,
Paramount Television, Spelling Entertainment Group Inc. ("Spelling"), and the
former Viacom Entertainment. Revenues increased 24% to $3.7 billion for 1995
from $2.9 billion for 1994. EBITDA increased 68% to $445.9 million for 1995 from
$265.5 million for 1994. Operating income increased 137% to $307.3 million for
1995 from $129.9 million for 1994. The increase in results of operations is
attributable to a number of factors, notably during 1995 the strong home video
performance of Paramount Pictures' Forrest Gump, Clear and Present Danger, Congo
and Star Trek: Generations and the sale of certain syndication rights to Carsey
Werner, as compared to the 1994 domestic and foreign theatrical success of
Forrest Gump and Clear and Present Danger. The Company also recognized
approximately $250.0 million of revenues and $68.0 million of EBITDA and
operating income during 1995 resulting from the conforming of accounting
policies pertaining to the television programming libraries of Viacom
Entertainment, Spelling and Paramount.

License fees for the television exhibition of motion pictures and for
syndication and basic cable exhibition of television programming are recorded as
revenue in the year that the products are available for such exhibition, which,
among other reasons, may cause substantial fluctuation in operating results. As
of December 31, 1995, the unrecognized revenues attributable to such licensing
agreements were approximately $1.1 billion.

The Company is currently exploring the sale of Spelling Entertainment Group Inc.
("Spelling") and the related purchase of Spelling's interest in Virgin
Interactive Entertainment Limited ("Virgin"). An independent committee of
Spelling's Board of Directors has been formed to negotiate the terms of the
Virgin transaction. The Company acquired its approximately 75% interest in the
common equity of Spelling as a part of the Blockbuster Merger.

VIDEO AND MUSIC/THEME PARKS (Home Video and Music Retailing/Theme Parks)

The Video and Music/Theme Parks segment is comprised of Blockbuster Video and
Music, and Paramount Parks. Revenues increased 15% to $3.3 billion for 1995 from
$2.9 billion for 1994. EBITDA increased 20% to $823.0 million for 1995 from
$688.5 million for 1994. Operating income increased 29% to $501.5 million for
1995 from $388.3 million for 1994. The gains in results of operations primarily
reflect the increased number of domestic Company-owned video stores in operation
in 1995 as compared to 1994 and an increase of greater than 3% in same-store
sales, partially offset by increased overall operating and overhead expenses.
Music stores revenues increased $26.4 million, EBITDA and operating income
decreased $13.4 million and $20.2 million, respectively, reflecting the highly
competitive music retail environment. Theme Parks revenues increased $10.3
million, EBITDA increased $7.3 million and operating income increased $6.9
million primarily reflecting increased attendance, and the acquisition of a
water park partially offset by increased operating expenses and in the case of
operating income, higher depreciation expenses.


                                      II-6


                       MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION


PUBLISHING (Education; Consumer; Business and Professional; Reference; and
International Groups)

Publishing is comprised of Simon & Schuster which includes imprints such as
Simon & Schuster, Pocket Books, Prentice Hall and Macmillian Computer 
Publishing. Revenues increased 7% to $2.2 billion for 1995 from $2.0 billion
for 1994. EBITDA increased 33% to $340.2 million for 1995 from $254.9 million
for 1994. Operating income increased 54% to $186.3 million for 1995 from 
$121.3 million for 1994. Results of operations primarily reflect increased 
Education Group sales resulting from strong Higher Education frontlist sales 
and increased Elementary and Secondary Group state adoptions and contributions
from Consumer Group frontlist titles at Pocket Books. EBITDA and operating 
income for 1994 reflect an aggregate charge of $32.8 million attributable to 
certain non-recurring transition costs and the pro forma results of operations
of Macmillan for the two months prior to acquisition.

CABLE TELEVISION (Cable Television Distribution Systems)

Cable Television revenues increased 9% to $444.4 million for 1995 from $406.2
million for 1994, primarily attributable to increased primary, premium and
pay-per-view revenues. EBITDA increased 18% to $182.9 million for 1995 from
$155.2 million for 1994. Operating income increased 28% to $101.1 million for
1995 from $78.8 million for 1994. The increased results of operations reflect
13% and 4% increases in average premium and primary customers, a 5% increase in
primary rates, partially offset by a 7% decrease for the average premium rate.
Total revenues per primary customer per month increased 5% to $31.90 for 1995
from $30.30 for 1994.

As of December 31, 1995, Viacom Cable served approximately 1,180,000 primary
customers subscribing to approximately 921,000 premium units, representing an
increase of 4% and 5%, respectively, since December 31, 1994.

On July 24, 1995, Viacom announced a multi-step transaction which, if completed,
would result in the split-off of its cable operations (see Note 3 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements).

OTHER INCOME AND EXPENSE INFORMATION
- ------------------------------------

Corporate expenses
Corporate expenses, including depreciation, increased 24% to $164.2 million for
1995 from $132.6 million for 1994. The increase in Corporate expenses reflects
the recognition of higher systems, facility and incentive compensation
obligations that occurred in 1995.

Interest Expense 
Net interest expense of $821.4 million for 1995 compared to
$494.1 million for 1994 reflects the effects of the full year impact of the
issuance of 8% exchangeable subordinated debentures and debt incurred and
acquired as part of the Mergers and the issuance of notes during 1995, offset by
decreased bank borrowings. The notes issued during 1995, pursuant to the shelf
registration statement described in Liquidity and Capital Resources, were $350
million of 6.75% Senior Notes, $200 million of 7.625% of Senior Debentures and
$1 billion of 7.75% Senior Notes. The Company had approximately $10.8 billion
and $10.4 billion principal amount of debt outstanding as of 


                                      II-7


                       MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION

December 31, 1995 and December 31, 1994, respectively, at a weighted average
interest rate of 7.4% and 7.5%. (See Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.)

Other Items, Net 
For 1995, "Other items, net" primarily reflects a gain on the sale of 
marketable securities.

For 1994, "Other items, net" primarily reflects the pre-tax gain of $267.4
million, which resulted from the sale of the Company's one-third partnership
interest in Lifetime for $317.6 million in April 1994. Proceeds from the sale
were used to reduce outstanding debt.

Provision for Income Taxes 
The provision for income taxes represents federal, state and foreign income
taxes on earnings before income taxes. The annual effective tax rates of 61% for
1995 and 74% for 1994 were both adversely affected by amortization of
intangibles resulting from the Mergers which are not deductible for tax
purposes.

Equity in Earnings (Loss) of Affiliates
"Equity in loss of affiliated companies, net of tax" was $53.9 million for 1995
as compared to earnings of $18.6 million for 1994, primarily reflecting, in
1995, an equity loss, net of tax, of $49.4 million related to the Company's
approximately 49% interest in Discovery Zone and net losses of equity
investments in international start-up ventures, partially offset by improved
operating results of USA Networks.

Minority Interest 
Minority interest primarily represents the minority ownership of Spelling's
common stock for 1995 and fourth quarter 1994 and minority ownership of
Paramount Communications' common stock, for the period March through June 1994.

Discontinued Operations
Discontinued operations reflect the results of operations of Madison Square
Garden Corporation ("MSG"), which was sold March 10, 1995. The Company acquired
MSG during March 1994 as a part of the Paramount Merger. (See Note 4 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.)

Extraordinary Losses
During 1994, the Company refinanced its existing credit facilities and therefore
recognized an after-tax extraordinary loss from the extinguishment of debt of
$20.4 million, net of tax benefit of $11.9 million.


1994 VERSUS 1993
- ----------------

Revenues increased 267% to $7.4 billion for 1994 from $2.0 billion for 1993.
EBITDA increased 100% to $1.1 billion for 1994 from $538.1 million for 1993.
Operating income increased 58% to $608.3 million for 1994 from $385.0 million
for 1993. The foregoing increases in results of 


                                      II-8

                       MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION

operations are principally attributable to the acquisitions of Paramount
Communications and Blockbuster, partially offset by the merger-related charges
described below.

Operating income for 1994 includes merger-related charges, reflecting the
integration of the Company's pre-merger businesses with similar Paramount units,
and related management and strategic changes. Such amounts relate principally to
adjustments of programming assets based upon new management strategies and
additional programming sources resulting from the Paramount Merger and, with
respect to Corporate, the combination of the employees of the Company and
Paramount Communications.
                                                                   OPERATING
                                                                INCOME PRIOR TO
                                 OPERATING     MERGER-RELATED   MERGER-RELATED
                                   INCOME          CHARGES          CHARGES
                                   ------          -------          -------
                                            (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)

Networks and Broadcasting....      $ 357.1       $  90.7           $ 447.8
Entertainment................        (88.4)        224.0             135.6
Video and Music/Theme Parks..        199.5          --               199.5
Publishing...................        193.9          --               193.9
Cable Television.............         78.8          --                78.8
Corporate....................       (132.6)         17.4            (115.2)
                                   --------     --------           --------
                                   $ 608.3        $332.1           $ 940.4
                                   =======        ======           =======

The comparability of results of operations for 1994 and 1993 has been affected
by (i) the Paramount Merger, (ii) the Blockbuster Merger, and (iii) the
merger-related charges all of which are non-recurring charges. The following
discussion of results of operations is exclusive of merger-related charges.

SEGMENT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - 1994 VERSUS 1993
- ------------------------------------------------

NETWORKS AND BROADCASTING

Revenues increased 32% to $1.9 billion for 1994 from $1.4 billion for 1993.
EBITDA increased 42% to $544.0 million for 1994 from $382.6 million for 1993.
Operating income increased 42% to $447.8 million for 1994 from $314.4 million
for 1993. The increase in revenues, EBITDA and operating income resulted from
increased advertising revenues of MTVN, modest increases in operating results of
SNI and the Company's previously existing television and radio stations, and the
acquisition of the Paramount television stations. MTVN revenues of $852.2
million, EBITDA of $326.8 million and operating income of $284.5 million
increased 26%, 20% and 19%, respectively. The increase in MTVN's revenues was
principally attributable to increased advertising revenues due to rate
increases. The increase in MTVN's EBITDA was driven by increased advertising
revenues partially offset by increased operating costs, as well as aggregate
losses of $15.0 million associated with the development of MTV Latino,
Nickelodeon Magazine and VH-1 U.K. The Paramount television stations reported
revenues of $210.4 million, EBITDA of $83.1 million and operating income of
$65.8 million for the period subsequent to their acquisition.


                                      II-9

                       MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION


ENTERTAINMENT

Revenues increased to $2.3 billion for 1994 from $209.1 million for 1993. EBITDA
increased to $230.0 million for 1994 from $42.0 million for 1993. Operating
income increased to $135.6 million for 1994 from $32.5 million for 1993. The
increase in revenues, EBITDA and operating income resulted primarily from the
acquisitions of Paramount Pictures and Spelling. Theatrical feature film and
television programming results reflect revenues of $1.9 billion, EBITDA of
$227.8 million and operating income of $157.7 million. The Entertainment
segment's operating income was partially offset by Viacom Interactive Media's
loss from operations of $28.6 million, including start-up costs associated with
the development of new businesses. Results of operations primarily reflect
theatrical feature film revenues, including the domestic and foreign box office
success of Forrest Gump and Clear and Present Danger, as well as television
programming revenues including network and syndication sales. Operating income
benefited from a lower cost base and efficiencies associated with the Paramount
Merger.

VIDEO AND MUSIC/THEME PARKS

Revenues, EBITDA and operating income were $1.1 billion, $289.9 million and
$199.5 million, respectively. Video and Music revenues, EBITDA and operating
income were $735.7 million, $220.3 million and $167.8 million, respectively,
reflecting results of operations beginning October 1, 1994 and the continued
expansion of video and music stores. Theme Parks revenues, EBITDA and operating
income were $334.7 million, $69.6 million and $31.7 million, respectively,
reflecting the full 1994 operating season (May through September) of the theme
parks.

PUBLISHING

Publishing revenues, EBITDA and operating income were $1.8 billion, $296.9
million and $193.9 million, respectively, subsequent to its acquisition in March
1994. Results of operations reflect Simon & Schuster's Higher Education,
Consumer and International groups, and the U.S. publishing assets of Macmillan,
Inc.

CABLE TELEVISION

Cable Television revenues decreased 2% to $406.2 million for 1994 from $416.0
million for 1993, primarily attributable to a decrease in basic revenues. EBITDA
decreased 15% to $155.2 million for 1994 from $181.7 million for 1993. Operating
income decreased 28% to $78.8 million for 1994 from $110.2 million for 1993. The
results reflect a 10% decrease in average rates for primary services, partially
offset by a 3% increase in average primary customers. Total revenue per primary
customer per month decreased 5% to $30.30 for 1994 from $32.03 for 1993. The
revenue variances reflect the effect of the FCC rate regulations pursuant to the
1992 Cable Act governing rates in effect as of September 1, 1993 and as of May
15, 1994. The decrease in EBITDA and operating income principally reflect the
decreased revenues attributable to the above rate regulations and increased
operating, general and administrative expenses.


                                      II-10

                       MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION


As of December 31, 1994, Viacom Cable served approximately 1,139,000 primary
customers subscribing to approximately 875,000 premium units, representing an
increase of 4% and 22%, respectively, since December 31, 1993.

OTHER INCOME AND EXPENSE INFORMATION
- ------------------------------------

Corporate Expenses
Corporate expenses including depreciation increased 60% to $115.2 million in
1994 from $72.1 million in 1993 reflecting overall increased expenses primarily
attributable to the mergers.

Interest Expense
Net interest expense of $494.1 million for 1994 compared to $145.0 million for
1993 reflects increased bank borrowing, the issuance of the 8% exchangeable
subordinated debentures and debt acquired as part of the Mergers. The Company
had approximately $10.4 billion and $2.5 billion principal amounts of debt
outstanding as of December 31, 1994 and December 31, 1993 at weighted average
interest rates of 7.5% and 5.3%, respectively.

Other Items, Net
For 1993, "Other items, net" reflects the pre-tax gain of approximately $55.0
million from the sale of the stock of the Wisconsin cable system, a pre-tax gain
of $17.4 million in the aggregate from sales of a portion of an investment held
at cost, partially offset by an increase of $9.1 million to previously
established non-operating litigation reserves and other items.

Provision for Income Taxes
The annual effective tax rates of 74% for 1994 and 43% for 1993 were both
adversely affected by amortization of goodwill which are not deductible for tax
purposes. The 1993 effective tax rate was favorably affected as a result of
reductions of certain prior year tax reserves of $22.0 million. The reductions
were based on the favorable outcome of federal, state and local audits.

During the first quarter of 1993, the Company adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes" on a prospective
basis and recognized an increase in earnings of $10.4 million in 1993 as the
cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle.

Equity in Earnings (Loss) of Affiliates
"Equity in earnings of affiliated companies, net of tax" was $18.6 million for
1994 as compared to a loss of $2.5 million for 1993, primarily reflecting the
inclusion of the net earnings of affiliated companies that were acquired as part
of the Mergers, improved operating results of Comedy Central, partially offset
by the absence of Lifetime's earnings due to the sale of the Company's one-third
partnership interest.

Extraordinary Losses
On July 15, 1993, Viacom International redeemed all of the $298 million
principal amount outstanding of the 11.80% Senior Subordinated Notes at a
redemption price equal to 103.37% of the principal amount plus accrued interest
to July 15, 1993. Viacom International recognized an after-tax 


                                      II-11

                       MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION

extraordinary loss of $8.9 million, net of a tax benefit of $6.1 million. Viacom
International borrowed the funds necessary for the redemption under bank credit
agreements existing at the time.


ACQUISITIONS
- ------------

On March 11, 1994, the Company acquired a majority of the shares of Paramount
Communications' common stock outstanding at a price of $107 per share in cash.
On July 7, 1994, Paramount Communications became a wholly owned subsidiary of
the Company. The total cost to acquire Paramount Communications of $9.9 billion
was financed through $3.7 billion of borrowing from banks, $3.1 billion of cash
and $3.1 billion of securities. (See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements). Such cash was obtained through the issuance of $1.8 billion of
Preferred Stock (of which $600 million and $1.2 billion were issued to
Blockbuster and NYNEX Corporation, respectively) and $1.25 billion of Viacom
Class B Common Stock was issued to Blockbuster. The securities issued to
Blockbuster were canceled upon consummation of the Blockbuster Merger.

On September 29, 1994, Blockbuster was merged with and into the Company. The
total cost to acquire Blockbuster of $7.6 billion was financed through the
issuance of equity securities to Blockbuster shareholders. (See Note 2 of Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements).


LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
- -------------------------------

The Company expects to fund its anticipated cash requirements (including the
anticipated cash requirements of its capital expenditures, joint ventures,
commitments and payments of principal, interest and dividends on its outstanding
indebtedness and preferred stock) with internally generated funds and from
various external sources, which may include the Company's existing Credit
Agreements and amendments thereto, co-financing arrangements by the Company's
various divisions, additional financings and the sale of non-strategic assets as
opportunities may arise.

The Company's scheduled maturities of long-term debt, through December 31, 2000
assuming full utilization of the credit agreements are $1.6 billion (1996),
$248.9 million (1997), $1.0 billion (1998), $1.5 billion (1999) and $1.3 billion
(2000). The Company has classified certain short-term indebtedness as long-term
debt based upon its intent and ability to refinance such indebtedness on a
long-term basis. (See Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).
The Company's Preferred Stock dividend requirement is $60 million per year.

The Company's joint ventures are expected to require estimated net cash
contributions of approximately $100 million to $150 million in 1996. Planned
capital expenditures, including information systems costs, are approximately
$800 million to $900 million in 1996. Capital expenditures are primarily related
to capital additions for new and existing video stores and theme park
attractions, and approximately $150 million for additional construction and
equipment upgrades for the Company's existing cable franchises.

The Company was in compliance with all debt covenants and had satisfied all
financial ratios and tests as of December 31, 1995 under its Credit Agreement
and the Company expects to be in compliance and satisfy all such covenant ratios
as may be applicable from time to time during 1996.


                                     II-12

                       MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION


Debt as a percentage of total capitalization of the Company was 47% at December
31, 1995 and December 31, 1994.

The Company filed a shelf registration statement with the Securities and
Exchange Commission registering debt securities, preferred stock and contingent
value rights of Viacom and guarantees of such debt securities by Viacom
International which may be issued for aggregate gross proceeds of $3.0 billion.
The registration statement was declared effective on May 10, 1995. The net
proceeds from the sale of the offered securities may be used by Viacom to repay,
redeem, repurchase or satisfy its obligations in respect of its outstanding
indebtedness or other securities; to make loans to its subsidiaries; for general
corporate purposes; or for such other purposes as may be specified in the
applicable Prospectus Supplement. During 1995, the Company issued $1.6 billion
of notes and debentures under this shelf registration statement.

See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of
the Company's future minimum lease commitments.

The commitments of the Company for program license fees, which are not reflected
in the balance sheet as of December 31, 1995 and are estimated to aggregate
approximately $2.2 billion, principally reflect commitments under SNI's
exclusive arrangements with several motion picture companies. This estimate is
based upon a number of factors. A majority of such fees are payable over several
years, as part of normal programming expenditures of SNI. These commitments are
contingent upon delivery of motion pictures which are not yet available for
premium television exhibition and, in many cases, have not yet been produced.

There are various lawsuits and claims pending against the Company. Management
believes that any ultimate liability resulting from those actions or claims will
not have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations,
financial position or cash flows.

Certain subsidiaries and affiliates of the Company from time to time receive
claims from Federal and state environmental regulatory agencies and other
entities asserting that they are or may be liable for environmental cleanup
costs and related damages, principally relating to discontinued operations
conducted by its former mining and manufacturing businesses (acquired as part of
the Mergers). The Company has recorded a liability at approximately the
mid-point of its estimated range of environmental exposure. Such liability was
not reduced by potential insurance recoveries and reflects management's estimate
of cost sharing at multiparty sites. The estimated range of the potential
liability was calculated based upon currently available facts, existing
technology and presently enacted laws and regulations. On the basis of its
experience and the information currently available to it, the Company believes
that the claims it has received will not have a material adverse effect on its
results of operations, financial position or cash flows.

Current assets decreased to $5.2 billion for 1995 from $5.3 billion for 1994
reflecting the disposition of the net assets of MSG offset by increased
receivables and inventory. The increased receivables principally reflect the
conforming of accounting policies pertaining to the television programming
libraries of Viacom Entertainment, Spelling and Paramount Communications and the
effects of 



                                     II-13

                       MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION

increased revenues. The allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of 
receivables increased to 6% for 1995 from 4% for 1994 reflecting increased 
reserves on Blockbuster receivables and the potential effects of the changes in
the retail bookstore environment. Both current and non-current inventory 
increased principally reflecting the timing of the release of motion pictures 
at Paramount Pictures, increased production activity at Spelling and increased 
video and game product purchases at Blockbuster for new and existing video 
stores. Property and equipment increased reflecting the capital expenditures 
of $730.6 million and equipment acquired under capital leases of $314.5 million 
primarily related to capital additions for new and existing video and music 
stores and additional construction and equipment upgrades for the Company's 
existing cable franchises. Current liabilities remained constant at $4.1 billion
for 1995 and 1994 primarily reflecting normal operating activity. The increase 
in total debt is described in Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial 
Statements.

Net cash flow from operating activities decreased 85% to $55.6 million in 1995
from $376.9 million for 1994. Such amounts are not comparable due to the
Mergers. The decreased operating cash flow primarily reflects payments of $1.4
billion for 1995 versus $429 million for 1994 for interest and taxes, as well as
payments for significant levels of Blockbuster video product purchases made, as
is typical, in the first quarter of 1995 partially offset by increased operating
income. Net cash flow from operating activities increased 134% to $376.9 million
in 1994 from $161.0 million for 1993 principally due to the inclusion of
Paramount Communications' and Blockbuster's results of operations since the
effective time of the respective mergers and increased operating earnings of
Viacom's pre-merger businesses, prior to merger-related charges. Net cash
expenditures from investing activities of $79.6 million for 1995, principally
reflects capital expenditures and other acquisitions partially offset by
proceeds from the sale of MSG and other dispositions. Net cash expenditures from
investing activities of $6.3 billion for 1994 principally reflect the
acquisition of the majority of the shares of Paramount Communications and
capital expenditures, partially offset by proceeds from the sale of the
Company's one-third partnership interest in Lifetime. Financing activities
reflect borrowings and repayment of debt under the credit agreements during each
period presented; proceeds from the issuance of senior notes during 1995; the
issuance of Viacom Class B Common Stock to Blockbuster during 1994; and the
redemption of the 11.80% senior notes and the issuance of the Preferred Stock
during 1993.

                                        II-14






ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
- ---------------------------------


To the Board of Directors and
Shareholders of Viacom Inc.


In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related
consolidated statements of operations, of cash flows and of shareholders' equity
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Viacom Inc.
and its subsidiaries at December 31, 1995 and 1994, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 1995, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.
These financial statements are the responsibility of the management of Viacom
Inc.; our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements
based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance
with generally accepted auditing standards which require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed
above.

Our audits of the consolidated financial statements of Viacom Inc. also included
an audit of the Financial Statement Schedule listed in Item 14(a) of this Form
10-K. In our opinion, the Financial Statement Schedule presents fairly, in all
material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction
with the related consolidated financial statements.


PRICE WATERHOUSE LLP

New York, New York
February 14, 1996





                                     II-15









MANAGEMENT'S STATEMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL REPORTING
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

Management has prepared and is responsible for the consolidated financial
statements and related notes of Viacom Inc. They have been prepared in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and necessarily include
amounts based on judgments and estimates by management. All financial
information in this annual report is consistent with the consolidated financial
statements.

The Company maintains internal accounting control systems and related policies
and procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance that assets are
safeguarded, that transactions are executed in accordance with management's
authorization and properly recorded, and that accounting records may be relied
upon for the preparation of consolidated financial statements and other
financial information. The design, monitoring, and revision of internal
accounting control systems involve, among other things, management's judgment
with respect to the relative cost and expected benefits of specific control
measures. The Company also maintains an internal auditing function which
evaluates and reports on the adequacy and effectiveness of internal accounting
controls, policies and procedures.

Viacom Inc.'s consolidated financial statements have been audited by Price
Waterhouse LLP, independent accountants, who have expressed their opinion with
respect to the presentation of these statements.

The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, which is comprised solely of
directors who are not employees of the Company, meets periodically with the
independent accountants, with our internal auditors, as well as with management,
to review accounting, auditing, internal accounting controls and financial
reporting matters. The Audit Committee is also responsible for recommending to
the Board of Directors the independent accounting firm to be retained for the
coming year, subject to stockholder approval. The independent accountants and
the internal auditors have full and free access to the Audit Committee with and
without management's presence.
                                                  VIACOM INC.


                                          By: /s/ Sumner M. Redstone
                                             --------------------------
                                             Sumner M. Redstone
                                             Chairman of the Board of Directors,
                                             Chief Executive Officer


                                          By: /s/ George S. Smith, Jr.
                                             ----------------------------
                                             George S. Smith, Jr.
                                             Senior Vice President,
                                             Chief Financial Officer


                                          By: /s/ Susan C. Gordon
                                             -----------------------
                                             Susan C. Gordon
                                             Vice President, Controller,
                                             Chief Accounting Officer




                                     II-16



VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
- -------------------------------------
(in millions, except per share amounts)







See notes to consolidated financial statements.




                                     II-17





VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
- ---------------------------
(in millions)

                                                              DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ------------
                                                           1995        1994
                                                           ----        ----
Assets

Current Assets:
  Cash and cash equivalents.........................    $   464.1    $  597.7
  Receivables, less allowances of $126.0 (1995) and      
    $75.8 (1994)....................................      1,872.4     1,638.8
  Inventory (See Note 5)............................        903.1       830.9
  Theatrical and television inventory (See Note 5)..      1,275.0       986.9
  Other current assets..............................        684.4       503.5
  Net assets of discontinued operations (See Note 4)           --       697.4
                                                        ---------    --------

Total current assets................................      5,199.0     5,255.2

Property and Equipment:
  Land..............................................        477.6       470.3
  Buildings.........................................      1,161.7       798.8
  Cable television systems..........................        539.8       465.4
  Equipment and other...............................      1,795.6     1,365.1
                                                        ---------    --------
                                                          3,974.7     3,099.6
  Less accumulated depreciation and amortization....        756.8       516.5
                                                        ---------    --------

    Net property and equipment......................      3,217.9     2,583.1
                                                        ---------    --------

Inventory (See Note 5)..............................      2,271.5     1,944.5

Intangibles, at amortized cost......................     16,153.2    16,111.7

Other assets........................................      2,184.4     2,379.2
                                                        ---------    --------

                                                        $29,026.0   $28,273.7
                                                        =========   =========





See notes to consolidated financial statements.




                                     II-18





VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
- ---------------------------
(in millions, except per share amounts)





See notes to consolidated financial statements.





                                     II-19





VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
- -------------------------------------
(in millions)


See notes to consolidated financial statements.





                                     II-20



VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
- -----------------------------------------------
(in millions)


See notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                     II-21




                              VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)


1) DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT
   ACCOUNTING POLICIES

BASIS OF PRESENTATION - Viacom Inc. (the "Company") is a diversified
entertainment and publishing company with operations in the five segments
described below. The Company's consolidated results of operations include the
results of operations of Paramount Communications Inc. ("Paramount
Communications") commencing March 1, 1994 and Blockbuster Entertainment
Corporation ("Blockbuster") commencing October 1, 1994 (See Note 2). See Note 13
regarding the relative contribution to revenues and operating income of each of
the following business segments:

Networks and Broadcasting
The Company, through MTV Networks, owns and operates advertiser-supported basic
cable television program services, and through Showtime Networks Inc. owns and
operates premium subscription cable television program services. The Company
also owns and operates 12 television stations and 12 radio stations.

Entertainment 
The Company, through Paramount Pictures and Spelling Entertainment Group, Inc.
("Spelling"): 1) produces, acquires, finances and distributes feature motion
pictures, normally, for exhibition in U.S. and foreign theaters followed by
videocassettes and discs, pay-per-view television, premium subscription
television, network television, basic cable television and syndicated television
exploitation; 2) produces, acquires and distributes series, mini-series,
specials and made-for-television movies primarily for network television,
first-run syndication and basic cable television; 3) operates movie theaters;
and 4) provides new media and interactive services.

Video and Music/Theme Parks
The Company, through Blockbuster Entertainment Group, operates and franchises
videocassette rental and retail sales stores, and operates music stores
throughout the United States and internationally. Additionally, the Company,
through Paramount Parks, owns and operates five regional theme parks and one
water park in the United States and Canada.

Publishing
The Company, through Simon & Schuster, publishes and distributes consumer
hardcover and paperback books, interactive CD-ROM products, audio books,
educational textbooks and supplemental educational materials, multimedia
curriculum and information and reference materials for businesses and
professionals.

Cable Television
The Company owns and operates cable television distribution systems serving
approximately 1.2 million subscribers primarily in Northern California, the
Pacific Northwest region of the United States, Nashville, Tennessee and Dayton,
Ohio. Revenues are primarily earned from subscriber fees for primary and premium
subscription services, sale of advertising and pay-per-view programming fees.

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and
the 


                                     II-22

                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)


reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual
results could subsequently differ from those estimates.

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION - The consolidated financial statements include the
accounts of the Company and investments of more than 50% in subsidiaries and
other entities. Investments in affiliated companies over which the Company has a
significant influence or ownership of more than 20% but less than or equal to
50% are accounted for under the equity method. All significant intercompany
transactions have been eliminated. Investments of 20% or less are accounted for
under the cost method. In 1993, the fiscal year end for certain foreign
operations was changed from October 31 to December 31.

CASH EQUIVALENTS - Cash equivalents are defined as short-term (3 months or less)
highly liquid investments.

INVENTORIES - Publishing related inventories are generally determined using the
lower of cost (first-in, first-out method) or net realizable value. Prerecorded
music and videocassette sell through inventory costs are determined using the
moving weighted average method, the use of which approximates the first-in,
first-out basis. Videocassette rental inventory is recorded at cost and
amortized over its estimated economic life. Videocassettes which are considered
base stock are amortized over 36 months on a straight-line basis. Videocassettes
which are considered new release feature films are frequently ordered in large
quantities to satisfy initial demand ("hits"). For each store, the fifth and any
succeeding copies of hit titles purchased are amortized over six months on a
straight-line basis.

Theatrical and Television Inventories - Inventories related to theatrical and
television product (which include direct production costs, production overhead,
acquisition costs, prints and certain exploitation costs) are stated at the
lower of amortized cost or net realizable value. Inventories are amortized, and
liabilities for residuals and participations are accrued, on an individual
product basis based on the proportion that current revenues bear to the
estimated remaining total lifetime revenues. Estimates for initial domestic
syndication and basic cable revenues are not included in the estimated lifetime
revenues of network series until such sales are probable. Estimates of total
lifetime revenues and expenses are periodically reviewed. The costs of feature
and television films are classified as current assets to the extent such costs
are expected to be recovered through their respective primary markets. Other
costs related to film production are classified as noncurrent. A portion of the
cost to acquire Paramount Communications and Blockbuster was allocated to
theatrical and television inventories based upon estimated revenues from certain
films less related costs of distribution and a reasonable profit allowance for
the selling effort. The cost allocated to films is being amortized over their
estimated economic lives not to exceed 20 years.

The Company estimates that approximately 68% of unamortized film costs
(including amounts allocated under purchase accounting) at December 31, 1995
will be amortized within the next three years.




                                     II-23





                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)


Program Rights - The Company acquires rights to exhibit programming on its
broadcast stations or cable networks. The costs incurred in acquiring programs
are capitalized and amortized over the license period. Program rights and the
related liabilities are recorded at the gross amount of the liabilities when the
license period has begun, the cost of the program is determinable, and the
program is accepted and available for airing.

PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT - Property and equipment is stated at cost. Depreciation
is computed principally by the straight-line method over estimated useful lives
ranging from 3 to 40 years. Depreciation expense, including capitalized lease
amortization, was $364.1 million (1995), $215.9 million (1994) and $92.8 million
(1993).

Property and equipment includes capital leases of $358.5 million and $102.4
million as of December 31, 1995 and December 31, 1994, respectively, net of
accumulated amortization of $53.5 million and $21.8 million, respectively.
Amortization expense related to capital leases was $39.1 million (1995), $13.1
million (1994) and $3.6 million (1993).

INTANGIBLE ASSETS - Intangible assets, which primarily consist of the cost of
acquired businesses in excess of the market value of tangible assets and
liabilities acquired (goodwill), are generally amortized by the straight-line
method over estimated useful lives of up to 40 years. The Company evaluates the
amortization period of intangibles on an ongoing basis in light of changes in
any business conditions, events or circumstances that may indicate the potential
impairment of intangible assets. Accumulated amortization of intangible assets
at December 31 was $1.1 billion (1995) and $663.2 million (1994).

REVENUE RECOGNITION - Subscriber fees for Networks and Cable Television are
recognized in the period the service is provided. Advertising revenues for
Networks and Broadcasting are recognized in the period during which the spots
are aired. Revenues from the video and music stores are recognized at the time
of rental or sale. The publishing segment and new media recognize revenue when
merchandise is shipped.

Theatrical and Television Revenues - On average, the length of the initial
revenue cycle for feature films approximates four to seven years. Theatrical
revenues from domestic and foreign markets are recognized as films are
exhibited; revenues from the sale of videocassettes and discs are recognized
upon delivery of the merchandise; and revenues from all television sources are
recognized upon availability of the film for telecast.

Television series initially produced for the networks and first-run syndication
are generally licensed to domestic and foreign markets concurrently. The more
successful series are later syndicated in domestic markets and in certain
foreign markets. The length of the revenue cycle for television series will vary
depending on the number of seasons a series remains in active production.
Revenues arising from television license agreements are recognized in the year
that the films or television series are available for telecast.

INTEREST - Costs associated with the refinancing or issuance of debt, as well as
with debt discount, are expensed as interest over the term of the related debt.
The Company enters into interest rate exchange agreements; the amount to be paid
or received under such agreements is accrued as interest rates change and is
recognized over the life of the agreements as an adjustment to interest expense.
Amounts paid for 




                                     II-24

                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

purchased interest rate cap agreements are amortized as interest expense over 
the term of the agreement (See Note 8).

FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION AND TRANSACTIONS - The Company's foreign
subsidiaries' assets and liabilities are translated at exchange rates in effect
at the balance sheet date, while results of operations are translated at average
exchange rates for the respective periods. The resulting translation gains or
losses are included as a separate component of shareholders' equity. Foreign
currency transaction gains and losses have been included in other items, net,
and have not been material in any of the years presented.

PROVISION FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS - The provision for doubtful accounts charged to
expense was $104.3 million (1995), $61.6 million (1994) and $16.7 million
(1993).

NET EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE - Primary net earnings per common share is
calculated based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding
during each period, the effects of common shares potentially issuable in
connection with the variable common rights ("VCRs") (prior to their settlement)
and stock options and warrants for 1995 and 1994 and contingent value rights 
("CVRs") for 1994. For 1993, the effect of contingently issuable common shares
from stock options was immaterial and, therefore, the effect is not reflected in
primary net earnings per common share. For each of the full years presented, the
effect of the assumed conversion of Preferred Stock is antidilutive and
therefore, not reflected in fully diluted net earnings per common share.

RECLASSIFICATIONS
Certain amounts reported for prior years have been reclassified to conform with
the current presentation.

RECENT PRONOUNCEMENTS
During 1995, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 121 ("SFAS 121"), "Accounting for the
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long -Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of,"
which the Company will be required to adopt in 1996. SFAS 121 establishes
accounting standards for the impairment of long-lived assets, certain
identifiable intangibles and goodwill related to those assets to be held and
used and for long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangibles to be
disposed of. The Company does not expect that SFAS 121 will have a significant
effect on the consolidated financial position or results of operations.

During 1995, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123
("SFAS 123"), "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," which establishes a
fair value based method of accounting for compensation cost related to stock
option plans and other forms of stock based compensation plans as an alternative
to the intrinsic value based method of accounting defined under Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 25. Companies that do not elect the new method of
accounting for 1996 will be required to provide pro forma disclosures as if the
fair value based method had been applied for the current period and prior
comparable period. The Company intends to adopt SFAS 123 by providing the pro
forma disclosures.




                                     II-25

                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

2) PARAMOUNT MERGER, BLOCKBUSTER MERGER AND
   RELATED TRANSACTIONS

On March 11, 1994, the Company acquired a majority of the shares of Paramount
Communications common stock outstanding at a price of $107 per share in cash. On
July 7, 1994, Paramount Communications became a wholly owned subsidiary of the
Company (the "Paramount Merger"). Each share of Paramount Communications common
stock outstanding at the time of the Paramount Merger (other than shares held in
the treasury of Paramount Communications or owned by the Company and other than
shares held by any stockholders who demanded and perfected appraisal rights) was
converted into the right to receive (i) 0.93065 of a share of Class B Common
Stock, (ii) $17.50 principal amount of 8% exchangeable subordinated debentures
("8% Merger Debentures"), (iii) 0.93065 of a CVR, (iv) 0.5 of a warrant to
purchase one share of Viacom Class B Common Stock at any time prior to the third
anniversary of the Paramount Merger at a price of $60 per share, and (v) 0.3 of
a warrant to purchase one share of Viacom Class B Common Stock at any time prior
to the fifth anniversary of the Paramount Merger at a price of $70 per share.

On July 7, 1995 the CVRs matured. The Company paid approximately $81.9 million
in cash, or approximately $1.44 per CVR, to settle its obligation under the
CVRs.

On September 29, 1994, Blockbuster was merged with and into the Company (the
"Blockbuster Merger"). Each share of Blockbuster Common Stock outstanding at the
time of the Blockbuster Merger (other than shares held in the treasury of
Blockbuster or owned by the Company) was converted into the right to receive (i)
0.08 of a share of Viacom Class A Common Stock, (ii) 0.60615 of a share of
Viacom Class B Common Stock and (iii) one VCR.

On September 29, 1995 the VCRs matured. The Company issued approximately 6.1
million shares of Viacom Inc. Class B Common Stock, or .022665 of a share of
Viacom Inc. Class B Common Stock per VCR, to settle its obligation under the
VCRs.

The Paramount Merger and the Blockbuster Merger (collectively, the "Mergers")
have been accounted for under the purchase method of accounting. Accordingly,
the total cost to acquire Paramount Communications of $9.9 billion and
Blockbuster of $7.6 billion has been allocated to the respective assets and
liabilities acquired based on their fair values at the time of the Mergers with
the aggregate excess cost over the fair value of net tangible assets acquired of
$7.9 billion and $6.8 billion, respectively, allocated to goodwill.

The unaudited condensed pro forma results of operations data presented below
assumes that the Mergers and related transactions, the sale of the one-third
partnership interest in Lifetime and the sale of MSG (as defined in Note 4)
occurred at the beginning of each period presented. The unaudited condensed pro
forma results of operations data was prepared based upon the historical
consolidated results of operations of the Company for the years ended December
31, 1994 and 1993, Paramount for the two months ended February 28, 1994 and year
ended December 31, 1993, and Blockbuster for the nine months ended September 30,
1994 and year ended December 31, 1993, adjusted to exclude the non-recurring
merger-related charges of $332.1 million (as described below). Financial
information for Paramount Communications and Blockbuster subsequent to the date
of acquisition is included in the Company's



                                     II-26

                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

historical information. Intangible assets are amortized principally over 40
years on a straight-line basis. The following unaudited pro forma information is
not necessarily indicative of the combined results of operations of the Company,
Paramount Communications and Blockbuster that would have occurred if the
completion of the transactions had occurred on the dates previously indicated
nor are they necessarily indicative of future operating results of the combined
company.

                                                       YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                       -----------------------
                                                      1994              1993
                                                      ----              ----
                                                             (UNAUDITED)
Revenues.......................................      $10,121.6       $ 9,235.5
Operating income...............................        1,040.0           758.7
Net earnings from continuing operations before
   extraordinary loss, cumulative effect of a
   change in accounting principle and preferred
   stock dividends.............................          111.6            10.9
Net earnings (loss) attributable to common stock
   before extraordinary loss and cumulative
   effect of a change in accounting principle..           51.6           (49.1)
Earnings (loss) per common share before
   extraordinary loss and cumulative effect of 
   change in accounting principle..............            .13            (.14)

Pro forma operating income for the year ended December 31, 1994 excludes $332.1
million of non-recurring merger-related charges reflecting the integration of
the Company's pre-merger businesses with similar Paramount Communications units,
and related management and strategic changes principally related to the merger
with Paramount Communications.

During each of the years presented, the Company has also acquired or sold
certain other businesses. The contributions of these businesses in the aggregate
were not significant to the Company's results of operations for the periods
presented, nor are they expected to have a material effect on the Company's
results on a continuing basis.

As part of the Mergers, the Company recognized costs of plans to exit activities
and terminate and relocate employees of Paramount Communications and
Blockbuster. The total liabilities accrued for such costs were $228.7 million,
of which $71.4 million represents costs to exit activities, $119.2 million for
severance costs and $38.1 million for relocation costs. During 1995 and 1994,
the Company paid and charged against the liabilities $79.9 million and $84.6
million, respectively. The Company expects to substantially complete the
activities related to these liabilities during 1996.


3) POTENTIAL TRANSACTION

During July 1995, the Company entered into an agreement to split-off its cable
systems to its shareholders through a dutch-auction exchange offer. The exchange
offer will allow shareholders to exchange shares of Viacom Inc. Class A or Class
B Common Stock for shares of cumulative, redeemable exchangeable preferred stock
of a subsidiary of Viacom that holds its cable systems. Prior to the
consummation of the 

  



                                     II-27


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)


exchange offer, such subsidiary will enter into a $1.7 billion credit agreement,
the proceeds of which will be transferred to another subsidiary of Viacom. The
Company also entered into a definitive agreement with Tele-Communications, Inc.
("TCI") under which a subsidiary of TCI, through a capital contribution of $350
million in cash, will purchase all of the common shares of such subsidiary
immediately following the split-off. National Amusements, Inc. ("NAI"), which
owns approximately 25% of Viacom Inc. Class A and Class B Common Stock on a
combined basis, will not participate in the exchange offer. The exchange offer
and related transactions are subject to several conditions, including regulatory
approvals, receipt of a tax ruling and consummation of the exchange offer.


4) DISPOSITION

On March 10, 1995, the Company sold Madison Square Garden Corporation, which
included the Madison Square Garden Arena, The Paramount theater, the New York
Knickerbockers, the New York Rangers and the Madison Square Garden Network
(collectively "MSG") to a joint venture of ITT Corporation and Cablevision
Systems Corporation for closing proceeds of $1.0 billion, representing the sale
price of $1.1 billion, less approximately $66 million in working capital
adjustments. MSG was acquired by the Company as part of Paramount Communications
with its book value recorded at fair value and therefore no gain was recorded on
its sale. Proceeds from the sale of MSG and other dispositions were used to
repay notes payable to banks, of which approximately $600 million represents a
permanent reduction of the Company's bank commitments.

MSG has been accounted for as a discontinued operation and, accordingly, its
operating results and net assets have been separately disclosed in the
consolidated financial statements. Summarized results of operations and
financial position data for MSG, reflected in the Company's financial
statements, are as follows:



(1) Reflects results of operations  from January 1 through March 9.
(2) Reflects results of operations from March 1 through December 31.



                                     II-28

                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)


The provision for income taxes of $5.1 million for 1995 and benefit for income
taxes of $4.9 million for 1994 represent effective tax rates of 40.0% and 19.3%,
respectively. The differences between the effective tax rate and the statutory
federal tax rate of 35% principally relate to the allocation of nondeductible
goodwill amortization and state and local taxes.

5) INVENTORIES

Inventories consist of the following:

                                                          DECEMBER 31,
                                                     -----------------------
                                                      1995             1994
                                                      ----             ----

Prerecorded music and video cassettes...........    $ 474.8        $   509.2
Videocassette rental inventory..................      520.3            297.6
Publishing:
    Finished goods..............................      303.6            218.9
    Work in process.............................       44.9             35.8
    Materials and supplies......................       30.2             27.1
Other...........................................       87.9             73.8
                                                    -------        ---------
                                                    1,461.7          1,162.4
   Less current portion.........................      903.1            830.9
                                                    -------        ---------

                                                    $ 558.6        $   331.5
                                                    =======        =========
Theatrical and television inventory:
     Theatrical and television productions:
        Released................................   $1,612.1        $ 1,488.0
        Completed, not released.................       52.5             12.8
        In process and other....................      357.0            260.8
     Program rights.............................      966.3            838.3
                                                    -------        ---------
                                                    2,987.9          2,599.9
     Less current portion.......................    1,275.0            986.9
                                                    -------        ---------
                                                   $1,712.9        $ 1,613.0
                                                   ========        =========

Total non-current inventory.....................   $2,271.5        $ 1,944.5
                                                   ========        =========



6) INVESTMENTS IN AFFILIATED COMPANIES

The Company accounts for its investments in affiliated companies over which the
Company has significant influence or ownership of more than 20% but less than or
equal to 50% under the equity method. Such investments are principally comprised
of the Company's interest in Comedy Central (50% owned) and Nickelodeon (UK)
(50% owned), investments acquired during 1994 as part of the Mergers and in
1995, several start-up international ventures including MTV Asia. Investments
acquired as part of the Mergers were USA Networks (50% owned), Discovery Zone
(approximately 49% owned) and theatrical exhibition and other distribution
ventures. The Company's interest in Lifetime is included prior to its sale in
1994 (See Note 16). Investments in affiliates are included in other assets.


                                     II-29

                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)


The following is a summary of financial information as reported by the equity
investees on a 100% basis.


                                            YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                      ----------------------------------
                                       1995          1994          1993
                                       ----          ----          ----
Results of operations:
Revenues........................    $2,212.6      $1,514.0        $ 281.1
Operating income (loss).........      (364.6)         86.3           23.3
Net earnings (loss).............      (412.0)         57.4           10.1

                                           DECEMBER 31,
                                      --------------------
                                       1995           1994
                                       ----          ----
Financial position:
Current assets..................    $  891.8      $  925.6
Noncurrent assets...............     1,367.8       1,445.9
Current liabilities.............       990.5         784.2
Noncurrent liabilities..........       825.8         726.3
Equity..........................       443.3         861.0

The Company, through the normal course of business, is involved in transactions
with affiliated companies that have not been material in any of the periods
presented.



                                     II-30

                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)


7) BANK FINANCING AND DEBT

Long-term debt consists of the following:
                                                                DECEMBER 31,
                                                             -----------------
                                                              1995       1994
                                                            ----       ----

Notes payable to banks (a).............................. $  6,206.9  $7,709.4
  6.625% Senior Notes due 1998..........................      150.0     150.0
  5.875% Senior Notes * due 2000........................      149.5     149.5
  7.5% Senior Notes * due 2002..........................      247.4     247.0
  6.75% Senior Notes due 2003, net of unamortized
   discount of $.3 (b)..................................      349.7        --
  7.75% Senior Notes due 2005, net of unamortized
   discount of $9.0 (c).................................      991.0        --
  7.625% Senior Debentures due 2016, net of unamortized
   discount of $1.4 (b).................................      198.6        --
  8.25% Senior Debentures * due 2022....................      247.1     247.0
  7.5% Senior Debentures * due 2023.....................      149.5     149.5
  9.125% Senior Subordinated Notes * due 1999...........      150.0     150.0
  8.75%  Senior Subordinated Reset Notes * due 2001 (d).      100.0     100.0
10.25% Senior Subordinated Notes * due 2001.............      200.0     200.0
  7.0% Senior Subordinated Debentures * due 2003, net of
   unamortized discount of $44.6 (1995) and $48.4 (1994)      186.8     183.1
  8.0% Merger Debentures due 2006, net of unamortized
   discount of $120.1 (1995) and $131.3 (1994)........        946.7     938.6
  Other Notes.........................................         62.1      71.8
Obligations under capital leases......................        421.9     127.5
                                                          ---------  ---------
                                                          $10,757.2  $10,423.4
Less current portion..................................         45.1       21.0
                                                          ---------- ---------
                                                          $10,712.1  $10,402.4
                                                          ========== =========
* Issues of Viacom International guaranteed by the Company.

     (a) -- On July 1, 1994, the Company entered into an aggregate $6.489
billion credit agreement (the "Viacom Credit Agreement"), and Viacom
International Inc. ("Viacom International") and certain of its subsidiaries (the
"Subsidiary Obligors") entered into a $311 million credit agreement (the "Viacom
International Credit Agreement," together with the Viacom Credit Agreement,
collectively the "Credit Agreements") each with certain banks, the proceeds of
which were used to refinance debt related to the Paramount Merger and the
previously existing bank debt of the Company, Viacom International and Paramount
Communications. On September 29, 1994, the Company entered into an aggregate
$1.8 billion credit agreement (the "$1.8 billion Credit Agreement") with certain
banks, the proceeds of which were used to refinance the previously existing bank
debt of Blockbuster.

The Company guarantees the Viacom International Credit Agreement and notes and
debentures issued by Viacom International. Viacom International guarantees
Viacom's Credit Agreement, the $1.8 billion Credit Agreement and notes and
debentures issued by the Company.



                                     II-31

                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)


The following is a summary description of the credit agreements as of December
31, 1995. The description does not purport to be complete and should be read in
conjunction with each of the credit agreements which have been previously filed
as an exhibit and are incorporated by reference herein.

The Viacom Credit Agreement is comprised of (i) a $1.5 billion senior unsecured
revolving short term loan (the "Short-Term Loan") maturing December 31, 1996,
(ii) a $1.8 billion senior unsecured reducing revolving loan (the "Revolving
Loan") maturing July 1, 2002 and (iii) a $2.189 billion term loan maturing July
1, 2002 (the "Term Loan"). The Viacom International Credit Agreement is
comprised of a $311 million term loan to Viacom International and certain of its
subsidiaries maturing July 1, 2002. The $1.8 billion Credit Agreement is
comprised of a $1.8 billion senior unsecured reducing revolving loan to the
Company maturing July 1, 2002.

The Company may prepay the loans and reduce commitments under the Viacom Credit
Agreement and the $1.8 billion Credit Agreement in whole or in part at any time.

During 1995, the Company permanently prepaid amounts and reduced commitments
under the Short-Term Loan by $1.0 billion primarily from the proceeds from the
sale of MSG and issuance of the 7.75% Senior Notes. These prepayments and
commitment reductions are reflected in the Short-Term Loan.

Effective December 1995, certain provisions of the Credit Agreement were amended
which among other things (i) eliminated required prepayments prior to December
31, 1996, except for prepayment of certain amounts received by the Company in
connection with the completion of the pending cable transaction described in
Note 3 or the potential sale of Spelling (ii) permitted completion of the cable
transaction and (iii) reduced the applicable borrowing margin payable on all
loans under the three facilities.

The interest rate on all loans made under the three facilities is based upon
Citibank, N.A.'s base rate or the London Interbank Offered Rate and is affected
by the Company's credit rating. At December 31, 1995, the London Interbank
Offered Rates ("LIBOR") (upon which the Company's borrowing rate was based) for
borrowing periods of one month and two months were 5.69% and 5.63%,
respectively. At December 31, 1994, LIBOR for borrowing periods of one and two
months were 6.0% and 6.25%, respectively.

The credit agreements contain certain covenants which, among other things,
require that the Company maintain certain financial ratios and impose on the
Company and its subsidiaries certain limitations on substantial asset sales and
mergers with any other company in which the Company is not the surviving entity.

The credit agreements contain certain customary events of default and provide
that it is an event of default if NAI fails to own at least 51% of the
outstanding voting stock of the Company.



                                     II-32

                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)


The Company is required to pay a commitment fee based on the aggregate daily
unborrowed portion of the loan commitments. As of December 31, 1995, the Company
had $1.5 billion of available unborrowed loan commitments. The credit agreements
do not require compensating balances.

   (b) -- During December 1995, the Company issued an aggregate principal amount
of $350 million of 6.75% Senior Notes due 2003 at a price to the public of
99.903% and $200 million of 7.625% Senior Debentures due 2016 at a price to the
public of 99.29%. Proceeds from the issuance were used to repay notes payable to
banks. Such notes and debentures were issued pursuant to the shelf registration
statement described below.

   (c) -- During May 1995, the Company issued an aggregate principal amount of
$1 billion of 7.75% Senior Notes due June 1, 2005 at a price to the public of
99.04%. Proceeds from the issuance were used to repay notes payable to banks, of
which approximately $400 million was a permanent reduction of the Company's bank
commitments. Such notes were issued pursuant to the shelf registration statement
described below.

   (d) -- The $100 million aggregate principal amount of 8.75% Senior
Subordinated Reset Notes ("8.75% Reset Notes") are due on May 15, 2001. On May
15, 1995 the interest rate was reset at the original interest rate of 8.75% . On
May 15, 1998, unless a notice of redemption of the 8.75% Reset Notes on such
date has been given by the Company, the interest rate on the 8.75% Reset Notes
will, if necessary, be adjusted from the rate then in effect to a rate to be
determined on the basis of market rates in effect on May 5, 1998, as the rate
the 8.75% Reset Notes should bear in order to have a market value of 101% of
principal amount immediately after the resetting of the rate. In no event will
the interest rate be lower than 8.75% or higher than the average three year
treasury rate (as defined in the indenture) multiplied by two. Interest rate
reset on May 15, 1998 will remain in effect on the 8.75% Reset Notes thereafter.
The 8.75% Reset Notes are redeemable at the option of the Company, in whole but
not in part, or on May 15, 1998, at a redemption price of 101% of principal
amount plus accrued interest to, but not including, the date of redemption.

The Company filed a shelf registration statement with the Securities and
Exchange Commission registering debt securities, preferred stock and contingent
value rights of Viacom and guarantees of such debt securities by Viacom
International which may be issued for aggregate gross proceeds of $3.0 billion.
The registration statement was declared effective on May 10, 1995. The net
proceeds from the sale of the offered securities may be used by Viacom to repay,
redeem, repurchase or satisfy its obligations in respect of its outstanding
indebtedness or other securities; to make loans to its subsidiaries; for general
corporate purposes; or for such other purposes as may be specified in the
applicable Prospectus Supplement. During 1995, the Company issued $1.6 billion
of notes and debentures under this shelf registration statement.

EXTRAORDINARY LOSSES

During 1994, the proceeds from the Viacom Credit Agreement were used to
refinance the previously existing bank debt of the Company. The Company
recognized an extraordinary loss from the extinguishment of debt of $20.4
million, net of a tax benefit of $11.9 million. The effective tax rate of 36.8%
is greater than the federal statutory tax rate of 35% due to state tax benefits.


                                     II-33

                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)


On July 15, 1993, Viacom International redeemed all of the $298 million
principal amount outstanding of the 11.80% Senior Subordinated Notes at a
redemption price equal to 103.37% of the principal amount plus accrued interest
to July 15, 1993. Viacom International recognized an extraordinary loss from the
extinguishment of debt of $8.9 million, net of a tax benefit of $6.1 million.
The effective tax rate of 40.7% is greater than the federal statutory tax rate
of 35% due to state tax benefits.

The Company borrowed the funds necessary for each of these redemptions under its
bank credit facilities existing in the respective periods.

Interest costs incurred, interest income and capitalized interest are summarized
below:

                                       YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                  ---------------------------------
                                   1995          1994          1993
                                   ----          ----          ----

  Interest Incurred.......      $ 868.5       $ 536.3       $ 154.5
  Interest Income.........      $  33.4       $  32.6       $   9.1
  Capitalized Interest....      $  13.7       $   9.6       $    .4

Scheduled maturities of long-term debt of the Company through December 31, 2000,
assuming full utilization of the commitments under the credit agreements are
$1.6 billion (1996), $248.9 million (1997), $1.0 billion (1998), $1.5 billion
(1999) and $1.3 billion (2000). The Company has classified certain short-term
indebtedness as long-term debt based upon its intent and ability to refinance
such indebtedness on a long-term basis.


8) FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The Company's carrying value of the financial instruments approximates fair
value, except for differences with respect to the notes and debentures and
certain differences related to other financial instruments which are not
significant. The carrying value of the senior debt, senior subordinated debt and
subordinated debt is $4.1 billion and the fair value, which is estimated based
on quoted market prices, is approximately $4.3 billion.

The Company enters into interest rate exchange agreements with off-balance sheet
risk in order to reduce its exposure to changes in interest rates on its
variable rate long-term debt and/or take advantage of changes in interest rates.
These interest rate exchange agreements include interest rate swaps and interest
rate caps. At December 31, 1995, the Company had $1.6 billion of interest rate
exchange agreements outstanding with commercial banks. These agreements, which
expire over the next two years, effectively change the Company's interest rate
on an equivalent amount of variable rate borrowings to a fixed rate of 6.3%.

The Company enters into foreign currency exchange contracts in order to reduce
its exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates that affect the value
of its firm commitments and certain anticipated foreign currency cash flows.
These contracts generally mature within the calendar year. The Company does not
enter into foreign currency contracts for speculative purposes. To date, the 



                                     II-34

                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)


contracts utilized have been purchased options and forward contracts. A forward
contract is an agreement between two parties to exchange a specified amount of
foreign currency, at a specified exchange rate on a specified future date. An
option contract provides the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell
currency at a fixed exchange rate on a future date. The contracts have
principally hedged the British pound, the Australian dollar, the Japanese yen,
the Candian dollar, the German deutschemark and the European Currency Unit/
British pound relationship. At December 31, 1995, the Company had outstanding
contracts with a notional value of approximately $12.0 million which expire in
1996. Realized gains and losses on contracts that hedge anticipated future cash
flows are recognized in "Other Items, Net" and were not material in each of the
periods. Option premiums are amortized over the life of the contract. Deferred
gains and losses on foreign currency exchange contracts as of December 31, 1995
were not material.

The Company continually monitors its positions with, and credit quality of, the
financial institutions which are counterparties to its financial instruments.
The Company is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the
counterparties to the agreements. However, the Company does not anticipate
nonperformance by the counterparties. The Company's receivables do not represent
significant concentrations of credit risk at December 31, 1995, due to the wide
variety of customers, markets and geographic areas to which the Company's
products and services are sold.


9) SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

On July 7, 1995 the CVRs matured. The Company paid approximately $81.9 million
in cash, or approximately $1.44 per CVR, to settle its obligation under the
CVRs.

On September 29, 1995 the VCRs matured. The Company issued approximately 6.1
million shares of Viacom Inc. Class B Common Stock, or .022665 of a share of
Viacom Inc. Class B Common Stock per VCR, to settle its obligation under the
VCRs.

During March 1994, Blockbuster purchased 22.7 million shares of Viacom Class B
Common Stock at a price of $55 per share. The common stock was canceled upon
consummation of the Blockbuster Merger.

On October 22, 1993, Blockbuster purchased 24 million shares of cumulative
convertible preferred stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Company ("Series A
Preferred Stock") for $600 million. The Preferred Stock purchased by Blockbuster
was canceled upon consummation of the Blockbuster Merger. On November 19, 1993,
NYNEX Corporation ("NYNEX") purchased 24 million shares of cumulative
convertible preferred stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Company ("Series B
Preferred Stock," collectively with the Series A Preferred Stock, "Preferred
Stock") for $1.2 billion. Series B Preferred Stock has a liquidation preference
of $50 per share, an annual dividend rate of 5%, is convertible into shares of
Viacom Class B Common Stock at a conversion price of $70 and does not have
voting rights other than those required by law. The Series B Preferred Stock is
redeemable by the Company at declining premiums after five years from issuance.


                                     II-35

                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)


NAI holds approximately 25% and the public holds approximately 75% of the
Company's outstanding Common Stock as of December 31, 1995. NAI owns 61% of the
outstanding Viacom Class A Common Stock as of December 31, 1995.

Long-Term Incentive Plans - The purpose of the Long-Term Incentive Plans (the
"Plans") is to benefit and advance the interests of the Company by rewarding
certain key employees for their contributions to the financial success of the
Company and thereby motivating them to continue to make such contributions in
the future. The Plans provide for grants of equity-based interests pursuant to
awards of phantom shares, stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted
shares or other equity-based interests ("Awards"), and for subsequent payments
of cash with respect to phantom shares or stock appreciation rights based,
subject to certain limits, on their appreciation in value over stated periods of
time.

In addition to the 18.6 million stock option awards outstanding under various
plans, as of December 31, 1995 there are phantom shares for 321,549 shares of
common stock all of which are vested, at an average grant price of $29. The
stock options generally vest over a four to six year period from the date of
grant and expire 10 years after the date of grant.

Each of the unexercised stock options to purchase Paramount Communications or
Blockbuster common stock that was outstanding at the time of the respective
mergers automatically became options to purchase the merger consideration
applicable to the stock option under the same price and terms, except that, for
employees of Paramount Communications who were employees on the date of the
Paramount Merger, additional Viacom Class B Common Stock valued in July 1995,
will be issued on exercise of such options as consideration for the cash portion
of the blended purchase price per share of Paramount Communications that was not
reflected in the Merger consideration because of the transaction structure.
These options generally became vested upon the effective date of the Merger, and
are exercisable over a three to five year period and expire 10 years after the
date of grant.









                                     II-36

                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)


The following table summarizes the stock activity under the various plans:

                                                                PER SHARE
                                              NUMBER OF           OPTION
                                               SHARES          PRICE RANGE
                                               ------          -----------

BALANCE AT DECEMBER 31, 1992............      3,557,591   $ 20.75  to $31.875
  Granted...............................        856,990     43.25  to  55.25
  Exercised.............................       (346,378)    20.75  to  31.875
  Canceled..............................        (95,146)    20.75  to  55.25
                                              ----------
BALANCE AT DECEMBER 31, 1993............      3,973,057     20.75  to  55.25
                                              ---------
  Granted...............................      3,931,562     34.75  to  52.125
  Assumed in connection with the Mergers     19,955,783      1.45  to  44.94
  Exercised.............................     (1,336,751)     6.67  to  37.07
  Canceled..............................     (1,508,535)    11.74  to  55.25
                                              -----------
BALANCE AT DECEMBER 31, 1994............     25,015,116      1.45  to  55.25
                                              ----------
  Granted...............................        295,184     39.875 to  50.50
  Exercised.............................     (5,312,711)     1.52  to  47.26
  Canceled..............................     (1,429,268)    12.34  to  55.25
                                             -----------
BALANCE AT DECEMBER 31, 1995............     18,568,321     $1.52  to $55.25
                                             ==========

STOCK OPTIONS AVAILABLE FOR FUTURE GRANT:
  December 31, 1993.....................      1,994,020
  December 31, 1994.....................      6,143,638
  December 31, 1995.....................      7,229,853

SHARES ISSUABLE UNDER EXERCISABLE STOCK OPTIONS:
  December 31, 1993.....................      1,448,570
  December 31, 1994.....................     18,110,234
  December 31, 1995.....................     13,120,626

The Company has reserved a total of 1,311,211 shares of Viacom Class A Common
Stock and 34,399,967 shares of Viacom Class B Common Stock principally for
exercise of stock options and warrants, and the conversion of the Preferred
Stock.


10) INCOME TAXES

During the first quarter of 1993, the Company adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes" ("SFAS 109") on a
prospective basis and recognized an increase to earnings of $10.4 million in
1993 as the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle. SFAS 109
mandates the liability method for computing deferred income taxes.






                                     II-37

                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)


Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes are attributable to the
following jurisdictions:

                                      YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                 --------------------------------
                                 1995           1994         1993
                                 ----           ----         ----

United States............       $416.3         $179.4       $267.8
Foreign..................        272.9          197.3         34.0
                                ------         ------       ------

Total....................       $689.2         $376.7       $301.8
                                ======         ======       ======

Components of the provision for income taxes on earnings from continuing
operations before income taxes are as follows:

                                     YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                 ---------------------------------
                                 1995           1994          1993
                                 ----           ----          ----
Current:
  Federal...............        $83.7          $139.1         $89.5
  State and local.......         46.5            78.3          10.4
  Foreign...............         64.1            65.8           5.6
                                -----          ------        ------
                                194.3           283.2         105.5
Deferred................        222.7            (3.5)         24.3
                                -----         --------       ------
                               $417.0          $279.7        $129.8
                               ======          ======        ======

Earnings (loss) accounted for under the equity method of accounting are shown
net of tax on the Company's Statement of Operations. The tax provision
(benefits) relating to earnings (loss) from equity investments in 1995, 1994 and
1993 are $(22.7) million, $9.8 million and $(.6) million, respectively, which
represents an effective tax rate of 29.6%, 35.0% and 19.4%, respectively. The
difference between the effective tax rates and the federal statutory tax rate of
35% is principally due to the effect of nondeductible goodwill amortization and
state and local taxes related to equity earnings (loss). See Notes 4 and 7 for
tax benefits relating to the Discontinued Operations and Extraordinary Losses,
respectively. In addition to the amounts reflected in the table above, $35.8
million and $13.3 million of income tax benefit in 1995 and 1994, respectively,
was recorded as a component of shareholders' equity as a result of exercised
stock options.









                                     II-38

                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)


A reconciliation of the U.S. Federal statutory tax rate to the Company's
effective tax rate on earnings from continuing operations before income taxes is
summarized as follows:

                                              YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                           ----------------------------
                                           1995        1994        1993
                                           ----        ----        ----

Statutory U.S. tax rate.............       35.0%      35.0%       35.0%
State and local taxes, net
  of federal tax benefit............        5.3        6.6         5.7
Effect of foreign operations........       (5.2)        .2          .5
Amortization of intangibles.........       22.5       25.9         7.1
Divestiture tax versus book.........         .8        1.5        (3.2)
Income tax reserve adjustment.......         --         --        (5.0)
Effect of changes in statutory rate.         --         --          .5
Other, net..........................        2.1        5.1         2.4
                                           ----       ----       -----
Effective tax rate on earnings from
continuing operations...............       60.5%      74.3%       43.0%
                                           =====      =====       =====

The annual effective tax rate of 43% for 1993 includes a reduction of certain
prior year tax reserves in the amount of $22 million based on the favorable
settlement of federal and state and local audits.

















                                     II-39

                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)


The following is a summary of the components of the deferred tax accounts in
accordance with SFAS 109:

                                                        YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                        -----------------------
                                                           1995         1994
                                                           ----         ----
Current deferred tax assets and (liabilities):
Recognition of revenue.............................     $   68.4     $   22.5
Sales return and allowances........................        100.6         96.6
Publishing costs...................................         37.8         72.2
Employee compensation and other payroll related         
  expenses.........................................         37.5         24.1
Other differences between tax and financial statement
  values...........................................          2.1        (21.6)
                                                        --------     --------
   Gross current deferred net tax assets...........        246.4        193.8
                                                        --------     --------

Noncurrent deferred tax assets and (liabilities):
Depreciation/amortization of fixed assets and         
 intangibles.......................................       (138.5)        (9.8)
Reserves including restructuring and relocation 
 charges...........................................        285.1        334.4
Program costs......................................        (17.4)       (67.9)
Acquired net operating loss and tax credit              
  carryforwards....................................        105.4        100.3
Amortization of discount on 8% Merger Debentures...         78.5         85.7
Recognition of revenue.............................         24.8         89.9
Other differences between tax and financial statement
  values...........................................        125.0         72.8
                                                        --------     --------
  Gross noncurrent deferred net tax assets.........        462.9        605.4
                                                        --------     --------
Valuation allowance................................        (81.8)       (75.7)
                                                        --------     --------
    Total net deferred tax assets (liabilities)....     $  627.5     $  723.5
                                                        ========     ========

As of December 31, 1995 and December 31, 1994, the Company had total deferred
tax assets of $865.2 million and $898.5 million, respectively, and total
deferred tax liabilities of $155.9 million and $99.3 million, respectively.

As of December 31, 1995, the Company had net operating loss carryforwards of
approximately $202.0 million and capital loss carryforwards of approximately
$4.8 million which expire in various years from 1996 through 2010. The Company
has foreign tax credit and investment tax credit carryforwards of approximately
$22.3 million which expire by the year 2000. In addition, the Company has
alternative minimum tax credit carryforwards of approximately $7.0 million that
may be carried forward indefinitely.

The 1995 and 1994 net deferred tax asset is reduced by a valuation allowance of
$81.8 million and $75.7 million, respectively, principally relating to tax
benefits of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards which are not
expected to be recognized as a result of limitations applied where there is a
change of ownership. The $6.1 million increase during 1995 in the deferred tax
valuation allowance primarily relates to an increase in the amount of acquired
tax credit carryforwards for which a full valuation allowance has been recorded.




                                     II-40

                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)


The Company's share of the undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries not
included in its consolidated Federal income tax return that could be subject to
additional income taxes if remitted, was approximately $1.1 billion and $881
million at December 31, 1995 and December 31, 1994, respectively. No provision
has been recorded for the U.S. or foreign taxes that could result from the
remittance of such undistributed earnings since the Company intends to reinvest
these earnings outside the United States indefinitely and it is not practicable
to estimate the amount of such taxes.


11) PENSION PLANS, OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS AND
    POSTEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS

The Company and certain of its subsidiaries have non-contributory pension plans
covering specific groups of employees. The Company continues to maintain the
pension plans of the former Paramount Communications. The benefits for these
plans are based primarily on an employee's years of service and pay near
retirement. Participant employees are vested in the plans after five years of
service. The Company's policy for all pension plans is to fund amounts in
accordance with the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. Plan assets
consist principally of common stocks, marketable bonds and United States
government securities.

Net periodic pension cost consists of the following components:

                                                 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                             -----------------------------
                                             1995         1994        1993
                                             ----         ----        ----

Service cost - benefits earned during
   the period..........................   $   25.2     $  22.1       $ 5.4

Interest cost on projected benefit
   obligation..........................       48.9        33.4         4.1
Return on plan assets:
  Actual...............................     (108.9)        2.9        (1.8)
  Deferred.............................       67.2       (37.7)       (1.1)
Net amortizations......................        (.4)         .6          .5
                                          ---------    -------    --------
Net pension cost.......................   $   32.0     $  21.3       $ 7.1
                                          ========     =======    ========








                                     II-41

                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)


The funded status of the pension plans for the periods indicated is as follows:


The following assumptions were used in accounting for the pension plans:

                                               1995          1994        1993
                                               ----          ----        ----
Discount rate...........................       7.25%          8.5%         7.5%
Return on plan assets...................        9.5%     9.0-10.0%         9.0%
Rate of increase in future compensation.    5.0-5.5%      5.0-6.0%         6.0%

In addition, the Company contributes to multiemployer pension plans which
provide benefits to certain employees under collective bargaining agreements.
The pension expense for these plans was $18.0 million (1995) and $10.9 million
(1994).

The Company sponsors a welfare plan which provides certain postretirement health
care and life insurance benefits to substantially all of the Paramount
Communications employees and their covered dependents who generally have worked
10 years and are eligible for early or normal retirement under the provisions of
the Paramount Communications retirement plan. The welfare plan is contributory
and contains cost-sharing features such as deductible and coinsurance which are
adjusted annually. The plan is not funded. The Company continues to fund these
benefits as claims are paid.







                                     II-42

                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)


The components of the amount recognized are as follows:

                                                              DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ------------
                                                           1995          1994
                                                           ----          ----

Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation 
attributable to:
Current retirees....................................    $  98.5       $  88.9
Fully eligible active plan participants.............       15.7          17.8
Other active plan participants......................       40.5          35.1
Unrecognized net gain...............................       13.6          21.4
                                                        -------       -------
Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation.......    $ 168.3       $ 163.2
                                                        =======       =======

The components of net periodic postretirement benefit cost 
are as follows:

                                                              DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ------------
                                                           1995          1994
                                                           ----          ----

Service costs-benefits earned........................     $ 3.8         $ 4.4
Interest cost on accumulated postretirement
   benefit obligation................................      10.8           9.5
Amortization of gain.................................      (1.4)           --
                                                         -------      -------
Net periodic postretirement benefit cost.............     $13.2         $13.9
                                                          =====         =====

                                                           1995          1994
                                                           ----          ----
The following assumptions were used in accounting for
post retirement benefits:
   Projected health care cost trend rate...............      11%           12%
   Ultimate trend rate...............................       5.5%          5.5%
   Year ultimate trend rate is achieved..............      2001          2001
   Discount rate.....................................      7.25%          8.5%
Effect of a 1% point increase in the health
   care cost trend rate:
   Postretirement benefit obligation.................     $20.6         $19.9
   Aggregate of service and interest cost............     $ 2.4         $ 2.6

In addition, the Company contributed to multiemployer plans which provide health
and welfare benefits to active as well as retired employees. The Company had
costs of $12.1 million and $10.0 million related to these benefits during the
years ended December 31, 1995 and 1994.

In 1994, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
112, "Employers' Accounting For Postemployment Benefits" ("SFAS 112"). SFAS 112
did not have a significant effect on the Company's consolidated financial
position or results of operations.







                                     II-43

                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)


12) COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

The Company has long-term noncancelable lease commitments for retail and office
space and equipment, transponders, studio facilities and vehicles.

At December 31, 1995, minimum rental payments under noncancelable leases are as
follows:

                                                         LEASES
                                                ----------------------
                                                OPERATING      CAPITAL
                                                ---------      -------

  1996...................................        $ 502.5      $  90.3
  1997...................................          452.4         89.0
  1998...................................          409.9         90.5
  1999...................................          356.0         92.3
  2000...................................          299.0         70.1
  2001 and thereafter....................        1,598.1        218.5
                                                 -------      -------
  Total minimum lease payments...........       $3,617.9        650.7
                                                 =======
  Less amounts representing interest.....                       228.8
                                                              -------
  Present value of net minimum payments..                     $ 421.9
                                                              =======

The Company has also entered into capital leases for transponders with future
minimum commitments commencing in future periods of approximately $262.5 million
payable over the next thirteen years. Such commitments are contingent upon the
successful operation of satellites. Future minimum capital lease payments have
not been reduced by future minimum sublease rentals of $122.9 million. Rent
expense amounted to $487.8 million (1995), $240.2 million (1994) and $74.2
million (1993).

The commitments of the Company for program license fees, which are not reflected
in the balance sheet as of December 31, 1995 and are estimated to aggregate
approximately $2.2 billion, principally reflect commitments under Showtime
Networks Inc.'s ("SNI's") exclusive arrangements with several motion picture
companies. This estimate is based upon a number of factors. A majority of such
fees are payable over several years, as part of normal programming expenditures
of SNI. These commitments are contingent upon delivery of motion pictures which
are not yet available for premium television exhibition and, in many cases, have
not yet been produced.

There are various lawsuits and claims pending against the Company. Management
believes that any ultimate liability resulting from those actions or claims will
not have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations,
financial position or cash flows.

Certain subsidiaries and affiliates of the Company from time to time receive
claims from federal and state environmental regulatory agencies and other
entities asserting that they are or may be liable for environmental cleanup
costs and related damages, principally relating to discontinued operations
conducted by its former mining and manufacturing businesses (acquired as part of
the Mergers). The Company has recorded a liability at approximately the
mid-point of its estimated range of environmental exposure. Such liability was
not reduced by potential insurance recoveries and reflects management's estimate
of cost sharing at multiparty sites. The estimated range of the potential





                                     II-44

                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)


liability was calculated based upon currently available facts, existing
technology and presently enacted laws and regulations. On the basis of its
experience and the information currently available to it, the Company believes
that the claims it has received will not have a material adverse effect on its
results of operations, financial position or cash flows.


















                                     II-45


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)


13) BUSINESS SEGMENTS
                                            YEAR ENDED OR AT DECEMBER 31,
                                          --------------------------------
                                          1995         1994           1993
                                          ----         ----           ----
REVENUES:
Networks and Broadcasting........     $ 2,137.4     $ 1,855.1      $1,403.0
Entertainment....................       3,650.4       2,285.2         209.1
Video and Music/Theme Parks......       3,333.4       1,070.4            --
Publishing.......................       2,171.1       1,786.4            --
Cable Television.................         444.4         406.2         416.0
Intercompany elimination.........         (48.0)        (40.1)        (23.2)
                                        --------     ---------     --------

     Total revenues..............     $11,688.7     $ 7,363.2      $2,004.9
                                      =========     =========      ========

OPERATING INCOME:
Networks and Broadcasting........     $   561.3     $   357.1      $  314.4
Entertainment....................         307.3         (88.4)         32.5
Video and Music/Theme Parks......         501.5         199.5            --
Publishing.......................         186.3         193.9            --
Cable Television.................         101.1          78.8         110.2
Corporate........................        (164.2)       (132.6)        (72.1)
                                      ----------    ----------     --------

    Total operating income.......     $ 1,493.3     $   608.3      $  385.0
                                     ==========     =========      ========

DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION:
Networks and Broadcasting........     $   117.0     $    96.2      $   68.2
Entertainment....................         138.6          94.4           9.5
Video and Music/Theme Parks......         321.5          90.4            --
Publishing.......................         153.9         103.0            --
Cable Television.................          81.8          76.4          71.5
Corporate........................           7.6           5.3           3.9
                                        -------      --------      --------

    Total depreciation and 
      amortization...............     $   820.4     $   465.7      $  153.1
                                        =======      ========      ========


IDENTIFIABLE ASSETS AT YEAR END:
Networks and Broadcasting........     $ 4,417.8     $ 4,115.2      $2,538.6
Entertainment....................       7,920.1       8,171.8         845.6
Video and Music/Theme Parks......       9,646.3       9,189.6            --
Publishing.......................       5,343.7       5,194.7            --
Cable Television.................       1,063.6       1,030.1         963.0
Corporate........................         634.5         572.3       2,069.7
                                        -------      --------       -------

    Total identifiable assets at 
      year end...................     $29,026.0     $28,273.7      $6,416.9
                                      =========     =========     ========


CAPITAL EXPENDITURES:
Networks and Broadcasting........     $    58.2     $    53.8      $   40.7
Entertainment....................          58.1          19.6           4.9
Video and Music/Theme Parks......         388.5         145.9            --
Publishing.......................          52.4          34.5            --
Cable Television.................         119.3          99.8          79.5
Corporate........................          54.1          11.3           9.9
                                      ---------      --------      --------

    Total capital expenditures...     $   730.6     $   364.9      $  135.0
                                      =========     =========      ========







                                     II-46

                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)


14) OPERATIONS BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA


Intercompany transfers between geographic areas are not significant.










                                     II-47

                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)


15) QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (unaudited):

Summarized quarterly financial data for 1995 and 1994 appears below:



The timing of the Company's results of operations is affected by the seasonality
of the educational publishing business, the typical timing of major motion
picture releases, the summer operation of the theme parks, the positive effect
of the holiday season on advertising and video store revenues, and the impact of
the broadcasting television season on television production. 

(1)  The first quarter of 1995 included $250.0 million of revenues and $68.0
     million of operating income resulting from the conforming of accounting
     principles pertaining to the television programming libraries of Viacom
     Entertainment, Spelling and Paramount. 
(2)  The fourth quarter of 1995 included an after-tax equity loss of $31.5
     million related to Discovery Zone.
(3)  The first and second quarter of 1995 includes shares of common stock
     potential issuance under CVRs. The CVRs were settled in cash on July 7,
     1995 (See Note 2.)
(4)  The first quarter of 1994 reflects Paramount Communications' results of
     operations commencing March 1, 1994 and merger-related charges of $332.1
     million. The fourth quarter of 1994 reflects Blockbuster results of
     operations commencing October 1, 1994. (See Notes 2 .)
(5)  The second quarter of 1994 reflects the pre-tax gain on the sale of the
     one-third partnership interest in Lifetime of $267.4 million. (See Note
     16.)
(6)  The second and third quarter of 1994 reflect the effects of the assumed
     conversion of the Preferred Stock.



                                     II-48


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)


16) OTHER ITEMS, NET


For 1995, "Other items, net" primarily reflects a gain of $26.9 million on the
sale of marketable securities.

On April 4, 1994, Viacom International sold its one-third partnership interest
in Lifetime for approximately $317.6 million, which resulted in a pre-tax gain
of approximately $267.4 million in the second quarter of 1994. Proceeds from the
sale were used to reduce outstanding debt of Viacom International.

As part of the settlement of the Time Warner antitrust lawsuit, the Company sold
all the stock of Viacom Cablevision of Wisconsin, Inc. to Warner Communications
Inc. ("Warner"). This transaction was effective on January 1, 1993. As
consideration for the stock, Warner paid the sum of $46 million plus repayment
of debt under the Credit Agreement in the amount of $49 million, resulting in a
pre-tax gain of approximately $55 million reflected in "Other items, net." Also
reflected in this line item is the net gain on the sale of a portion of an
investment held at cost and adjustments to previously established non-operating
litigation reserves, and other items.


17) SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION

                                                    YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                 ----------------------------
                                                 1995         1994       1993
                                                 ----         ----       ----

Cash payments for interest net of amounts  
  capitalized................................   $925.9     $ 293.6      $167.4

Cash payments for income taxes.............      485.7       135.2        32.7

SUPPLEMENTAL SCHEDULE OF NON-CASH FINANCING
AND INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
  Settlement of VCRs with Class B Common        
    Stock..................................      402.6        --          --
  Paramount Merger Consideration...........         --     3,175.0        --
  Blockbuster Merger Consideration.........         --     7,622.8        --
  Equipment acquired under capitalized leases    314.5        47.6        44.4
  Cancellation of Preferred Stock and Viacom
    Class B Common Stock issued to               
    Blockbuster............................         --     1,850.0         --


18) CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Viacom International is a wholly owned subsidiary of Viacom. Viacom's guarantees
of the Viacom International debt securities are full and unconditional (See Note
7). Viacom has determined that separate financial statements and other
disclosures concerning Viacom International are not material to investors. On
January 3, 1995, Paramount Communications was merged into Viacom International
and, therefore, Viacom International holds the assets of Paramount
Communications subject to its liabilities including approximately $1.0 billion
of issuances of long-term debt (reflected in non-guarantor affiliates for 1994).





                                     II-49

                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)


The following condensed consolidating financial statements present the results
of operations, financial position and cash flows of Viacom, Viacom International
(carrying any investments in non-guarantor affiliates under the equity method),
and non-guarantor affiliates of Viacom, and the eliminations necessary to arrive
at the information for the Company on a consolidated basis. Financial statements
of Viacom International for 1993 as previously filed on Form 10-K are 
incorporated by reference herein.















                                     II-50

                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)











                                     II-51

                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)






                                                        II-52



                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)







                                                     II-53


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)








                                                            II-54




                              VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
                 (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)





Item 9. Disagreements on Accounting and Financial Disclosure - Not applicable.








                                                           II-55


                                    PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers.

        The information contained in the Viacom Inc. Definitive Proxy Statement
under the captions "Information Concerning Directors and Nominees" and
"Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934" is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 11.  Executive Compensation.

        The information contained in the Viacom Inc. Definitive Proxy Statement
under the captions "Directors' Compensation" and "Executive Compensation" is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.

        The information contained in the Viacom Inc. Definitive Proxy Statement
under the caption "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management" is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.

        The information contained in the Viacom Inc. Definitive Proxy Statement
under the captions "Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation"
and "Related Transactions" is incorporated herein by reference.





                                     PART IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K.

        (a) and (d) Financial Statements and Schedules (see Index on Page F-1)

        (b) Reports on Form 8-K

        Current Report on Form 8-K of Viacom Inc. with a report date of December
15, 1995, relating to the execution of an underwriting agreement between Viacom
Inc. and Viacom International Inc. and Goldman, Sachs & Co., Bear, Stearns & Co.
Inc., Lehman Brothers Inc. and Smith Barney Inc., dated December 12, 1995,
pursuant to which, on December 15, 1995, Viacom Inc. issued and sold $550
million aggregate principal amount of Viacom Inc.'s 6.75% Senior Notes due 2003
and 7.625% Senior Debentures due 2016, unconditionally guaranteed as to payment
of principal and interest by Viacom International Inc.

        (c) Exhibits (see index on Page E-1)







                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(D) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, Viacom Inc. has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned, thereto duly authorized.

                                               VIACOM INC.

                                               By  /s/ SUMNER M. REDSTONE
                                                  -----------------------
                                                   Sumner M. Redstone,
                                                   Chairman of the Board of
                                                   Directors, Chief Executive
                                                   Officer

                                               By  /s/ GEORGE S. SMITH, JR.
                                                  -----------------------
                                                    George S. Smith, Jr.,
                                                    Senior Vice President,
                                                    Chief Financial Officer

                                               By  /s/ SUSAN C. GORDON
                                                  ------------------------
                                                    Susan C. Gordon,
                                                    Vice President,
                                                    Controller, Chief
                                                    Accounting Officer

Date: April 1, 1996

        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of Viacom Inc.
and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:

        Signature                  Title                  Date

            *                      Director               April 1, 1996
- -------------------------
  George S. Abrams

/s/ PHILIPPE P. DAUMAN             Director               April 1, 1996
- -------------------------
  Philippe P. Dauman

            *                      Director               April 1, 1996
- -------------------------
  Thomas E. Dooley




            *                      Director               April 1, 1996
- -------------------------
  George D. Johnson, Jr.

            *                      Director               April 1, 1996
- -------------------------
  Ken Miller

            *                      Director               April 1, 1996
- -------------------------
  Brent D. Redstone

            *                      Director               April 1, 1996
- -------------------------
  Shari Redstone

/s/ SUMNER M. REDSTONE             Director               April 1, 1996
- -------------------------
  Sumner M. Redstone

            *                      Director               April 1, 1996
- -------------------------
  Frederic V. Salerno

            *                      Director               April 1, 1996
- -------------------------
  William Schwartz

            *                      Director               April 1, 1996
- -------------------------
  Ivan Seidenberg


*By /s/ PHILIPPE P. DAUMAN                                April 1, 1996
   ------------------------
  Philippe P. Dauman
    Attorney-in-Fact
    for the Directors




                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                INDEX TO EXHIBITS
                                   ITEM 14(C)

EXHIBIT
NO.                   DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT             PAGE NO.

(2)       Plan of Acquisition
     (a)  Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of January 7, 1994, as amended
          as of June 15, 1994, between Viacom Inc. and Blockbuster Entertainment
          Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the
          Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed by Viacom Inc.) (File No.
          33-55271).
     (b)  Amended and Restated Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of February
          4, 1994 between Viacom Inc. and Paramount Communications Inc., as
          further amended as of May 26, 1994, among Viacom, Viacom Sub Inc. and
          Paramount Communications Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
          2.1, included as Annex I, to the Registration Statement on Form S-4
          filed by Viacom Inc.) (File No. 33-53977).
(3)       Articles of Incorporation and By-laws
     (a)  Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Viacom Inc. (incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 3(a) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Viacom
          Inc. for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1992, as amended by Form
          10-K/A Amendment No. 1 dated November 29, 1993 and as further amended
          by Form 10-K/A Amendment No. 2 dated December 9, 1993) (File No.
          1-9553).
     (b)  Amendment to Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Viacom Inc.
          (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the Registration
          Statement on Form S-4 filed by Viacom Inc. (File No. 33-55271).
     (c)  Certificate of Merger merging Blockbuster Entertainment Corporation
          with and into Viacom Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to
          the Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed by Viacom Inc.) (File No.
          33-55785).
     (d)  Certificate of the Designations, Powers, Preferences and Relative,
          Participating or other Rights, and the Qualifications, Limitations or
          Restrictions thereof, of Series B Cumulative Convertible Preferred
          Stock ($0.01 par value) of Viacom Inc. (incorporated by reference to
          Exhibit 4.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Viacom Inc. for
          the quarter ended September 30, 1993) (File No. 1-9553).
     (e)  By-laws of Viacom Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.3 to
          the Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed by Viacom Inc.) (File No.
          33-13812).
(4)       Instruments defining the rights of security holders, including
          indentures
     (a)  Specimen certificate representing the Viacom Inc. Voting Common Stock
          (currently Class A Common Stock) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
          4.1 to the Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed by Viacom Inc.)
          (File No. 33-13812).



EXHIBIT
NO.                   DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT             PAGE NO.

     (b)  Specimen certificate representing Viacom Inc. Class B Non-Voting
          Common Stock (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(a) to the
          Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Viacom Inc. for the quarter ended
          June 30, 1990) (File No. 1-9553).
     (c)  Specimen certificate representing Viacom Inc. Series B Cumulative
          Convertible Preferred Stock of Viacom Inc. (incorporated by reference
          to Exhibit 4(d) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Viacom Inc. for
          the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993, as amended by Form 10-K/A
          Amendment No. 1 dated May 2, 1994) (File No. 1-9553).
     (d)  Form of Warrant Agreement between Viacom Inc. and Harris Trust and
          Savings Bank, as Warrant Agent with respect to the Warrants expiring
          July 1, 1997 of Viacom Inc. (including the Form of Warrant expiring
          July 1, 1997) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.7 to the
          Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed by Viacom Inc.) (File No.
          33-53977).
     (e)  Form of Warrant Agreement between Viacom Inc. and Harris Trust and
          Savings Bank, as Warrant Agent with respect to the Warrants expiring
          July 1, 1999 of Viacom Inc. (including the Form of Warrant expiring
          July 1, 1999) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.8 to the
          Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed by Viacom Inc.) (File No.
          33-53977).
     (f)  Credit Agreement dated as of July 1, 1994 among Viacom Inc.; the Bank
          parties thereto; The Bank of New York ("BNY"), Citibank N.A.
          ("Citibank"), Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York and Bank of
          America NT&SA, as Managing Agents; BNY, as Documentation Agent;
          Citibank, as Administrative Agent; JP Morgan Securities Inc., as
          Syndication Agent; and the Agents and Co-Agents named therein
          (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Current Report on
          Form 8-K of Viacom Inc. dated July 22, 1994) (File No. 1-9553) as
          amended by Amendment No. 1 dated as of August 5, 1994, Amendment No. 2
          dated as of September 29, 1994, Amendment No. 3 dated as of May 15,
          1995 and Amendments No. 4 and 5 dated as of November 17, 1995 (filed
          herewith).
     (g)  Credit Agreement dated as of July 1, 1994 among Viacom Cablevision of
          Dayton Inc.; WNYT Inc., WMZQ Inc., WVIT Inc. and Viacom International
          Inc.; the Bank parties thereto; The Bank of New York ("BNY"), Citibank
          N.A. ("Citibank"), Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York and Bank
          of America NT&SA, as Managing Agents; BNY, as Documentation Agent;
          Citibank, as Administrative Agent; JP Morgan Securities Inc., as
          Syndication Agent; and the Agents and Co-Agents named therein
          (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Current Report on
          Form 8-K of Viacom Inc. dated July 22, 1994) (File No. 1-9553) as
          amended by Amendment No. 1 dated as of August 5, 1994, Amendment No. 2
          dated as of May 15, 1995 and Amendments No. 3 and 4 dated as of
          November 17, 1995 (filed herewith).





EXHIBIT
NO.                   DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT             PAGE NO.

     (h)  Credit Agreement dated as of September 29, 1994, among Viacom Inc.,
          the Bank parties thereto, The Bank of New York, as a Managing Agent
          and as the Documentation Agent, Citibank, N.A, as a Managing Agent and
          as the Administrative Agent, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New
          York, as a Managing Agent, JP Morgan Securities Inc., as the
          Syndication Agent, Bank of America NT&SA, as a Managing Agent, and
          the Banks named as Agents therein (incorporated by reference to
          Exhibit 99.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of Viacom Inc. dated
          September 29, 1994) (File No. 1-9553) as amended by Amendment No. 1
          dated as of May 15, 1995 and Amendments No. 2 and 3 dated as of
          November 17, 1995 (filed herewith).
     (i)  The instruments defining the rights of holders of the long-term debt
          securities of Viacom Inc. and its subsidiaries are omitted pursuant to
          section (b)(4)(iii)(A) of Item 601 of Regulation S-K. Viacom Inc.
          hereby agrees to furnish copies of these instruments to the Securities
          and Exchange Commission upon request.
(10)      Material Contracts
     (a)  Viacom Inc. 1994 Long-Term Management Incentive Plan (as amended and
          restated through April 27, 1995) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
          A-1 to Viacom Inc.'s Definitive Proxy Statement dated April 28,
          1995).*
     (b)  Viacom Inc. 1989 Long-Term Management Incentive Plan (as amended and
          restated through April 23, 1990 and as further amended and restated
          through April 27, 1995) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit A-2 to
          Viacom Inc.'s Definitive Proxy Statement dated April 28, 1995).*
     (c)  Viacom Inc. Senior Executive Short-Term Incentive Plan (as amended and
          restated through March 27, 1996) (filed herewith).*
     (d)  Viacom Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan (Divisional) (incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of
          Viacom Inc. for the quarter ended June 30, 1993) (File No. 1-9553).*
     (e)  Viacom International Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee
          Directors (as amended and restated through December 17, 1992)
          (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e) to the Annual Report on
          Form 10-K of Viacom Inc. for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1992,
          as amended by Form 10-K/A Amendment No. 1 dated November 29, 1993 and
          as further amended by Form 10-K/A Amendment No. 2 dated December 9,
          1993) (File No. 1-9553).*
     (f)  Viacom Inc. and Viacom International Inc. Retirement Income Plan for
          Non-Employee Directors (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to
          the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Viacom Inc. for the fiscal year
          ended December 31, 1989) (File No. 1-9553).*
     (g)  Viacom Inc. Stock Option Plan for Outside Directors (incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of
          Viacom Inc. for the quarter ended June 30, 1993) (File No. 1-9553).*
     (h)  Viacom Inc. 1994 Stock Option Plan for Outside Directors (incorporated
          by reference to Exhibit B to Viacom Inc.'s Definitive Proxy Statement
          dated April 28, 1995).*
     (i)  Excess Benefits Investment Plan for Certain Key Employees of Viacom
          International Inc. (effective April 1, 1984 and amended as of January
          1, 1990) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(h) to the Annual
          Report on Form 10-K of Viacom Inc. for the fiscal year ended December
          31, 1990) (File No. 1-9553).*
     (j)  Excess Pension Plan for Certain Key Employees of Viacom International
          Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) to the Annual Report
          on Form 10-K of Viacom Inc. for the fiscal year ended December 31,
          1990) (File No. 1-9553).*

*Management contract or compensatory plan required to be filed as an exhibit to
 this form pursuant to Item 14(c).






EXHIBIT
NO.                   DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT             PAGE NO.

     (k)  Employment Agreement, dated as of August 1, 1994, between Viacom Inc.
          and Frank J. Biondi, Jr. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to
          the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Viacom Inc. for the quarter ended
          September 30, 1994) (File No. 1-9533). Agreement under the Viacom Inc.
          1994 Long-Term Management Incentive Plan, dated as of August 18, 1994,
          between Viacom Inc. and Frank J. Biondi, Jr. (incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of
          Viacom Inc. for the quarter ended September 30, 1994) (File No.
          1-9553).*
     (l)  Agreement, dated as of January 1, 1996, between Viacom Inc. and
          Philippe P. Dauman (filed herewith).*
     (m)  Agreement, dated as of January 1, 1996, between Viacom Inc. and Thomas
          E. Dooley (filed herewith).*
     (n)  Agreement, dated as of July 1, 1994, between Viacom Inc. and Edward D.
          Horowitz (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(o) to the Annual
          Report on Form 10-K of Viacom Inc. for the fiscal year ended December
          31, 1994)(File No. 1-9553).*
     (o)  Agreement, dated as of August 1, 1990, between Viacom International
          Inc. and Mark M. Weinstein (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(p)
          to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Viacom Inc. for the fiscal year
          ended December 31, 1990) (File No. 1-9553), as amended by an Agreement
          dated as of February 1, 1993 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
          10(n) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Viacom Inc. for the fiscal
          year ended December 31, 1992, as amended by Form 10-K/A Amendment No.
          1 dated November 29, 1993 and as further amended by Form 10-K/A
          Amendment No. 2 dated December 9, 1993) (File No. 1-9553), and as
          further amended by an Agreement dated February 7, 1995 (incorporated
          by reference to Exhibit 10(m) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of
          Viacom Inc. for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994)(File No.
          1-9553).*
     (p)  Service Agreement, dated as of March 1, 1994, between George S. Abrams
          and Viacom Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(q) to the
          Annual Report on Form 10-K of Viacom Inc. for the fiscal year ended
          December 31, 1994)(File No. 1-9553).*
     (q)  Blockbuster Entertainment Corporation ("BEC") stock option plans*
          assumed by Viacom Inc. after the Blockbuster Merger consisting of the
          following:
          (i) BEC's 1989 Stock Option Plan (incorporated by reference to BEC's
          Proxy Statement dated March 31, 1989).
          (ii) Amendments to BEC's 1989 Stock Option Plan (incorporated by
          reference to BEC's Proxy Statement dated April 3, 1991).
          (iii) BECs 1990 Stock Option Plan (incorporated by reference to BEC's
          Proxy Statement dated March 29, 1990).
          (iv) Amendments to BEC's 1990 Stock Option Plan (incorporated by
          reference to BEC's Proxy Statement dated April 15, 1991).
          (v) BEC's 1991 Employee Director Stock Option Plan (incorporated by
          reference to BEC's Proxy Statement dated April 15, 1991).
          (vi) BEC's 1991 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan (incorporated
          by reference to BEC's Proxy Statement dated April 15, 1991).
          (vii) BEC's 1994 Stock Option Plan (incorporated by reference to
          Exhibit 10.35 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of BEC for the fiscal
          year ended December 31, 1993) (File No. 0-12700).

*Management contract or compensatory plan required to be filed as an exhibit to
 this form pursuant to Item 14(c).




EXHIBIT
NO.                   DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT             PAGE NO.

     (r)  Parents Agreement dated as of July 24, 1995 among Viacom Inc.,
          Tele-Communications, Inc. and TCI Communications, Inc. (incorporated
          by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registration Statement on Form S-4
          filed by Viacom International Inc.) (File No. 33-64467).
     (s)  Implementation Agreement dated as of July 24, 1995 between Viacom
          International Inc. and Viacom International Services Inc.
          (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registration
          Statement on Form S-4 filed by Viacom International Inc.) (File No.
          33-64467).
     (t)  Subscription Agreement dated as of July 24, 1995 among Viacom
          International Inc., Tele-Communications, Inc. and TCI Communications,
          Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registration
          Statement on Form S-4 filed by Viacom International Inc.) (File No.
          33-64467).
(11)      Statements re Computation of Net Earnings Per Share
(21)      Subsidiaries of Viacom Inc.
(23)      Consents of Experts and Counsel
     (a)  Consent of Price Waterhouse
(24)      Powers of Attorney
(27)      Financial Data Schedule











                              VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)


VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULE

ITEM 14A


The following consolidated financial statements and schedule of the registrant
and its subsidiaries are submitted herewith as part of this report:

                                                                       Reference
                                                                       (Page/s)
                                                                       ---------

1. Report of Independent Accountants...........................           II-15

2. Management's Statement of Responsibility for Financial Reporting       II-16

3. Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended
    December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993...........................           II-17

4. Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1995 and 1994     II-18-II-19

5. Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
     December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993..........................           II-20

6. Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the
     years ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993..............           II-21

7. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements..................     II-22-II-55

Financial Statement Schedule:

       II. Valuation and qualifying accounts...................            F-2




All other Schedules are omitted since the required information is not present or
is not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the schedule.











                                           F-1


                              VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)



VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS


(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)




Notes: 
- ------ 

(A)  Includes amounts charged to goodwill as part of the determination of the
     fair value of net assets acquired.
(B)  Represents balance sheet reclassifications related to certain entertainment
     receivables.
(C)  Includes amounts written off, net of recoveries.








                                                 F-2





