
10-K405
FORM 10-K405



                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                         ------------------------------
                                    FORM 10-K
                         -------------------------------

                                  ANNUAL REPORT
                     PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998        COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-9553

                            ------------------------

                                   VIACOM INC.
             (Exact Name Of Registrant As Specified In Its Charter)

                            ------------------------

                    Delaware                                04-2949533
         (State or Other Jurisdiction of                 (I.R.S. Employer
         Incorporation Or Organization)                 Identification No.)

           1515 Broadway, New York, NY                         10036
    (Address of Principal Executive Offices)                (Zip Code)

        Registrant's telephone number, including area code (212) 258-6000

                            ------------------------

           Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
 
                                                       Name of Each Exchange on
         Title of Each Class                               Which Registered
         -------------------                           ------------------------
Class A Common Stock, $0.01 par value                  American Stock Exchange
Class B Common Stock, $0.01 par value                  American Stock Exchange
Warrants Expiring on July 7, 1999                      American Stock Exchange
6.75% Senior Notes due 2003                            American Stock Exchange
7.75% Senior Notes due 2005                            American Stock Exchange
8% Exchangeable Subordinated Debentures due 2006       American Stock Exchange
7.625% Senior Debentures due 2016                      American Stock Exchange

        Securities Registered Pursuant To Section 12(g) of the Act:

                                      None
                                (Title Of Class)

      Indicate by check mark whether registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes |X| No |_|

      Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. |X|

      As of March 22, 1999, 140,250,342 shares of Viacom Inc. Class A Common
Stock, $0.01 par value ("Class A Common Stock"), and 555,815,214 shares of
Viacom Inc. Class B Common Stock, $0.01 par value ("Class B Common Stock"), were
outstanding, after giving effect to the previously announced 2-for-1 common
stock split to be effected in the form of a dividend to be issued on March 31,
1999, to shareholders of record on March 15, 1999. The aggregate market value of
the shares of Class A Common Stock (based upon the closing price of $42 1/32 per
share as reported by the American Stock Exchange on that date and adjusted to
give effect to the stock split) held by non-affiliates was approximately
$1,957,570,415.00 and the aggregate market value of the shares of the Class B
Common Stock (based upon the closing price of $42 15/16 per share as reported by
the American Stock Exchange on that date and adjusted to give effect to the
stock split) held by non-affiliates was approximately $19,382,894,168.00.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

      The Definitive Proxy of the Registrant for the 1999 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders (Part III to the extent described herein).


                                     Part I

Item 1. Business.

Background

      Viacom Inc. (together with its subsidiaries and divisions, unless the
context otherwise requires, the "Company") is a diversified entertainment
company with operations in six segments: (i) Networks, (ii) Entertainment, (iii)
Video, (iv) Parks, (v) Publishing and (vi) Online. Through the Networks segment,
the Company operates MTV: MUSIC TELEVISION(R), SHOWTIME(R), NICKELODEON(R)/NICK
AT NITE(R), VH1 MUSIC FIRST(TM) and TV LAND(R), among other program services.
Through the Entertainment segment, which includes PARAMOUNT PICTURES(R),
PARAMOUNT TELEVISION(R), PARAMOUNT STATIONS GROUP and the Company's
approximately 80%-owned subsidiary SPELLING ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC.
("SPELLING"), the Company produces and distributes theatrical motion pictures
and television programming and operates or programs 19 broadcast television
stations. Through the Video segment, the Company operates and franchises
BLOCKBUSTER VIDEO(R) stores worldwide. Through the Parks segment, PARAMOUNT
PARKS(R) owns and operates five theme parks and a themed attraction in the U.S.
and Canada. Through the Publishing segment, which includes imprints such as
SIMON & SCHUSTER(R), POCKET BOOKS(TM), SCRIBNER(R), and THE FREE PRESS(TM), the
Company publishes and distributes consumer books and related multimedia
products. Through the Online segment, the Company operates Internet businesses
currently related to MTV: MUSIC TELEVISION, NICKELODEON/NICK AT NITE and VH1
MUSIC FIRST.

As of December 31, 1998, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 131, "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
Information". Accordingly, the Company has presented the six operating segments
referred to above. These operating segments have been determined in accordance
with the Company's internal management structure, which is organized based on
products and services. Previous years' reporting had followed an industry
segment approach and therefore, all prior years' segment discussion has been
reclassified to conform with the current segment classification.

      The Company was organized in Delaware in 1986 for the purpose of acquiring
the stock of a predecessor. On March 11, 1994, the Company acquired a majority
of the outstanding shares of Paramount Communications Inc. by tender offer; on
July 7, 1994, Paramount Communications Inc. became a wholly owned subsidiary of
the Company, and on January 3, 1995, Paramount Communications Inc. was merged
into the principal subsidiary of the Company. On September 29, 1994, Blockbuster
Entertainment Corporation merged with and into the Company.

      On November 27, 1998, the Company completed the sale of its educational,
professional and reference publishing businesses to Pearson plc for
approximately $4.6 billion in cash plus approximately $92 million related to
changes in net assets, which is subject to change based upon final determination
of net assets. On October 26, 1998, the Company completed the sale of its music
retail stores to Wherehouse Entertainment, Inc. for approximately $115 million
in cash before adjustments for changes in working capital. On September 4, 1998,
SPELLING completed the sale of substantially all of the development operations
of VIRGIN INTERACTIVE ENTERTAINMENT LIMITED ("VIRGIN") to Electronic Arts Inc.
for $122.5 million in cash. In addition, on November 10, 1998, Spelling
completed the sale of all non-U.S. operations of VIRGIN to an investor group. On
July 2, 1997, the Company completed the sale of its ten radio stations to
Chancellor Media Corp. for approximately $1.1 billion in cash. On July 31, 1996,
the Company completed the split-off of a subsidiary that held its cable
television system to its shareholders pursuant to an exchange offer and related
transactions. As a result, the Company realized a gain of approximately $1.3
billion, reduced its debt and retired 30,713,920 (adjusted for stock split) of
the Company's common shares, representing approximately 4.1% of the Company's
then total outstanding common shares (see "Business -- Discontinued
Operations").

      In 1997, the Company increased its ownership of SPELLING to approximately
80%, thereby permitting tax consolidation of SPELLING with the Company. On March
19, 1999, the Company announced that it has offered 


                                      I-1


to purchase the remaining shares of SPELLING that it does not already own for
$9.00 in cash per share in a merger transaction. The offer, approved by the
Company's Board of Directors, is contingent upon approval of SPELLING's
independent Directors. 

      As of March 22, 1999, National Amusements, Inc. ("NAI"), a closely held
corporation that owns and operates approximately 1,300 movie screens in the
U.S., the U.K. and South America, owned approximately 67% of the Company's
voting Class A Common Stock ("Class A Common Stock"), and approximately 28% of
the Company's outstanding Class A Common Stock and non-voting Class B Common
Stock ("Class B Common Stock") on a combined basis. NAI is not subject to the
reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Sumner M. Redstone, the controlling shareholder of NAI, is the Chairman of the
Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company.

      The Company's principal offices are located at 1515 Broadway, New York,
New York 10036 (telephone 212/258-6000). At December 31, 1998, the Company and
its affiliated companies employed approximately 111,730 people, of which
approximately 49,180 were full-time salaried employees.

Business

Networks

      The Company owns and operates advertiser-supported basic cable television
program services and premium subscription television program services in the
U.S. and internationally. The MTV Networks division ("MTVN") includes such owned
and operated program services as MTV: MUSIC TELEVISION(R) ("MTV") in the U.S.,
Europe and Latin America, NICKELODEON(R) in the U.S., Latin America,
Scandinavia, Japan and the Commonwealth of Independent States, NICK AT NITE(R)
in the U.S., VH1 MUSIC FIRST(TM) in the U.S. ("VH1"), VH1(R) in the U.K. and
Germany, MTV's spin-off, M2: MUSIC TELEVISION(TM) in the U.S. and Europe, and TV
LAND(R) in the U.S. MTVN also participates in program services as a joint
venturer, including MTV: MUSIC TELEVISION(TM) in Asia and in Brazil,
NICKELODEON(R) in the U.K., and NICKELODEON(R) in Australia. The Company's
Showtime Networks Inc. subsidiary ("SNI") owns and operates SHOWTIME(R), THE
MOVIE CHANNEL(TM) and FLIX(R), and participates as a joint venturer in, and is
the manager of, SUNDANCE CHANNEL(R). Additionally, the Company participates as a
joint venturer in COMEDY CENTRAL(R), an advertiser-supported basic cable program
service in the U.S., GULF DTH ENTERTAINMENT LDC ("GULF DTH"), a satellite
direct-to-home platform offering programming in the Middle East, and as of
January 1999, NOGGIN(TM), a subscription-supported, non-commercial children's
educational program service, which is distributed by cable and satellite, and
includes a related online service.

      Generally, the Company's networks are offered to customers of cable
television operators, distributors of direct-to-home satellite services ("DTH")
and other multichannel distributors. DTH distributors provide service by either
low-powered C-Band satellite technology (received by large satellite dishes at
customers' premises, "TVRO") or mid- to high-powered K-Band satellite technology
(received by smaller satellite dishes at customers' premises, "DBS"). Cable
television is currently the predominant means of distribution of the Company's
program services in the U.S. Internationally, the predominant distribution
technology varies territory by territory.

      MTV Networks. MTV targets viewers from the ages of 12 to 34 with
programming that consists primarily of music videos and events, augmented by
music and general lifestyle information, comedy and dramatic series, animated
programs, news specials, interviews, documentaries and other youth-oriented
programming. M2: 


                                      I-2


MUSIC TELEVISION, a 24-hour, seven-days-a-week spin-off of MTV, targets a
segment of the 12 to 34 year old audience with a "freeform" music format which
features music videos from a broad range of musical genres and artists and is
principally distributed to consumers by DTH. On August 1, 1998, MTVN launched
"The Suite from MTV Networks" ("The Suite"), a package of digital television
program services, which currently consists of six music program services, each
featuring a music genre that is an extension of the MTV or VH1 service, NOGGIN
and two other children's program services from NICKELODEON. The Suite is offered
for distribution by digital technologies through DBS distributors and cable
operators offering digital technology.

      MTV continues to expand its business opportunities based on its
programming. MTV FILMS(TM) produced DEAD MAN ON CAMPUS, VARSITY BLUES and 200
CIGARETTES, released by PARAMOUNT PICTURES in August 1998, January 1999 and
February 1999, respectively, and expects its feature films ELECTION and THE WOOD
to be released by PARAMOUNT PICTURES in 1999. MTV has also launched lines of
home videos, consumer products and books, featuring MTV programming and
personalities. In addition, MTV pursues broadcast network and first-run
syndication television opportunities through MTV PRODUCTIONS(TM).

      MTV had approximately 67.3 million domestic subscribers at December 31,
1998 (based on subscriber counts provided by each distributor of the service,
including cable, DTH and other multichannel programming providers). According to
the December 1998 sample reports issued by the A.C. Nielsen Company (the
"Nielsen Report"), MTV reached approximately 71.2 million domestic subscriber
households. At December 31, 1998, M2: MUSIC TELEVISION had approximately 10.1
million domestic subscribers.

      MTV also owns and operates, participates in as a joint venturer, and
licenses third parties to operate, MTV program services throughout the world.
The MTV international program services are described in the International MTVN
Program Services chart that follows. Most of these international MTV program
services are regionally customized to suit the local tastes of their young adult
viewers by the inclusion of local music, programming, and on-air personalities,
and use of the local language.

      NICKELODEON combines acquired and originally produced programs in a
pro-social, non-violent format comprising two distinct program units tailored to
age-specific demographic audiences: NICKELODEON, targeted to audiences ages 2 to
15 (which includes NICK JR.(R), a program block designed for 2 to 5 year olds),
features a variety of live-action and animated programs, including children's
game shows, educational shows, puppet shows, dramatic specials, comedy,
adventure and magazine shows, and such popular shows as RUGRATS(TM) and BLUE'S
CLUES(R); and NICK AT NITE, which attracts primarily audiences ages 18 to 54 and
offers mostly situation comedies from various eras, including I LOVE LUCY, THE
DICK VAN DYKE SHOW, HAPPY DAYS, THE MARY TYLER MOORE SHOW and TAXI. TV LAND, a
24-hour, seven-days-a-week spin-off of NICK AT NITE, is comprised of a broad
range of well-known television programs from various genres, including comedies,
dramas, westerns, variety and other formats from the 1950s through the 1980s. On
March 1, 1999, the Company launched NICKELODEON GAS(TM) Games and Sports for
Kids, an advertiser-supported basic cable program service featuring children's
game shows and sports programming for viewers ages 6 to 11, which includes a
related online service.

      At December 31, 1998, NICKELODEON/NICK AT NITE had approximately 69.8
million domestic subscribers (based on subscriber counts provided by each
distributor of the service, including cable, DTH and other multichannel
programming providers). According to the Nielsen Report, NICKELODEON/NICK AT
NITE reached approximately 74.2 million domestic subscriber households.
According to the Nielsen Report for the period from September 7, 1998 to
December 27, 1998, NICKELODEON held 52% of the gross ratings points for the kids
ages 2 to 11 audience during the relevant daypart. At December 31, 1998, TV LAND
had approximately 37 million domestic subscribers (based on subscriber counts
provided by each distributor of the service, including cable, DTH and other
multichannel programming providers). According to the Nielsen Report, TV LAND
reached approximately 33.6 million domestic subscriber households.


                                      I-3


      NICKELODEON licenses its brands and characters for and in connection with
merchandise, home video and publishing worldwide. NICKELODEON MOVIES(TM)
develops a mix of story- and character-driven projects based on original ideas
and NICKELODEON programming, such as the feature films THE RUGRATS MOVIE and
GOOD BURGER, and RUGRATS VACATION which was released in direct-to-video format.
The feature film SNOW DAY will be produced by NICKELODEON MOVIES and is expected
to be released in 1999 by PARAMOUNT PICTURES. Additionally, the Company
publishes a monthly NICKELODEON MAGAZINE, which had approximately 804,000
subscribers at December 31, 1998. NICKELODEON also owns and operates theme park
attractions and touring shows under its NICKELODEON RECREATION(TM) unit and
interactive public attractions and television production studios under its
NICKELODEON STUDIOS(R) unit located at Universal Studios Florida.

      NICKELODEON also owns and operates, participates in as a joint venturer,
and licenses third parties to operate, NICKELODEON program services throughout
the world. The NICKELODEON international program services are described in the
International MTVN Program Services chart that follows. Many of these
international program services are customized by region and country to suit the
tastes and needs of their viewers by inclusion of regionally or locally produced
programming and by use of local language. On May 31, 1998, in accordance with
its plan of disposition, the Company ceased operations of its German NICKELODEON
program service business and began liquidating its assets.

      VH1 presents music and related programming directed at an audience aged 25
to 44 with emphasis on series which feature viewers' favorite music and artists
such as "BEHIND THE MUSIC(TM)", "VH1 POP UP VIDEO(TM)" and "VH1
STORYTELLERS(TM)", in addition to airing music videos, concerts, special events,
and music movies. In 1998, VH1 began entering into arrangements for the
production of two-hour, movie-length programming made for VH1, including biopics
of musical artists, fictionalized music-themed stories and music documentaries,
which is expected to commence airing in the third quarter of 1999. At December
31, 1998, VH1 had approximately 61.1 million domestic subscribers (based on
subscriber counts provided by each distributor of the service, including cable,
DTH and other multichannel programming providers). According to the Nielsen
Report, VH1 reached approximately 64.9 million domestic subscriber households.
International versions of VH1 program services are described in the
International MTVN Program Services chart that follows.

      In 1998, VH1 extended its brand with the release of audio product, most
notably "VH1 DIVAS LIVE(TM)" including music from VH1's concert of the same name
featuring Celine Dion, Gloria Estefan, Aretha Franklin, Shania Twain and Mariah
Carey. A portion of the proceeds from sales of this audio product supports VH1
SAVE THE MUSIC(R), an initiative to support and fund music education in public
schools.

      MTVN, in exchange for cash and advertising time or for promotional
consideration only, licenses from record companies music videos for exhibition
on MTV, VH1, M2: MUSIC TELEVISION and other MTVN program services. MTVN has
entered into multi-year global or regional music video licensing agreements with
certain of the major record companies. These agreements generally cover a three
to five year period and contain provisions regarding video debut and exclusivity
in the U.S. MTVN also is negotiating and expects to renew or initiate additional
global or regional license agreements with the other major record companies and
independent labels. However, there can be no assurance that such renewals or
agreements can be concluded on favorable terms. MTVN is continuing to take
measures to assure its music video program services worldwide access to music
videos (see "Business -- Competition -- Networks").

      MTVN derives revenues principally from two sources: the sale of time on
its own networks to advertisers; and the license of the networks to cable
television operators, DTH and other distributors. The sale of MTVN advertising
time is affected by viewer demographics, viewer ratings and market conditions
for advertising time. Adverse changes to any of these factors could have an
adverse effect on revenues (see "Business -- Competition -- Networks").


                                      I-4


                      International MTVN Program Services

    The following table sets forth information regarding MTVN program services
operated internationally:



- ----------
(1) All MTV and VH1 program services include English language music videos.

(2) In 1996, MTV Europe divided its one Pan-European service into three regional
services in order to provide viewers with more locally relevant programming,
including some local language programming. In July 1997, MTV Europe launched a
fourth regional feed customized for viewers in the U.K. and further customized
the South feed for viewers in Italy by adding Italian language programming. In
June 1998, MTV Europe launched a fifth regional feed for Scandinavia. At
December 31, 1998, MTV Europe had approximately 62.2 million subscribers (based
on subscriber counts provided by each distributor of the service, including
cable, DTH and other multichannel programming providers, except in Italy where
the service is broadcast via terrestrial television and the Company's estimated
audience is based on ratings and other information).

* Denotes program services that are not 24 hours-a-day/seven-days-a-week.


                                      I-5




- ----------
(3) Nickelodeon Global Network Ventures currently consists of five different
feeds with customized programming for targeted markets.


                                      I-6




      Showtime Networks Inc. SNI owns and operates three commercial-free,
premium subscription television program services: SHOWTIME, offering recently
released theatrical feature films, original motion pictures and series, family
entertainment and boxing and other special events; THE MOVIE CHANNEL, offering
recently released theatrical films and related programming and original motion
pictures; and FLIX, an added-value program service featuring theatrical motion
pictures primarily from the 1960s, 70s and 80s, as well as select recent titles.
At December 31, 1998, SHOWTIME, THE MOVIE CHANNEL and FLIX, in the aggregate,
had approximately 19.7 million cable and other subscriptions in 50 states and
certain U.S. territories. SUNDANCE CHANNEL, a joint venture (among SNI, an
affiliate of Robert Redford and an affiliate of PolyGram Filmed Entertainment
Inc.) managed by SNI, is a commercial-free premium subscription service,
dedicated to independent film, featuring top-quality American independent films,
documentaries, foreign and classic art films, shorts and animation, with an
emphasis on recently released titles.

      SNI also provides special events, such as sports and musical events, to
licensees on a pay-per-view basis. SHOWTIME EVENT TELEVISION(TM) is a
pay-per-view distributor of these special events, including boxing events, such
as the historic rematch between heavyweight champion Evander Holyfield and
former heavyweight champion Mike Tyson in June 1997, the Spice Girls' U.S.
full-length television concert debut in 1998, and the return to the ring of Mike
Tyson in 1999.

      In order to exhibit theatrical motion pictures on premium subscription
television, SNI enters into commitments to acquire rights, with an emphasis on
acquiring exclusive rights for SHOWTIME and THE MOVIE CHANNEL, from major or
independent motion picture producers and other distributors. SNI's exhibition
rights cover the U.S. and may, on a contract-by-contract basis, cover additional
territories. SNI has the exclusive U.S. premium television rights to all
PARAMOUNT PICTURES' feature films theatrically released beginning January 1,
1998, as well as non-exclusive rights to certain titles from PARAMOUNT PICTURES'
film library (see "Business -- Entertainment"). SNI also has significant
theatrical motion picture license agreements with Sony Pictures Entertainment
Inc., Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. ("MGM"), PolyGram Filmed Entertainment Inc.,
Castle Rock Entertainment, Phoenix Pictures, Artisan Pictures Inc. (formerly
LIVE Film and Mediaworks Inc.), Stratosphere Entertainment LLC, and, for
Dimension and certain Miramax-label theatrical pictures, Buena Vista Television
(a subsidiary of The Walt Disney Company), covering motion pictures initially
theatrically released through dates ranging from December 31, 1998 to December
31, 2003. Theatrical motion pictures that are licensed to SNI on an exclusive
basis are generally exhibited first on SHOWTIME and THE MOVIE CHANNEL after an
initial period for theatrical, home video and pay-per-view exhibition and before
the period has commenced for standard broadcast television and basic cable
television exhibition. Many of the motion pictures which appear on FLIX have
been previously available for standard broadcast and other exhibitions (but are
shown on FLIX unedited and commercial-free).


                                      I-7


      SNI also arranges for the development, production, acquisition and, in
many cases, distribution of original programs, series and motion pictures. As
part of its original programming strategy, SNI premiered 33 original motion
pictures on SHOWTIME and 28 original motion pictures on THE MOVIE CHANNEL in
1998, and expects to premiere approximately 50 original motion pictures in 1999.
The producers of some of SNI's original motion pictures are given an opportunity
to seek a theatrical release prior to such pictures' exhibition on SHOWTIME or
THE MOVIE CHANNEL. If the producers are not successful in obtaining such a
theatrical release, these pictures then premiere in the U.S. on SHOWTIME or THE
MOVIE CHANNEL. SNI has entered into and plans to continue to enter into
co-financing, co-production and/or co-distribution arrangements with other
parties to reduce the net cost to SNI for its original motion pictures. In 1998,
Hallmark Entertainment Distribution Company, PARAMOUNT PICTURES and MGM were the
predominant co-producers, co-financiers and co-distributors of SNI's original
motion pictures, programs and series for that calendar year. BLOCKBUSTER and SNI
have an agreement whereby BLOCKBUSTER will license from SNI the exclusive
domestic home video rights to up to 90 SNI original motion pictures and other
programs over the 1999-2001 period.

      The costs of acquiring premium television rights to programming and
producing original motion pictures are the principal expenses of SNI. At
December 31, 1998, in addition to program acquisition commitments reflected in
the Company's financial statements, SNI had commitments to acquire programming
rights and original programming commitments in an aggregate amount of
approximately $1.1 billion (excluding intersegment commitments of approximately
$692.4 million), most of which is payable over the next six years as part of
SNI's normal programming expenditures. SNI's commitments to acquire programming
rights are contingent upon delivery of motion pictures which are not yet
available for premium television exhibition and, in many cases, have not yet
been produced.

      Joint Ventures. COMEDY CENTRAL, a joint venture of the Company and Home
Box Office ("HBO"), a division of Time Warner Inc. ("Time Warner"), is an
advertiser-supported basic cable television program service which features
comedy programming, including SOUTH PARK. The Company is a joint venturer in
GULF DTH, a satellite direct-to-home platform offering programming in the Middle
East, including programming from MTV, VH1, NICKELODEON, TV LAND and THE
PARAMOUNT COMEDY CHANNEL (see "Business -- Entertainment -- Other Joint
Ventures"). On January 31, 1999, NICKELODEON and the Children's Television
Workshop launched as a joint venture, NOGGIN, a 24-hour, seven-days-a-week
subscription-supported, non-commercial children's educational program service,
which is distributed by cable and satellite, and includes a related online
service (see "Business -- Online"). NOGGIN's purpose is to educate and entertain
2 to 12 year olds. NOGGIN's programming line-up includes a mix of live action,
news, animated and puppet shows, including many acclaimed series such as SESAME
STREET, ELECTRIC COMPANY and BLUE'S CLUES after their initial network runs. As
of March 10, 1998, the Company and Conus Communications Company Limited
Partnership dissolved their jointly-owned ALL NEWS CHANNEL joint venture.

Entertainment

      The Entertainment segment's principal businesses are the production and
distribution of motion pictures and television programming as well as movie
theater operations, music publishing and the operation or programming of 19
broadcast television stations. Additionally, the Company is a joint venturer in
the UNITED PARAMOUNT NETWORK(R), also known as UPN(R), a U.S. broadcast
television network, and various international basic cable and pay television
program services.

      Theatrical Motion Pictures. Through PARAMOUNT PICTURES, the Company
produces, finances and distributes feature motion pictures. Motion pictures are
produced by PARAMOUNT PICTURES, produced by independent producers and financed
in whole or in part by PARAMOUNT PICTURES, or produced by others


                                      I-8


and distributed by PARAMOUNT PICTURES. Each picture is a separate and distinct
product with its financial success dependent upon many factors, among which cost
and public response are of fundamental importance. The normal distribution cycle
of motion pictures produced or acquired for distribution by PARAMOUNT PICTURES
is exhibition in U.S. and foreign theaters followed by videocassettes and discs,
pay-per-view television, premium subscription television, network television,
and basic cable television and syndicated television exploitation. In addition
to the unprecedented success of the 1997 motion picture TITANIC, winner of 11
Academy Awards in 1998 including "Best Picture", during 1998, PARAMOUNT PICTURES
produced or co-produced and theatrically released 13 feature motion pictures in
the U.S., including THE TRUMAN SHOW, DEEP IMPACT, STAR TREK: INSURRECTION,
NICKELODEON MOVIES' THE RUGRATS MOVIE, and MTV FILMS' DEAD MAN ON CAMPUS, and
through UIP (as defined below) released internationally SAVING PRIVATE RYAN,
winner of five Academy Awards in 1999. PARAMOUNT PICTURES currently plans to
release approximately 17 films in 1999, including PAYBACK, MISSION: IMPOSSIBLE
II, SLEEPY HOLLOW, THE RUNAWAY BRIDE, THE OUT-OF-TOWNERS, THE GENERAL'S
DAUGHTER, SOUTH PARK and DOUBLE JEOPARDY; VARSITY BLUES, 200 CIGARETTES,
ELECTION and THE WOOD produced by MTV FILMS; and SNOW DAY produced by
NICKELODEON MOVIES.

      In seeking to limit PARAMOUNT PICTURES' financial exposure, the Company
has pursued a strategy with respect to a number of films of entering into
agreements to distribute such films produced and/or financed, in whole or in
part, with other parties. The parties to these arrangements include studio and
non-studio entities, both domestic and foreign. In various of these
arrangements, the other parties control certain distribution and other ownership
rights.

      PARAMOUNT PICTURES generally distributes its motion pictures for
theatrical release outside the U.S. and Canada through United International
Pictures ("UIP"), a company owned by the Company, MGM and Universal Studios,
Inc. ("Universal"). PARAMOUNT PICTURES distributes its motion pictures on
videocassette and disc in the U.S. and Canada through PARAMOUNT HOME VIDEO(R)
and outside the U.S. and Canada, generally through Cinema International B.V.
("CIBV"), a joint venture of entities affiliated with the Company and Universal.
On March 10, 1999, PARAMOUNT HOME VIDEO and Universal Studios Home Video jointly
announced their decision to restructure the operations of CIBV during 1999.
PARAMOUNT PICTURES' feature films initially theatrically released in the U.S. on
or after January 1, 1998 will be exhibited exclusively (within U.S. premium
television) on SHOWTIME and THE MOVIE CHANNEL. PARAMOUNT PICTURES also
distributes its motion pictures for premium subscription television release
outside the U.S. and Canada and licenses its motion pictures to residential and
hotel/motel pay-per-view, airlines, schools and universities.

      During 1996, PARAMOUNT PICTURES entered into transactions with KirchGroup
in Germany and with TCM Droits AudioVisuel S.N.C. and Television par Satellite
in France for the licensing of its feature film and television programming
output and libraries for free and pay television exploitation. SPELLING entered
into a similar broad-based agreement with KirchGroup in 1996.

      During 1997, affiliates of PARAMOUNT PICTURES entered into a multi-year
license for television programming with GULF DTH and a multi-year license for
feature film output and library product for THE MOVIE CHANNEL MIDDLE EAST, a
premium subscription television service in the Middle East carried on GULF DTH
and owned by a partnership including subsidiaries of PARAMOUNT PICTURES and Sony
Pictures Entertainment Inc. Affiliates of PARAMOUNT PICTURES also entered into
multi-year transactions with Prima TV Spa in Italy and with Sogecable, S.A. in
Spain for the licensing of feature film and television product for pay
television and pay-per-view exploitation.

      During 1998, PARAMOUNT PICTURES entered into a license agreement with
Canal+ Polska in Poland and amended the terms of its license agreement with Star
Channel in Japan. Both agreements are for the licensing


                                      I-9


of PARAMOUNT PICTURES' current theatrical output and certain library television
product for pay television exploitation.

      UIP and United Cinemas International ("UCI", as described below) are the
subject of governmental inquiries by the Commission of the European Community
("EC"). UIP has resolved all issues with the EC relating to its pay television
operations in the European Union. Consistent with PARAMOUNT PICTURES' and the
other member studios' recent practices, the UIP member studios have agreed to
license their pay television rights in the future without using the facilities
of UIP, although UIP is offering its licensees the opportunity to enter into
separate agreements with each of PARAMOUNT PICTURES and the other UIP partners
on substantially identical business terms, certain of which licensees have
concluded such agreements with PARAMOUNT PICTURES. UIP Pay Television will
continue to administer certain agreements that were previously entered into
through UIP. The agreement regarding UIP's pay television operations is separate
from the EC's evaluation of UIP's request to renew the exemption granted as of
1988 under the EC's rules covering UIP's theatrical distribution operations. On
January 16, 1998, the EC issued a Statement of Objections expressing its
preliminary views that UIP's application to renew such exemption should be
denied. UIP and its partners have disputed the preliminary views expressed by
the EC in the Statement of Objections by providing evidence, both in writing and
by way of oral testimony, to the EC. 

      In addition to premium subscription television, most motion pictures are
also licensed for exhibition on broadcast and basic cable television, with fees
generally collected in installments. All of the above license fees for
television exhibition (including international and U.S. premium television and
basic cable television) are recorded as revenue in the year that licensed films
are available for such exhibition, which, among other reasons, may cause
substantial fluctuation in PARAMOUNT PICTURES' operating results. At December
31, 1998, the unrecognized revenues attributable to such licensing of completed
films from PARAMOUNT PICTURES' license agreements were approximately $1.1
billion. At December 31, 1998, PARAMOUNT PICTURES had approximately 975 motion
pictures in its library.

      Television Production and Syndication. The Company, through PARAMOUNT
TELEVISION, VIACOM PRODUCTIONS and SPELLING, produces, acquires and distributes
series, miniseries, specials and made-for-television movies primarily for
network television, first-run syndication, pay television and basic cable
television.

      The Company's current network programming includes FRASIER (NBC), BECKER
(CBS), DIAGNOSIS MURDER (CBS), JAG (CBS), SABRINA, THE TEENAGE WITCH (ABC),
CLUELESS (UPN), THE SENTINEL (UPN), SEVEN DAYS (UPN), STAR TREK: VOYAGER (UPN)
and SISTER, SISTER (WB), and through SPELLING, BEVERLY HILLS, 90210 (FOX),
MELROSE PLACE (FOX), SUNSET BEACH (NBC), MOESHA (UPN), CHARMED (WB) and SEVENTH
HEAVEN (WB). Generally, a network will license a specified number of episodes
for exhibition on the network in the U.S. during the license period. All other
distribution rights, including foreign and off-network syndication rights, are
typically retained by the Company. The episodic network license fee is normally
less than the costs of producing each series episode; however, in many cases,
the Company has been successful in recouping some of its costs by obtaining
international sales through its syndication operations. Foreign sales are
generally concurrent with U.S. network runs. Generally, a series must have a
network run of at least four years to be successfully sold in domestic
syndication.

      The Company produces and/or distributes original television programming
for first-run syndication which it sells directly to television stations in the
U.S. on a market-by-market basis. The Company sells its programs to television
stations for cash, advertising time or a combination of both. The Company's
first-run syndicated programming includes such shows as STAR TREK: DEEP SPACE
NINE, ENTERTAINMENT TONIGHT, HARD COPY, THE MONTEL WILLIAMS SHOW, LEEZA, REAL
TV, WILD THINGS and VIPER, and through SPELLING, JUDGE JUDY and JUDGE JOE
BROWN.


                                      I-10


      The Company also distributes its television programming to basic cable
program services (such as the television series MAGGIE and through SPELLING, ANY
DAY NOW on Lifetime), including services in which the Company has an interest,
such as NICK AT NITE and VH1 in the U.S. and THE PARAMOUNT COMEDY CHANNEL in the
U.K.

      The Company, through PARAMOUNT TELEVISION and through WORLDVISION(R), a
subsidiary of SPELLING, distributes or syndicates television series, feature
films, made-for-television movies, miniseries and specials for television
exhibition in domestic and/or international broadcast, cable and other
marketplaces. Feature film and television properties distributed by the Company
are produced by the Company and/or SPELLING or acquired from third parties.
Third-party agreements for the acquisition of distribution rights generally
provide for a long-term grant of distribution rights which are exclusive in
nature with respect to the territory or territories involved; such agreements
frequently guarantee a minimum recoupable advance payment to such third parties
and generally provide for periodic payment to such third parties based on the
amount of revenues derived from distribution activities after deduction of the
Company's distribution fee, recoupment of distribution expenses and recoupment
of any advance payments.

      The recognition of revenues for license fees for completed television
programming in syndication and on basic cable is similar to that of feature
films exhibited on television and, consequently, operating results are subject
to substantial fluctuation. At December 31, 1998, the unrecognized revenues
attributable to television program license agreements were approximately $591.2
million, of which approximately $103.0 million was attributable to SPELLING.

      PARAMOUNT DIGITAL ENTERTAINMENT INC. ("PDE"), a subsidiary of the Company,
produces Web sites that promote and extend PARAMOUNT PICTURES' properties
online, including STAR TREK(R) and ENTERTAINMENT TONIGHT. PDE has expanded the
online presence of STAR TREK to include the official STAR TREK online store and
an e-mail service providing STAR TREK related domain names for the e-mail
addresses of fans of the television series and motion pictures. PDE also
oversees "paramount.com", PARAMOUNT PICTURES' entry way to the Internet, and
produces Web sites for third parties.

      Broadcasting. The Company's broadcast television division, PARAMOUNT
STATIONS GROUP ("PSG"), owns and operates 17 television stations, all of which
operate pursuant to the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (the
"Communications Act"), under licenses granted by the Federal Communications
Commission ("FCC"). Such licenses are renewable every eight years. In addition,
the Company programs two additional commercial television stations pursuant to
local marketing agreements ("LMAs"). These 19 stations are located in the top 50
television markets and reach approximately 25.6% of all U.S. television
households.

      In connection with the expansion and development of the Company's interest
in UPN, PSG has acquired television stations in major U.S. markets. The majority
of these acquisitions were through like-kind exchanges of former PSG stations
which were affiliated with networks other than UPN for stations which then
became UPN affiliates. On February 1, 1999, PSG acquired WNPA-TV, serving
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, for approximately $40 million.

      The table below sets forth the 17 television stations owned and operated
by PSG and the two television stations operated by PSG under LMAs at March 22,
1999.


                                      I-11


- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

      Station and Metropolitan     Market       Type/
            Area Served*            Rank       Channel     Network Affiliation
            ------------            ----       -------     -------------------

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
WPSG-TV                                          UHF/
  Philadelphia, PA                    4           57              UPN

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
WSBK-TV                                          UHF/
  Boston, MA                          6           38              UPN

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
KTXA-TV                                          UHF/
  Dallas-Ft. Worth, TX                7           21              UPN

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
WDCA-TV                                          UHF/
  Washington, DC                      8           20              UPN

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
WKBD-TV                                          UHF/
  Detroit, MI                         9           50              UPN

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
WUPA-TV                                          UHF/
  Atlanta, GA                        10           69              UPN

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
KTXH-TV                                          UHF/
  Houston, TX                        11           20              UPN

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
KSTW-TV                                          VHF/
  Seattle-Tacoma, WA                 12           11              UPN

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
WTOG-TV                                          UHF/
  Tampa-St. Petersburg-              14           44              UPN
   Sarasota, FL

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
WBFS-TV                                          UHF/
  Miami-Ft. Lauderdale, FL           16           33              UPN

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
WNPA-TV                                          UHF/
  Pittsburgh, PA                     19           19              UPN

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
KMAX-TV                                          UHF/
  Sacramento-Stockton-               20           31              UPN
   Modesto, CA

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
WNDY-TV                                          UHF/
  Indianapolis, IN                   25           23              UPN

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                      I-12


- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

      Station and Metropolitan     Market       Type/
            Area Served*            Rank       Channel     Network Affiliation
            ------------            ----       -------     -------------------

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
WWHO-TV                                          UHF/
  Columbus, OH                       34           53      WB/primary (expires
                                                            April 13, 2000)
                                                            UPN/secondary**

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
WGNT-TV                                          UHF/
  Norfolk-Portsmouth-Newport         40           27              UPN
   News, VA

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
WUPL-TV                                          UHF/
  New Orleans, LA                    41           54              UPN

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
KAUT-TV                                          UHF/
  Oklahoma City, OK                  45           43              UPN

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following two stations are operated by PSG under LMAs:

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
WTVX-TV
  West Palm Beach-Ft. Pierce, FL   44            UHF/             UPN
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
WLWC-TV
  Providence, RI-New Bedford, MA   50            UHF/     WB/primary (expires
                                                  28        April 13, 2000)
                                                            UPN/secondary**
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Metropolitan Areas Served are A.C. Nielsen Company's Designated Market Areas.

** Under secondary affiliation agreements, UPN programming is broadcast
out-of-pattern and is scheduled around WB programming.

      Broadcast television signals are presently transmitted in analog form;
however, in 1997, the FCC assigned to each existing television station a six MHz
channel to be used for the broadcast of digital television ("DTV"). Under the
construction schedule adopted by the FCC, each of the Company's television
stations must construct a DTV facility no later than May 1, 2002 (see "Business
- -- Regulation -- Broadcasting"). Despite this timetable, the Company plans to
launch DTV services in at least one of its markets by the end of 1999. The
Company estimates that the cost of construction of each DTV station will range
from $3 million to $7 million. The Company is currently formulating plans for
use of its DTV channels.

      Other Joint Ventures. On January 15, 1997, the Company acquired a 50%
interest in UPN from BHC Communications, Inc. ("BHC"), a corporate affiliate of
Chris Craft Industries, Inc. At December 31, 1998, UPN provided 14 hours of
programming a week, including two-hour prime-time programming blocks
five-nights-


                                      I-13


a-week, to affiliates in 185 U.S. television markets, reaching approximately
96.5% of all U.S. television households. The Company also produces original
programming for UPN and owns and operates 17 stations and programs an additional
two stations pursuant to LMAs, all of which are affiliates of UPN.

      In addition to THE MOVIE CHANNEL MIDDLE EAST, through PARAMOUNT PICTURES
and various of its affiliates, the Company is a joint venturer in international
program services, including, in the U.K. with BSkyB, THE PARAMOUNT COMEDY
CHANNEL, a program service featuring comedies and films during the daypart
following the NICKELODEON program segment. On March 1, 1999, the Company
launched THE PARAMOUNT CHANNEL in Spain, a wholly owned program service.

      Theatrical Exhibition. The Company's movie theater operations consist
primarily of FAMOUS PLAYERS in Canada and UCI in Europe, Latin America and Asia.
At December 31, 1998, FAMOUS PLAYERS, a 100%-owned subsidiary of the Company,
operated approximately 650 screens in 109 theaters across Canada. UCI, a
50%-owned joint venture of entities affiliated with the Company and Universal,
operated as of December 31, 1998, approximately 680 screens in 89 theaters in
the U.K., Ireland, Germany, Austria, Spain, Japan, Portugal, Poland, Argentina,
Brazil and Panama.

      Music Publishing. The FAMOUS MUSIC(R) publishing companies own, control
and/or administer all or a portion of the copyright rights to more than 100,000
musical works (songs, scores, cues). These rights include the right to license
and exploit such works, as well as the right to collect income generated by such
licensing and exploitation.

      The majority of rights acquired by FAMOUS MUSIC are derived from (i) music
acquisition agreements entered into by PARAMOUNT PICTURES, MTVN and various
other divisions of the Company respecting certain motion pictures, television
programs and other properties produced by such units and (ii) music acquisition
agreements entered into directly by FAMOUS MUSIC with songwriters and music
publishers, including exclusive songwriting agreements, catalog purchases and
music administration agreements.

Video

      The Company operates in the home video and video game rental and retailing
business through BLOCKBUSTER INC. ("BLOCKBUSTER"). As of December 31, 1998, the
Company operated or franchised approximately 6,380 stores in the U.S., its
territories and 25 other countries, compared to approximately 6,050 stores at
December 31, 1997. Most of these stores operate under the BLOCKBUSTER VIDEO
name. During 1998, BLOCKBUSTER also began offering products in the U.S through
its Internet site.

      BLOCKBUSTER offers titles primarily for rental and also offers titles for
purchase on a "sell-through" and previously-viewed basis. During 1998,
BLOCKBUSTER implemented revenue-sharing arrangements directly with major motion
picture studios, including PARAMOUNT PICTURES, thereby increasing the
availability of newly-released videos in its domestic stores. Under the
revenue-sharing arrangements, BLOCKBUSTER currently pays a significantly lower
up-front fee for rental-priced titles in exchange for sharing a portion of its
rental revenue with the studios for a limited period of time. The
revenue-sharing arrangements also provide for additional marketing support from
the studios as well as BLOCKBUSTER agreeing to take a minimum movie output. As a
result of the lower up-front cost, BLOCKBUSTER has been able to increase the
number of titles and the number of copies of each title that it stocks in its
stores, both new releases and lesser-known releases, with a resulting increase
in rental volume and revenue. BLOCKBUSTER continues to purchase "sell-through"
titles outside of the revenue-sharing arrangements. "Sell-through" titles are
movies that are released by the studios and are available to all retailers at a
relatively low initial price for both rental and sale. The sale of
previously-viewed tapes in BLOCKBUSTER VIDEO stores and on its Internet site is
subject to its revenue-sharing arrangements.


                                      I-14


      In all of its domestic stores and many of its stores outside of the U.S.,
BLOCKBUSTER rents video games and sells previously-played video games. In
addition, in several hundred domestic stores and certain international markets,
BLOCKBUSTER rents and sells digital versatile discs ("DVDs") and rents DVD
players. DVDs, which function in a manner similar to audio compact discs, offer
a picture and sound quality superior to that of a VHS videocassette.

      In order to provide a more diverse selection of movies, BLOCKBUSTER has
recently begun acquiring the video rental rights to several independent and
lower-cost films, which will generally be available only at BLOCKBUSTER VIDEO
stores for a specified period of time. These films include both theatrical and
direct-to-video titles, as well as certain movies originally shown on premium
subscription television.

      BLOCKBUSTER purchases nearly all of its products for its domestic
Company-operated stores directly from the manufacturer and distributes them
directly to its stores from its 800,000 square foot, highly-automated
distribution facility located near Dallas, Texas. BLOCKBUSTER began distribution
operations out of this facility in the first quarter of 1998.

      Historically, BLOCKBUSTER VIDEO stores have generally ranged in size from
approximately 5,000 square feet to 15,000 square feet, averaging 6,100 square
feet. During 1998, BLOCKBUSTER began developing stores of various sizes ranging
from approximately 1,000 square feet to 4,500 square feet in the U.S., including
stores within larger (general merchandise) stores. Outside the U.S., stores are
generally smaller, but vary widely in size.

      BLOCKBUSTER's business may be affected by a variety of factors, including
but not limited to, general economic trends, competition, relationships with the
major studios, quality of new releases, changes in technology, unusual events
and weather. In addition, as with other retail outlets, there is a distinct
seasonal pattern to the home video and video games business, with peak rental
periods tending to coincide with summer and winter holidays. Internationally,
BLOCKBUSTER's success depends in great part upon its ability to address country
by country variations, including, among others, varying video formats, film
certification processes, studio arrangements, distribution sources and methods,
release dates, political and economic systems, legal standards and regulations,
and cultural preferences for certain types of technology and movie selections.

Parks

      The Company, through PARAMOUNT PARKS, owns and operates five regional
theme parks and a themed attraction in the U.S. and Canada: PARAMOUNT'S
CAROWINDS(R), in Charlotte, North Carolina; PARAMOUNT'S GREAT AMERICA(TM), in
Santa Clara, California; PARAMOUNT'S KINGS DOMINION(TM) located near Richmond,
Virginia; PARAMOUNT'S KINGS ISLAND(TM) located near Cincinnati, Ohio; PARAMOUNT
CANADA'S WONDERLAND(R) located near Toronto, Ontario and STAR TREK: THE
EXPERIENCE(TM) at the Las Vegas Hilton, a futuristic-themed, interactive
environment based on the popular television series and movies. Each of the theme
parks features attractions based on intellectual properties of the Company. A
substantial majority of the theme parks' operating income is generated from May
through September; however, the profitability of the leisure-time industry is
influenced by various factors which are not directly controllable, such as
economic conditions, amount of available leisure time, oil and transportation
prices, and weather patterns. On March 24, 1999, PARAMOUNT PARKS sold the RAGING
WATERS(TM) water park in San Jose, California.


                                      I-15


Publishing

      The Company, through SIMON & SCHUSTER, publishes and distributes consumer
hardcover books, trade paperbacks, mass-market paperbacks, children's books,
audiobooks, electronic books and CD-ROM products in the U.S. and
internationally. SIMON & SCHUSTER's flagship imprints include SIMON & SCHUSTER,
POCKET BOOKS, SCRIBNER, and THE FREE PRESS. SIMON & SCHUSTER also develops
special imprints and publishes titles based on MTV, NICKELODEON and PARAMOUNT
PICTURES products. SIMON & SCHUSTER distributes its products directly and
through third parties. SIMON & SCHUSTER also delivers content and sells products
on Internet Web sites operated by various imprints or linked to individual
titles.

      In 1998, SIMON & SCHUSTER published 64 titles which were New York Times
bestsellers, including nine New York Times number one bestsellers. Bestselling
titles released in 1998 include "Bag of Bones" (Stephen King); "You Belong to
Me" (Mary Higgins Clark); "All Through the Night" (Mary Higgins Clark); "In the
Meantime" (Iyanla Vanzant); "The Locket" (Richard Paul Evans); "Runaways" (V.C.
Andrews); "The Death of Outrage" (William Bennett); and "The Millionaire Next
Door" (Thomas Stanley and William Danko), as well as a number of BLUE'S CLUES
and RUGRATS books, featuring the popular NICKELODEON characters.

      The Company publishes audiobooks through SIMON & SCHUSTER AUDIO(TM) and
publishes CD-ROM titles through SIMON & SCHUSTER INTERACTIVE(R). SIMON &
SCHUSTER AUDIO publishes audio editions of prominent works published by SIMON &
SCHUSTER and by other publishers, as well as the PIMSLEUR(R) line of language
instruction. Major titles released as audiobooks in 1998 include "Bag of Bones"
(Stephen King) and "You Belong to Me" (Mary Higgins Clark).

      Titles published by SIMON & SCHUSTER INTERACTIVE generally consist of
CD-ROM editions or product extensions of well-known book publishing properties
or titles associated with recognized authors and Company properties, including
such 1998 titles as "Joy of Cooking", "Sabrina, the Teenage Witch", "Typing
Tutor", "Richard Scarry's Best Activity Center Ever", "Star Trek: Starship
Creator" and "Douglas Adams Starship Titanic".

      SIMON & SCHUSTER ONLINE(TM), through "SimonSays.com", publishes original
content, builds reader communities, and promotes and sells SIMON & SCHUSTER's
books and products over the Internet.

      International publishing includes the international distribution of
English-language titles through SIMON & SCHUSTER UK and SIMON & SCHUSTER
AUSTRALIA and other distributors, as well as the publication of local titles by
SIMON & SCHUSTER UK and SIMON & SCHUSTER AUSTRALIA.

      The consumer publishing marketplace is subject to increased periods of
demand in the summer months and during the end-of-year holiday season. Major new
title releases drive a significant portion of SIMON & SCHUSTER's sales
throughout the year.

      Consumer books are generally sold on a fully returnable basis, resulting
in significant product returns. In the international markets, the Company is
subject to global trends and local economic conditions.

Online

      The Company operates Internet sites which are targeted to the current
audiences of its various MTV, VH1 and NICKELODEON program services, including
NOGGIN, as well as to new audiences such as those unable to receive cable or
DTH. In addition to providing entertainment and information on such Web sites,
the Company also sells Company-licensed and third party merchandise.


                                      I-16


      In February 1999, the Company acquired IMAGINE RADIO(TM), an Internet
radio company transmitting original radio stations offering listeners various
customization features from a wide range of formats. In September 1998, the
Company acquired NVOLVE, INC., a Web site developer. The Company also owns RED
ROCKET(TM), an online education toy retailer.

      "MTV.com" and "Nickelodeon.com" each attracted over one million unique
visitors in December 1998, according to Media Metrix. In February 1999, the
Company announced the creation of two new online destinations -- "Project
Nozzle" from NICKELODEON, a kids-only online service scheduled to launch in
September 1999, and the "Buggles Project" from MTV and VH1, an online
destination featuring customizable entertainment, information, community tools,
and e-commerce, which is scheduled to launch in June 1999.

      Online revenues are primarily generated by advertising revenues derived
from on-air promotion and online advertising and by the sale of merchandise.

      The Company also operates Internet sites through other business units,
such as PARAMOUNT PICTURES, BLOCKBUSTER and SIMON & SCHUSTER. Such activity is
not reported as a part of the Online segment.

Discontinued Operations

      Non-Consumer Publishing. On November 27, 1998, the Company completed the
sale of its educational, professional and reference publishing businesses to
Pearson plc for approximately $4.6 billion in cash plus approximately $92
million related to changes in net assets, which is subject to change based upon
final determination of net assets. Pursuant to the agreement of sale, final
settlement related to changes in net assets from January 1, 1998 until the
closing date is expected to be made in 1999.

      Music Retailing. On October 26, 1998, the Company completed the sale of
its music retail stores to Wherehouse Entertainment, Inc. for approximately $115
million in cash before adjustments for changes in working capital. The Company
had previously closed the remaining music stores that were not part of the
transaction.

      Interactive Games. Pursuant to the Company's previously announced plan to
dispose of its interactive game businesses, including VIACOM NEW MEDIA, the
operations of which were terminated in 1997, on September 4, 1998, SPELLING
completed the sale of substantially all of the development operations of VIRGIN
to Electronic Arts Inc. for $122.5 million in cash. In addition, on November 10,
1998, SPELLING completed the sale of all non-U.S. operations of VIRGIN to an
investor group.

      Radio. On July 2, 1997, the Company completed the sale of its ten radio
stations to Chancellor Media Corp. for approximately $1.1 billion in cash.

      Cable Television. On July 31, 1996, the Company completed the split-off of
a subsidiary that held its cable television system to its shareholders pursuant
to an exchange offer and related transactions. As a result, the Company realized
a gain of approximately $1.3 billion, reduced its debt and retired 15,356,960
(pre-split) of the Company's common shares, representing approximately 4.1% of
the Company's then total outstanding common shares.

Intellectual Property

      It is the Company's practice to protect its theatrical and television
product, software, publications and its other original and acquired works. The
following logos and trademarks and related trademark families are among


                                      I-17


those strongly identified with the product lines they represent and are
significant assets of the Company: VIACOM(R), BLOCKBUSTER(R), MTV: MUSIC
TELEVISION(R), NICK AT NITE(R), NICKELODEON(R), PARAMOUNT(R), POCKET BOOKS(TM),
SHOWTIME(R), SIMON & SCHUSTER(R), STAR TREK(R), THE MOVIE CHANNEL(TM), TV
LAND(R) and VH1 MUSIC FIRST(TM).

Competition

      Corporate mergers consummated in recent years have resulted in greater
consolidation in the entertainment industries, which may also present
significant competitive challenges to several of the Company's businesses.

Networks

      MTV Networks. MTVN services compete with other basic cable program
services for channel space and compensation for carriage from cable television
operators, DTH and other multichannel distributors. MTVN also competes for
advertising revenue with other basic cable and broadcast television networks,
and radio and print media. For basic cable television networks such as the MTVN
services, advertising revenues derived by each program service depend on the
number of households subscribing to the service through local cable operators
and other distributors in addition to household and demographic viewership as
determined by research companies such as A.C. Nielsen.

      Certain major record companies have launched music-based program services
outside the U.S., including, but not limited to: Channel V, which is jointly
owned and operated in Asia and Australia by Star TV and four major record
labels; and Viva and Viva 2, German-language music channels distributed in
Germany and owned in large part by four major record labels. In addition,
MuchMusic, a music service which originated in Canada, is distributing a
MuchMusic service customized for the Latin American market in Argentina.
MuchMusic USA is being distributed in the U.S. through Rainbow Media Holdings,
Inc.

      Children oriented programming blocks are currently exhibited on a number
of U.S. broadcast television networks, including, among others, "Fox Kids",
"Kids' WB" and a Saturday morning block on ABC, all of which also compete with
NICKELODEON for advertising revenue. There are also a number of other U.S. cable
television program services featuring children oriented programming, including
the Cartoon Network, the Disney Channel, and Fox Family which launched on August
15, 1998. In addition, NICKELODEON competes internationally with other
television program services and blocks targeted at children for distribution by
cable, satellite and other systems, and for distribution license fees and
advertising revenue.

      Showtime Networks Inc. Competition among premium subscription television
program services in the U.S. is primarily dependent on: (i) the acquisition and
packaging of an adequate number of recently released quality motion pictures and
the production, acquisition and packaging of original programs and motion
pictures; and (ii) the offering of prices, marketing and advertising support and
other incentives to cable operators and other distributors for carriage so as to
favorably position and package SNI's premium subscription television program
services to subscribers. HBO is the dominant company in the U.S. premium
subscription television category, offering two premium subscription television
program services, the HBO service and Cinemax. SNI is second to HBO with a
significantly smaller share of the premium subscription television category.
Encore Media Group (an affiliate of AT&T Corp. ("AT&T")) owns the third
principal premium subscription television program service in the U.S., Starz!,
which features recently released motion pictures and competes with SNI's and
HBO's premium program services. Starz!, which had initially received
distribution primarily on cable systems owned and/or managed by the predecessor
to AT&T, is now also carried on cable systems owned or managed by others, in
TVRO and on all DBS platforms.


                                      I-18


Entertainment

      Motion Picture and Television Production and Distribution. The Company
competes with other major studios and independent film producers in the
production and distribution of motion pictures, videocassettes and discs.
Similarly, as a producer and distributor of television programs, the Company
competes with other studios and independent producers in the licensing of
television programs to both networks and independent television stations.
PARAMOUNT PICTURES' competitive position primarily depends on the quality of the
product produced, its distribution and marketing success, and public response.
The Company also competes to obtain creative talents and story properties which
are essential to the success of all of the Company's entertainment businesses.

      Broadcasting. The principal methods of competition in broadcast television
are the acquisition of popular programming and the development of audience
interest through programming and promotions in order to sell advertising at
profitable rates. Television stations compete for programming and for
advertising revenues with other stations in their respective coverage areas and,
in some cases, with larger station groups for programming, and in the case of
advertising revenues, with other local media. Broadcast networks like UPN
compete for audience and advertising revenues with other broadcast networks,
basic cable program services and, with respect to advertising revenues only,
other national media. The Company's expansion strategy has been to seek to
acquire UPN affiliates or independent stations which will become primary
affiliates of UPN. At this time, UPN has limited programming. Therefore, with
respect to the UPN-affiliated stations, and, to the extent that the Company
acquires independent stations, there will be a need for those stations to
acquire additional programming to a greater extent than would otherwise be
required if the stations were affiliated with other, more established networks.

      Another factor that could affect the Company's broadcast business is the
deregulation of television ownership restrictions. The Telecommunications Act of
1996, which amended the Communications Act, liberalized television station
ownership limits by eliminating the former numerical cap of 12 television
stations and by increasing the nationwide audience reach limitation from 25% to
35%. This change in the restrictions on national television ownership has
enabled the Company, as well as other broadcast groups, to significantly
increase their television holdings, but may have the effect of increasing the
negotiating power of other, larger groups. As for restrictions on local
television ownership, the FCC is currently considering relaxation of its
ownership rules (see "Business -- Regulation -- Broadcasting").

Video

      The home video and video games rental and retailing business is highly
competitive. In the home video and video games rental marketplace, BLOCKBUSTER's
primary competitors are other local, regional and national video specialty
stores, as well as supermarkets, pharmacies and convenience stores. Although
most of these competitors also participate in the video sales marketplace,
BLOCKBUSTER's most significant competitors in the sales marketplace are mass
merchant retailers. The Company believes that the principal competitive factors
in competing with other traditional retailers are (i) convenience and visibility
of store locations, (ii) quantity, quality and variety of titles, (iii) pricing
and (iv) customer service. The Company believes that BLOCKBUSTER currently
competes favorably in each of these areas; however, if any of BLOCKBUSTER's
competitors were to 


                                      I-19


grow and/or increase their presence in BLOCKBUSTER's markets, the continued
success of BLOCKBUSTER's business would be further challenged by its ability to
address these competitive factors.

      BLOCKBUSTER also competes in the home video and video games sales
marketplace with other online retailers. Many of these competitors have greater
experience in this area and/or have devoted significantly greater financial and
marketing resources to their online businesses.

      BLOCKBUSTER also competes with other providers of home viewing
entertainment, including DTH, cable, network and syndicated television. The
Company believes that its most significant competitive risk in this area comes
from DTH and digital cable television, which offer "pay-per-view" television
whereby the subscriber can pay a per-program fee to see particular movies as
well as sporting and other special events. Historically, the home video rental
industry as a whole generally has had the following advantages over DTH and
cable: (i) a greater selection of movies; (ii) interactive capabilities such as
start, stop, pause, forward and rewind; and (iii) exclusive film distribution
rights for a limited period of time following a film's release in movie theaters
and prior to any other form of distribution ("Video Distribution Windows").
Technological advances have, however, enabled DTH and cable providers to (i)
substantially increase the number and variety of movies they can offer their
subscribers and (ii) provide more frequent and convenient start times for the
most popular titles. In addition, certain DTH and cable companies have begun
testing technology designed to provide interactive capabilities such as start,
stop and rewind. Although such technology cannot currently be provided on a
cost-effective basis, further technological advances in this area, as well as
further increases in movie availability and frequency on DTH and cable, could
have a negative impact on BLOCKBUSTER's business. The Company believes that,
particularly in light of the studios' revenue-sharing arrangements with
BLOCKBUSTER and other video stores, studios have economic incentives to continue
their present practices with respect to Video Distribution Windows; however, any
change in these practices could have a material adverse effect on BLOCKBUSTER's
business.

      The emergence of new and improved technological formats, such as DVDs, may
have an impact on BLOCKBUSTER's business. Due to such factors as (i) the number
of households that already own a videocassette recorder ("VCR"), (ii) the
greater (and sometimes earlier) availability of movies currently on
videocassette, (iii) the higher cost of a DVD player compared to a VCR, and (iv)
the lack of recording capability, the Company is unable to determine whether
DVDs will gain significant consumer acceptance. The success of DVD as a rentable
product could be negatively affected if (i) the studios decide to set low
"sell-through" prices with respect to new releases on DVD and (ii) DVD proves
insufficiently durable to be rented efficiently. In addition, the development of
Digital Video Express (DIVX), an enhanced form of DVD, provides consumers with
yet another alternative to the VCR in competition to DVDs. The Company is
monitoring the acceptance by the consumer of these new technologies and is
considering how to exploit these new media, both in the rental and sale of home
video titles.

Parks

      The Company's theme parks compete directly with other theme parks in their
respective geographic regions as well as generally with other forms of leisure
entertainment. The Company believes that its intellectual properties enhance
existing attractions and facilitate the development of new attractions which
encourages visitors to the PARAMOUNT PARKS theme parks and STAR TREK: THE
EXPERIENCE at the Las Vegas Hilton.

Publishing

      The publishing business is highly competitive and consumer publishing in
particular has been affected by well-publicized consolidation trends. Recent
years have brought a number of significant mergers among the 


                                      I-20


leading consumer publishers. The book superstore has emerged as a significant
factor in the industry contributing to the general trend toward consolidation in
the retail channel. There have also been a number of mergers completed or
announced in the distribution channel.

      The Company must compete with other publishers for the rights to works by
well-known authors and public personalities.

Online

      The online industry is highly competitive as it is rapidly evolving
throughout the world and improving technology may enable new entrants to offer
some similar Web site features at a lower startup cost than established
businesses. The Company's online services compete with other operators of
Internet sites for advertising revenue and marketing opportunities.

      The Company believes that its established brands, marketing expertise, and
existing relationships with its audiences allow it to compete effectively in the
various online businesses.

Regulation

      The Company's businesses are either subject to or affected by regulations
of federal, state and local governmental authorities. The rules, regulations,
policies and procedures affecting these businesses are constantly subject to
change. The descriptions which follow are summaries and should be read in
conjunction with the texts of the statutes, rules and regulations described
herein. The descriptions do not purport to describe all present and proposed
statutes, rules and regulations affecting the Company's businesses.

Intellectual Property

      Domestic and international laws affecting intellectual property are of
significant importance to the Company.

      WIPO Copyright Treaties. In 1996, delegates to the World Intellectual
Property Organization ("WIPO") adopted a proposed Copyright Treaty which will
take effect if ratified by 30 nations. As of December 1998, eight countries,
including the U.S., had ratified the Copyright Treaty.

      The proposed Copyright Treaty updates the Berne Convention, last revised
in 1971, and addresses copyright protection for new technologies that have
emerged since that time. It is not possible to predict whether the Copyright
Treaty will take effect or how countries would implement the Treaty after
ratification. Because the Treaty includes important copyright protections for
the digital transmission of content, if ratified, the Treaty likely would have a
positive impact on the Company.

      The U.S. implementing legislation, known as the Digital Millennium
Copyright Act ("DMCA"), which is effective whether or not WIPO is ultimately
ratified, affords important new copyright protections, including civil and
criminal penalties for the manufacture of, or trafficking in, devices that
circumvent copyright protection technologies such as encryption and scrambling,
and for the act of circumventing such technologies to gain unauthorized access
to a copyrighted work. The DMCA also amends the Copyright Act by modifying the
language concerning the statutory licensing mechanism for certain types of
digital transmissions of sound recordings and by creating a new statutory
license concerning certain rights related to such digital transmissions.


                                      I-21


The statute provides that new statutory rates for each license will be set
either through voluntary negotiations between the interested parties or through
Copyright Arbitration Royalty Proceedings.

      Copyright Term Extension. In October 1998, Congress passed legislation
extending the copyright term an additional twenty years. The extended term is
life of the author plus 70 years for authored works and 95 years for
works-made-for-hire. This extension puts the U.S. copyright term on par with the
European Community. Term extension should have a beneficial effect for the
Company over time, including with respect to important publishing properties
which otherwise would have passed into the public domain in the next several
years.

      Compulsory Copyright License. The Copyright Act provides a compulsory
copyright license for the retransmission of broadcast signals by multichannel
video distributors such as cable television, SMATV (Satellite Master Antenna
Television), MMDS (Multipoint Multichannel Distribution Systems) and DTH.

      The compulsory license rate paid to programmers for the retransmission of
broadcast signals by cable, MMDS and SMATV is established by statute, while the
fees for DTH service are set through negotiations and binding arbitration based
on the fair market value of the signals. On August 1, 1997, a Copyright
Arbitration Royalty Panel increased the DTH retransmission rates from $0.06 for
network signals and $0.14 for superstation signals to $0.27 for both network and
superstation signals per subscriber per month, effective January 1, 1998. The
federal courts have rejected challenges to the rate increase and legislation has
been introduced in Congress to reduce the rate to $0.189 for superstations and
$0.1485 for network signals. It is not possible to predict whether or in what
form the legislation might pass.

      Unlike the compulsory license applicable to other multichannel video
program providers, the DTH compulsory license is not permanent and will expire
in December 1999. Congress, however, is likely to extend the compulsory license
before year end. Extension of the DTH compulsory license would be expected to
have an overall positive impact on the Company. Pending legislation also would
broaden the scope of the DTH compulsory license to allow the retransmission of
local broadcast signals back into their local markets, which is not permitted
under current law.

      Separate satellite "must carry" legislation also has been introduced which
would require satellite companies to carry the local broadcast signals in those
markets where the satellite companies choose to offer any local broadcast
service.

      First Sale Doctrine. The copyright "First Sale" doctrine provides that the
owner of a legitimate copy of a copyrighted work may use or dispose of it in
such manner as the owner sees fit, including by renting it. The First Sale
doctrine does not apply to sound recordings or computer software (other than
software made for a limited purpose computer, such as a video game platform) for
which the Copyright Act vests a rental right (i.e., the right to control the
rental of the copy) in the copyright holder. The repeal or limitation of the
First Sale doctrine (or conversely, the creation of a rental right vested in the
copyright holder) for audiovisual works or for computer software made for
limited purpose computers would have an adverse impact on the Company's home
video and game rental business; however, no such legislation is pending in
Congress at the present time.

Cable Networks

      Cable Rate Regulation. The Cable Television Consumer Protection and
Competition Act of 1992 (the "1992 Cable Act") directed the FCC to limit by
regulation cable system rates for the "basic service tier" ("BST") (including
retransmission consent and must carry broadcast signals and public, educational
and governmental channels) and the "cable programming service tier" ("CPST") to
a level not to exceed the rates that would be


                                      I-22


charged in the presence of effective competition. Programming offered on a
per-channel or per-program basis is exempt from rate regulation.

      Although all rate regulation of the CPST is set to expire on March 31,
1999, legislation has been introduced in the House to extend these rate
regulation provisions. The Company cannot predict whether such legislation will
be enacted into law. The Company believes that cable rate regulation adversely
affects its non-premium cable program services which rely on cable operator
license fee support, along with advertising revenues, to maintain the quantity
and quality of programming. Rate regulation in this area tends to erode cable
operator incentives to invest in programming and particularly in start-up
program services.

      Program Access. The "program access" provisions of the 1992 Cable Act
impose certain pricing and other restrictions on vertically integrated satellite
cable programming vendors with respect to the provision of their program
services to multichannel programming distributors, such as cable systems, SMATV
systems, MMDS operators and TVRO and DBS distributors. Specifically, vertically
integrated program services generally are prohibited from entering into
exclusive arrangements with cable operators and from discriminating against
cable competitors on programming price and other terms. The program access
provisions were intended to spur competition to cable providers by facilitating
the access of cable competitors to programming owned by cable operators or their
affiliates. The Telecommunications Act of 1996 extended the program access rules
to program services in which common carriers that provide video programming have
an attributable interest.

      The Company divested its cable systems in 1996 and, as a result, the
Company's wholly owned program services are no longer subject to the program
access rules. Legislation which would extend the program access provisions to
non-vertically integrated program services, if enacted, could adversely impact
the Company's program services by reducing the Company's flexibility to
negotiate the most favorable terms available for the distribution of its
content. However, no such legislation is pending in Congress.

Motion Picture and Television Production and Distribution

      The Company's first-run, network and other production operations and its
distribution of off-network, first-run and other programs in domestic and
foreign syndication are not directly regulated. However, existing and proposed
rules and regulations of the FCC applicable to broadcast networks, individual
broadcast stations and cable operators could affect the Company's entertainment
businesses.

      Antitrust. The Company, through PARAMOUNT PICTURES, is subject to a
consent decree, entered in 1948, which contains restrictions on certain motion
picture trade practices in the U.S. The Company, through PARAMOUNT PICTURES,
along with other major distributors, has received a Civil Investigative Demand
from the Justice Department which is investigating possible violations of the
industry-wide decrees.

      European Union Directive. Since 1989, members of the European Union have
been required by the "Television without Frontiers" Directive (89/552/EEC) to
maintain quotas such that programming of local origin constitutes the majority
proportion of all programming, where practicable and by appropriate means, to be
achieved progressively on the basis of stated criteria. The Company believes
that its program services in Europe are in compliance with the EC broadcast
quotas.


                                      I-23


Broadcasting

      Television broadcasting is subject to the jurisdiction of the FCC.

      The Communications Act. The Communications Act authorizes the FCC to
issue, renew, revoke or modify broadcast licenses; to regulate the radio
frequency, operating power and location of stations; to approve the transmitting
equipment used by stations; to adopt rules and regulations necessary to carry
out the provisions of the Communications Act; and to impose certain penalties
for violations of the Communications Act and the FCC's regulations governing the
day-to-day operations of television stations.

      Broadcast Licenses. Unless the FCC finds that doing so would not be in the
public interest, it will grant broadcast station licenses for maximum periods of
eight years. Upon application to and approval by the FCC, the licenses are
renewable for an indefinite number of additional eight-year periods.

      A licensee can ordinarily expect renewal of its license if the licensee
has served the public interest and has not seriously violated the Communications
Act or FCC rules. Among the factors the FCC considers relevant to whether a
broadcaster has served the public interest is compliance with the Children's
Television Act of 1990 and implementing regulations. Under those rules,
beginning on September 1, 1997, licensees generally are required to regularly
schedule at least three hours a week of "core" educational and informational
programming targeted to children ages 16 and under. Licensees also are required
to limit commercials during programming targeted to children ages 12 and under.
At renewal, the FCC also reviews the licensee's compliance with FCC Equal
Employment Opportunity ("EEO") policies and rules; however, those policies have
been suspended by the FCC in light of the 1998 decision of the U.S Court of
Appeals for the D.C Circuit which held them unconstitutional. The FCC has
initiated a rule making proceeding to draft new EEO rules.

      A license which has expired but is awaiting renewal entitles the licensee
to continue broadcasting pending grant of the renewal. The status of the
Company's television stations' licenses is as follows: WSBK-TV expires on April
1, 1999; WPSG-TV and WNPA-TV each expires on August 1, 1999; WDCA-TV and WGNT-TV
each expires on October 1, 2004; WBFS-TV and WTOG-TV each expires on February 1,
2005; WUPA-TV expires on April 1, 2005; WUPL-TV expires on June 1, 2005; WNDY-TV
expires on August 1, 2005; WKBD-TV and WWHO-TV each expires on October 1, 2005;
KAUT-TV expires on June 1, 2006; KTXA-TV and KTXH-TV each expires on August 1,
2006; KMAX-TV expires on December 1, 2006; and KSTW-TV expires on February 1,
2007.

      The Communications Act requires prior approval of the FCC for the
assignment of a license or transfer of control of a licensee. Additionally, the
Communications Act provides that no license may be held by a corporation whose
voting stock is more than 20% owned of record or voted by aliens or is subject
to control by aliens. In addition, no corporation whose voting stock is more
than 25% owned of record or voted by aliens or is subject to control by aliens
may hold the voting stock of a corporation holding a broadcast license without
specific FCC authorization. The Company conducts annual surveys of its
shareholders to confirm its compliance with the foreign ownership limits.

      In April 1997, the FCC issued a DTV Table of Allotments, which assigned to
all existing television stations nationwide a second, six-MHz channel for
broadcasting in digital form. Under FCC rules, television stations may use this
second channel to broadcast either one or two streams of "high definition"
digital television ("HDTV") video programming or to "multicast" several streams
of standard digital video programming. Broadcasters may also deliver large
amounts of data over their DTV channels or offer other ancillary or
supplementary services, including computer software distribution, teletext,
interactive materials, aural messages, paging services, audio signals or
subscription video. At a minimum, under the FCC's DTV rules, broadcasters must
ultimately provide a free digital video programming service the resolution of
which is


                                      I-24


comparable to or better than that of today's service on air during the same time
periods that their analog channels are broadcasting.

      At the time it adopted the DTV Table of Allotments, the FCC also
established a schedule pursuant to which all television stations must have
constructed their DTV operations. Under that schedule, any commercial television
station that is not an affiliate of ABC, CBS, NBC or FOX must construct its DTV
station no later than May 1, 2002. Accordingly, because its stations are all
affiliates of UPN or the WB, the Company must have constructed its digital
operations by that date, unless an extension of time is granted by the FCC. It
is difficult to assess how DTV will affect the Company's broadcast business with
respect to other broadcasters and other video program providers.

      Each television station licensee will be licensed a digital channel for an
eight-year term running coterminous with the licensee's analog channel.
Broadcasters will be required to surrender their analog channels but, under FCC
policy, not until at least 2006. This transition period is subject to periodic
progress reviews to make sure DTV service is widely available. In addition, the
Balanced Budget Act of 1997 includes provisions that would extend the
continuation of analog service beyond the year 2006 deadline if DTV is
implemented more slowly than expected. Specific conditions which would extend
the transition period include the failure of one or more of the largest
television stations in a market to begin broadcasting digital television signals
through no fault of their own, or fewer than 85% of the television households in
a market being able to receive digital televisions signals off the air either
with a digital television set or with an analog set equipped with a converter
box or by subscription to a cable-type service that carries the DTV stations in
the market. Until the transition to digital is complete, FCC rules require that
broadcasters phase in (according to annual benchmarks) the percentage of video
programming of their analog channels that is simulcast on the DTV channel.

      During the transition and thereafter, broadcasters are permitted to use
their digital channels to offer ancillary and supplementary services, including,
but not limited to, data transmission and subscription services. The
Telecommunications Act of 1996 imposes fees for use of the spectrum based upon
the extent to which such services generate revenues other than from commercial
advertisements used to support broadcasting for which a subscription fee is not
required. In 1998, the FCC adopted rules which set the spectrum use fee at 5% of
the broadcaster's gross revenues from ancillary and supplemental services.

      Must Carry/Retransmission Consent. The Communications Act grants certain
"must carry" rights to enable broadcast television stations that are "local" to
communities served by cable systems to obtain carriage on such systems.
Alternatively, commercial stations may elect to secure cable system carriage
pursuant to "retransmission consent" on negotiated terms. The must
carry/retransmission consent election must be made every three years; the next
election must be made by October 1, 1999 and will take effect on January 1,
2000.

      All of the Company's television stations are carried on cable systems
serving the communities in the stations' markets. Certain of the stations
obtained carriage by asserting must carry rights and other stations followed the
retransmission consent process. Failure of broadcast stations to be carried on
cable systems could be detrimental to the business of a television station.

      The application of must carry requirements to DTV is to be decided by the
FCC in a proceeding that is expected to be completed during the second or third
quarter of 1999. The Telecommunications Act of 1996 expressly provides that no
ancillary or supplementary DTV services provided by broadcasters will be
entitled to mandatory cable carriage. As explained in the section on the
Compulsory Copyright License, legislation has been introduced in the Congress
requiring satellite companies to ultimately carry local broadcast signals.

      Ownership Limitations. The Telecommunications Act of 1996 deregulated
national television ownership by eliminating the prior 12-station ownership
limit and increasing the nationwide audience reach limit from 25% to


                                      I-25


35%. FCC rules provide for the calculation of audience reach based on the
percentage of U.S. households in each television market where a station is
located. Under current FCC rules, only half of the households in a market are
counted for UHF stations. The national ownership cap of 35% and the UHF discount
are currently being reevaluated as part of the FCC's biennial review of the
broadcast ownership rules, as required by the Telecommunications Act of 1996.
Even if the FCC eliminated the UHF discount, the Company's current group of
television stations would remain well below the nationwide audience reach limit
of 35%.

      With respect to local television ownership, the FCC rules currently
prohibit a party from owning a television station whose Grade B contour overlaps
with that of another television station. In a pending rule making proceeding,
the FCC has proposed to relax this so-called "duopoly" rule to a Grade A
contour/DMA standard. Under this proposal, a party would be permitted to own two
television stations provided that their smaller Grade A contours do not overlap
and they are not located within the same DMA, or "Designated Market Area", as
that term is defined by Nielsen Media Research. Under an interim policy, the FCC
is currently granting conditional waivers based on this proposed standard.

      As part of the same local television ownership proceeding, the FCC also is
considering attributing ownership of a station to the party which operates it
pursuant to an LMA. Under an LMA, the television station licensee delegates the
operations, sales and programming to another party subject to the ultimate
control of the licensee. In a number of markets, stations operate a second
station in the same market under an LMA without conflicting with the FCC's local
ownership rules. In the pending local ownership proceeding the FCC proposes to
narrow the use of LMAs by attributing ownership of a station to a party which
operates the station pursuant to an LMA for 15% or more of the broadcast time.
It is unclear how the Company's LMAs in West Palm Beach-Fort Pierce, Florida,
and in Providence, Rhode Island-New Bedford, Massachusetts, would be affected,
if at all, by the FCC's local ownership proceeding. The FCC is expected to adopt
modified local ownership rules during the second quarter or third quarter of
1999. Congress may consider legislation this year to make deregulatory changes
to the broadcast ownership restrictions, including an increase in the current
national audience cap limit. It is not certain whether such legislation will
pass this year.

Video

      BLOCKBUSTER is subject to certain regulations of the U.S. Federal Trade
Commission ("FTC") and certain states and foreign jurisdictions governing (a)
the offer and sale of franchises and (b) franchise relationships. These
regulations require BLOCKBUSTER to furnish disclosure documents to current and
prospective franchisees. In addition, some states and foreign jurisdictions
require franchisors to comply with registration or filing requirements prior to
offering a franchise in that state or jurisdiction and/or limit the franchisor's
rights to terminate a franchisee. The Company believes that BLOCKBUSTER's
disclosure documents comply with FTC guidelines and all applicable guidelines of
the states and foreign jurisdictions regulating the offering and issuance of
franchises. Compliance with franchise laws can, however, be both costly and
time-consuming, and no assurance can be given that BLOCKBUSTER will not
encounter difficulties or delays in this area or that it will not require
significant capital for franchising activities.

      BLOCKBUSTER is also subject to various federal, state and local laws that
govern the disclosure and retention of video rental records, as well as various
other regulations affecting its business, including state and local advertising,
consumer protection, credit protection, licensing, zoning, land use,
construction and environmental regulations.


                                      I-26


Online

      Web Sites Directed to Children. The Children's Online Privacy Protection
Act of 1998 ("COPPA"), which must be implemented by the FTC, applies to Web
sites, or those portions of Web sites, directed to children under age 13. Under
COPPA, Web site operators generally cannot collect online from a child under age
13 information that is individually identifiable -- such as a first and last
name, an e-mail address or telephone number -- without the prior consent of that
child's parent. The FTC is expected to adopt final rules by fall 1999, after
which COPPA will become effective. NICKELODEON's online services are designed to
comply with COPPA. Congress may also consider legislation this year regarding
online privacy for adults.

Item 2. Properties.

      The Company maintains its world headquarters at 1515 Broadway, New York,
New York, where it rents approximately one million square feet for executive
offices and certain of its operating divisions. The lease runs to 2010, with
four renewal options for five years each. The lease also grants the Company
options for additional space and a right of first negotiation for other
available space in the building. The Company also leases approximately 548,000
square feet of office space at 1633 Broadway, New York, New York, which lease
runs to 2010, and approximately 237,000 square feet of office space at 1230
Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York, which lease runs to 2009, which
leases contain options to renew. The Company owns the PARAMOUNT PICTURES studio
at 5555 Melrose Avenue, Los Angeles, California, which consists of approximately
65 acres containing sound stages, administrative, technical and dressing room
structures, screening theaters, machinery and equipment facilities, plus a back
lot and parking lots. PARAMOUNT PARKS' operations in the U.S. include
approximately 1,954 acres owned and 130 acres leased and in Canada include
approximately 380 acres owned. The BLOCKBUSTER headquarters at 1201 Elm Street,
Dallas, Texas consists of approximately 210,000 square feet of leased space. The
BLOCKBUSTER retail and distribution operations in the U.S. and Canada consist of
approximately 54 owned properties, aggregating approximately 343,000 square
feet, and approximately 3,900 leased locations, aggregating approximately 25.5
million square feet. Facilities within the Publishing segment (other than
executive offices at 1230 Avenue of the Americas described above) include
approximately 1,260,000 square feet of space, of which approximately 674,000
square feet are leased. The facilities are used for warehouse, distribution and
administrative functions.

      The Company also owns and leases office, studio, retail and warehouse
space and broadcast and satellite transmission facilities in various cities in
the U.S., Canada and several countries around the world for its businesses. The
Company considers its properties adequate for its present needs.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings.

      On March 19, 1999, the date upon which the Company announced its proposal
to acquire the remaining stock of SPELLING that it does not currently own, eight
putative class action complaints were filed in the Court of Chancery of the
State of Delaware. Each of such complaints names the Company, SPELLING and all
of SPELLING's Directors, and generally alleges that the defendants have breached
their fiduciary duties to SPELLING and its stockholders by failing to exercise
independent business judgment in connection with the Company's proposal. The
complaints also allege that the Company proposal is unfair to the other
stockholders of SPELLING because the proposed price is allegedly too low and the
transaction allegedly has been timed by the Company to capture SPELLING's true
value without paying a full and fair price. On March 23, 1999, a putative class
complaint was filed in the Superior Court of the State of California, County of
Los Angeles. The complaint names the Company, SPELLING and all of SPELLING's
Directors, and contains allegations that mirror those


                                      I-27


contained in the Delaware complaints. The Company believes that the plaintiffs'
allegations are speculative and without merit and intends to vigorously defend
these actions.

      Certain subsidiaries of the Company from time to time receive claims from
federal and state environmental regulatory agencies and other entities asserting
that they are or may be liable for environmental cleanup costs and related
damages arising out of former operations. While the outcome of these claims
cannot be predicted with certainty, on the basis of its experience and the
information currently available to it, the Company does not believe that the
claims it has received will have a material adverse effect on its results of
operations, financial position or cash flows. (See "Item 6. Selected Financial
Data" and "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations
and Financial Condition".)

      The Company and various of its subsidiaries are parties to certain other
legal proceedings. However, these proceedings are not likely to result in
judgments that will have a material adverse effect on its results of operations,
financial position or cash flows.

Financial Information About Foreign and Domestic Operations

      Financial information relating to foreign and domestic operations for each
of the last three years ending December 31, is set forth in Note 14 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company included elsewhere herein.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

      Not Applicable

Executive Officers of the Company

      Set forth below is certain information concerning the current executive
officers of the Company, which information is hereby included in Part I of this
report.

Name                       Age                        Title
- ----                       ---                        -----

Sumner M. Redstone------   75    Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief
                                    Executive Officer

Philippe P. Dauman------   45    Deputy Chairman, Executive Vice President and
                                    Director

Thomas E. Dooley--------   42    Deputy Chairman, Executive Vice President and
                                    Director

Robert M. Bakish--------   35    Senior Vice President, Planning, Development
                                    and Technology

Carl D. Folta-----------   41    Senior Vice President, Corporate Relations

Michael D. Fricklas-----   39    Senior Vice President, General Counsel and
                                    Secretary

Susan C. Gordon---------   45    Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting
                                    Officer

Rudolph L. Hertlein-----   58    Senior Vice President, Corporate Development

Carol A. Melton---------   44    Senior Vice President, Government Affairs


                                      I-28


William A. Roskin-------   56    Senior Vice President, Human Resources and
                                    Administration

Martin M. Shea----------   55    Senior Vice President, Investor Relations

George S. Smith, Jr.----   50    Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer

- ----------
      None of the executive officers of the Company is related to any other
executive officer or director by blood, marriage or adoption except that Brent
D. Redstone and Shari Redstone, Directors of the Company, are the son and
daughter, respectively, of Sumner M. Redstone.

      Mr. Redstone has been a Director of the Company since 1986 and Chairman of
the Board since 1987, acquiring the additional title of Chief Executive Officer
in January 1996. Mr. Redstone has served as President, Chief Executive Officer
of NAI since 1967, and continues to serve in such capacity; he has also served
as the Chairman of the Board of NAI since 1986. Mr. Redstone became a Director
of Spelling in 1994 and became Chairman of the Board of Spelling in January
1996. He is a member of the Advisory Council for the Academy of Television Arts
and Sciences Foundation and on the Board of Trustees for The Museum of
Television and Radio. Mr. Redstone served as the first Chairman of the Board of
the National Association of Theatre Owners, and is currently a member of the
Executive Committee of that organization. Since 1982, Mr. Redstone has been a
member of the faculty of Boston University Law School, where he has lectured on
entertainment law, and since 1994, he has been a Visiting Professor at Brandeis
University. In 1944, Mr. Redstone graduated from Harvard University and, in
1947, received an LL.B. from Harvard University School of Law. Upon graduation,
he served as Law Secretary with the U.S. Court of Appeals, and then as a Special
Assistant to the U.S. Attorney General.

      Mr. Dauman has been a Director of the Company since 1987. He was elected
Executive Vice President in March 1994, and was appointed Deputy Chairman in
January 1996. From February 1993 to October 1998, Mr. Dauman also served as
General Counsel and Secretary of the Company. Prior to February 1993, Mr. Dauman
was a partner in the law firm of Shearman & Sterling in New York, which he
joined in 1978. Mr. Dauman became a Director of Lafarge Corporation in 1997, a
Director of Spelling in 1994 and a Director of NAI in 1992.

      Mr. Dooley was elected Executive Vice President in March 1994 and
appointed a Director and Deputy Chairman of the Company in January 1996, having
been an executive officer of the Company since January 1987. From July 1992 to
March 1994, Mr. Dooley served as Senior Vice President, Corporate Development of
the Company. From August 1993 to March 1994, he also served as President,
Interactive Television. Prior to that, he held various positions in the
Company's corporate and divisional finance areas. Mr. Dooley became a Director
of Spelling in 1996.

      Mr. Bakish was elected Senior Vice President, Planning, Development and
Technology of the Company in January 1998. Prior to that, he served as Vice
President, Planning and Development of the Company since February 1997. Before
joining the Company, Mr. Bakish served most recently as a partner with Booz
Allen and Hamilton in its media and entertainment practice, which he joined in
1990.

      Mr. Folta was elected Senior Vice President, Corporate Relations of the
Company in November 1994. Prior to that, he served as Vice President, Corporate
Relations of the Company from April 1994 to November 1994. From 1984 until
joining the Company in April 1994, Mr. Folta held various Corporate
Communications positions at Paramount, serving most recently as Senior Director,
Corporate Communications.

      Mr. Fricklas was elected Senior Vice President, General Counsel and
Secretary of the Company in October 1998. From July 1993 to October 1998, he
served as Deputy General Counsel of the Company. He served as


                                      I-29


Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Minorco (U.S.A.) Inc. from 1990
to 1993. Prior to that, Mr. Fricklas was an attorney in private practice at the
law firm of Shearman & Sterling.

      Ms. Gordon was elected Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting
Officer in April 1995. Prior to that, she served as Vice President, Internal
Audit of the Company since October 1986. From June 1985 to October 1986, Ms.
Gordon served as Controller of Viacom Broadcasting. She joined the Company in
1981 and held various positions in the corporate finance area.

      Mr. Hertlein was elected Senior Vice President, Corporate Development of
the Company in July 1994. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President and
Controller of Paramount from September 1993 to July 1994 and as Senior Vice
President, Internal Audit and Special Projects of Paramount from September 1992
to September 1993 and, before that, as Vice President, Internal Audit and
Special Projects of Paramount.

      Ms. Melton was elected Senior Vice President, Government Affairs of the
Company in May 1997. Before joining the Company, Ms. Melton served most recently
as Vice President, Law and Public Policy at Time Warner Inc., having joined
Warner Communications Inc. in 1987. Prior to that, Ms. Melton served as Legal
Advisor to the Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission and as
Assistant General Counsel for the National Cable Television Association.

      Mr. Roskin has been an executive officer of the Company since April 1988
when he became Vice President, Human Resources and Administration. In July 1992,
Mr. Roskin was elected Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Administration
of the Company. From May 1986 to April 1988, he was Senior Vice President, Human
Resources at Coleco Industries, Inc. From 1976 to 1986, he held various
executive positions at Warner Communications Inc., serving most recently as Vice
President, Industrial and Labor Relations.

      Mr. Shea was elected Senior Vice President, Investor Relations of the
Company in January 1998. From July 1994 to May 1995 and from November 1995 to
December 1997, he was Senior Vice President, Corporate Communications for Triarc
Companies, Inc. From June 1995 through October 1995, he served as Managing
Director of Edelman Worldwide. From 1977 until July 1994, Mr. Shea held various
Investor Relations positions at Paramount, serving most recently as Vice
President, Investor Relations.

      Mr. Smith has been an executive officer of the Company since May 1985. In
November 1987, he was elected Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer of
the Company and he continues to serve in such capacity. In May 1985, Mr. Smith
was elected Vice President, Controller and, in October 1987, he was elected Vice
President, Chief Financial Officer of the Company. From 1983 until May 1985, he
served as Vice President, Finance and Administration of Viacom Broadcasting and
from 1981 until 1983, he served as Controller of Viacom Radio. Mr. Smith joined
the Company in 1977 in the Corporate Treasurer's office and until 1981 served in
various financial planning capacities.


                                      I-30


PART II

Item 5. Market for Viacom Inc.'s Common Equity and Related Security Holder
Matters.

Viacom Inc. voting Class A Common Stock and Viacom Inc. non-voting Class B
Common Stock are listed and traded on the American Stock Exchange ("AMEX") under
the symbols "VIA" and "VIA B", respectively. Effective April 8, 1999, the
Company will move its listing to the New York Stock Exchange and will be traded
under the symbols VIA and VIA.B, respectively.

On February 25, 1999, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a 2-for-1
common stock split, to be effected in the form of a dividend. The additional
shares will be issued on March 31, 1999 to shareholders of record on March 15,
1999. All common share and per share amounts have been adjusted to reflect the
stock split for all periods presented.

The following table sets forth, for the calendar period indicated, the per share
range of high and low sales prices for Viacom Inc.'s Class A Common Stock and
Class B Common Stock, as reported on the AMEX Composite Tape adjusted to reflect
the effect of the 2-for-1 common stock split.

                                   Viacom Class A            Viacom Class B
                                    Common Stock              Common Stock
                              -----------------------    ----------------------
                                High        Low            High      Low
                                ----        ---            ----      ---
  1st quarter...........      $18 9/16      $16          $18 15/16   $16
  2nd quarter...........       17 23/32      12 5/8       18          12 5/8
  3rd quarter...........       17 3/8        13 3/4       17 9/16     13 5/8
  4th quarter...........       20 7/8        13           21 1/8      13 1/4

  1st quarter...........      $27 1/8       $19 15/16    $27 17/32   $20 1/4
  2nd quarter...........       30 1/2        26 1/8       30 5/8      26 13/32
  3rd quarter...........       34 11/16      24 5/8       35          24 3/4
  4th quarter...........       36 29/32      25 7/16      37 1/8      25 163/512

Viacom Inc. has not declared cash dividends on its common stock and has no
present intention of so doing.

As of March 22, 1999, there were approximately 9,555 holders of Viacom Inc.
Class A Common Stock, and 18,977 holders of Viacom Inc. Class B Common Stock.


                                      II-1


Item 6. Selected Financial Data

VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
(Millions of dollars, except per share amounts)



(a) Operating income is defined as earnings (loss) before extraordinary loss,
discontinued operations, minority interest, equity in loss of affiliated
companies (net of tax), provision for income taxes, other items (net) and
interest expense (net).

(b) All common per share data has been adjusted to reflect the 2-for-1 common
stock split effective March 31, 1999.

Paramount Communications Inc.'s and Blockbuster Entertainment Corporation's
results of operations are included from their dates of acquisition, commencing
March 1, 1994 and October 1, 1994, respectively. Revenues, operating income and
earnings (loss) from continuing operations for each year presented exclude
Non-Consumer Publishing, the music retail stores, the interactive game
businesses, Viacom Radio Stations and Viacom Cable, which are reported as
discontinued operations.

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on
transactions and accounting classifications which have affected the
comparability of the periods presented above.

Viacom Inc. has not declared cash dividends on its common stock for any of the
periods presented above.


                                      II-2


Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and
        Financial Condition.

General

Management's discussion and analysis of the results of operations and financial
condition of Viacom Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company") should be read in
conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes.
Descriptions of all documents incorporated by reference herein or included as
exhibits hereto are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of
such documents so incorporated or included.

The Company continued to make significant progress towards accomplishing its
strategic objectives to focus on its core businesses, strengthen the balance
sheet and improve the capital structure. The Company's significant transactions
were as follows:

o     On November 27, 1998, the Company completed the sale of its educational,
      professional and reference publishing businesses ("Non-Consumer
      Publishing") to Pearson plc for approximately $4.6 billion in cash plus
      approximately $92 million related to changes in net assets, which is
      subject to change based upon final determination of net assets. The net
      proceeds were principally used to reduce debt and buyback preferred
      stock.

o     On October 26, 1998, the Company completed the sale of its music retail
      stores to Wherehouse Entertainment, Inc. for approximately $115 million in
      cash before adjustments for changes in working capital.

o     On September 4, 1998, Spelling Entertainment Group Inc. ("Spelling")
      completed the sale of substantially all of the development operations of
      Virgin Interactive Entertainment Limited ("Virgin") to Electronic Arts
      Inc. for $122.5 million in cash. In addition, on November 10, 1998,
      Spelling completed the sale of all non-U.S. operations of Virgin to an
      investor group.

o     Throughout 1998, the Company repurchased certain of its shares of common
      stock and warrants and also repurchased half of its convertible preferred
      stock, the remainder of which was repurchased in January 1999.

o     On October 21, 1997, the Company completed the sale of its half-interest
      in USA Networks, including Sci-Fi Channel, to Universal Studios, Inc. for
      a total of $1.7 billion in cash.

o     On July 2, 1997, the Company completed the sale of Viacom Radio Stations
      to Chancellor Media Corp. for approximately $1.1 billion in cash.

o     On July 31, 1996, the Company completed the split-off of its Cable segment
      pursuant to an exchange offer and related transactions. As a result, the
      Company realized a gain of approximately $1.3 billion, reduced its debt
      and retired approximately 4.1% of the Company's then total outstanding
      common shares.

As a result of the transactions described above, Non-Consumer Publishing, the
music retail stores, the interactive game businesses, including Virgin, Viacom
Radio Stations and Viacom Cable have been accounted for as discontinued
operations. Operating results and the related gain or loss attributable to
discontinued operations have been separately disclosed in the Company's notes to
the consolidated financial statements. (See Note 3 of the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.)


                                      II-3


Business Segment Information

As of December 31, 1998, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 131, "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
Information" ("SFAS 131"). Accordingly, the Company has presented the following
six operating segments below, as they represent how management evaluates
operating results of the Company. Previous years' reporting had followed an
industry segment approach. All prior years' segment information has been
reclassified to conform with the current segment presentation.

      Networks - Basic Cable and Premium Subscription Television Program
         Services.

      Entertainment - Production and Distribution of Motion Pictures and
         Television Programming as well as Television Stations, International 
         Channels, Movie Theater Operations and Music Publishing.

      Video - Home Video and Game rental and retail.

      Parks - Theme Parks.

      Publishing - Consumer Publishing Group.

      Online - Viacom Online Services.

The following tables set forth revenues and operating income (loss) by business
segment, for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996. Results for each
year presented exclude Non-Consumer Publishing, music retail stores, interactive
game businesses, Viacom Radio Stations and Viacom Cable, which are reported as
discontinued operations.



(a)   Operating income is defined as earnings before extraordinary loss,
      discontinued operations, minority interest, equity in loss of affiliated
      companies (net of tax), provision for income taxes, other items (net) and
      interest expense (net).

NM -  Not meaningful


                                      II-4


EBITDA

The following table sets forth EBITDA (defined as operating income (loss) before
depreciation and amortization principally of goodwill related to business
combinations) for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996. While many
in the financial community consider EBITDA to be an important measure of
comparative operating performance, it should be considered in addition to, but
not as a substitute for or superior to operating income, net earnings, cash flow
and other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles.



(a) EBITDA is defined as operating income (loss) before depreciation and
amortization.

NM - Not meaningful

Results of Operations 1998 versus 1997

Revenues increased 13% to $12.1 billion for 1998 from $10.7 billion for 1997
with every operating segment posting increases over the prior year. Primary
contributors to the increase were the Entertainment segment which recorded
higher feature and theater revenues; the Video segment which realized the
positive impact from revenue sharing as well as revenue increases from the
increase in the number of Company owned stores; and the Networks segment, where
revenue increases were driven primarily by increased advertising and affiliate
revenues.

Total expenses increased 13% to $11.3 billion for 1998 from $10.0 billion for
1997 principally reflecting normal increases associated with revenue growth and
the second quarter 1998 Blockbuster charge of approximately $436.7 million
principally associated with an accounting change for tape amortization. In 1997,
expenses reflect the impact of the Blockbuster charge which consisted primarily
of a reduction in the carrying value of excess retail inventory and the cost of
closing underperforming stores principally located in international markets.


                                      II-5


Effective April 1, 1998, Blockbuster adopted an accelerated method of amortizing
videocassettes and game rental inventory. Blockbuster has adopted this new
method of amortization because it has implemented a new business model,
including revenue sharing agreements with Hollywood studios, which has
dramatically increased the number of videocassettes in the stores and which is
satisfying consumer demand over a shorter period of time. Previously,
Blockbuster purchased tapes for a fixed price, which were amortized over a
period of six to 36 months. Pursuant to the new method, the Company records base
stock videocassettes at cost and amortizes a portion of the costs on an
accelerated basis over three months, generally to $8 per unit, with the
remaining cost of the base stock videocassettes amortized on a straight-line
basis over 33 months to an estimated $4 salvage value. Non-base stock
videocassette costs are amortized on an accelerated basis over three months to
an estimated $4 salvage value. Video games are amortized on an accelerated basis
over a 12 month period to an estimated $10 salvage value. Revenue sharing
payments are expensed when earned pursuant to the applicable contractual
arrangements. The Company recorded a pre-tax charge of $436.7 million, of which
approximately $424.3 million represents an adjustment to the carrying value of
the rental tapes due to the new method of accounting and approximately $12.4
million represents a write-down of retail inventory. The total charge was
reflected as part of operating expenses for 1998.

During the second quarter of 1997, Blockbuster shifted its strategic emphasis
from retailing a broad assortment of merchandise to focusing on its core rental
business. Rationalization of the retail product lines such as sell-through
video, confectionery items, literature, music and fashion merchandise allowed
the Company to devote more management time and attention, as well as retail
floor selling space, to its video and rental game business. In addition, as part
of its effort to improve the performance of its operations, Blockbuster adopted
a plan to close consistently underperforming stores primarily located in the
United Kingdom and Australia and to exit the German market. As a result,
Blockbuster recorded a pre-tax charge of $322.8 million which consisted of
operating and general and administrative expenses of approximately $247.5
million, as well as depreciation expense attributable to the write-off of
long-lived assets of $45.9 million and write-offs attributable to international
joint ventures accounted for under the equity method of $29.4 million. As a
result of exiting the music business, approximately $72.6 million of the charge
has been presented as part of discontinued operations. The remaining balance of
the charge consisted principally of $100.8 million for a reduction in the
carrying value of excess merchandise inventories, $69.6 million for the closing
of underperforming stores principally located in international markets, and
$39.3 million recognized as general and administrative expenses, primarily
related to relocation costs incurred in connection with the move of the
Company's employees, corporate offices and data center from Fort Lauderdale,
Florida to Dallas, Texas.

The $69.6 million charge for the closing of underperforming stores is comprised
of a $41.8 million non-cash impairment charge associated with long-lived assets
and a $27.8 million charge for lease exit obligations. These amounts have been
recognized as depreciation expense and general and administrative expense,
respectively. Through December 31, 1998, the Company has paid and charged
approximately $12.8 million against the lease exit obligations.

The Company's EBITDA increased 5% to $1.53 billion for 1998 from $1.46 billion
for 1997 and operating income increased 10% to $751.6 million for 1998 from
$685.4 million for 1997. Operating results were adversely affected by the
charges taken by Blockbuster during 1998 and 1997. Excluding the impact of such
charges in each period, the Company's EBITDA increased 20% to $1.97 billion and
operating income increased 31% to $1.19 billion.


                                      II-6


Segment Results of Continuing Operations - 1998 versus 1997

Networks (Basic Cable and Premium Subscription Television Program Services)

The Networks segment is comprised of MTV Networks ("MTVN"), basic cable
television program services and Showtime Networks Inc. ("SNI"), premium
subscription television program services.

For the year, MTVN revenues of $1.9 billion increased 21%, EBITDA of $743.5
million increased 17% and operating income of $660.1 million increased 16% over
the prior year principally reflecting higher advertising revenues, as well as
the benefit of the continued licensing success of RUGRATS and BLUE'S CLUES.
Advertising revenue growth was driven by rate increases at Nickelodeon and VH1
and higher unit volume at MTV. MTVN's EBITDA and operating income growth were
driven by revenue growth partially offset by increased production, selling and
marketing expenses. Results for 1998 also include an operating loss of $22.0
million for MTV Asia, which was previously accounted for under the equity
method. Excluding the loss of MTV Asia, MTVN's EBITDA and operating income
increased 21% and 20%, respectively.

SNI's revenues, EBITDA and operating income increased 3%, 15% and 29%,
respectively, over the prior-year period. Operating results reflect revenue
increases attributable to the continued growth of direct broadcasting satellite
subscriptions partially offset by increased marketing costs associated with
SNI's NO LIMITS branding campaign. SNI's subscriptions increased over the prior
year by approximately 1.5 million to 19.7 million subscriptions at December 31,
1998.

The Networks segment derives revenues principally from two sources: the sale of
time on its basic cable networks to advertisers and the license of the networks
to cable television operators, direct-to-home and other distributors. The sale
of advertising time is affected by viewer demographics, viewer ratings and
market conditions for advertising time. Adverse changes to any of these factors
could have an adverse effect on revenues.

Entertainment (Motion Pictures, Television Programming, Television Stations,
International Channels, Movie Theaters and Music Publishing)

The Entertainment segment is comprised of Paramount Pictures, Paramount
Television, Spelling Entertainment Group Inc. ("Spelling"), the Paramount
Stations Group ("PSG") and Paramount's movie theaters, music publishing and
international channels. Entertainment revenues for the year ended December 31,
1998 were 10% higher than the same period last year principally reflecting
Paramount's higher features and theater revenues. Higher features revenues were
led by the extraordinary domestic box office and home video success of TITANIC,
along with the successful domestic theatrical performance of DEEP IMPACT and THE
RUGRATS MOVIE, the foreign theatrical performance of SAVING PRIVATE RYAN, and
the worldwide theatrical success of THE TRUMAN SHOW. Theaters' revenues were
also higher primarily as a result of opening new multiplex theaters. Paramount's
overall revenue growth for the year was partially offset by lower television
programming revenues compared with the prior year, which included the successful
first time availability of FRASIER in syndication.


                                      II-7


Paramount's features and television groups recorded EBITDA and operating income
increases of 32% and 44%, respectively, compared with the same prior year
period. The results reflect the revenue increases described above partially
offset by earnings recorded in 1997 attributable to long-term foreign licensing
agreements.

For the year, PSG's revenues increased 1% and EBITDA and operating income
decreased 5% and 15%, respectively, from the same prior-year period. Operating
results primarily reflect decreased advertising revenues and the impact of
swapping for television stations with greater growth potential. PSG owns and
operates 17 television stations, including WNPA-TV serving Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania, which was acquired on February 1, 1999. In addition, PSG programs
two additional television stations pursuant to local marketing agreements.

For the year ended December 31, 1998, Spelling's revenues of $586.1 million
increased 4% principally reflecting the impact of the licensing of Spelling's
classic video library and the sale of television library product, partially
offset by Spelling's exit from the feature film and video distribution
businesses. Spelling posted EBITDA of $22.3 million for the year, as compared to
EBITDA of $7.1 million for the prior year. The improved results at Spelling
reflect the decision to exit the feature film business and the resulting
cessation of production, acquisition and distribution of new feature films.

Each motion picture is a separate and distinct product with its financial
success dependent upon many factors, among which cost and public response are of
fundamental importance. Entertainment's operating results also fluctuate due to
the timing of theatrical and home video releases. Release dates are determined
by several factors, including timing of vacation and holiday periods and
competition in the marketplace.

License fees for the television exhibition of motion pictures and for
syndication and basic cable exhibition of television programming are recorded as
revenue in the period that the products are available for such exhibition,
which, among other reasons, may cause substantial fluctuation in operating
results. As of December 31, 1998, the unrecognized revenues attributable to such
licensing agreements were approximately $1.6 billion.

Video (Home Video and Game rental and retail)

The Video segment consists of Blockbuster Video. For the year, Video revenues
increased 17% driven by higher video store revenues reflecting the impact of
revenue sharing and an increase in the number of Company owned stores. EBITDA
decreased 82% principally reflecting the impact of the charge of approximately
$436.7 million taken in the second quarter of 1998 to adjust the carrying value
of videocassettes and game rental inventory under a new method of amortization
as a result of the implementation of Blockbuster's new business model. For the
year, Blockbuster recorded same store sales increases of 13% domestically and
worldwide. Blockbuster ended the year with approximately 6,380 stores, a net
increase of approximately 330 stores over the prior year. Video results in 1997
reflect a charge of approximately $250 million related primarily to the
reduction of the carrying value of excess retail inventory and the cost of
closing underperforming stores principally located in international markets.


                                      II-8


Excluding the impact of the 1998 and 1997 charges, Video's EBITDA increased 20%
to $476.6 million in 1998 from $397.3 million in 1997. Excluding the impact of
the second quarter 1998 and 1997 Blockbuster charges, Video's gross margin
percentage decreased to 60.8% in 1998 from 61.4% in 1997 due to the initial
impact of revenue sharing agreements and increased promotional activity.

The Company's home video business may be affected by a variety of factors,
including but not limited to, general economic trends, competition,
relationships with the major studios, quality of new releases, changes in
technology, unusual events and weather. In addition, as with other retail
outlets, there is a distinct seasonal pattern to the home video and video game
business, with peak rental periods tending to coincide with summer and winter
holidays.

Parks (Theme Parks)

The Parks segment consists of five regional theme parks and a themed attraction
in the U.S. and Canada. Parks' revenues of $421.2 million, EBITDA of $101.1
million and operating income of $49.9 million for 1998 increased 15%, 14% and
18%, respectively, as compared with revenues of $367.3 million, EBITDA of $88.9
million and operating income of $42.4 million for 1997. Operating results
principally reflect increased attendance driven by new branded attractions and
entertainment, including STAR TREK: THE EXPERIENCE located at the Las Vegas
Hilton, and increased pricing.

Each of the theme parks features attractions based on intellectual properties of
the Company. A substantial majority of the theme parks' operating income is
generated from May through September; however, the profitability of the
leisure-time industry is influenced by various factors which are not directly
controllable, such as economic conditions, amount of available leisure time, oil
and transportation prices and weather patterns.

Publishing (Consumer Publishing)

On November 27, 1998, the Company completed the sale of Non-Consumer Publishing
for approximately $4.6 billion in cash plus approximately $92 million related to
changes in net assets, which is subject to change based upon final determination
of net assets. The Company is retaining its consumer operations including the
Simon & Schuster name. The Company recognized a gain of approximately $65.5
million, net of tax, from the sale and has presented Non-Consumer Publishing as
a discontinued operation.

Growth in revenues to $564.6 million was primarily attributable to increases in
the trade business driven by the best selling titles including BAG OF BONES by
Stephen King, ALL THROUGH THE NIGHT by Mary Higgins Clark and ANGELA'S ASHES by
Frank McCourt, along with gains in the children's business. The mass-market
business experienced a sales decrease due to weakness in that segment of the
industry.

The consumer publishing marketplace is subject to increased periods of demand in
the summer months and during the end-of-year holiday season. Major new title
releases drive a significant portion of Publishing's sales throughout the year.


                                      II-9


Online (Interactive Online Services)

Revenues increased 32% to $13.7 million for 1998 from $10.4 million for 1997.
Operating loss of $7.5 million in 1998, as compared with operating income of
$2.3 million in 1997, reflects the increased investment in the Company's online
services.

In February 1999, the Company acquired Imagine Radio, an Internet radio company
transmitting original radio stations offering listeners various customization
features from a wide range of formats. In the fourth quarter of 1998, the
Company acquired Nvolve, Inc., a Web site developer. The Company also owns Red
Rocket, an online education toy retailer.

Other Income and Expense Information

Corporate Expenses

Corporate expenses, including depreciation expense, decreased 4% to $194.1
million for 1998 from $201.5 million for 1997, principally reflecting a decrease
in general and administrative and litigation expenses.

Interest Expense, net

Net interest expense decreased 20% to $599.0 million for 1998 from $750.9
million for 1997. The Company had approximately $4.2 billion and $7.8 billion
principal amount of debt outstanding (including current maturities) as of
December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively, at a weighted average interest rate of
7.8% for each period.

Other Items, net

The Company continued the strategy of focusing on its core businesses and in
December 1998, announced plans to close the Viacom Entertainment Store in
Chicago and to phase out its Nickelodeon stores in January 1999. As a result,
the Company recorded a loss of approximately $91 million, which is reflected in
"other items, net", for the year ended December 31, 1998. The loss principally
reflects $8.5 million for estimated severance benefits payable to approximately
530 employees and $32.7 million for lease exit obligations. The loss also
reflects the write-off of property and equipment, inventory and prepaid assets
of $21.1 million, $10.3 million and $3.1 million, respectively, as well as
future vendor commitments of $3.3 million. Additionally, "other items, net" for
1998 principally reflects foreign exchange losses and the write-off of certain
investments, partially offset by a gain of approximately $118.9 million from the
sale of a cost investment. "Other items, net" of $1.2 billion for 1997,
principally reflects the gain from the sale of USA Networks as well as gains
associated with the exchange of certain television stations offset by the
write-off of certain investments held at cost.

Provision for Income Taxes

The provision for income taxes represents federal, state and foreign income
taxes on earnings before income taxes. The annual effective tax rates of 101.0%
for 1998 and 54.9% for 1997 were both adversely affected by amortization of
intangibles in excess of amounts which are deductible for tax purposes.
Excluding the non-deductible amortization of intangibles, the annual effective
tax rates would have been 31.8% for 1998 and 44.1% for 1997.


                                     II-10


Equity in Loss of Affiliates

"Equity in loss of affiliated companies, net of tax" was $41.4 million for 1998
as compared to $163.3 million for 1997. In 1998, the equity loss primarily
reflects the net operating loss of United Paramount Network ("UPN"), partially
offset by the positive results of Comedy Central. In 1997, the equity loss
primarily reflects the net operating loss of UPN and charges associated with
international network ventures partially offset by earnings from the Company's
half-interest in USA Networks, which was sold in the fourth quarter of 1997.

Minority Interest

Minority interest primarily represents the minority ownership of Spelling common
stock.

Discontinued Operations

For 1998, discontinued operations reflect the results of operations, net of tax,
of Non-Consumer Publishing prior to sale on November 27, 1998, and music retail
stores prior to sale on October 26, 1998. Discontinued operations also reflect
the gain from the sale of Non-Consumer Publishing of approximately $65.5
million, net of tax, the loss from the sale of music retail stores of
approximately $138.5 million, net of tax, additional losses recognized for
Virgin operations prior to disposal of $20.3 million, net of minority interest,
the tax benefit associated with the disposal of Virgin of $134.0 million and the
reversal of unutilized cable split-off reserves.

For 1997, discontinued operations reflect the results of operations, net of tax,
of (1) Non-Consumer Publishing, (2) music retail stores, (3) the Viacom Radio
Stations prior to disposal on July 2, 1997, as well as the realized gain on the
sale of approximately $416.4 million, net of tax, (4) additional losses
recognized for Virgin operations prior to disposal of $32.0 million, net of
minority interest, and (5) the reversal of unutilized cable split-off reserves.

Extraordinary Loss

During 1998, the Company recognized an after-tax extraordinary loss from the
early extinguishment of debt of $74.7 million.

Results of Operations 1997 versus 1996

Revenues increased 10% to $10.7 billion for 1997 from $9.7 billion for 1996.
Revenue increases were driven primarily by the Networks, Video and Entertainment
segments, all of which increased their percentage of total revenue for 1997.
EBITDA decreased 21% to $1.5 billion for 1997 from $1.9 billion for 1996.
Operating income decreased 43% to $685.4 million for 1997 from $1.2 billion for
1996. Operating results were adversely affected by lower operating margins at
Blockbuster in 1997 and charges taken by Blockbuster during 1997 and 1996.

Total expenses increased 18% to $10.0 billion for 1997 from $8.5 billion for
1996 principally reflecting normal increases in every segment associated with
revenue growth. Expense increases for the year also reflect the second quarter
1997 Blockbuster charge primarily associated with the reduction in the carrying
value of excess retail inventory and the cost of closing underperforming stores
principally located in international markets.


                                     II-11


Segment Results of Continuing Operations - 1997 versus 1996

Networks (Basic Cable and Premium Subscription Television Program Services)

Revenues increased 13% to $2.3 billion for 1997 from $2.0 billion for 1996.
EBITDA increased 18% to $729.4 million for 1997 from $619.3 million for 1996.
Operating income increased 19% to $635.6 million for 1997 from $532.5 million
for 1996. MTVN revenues of $1.5 billion, EBITDA of $634.0 million and operating
income of $569.9 million increased 18%, 20% and 23%, respectively. The increase
in MTVN's revenues principally reflects higher advertising sales and affiliate
fees. Advertising revenue increases were driven by rate increases at Nickelodeon
and higher unit volume at MTV. MTVN's EBITDA and operating income increases were
driven by revenue growth partially offset by increased programming and
production expenses.

SNI's revenues of $724.1 million increased 3% over the prior year principally
reflecting higher DBS revenues due to subscriber growth. SNI's reported 1997
increases of 17% and 10% for EBITDA and operating income, respectively, reflect
continued DBS growth and cost reductions associated with the exit from the
backyard (TVRO) dish retail business. Showtime subscriptions increased
approximately 2.3 million to 18.2 million subscriptions at December 31, 1997.

Entertainment (Motion Pictures, Television Programming, Television Stations,
International Channels, Movie Theaters and Music Publishing)

Revenues increased 10% to $4.3 billion for 1997 from $3.9 billion for 1996.
EBITDA decreased 13% to $514.5 million for 1997 from $593.7 million for 1996.
Operating income decreased 20% to $343.0 million for 1997 from $428.3 million
for 1996. Entertainment revenues were higher than the prior year principally
reflecting higher revenues at Paramount Television attributable to higher
network and syndication revenues for FRASIER. For 1997, higher feature film
revenues were driven by higher home video revenues, led by THE FIRST WIVES CLUB,
MISSION: IMPOSSIBLE and STAR TREK: FIRST CONTACT as well as higher pay
television revenues partially offset by lower foreign theatrical revenues.
EBITDA in 1996 reflects the impact of significant foreign library licensing
agreements entered into by Paramount and Spelling.

PSG's revenues, EBITDA and operating income increased 8%, 5% and 6%,
respectively, primarily due to higher advertising sales partially offset by a
change in station mix reflecting the swapping of network affiliated television
stations for stations which are or will become affiliated with United Paramount
Network. On a same-station basis, revenues, EBITDA and operating income for PSG
increased 13%, 21% and 39%, respectively.

License fees for the television exhibition of motion pictures and for
syndication and basic cable exhibition of television programming are recorded as
revenue in the period that the products are available for such exhibition,
which, among other reasons, may cause substantial fluctuation in operating
results. As of December 31, 1997, the unrecognized revenues attributable to such
licensing agreements were approximately $1.6 billion.


                                     II-12


Video (Home Video and Game rental and retail)

Revenues increased 13% to $3.3 billion for 1997 from $2.9 billion for 1996.
EBITDA decreased 65% to $221.6 million for 1997 from $635.7 million for 1996.
Video recorded operating losses of $196.8 million for 1997 versus operating
income of $309.4 million for 1996. The revenue increase primarily reflects the
increased number of Company-owned video stores in operation in 1997 as compared
to 1996. Blockbuster's worldwide same-store rental revenues and worldwide same
store sales each decreased 1%. Blockbuster ended the year with approximately
6,050 stores, a net increase of approximately 730 stores from the prior year.
EBITDA of $221.6 million reflects the impact of the charge taken in the second
quarter of 1997 which is described below, as well as increased rental tape
amortization costs and higher expenses attributable to the interim effects of
the change in strategic emphasis back to video rental from broad based retail.

During the second quarter of 1997, Blockbuster shifted its strategic emphasis
from retailing a broad assortment of merchandise to focusing on its core rental
business. Rationalization of the retail product lines such as sell-through
video, confectionery items, literature, music and fashion merchandise allowed
the Company to devote more management time and attention, as well as retail
floor selling space, to its video and rental game business. In addition, as part
of its effort to improve the performance of its operations, Blockbuster adopted
a plan to close consistently underperforming stores primarily located in the
United Kingdom and Australia and to exit the German market. As a result,
Blockbuster recorded a pre-tax charge of $322.8 million which consisted of
operating and general and administrative expenses of approximately $247.5
million, as well as depreciation expense attributable to the write-off of
long-lived assets of $45.9 million and write-offs attributable to international
joint ventures accounted for under the equity method of $29.4 million. As a
result of exiting the music business, approximately $72.6 million of the charge
has been presented as part of discontinued operations. The remaining balance of
the charge consisted principally of $100.8 million for a reduction in the
carrying value of excess merchandise inventories, $69.6 million for the closing
of underperforming stores principally located in international markets, and
$39.3 million recognized as general and administrative expenses, primarily
related to relocation costs incurred in connection with the move of the
Company's employees, corporate offices and data center from Fort Lauderdale,
Florida to Dallas, Texas.

The $69.6 million charge for the closing of underperforming stores is comprised
of a $41.8 million non-cash impairment charge associated with long-lived assets
and a $27.8 million charge for lease exit obligations. These amounts have been
recognized as depreciation expense and general and administrative expense,
respectively. Through December 31, 1997, the Company has paid and charged
approximately $2.5 million against the lease exit obligations.

In the fourth quarter of 1996, Blockbuster recognized $25 million of estimated
severance benefits payable to approximately 650 employees of its Fort Lauderdale
headquarters who had chosen not to relocate. Blockbuster, through the
restructuring charge, also recognized $21.0 million of other costs of exiting
Fort Lauderdale and eliminating third party distributors. The Blockbuster
relocation to Dallas was completed during the second quarter of 1997. The
construction of the Blockbuster distribution center has been completed and this
facility was opened in the first quarter of 1998. Through December 31, 1997, the
Company paid and charged approximately $26.6 million against the severance
liability and other exit costs.


                                     II-13


Excluding the impact of the second quarter 1997 charge of approximately $175.7
million, Blockbuster posted EBITDA of $397.3 million.

Parks (Theme Parks)

Parks reported revenues of $367.3 million, operating income of $42.4 million and
EBITDA of $88.9 million for 1997 as compared with revenues of $361.9 million,
operating income of $43.7 million and EBITDA of $87.9 million for 1996
principally reflecting higher per capita spending.

Publishing (Consumer Publishing)

Revenues increased 2% to $556.6 million for 1997 from $547.6 million for 1996.
EBITDA and operating income remained unchanged from 1996. Consumer's bestsellers
for 1997 were led by ANGELA'S ASHES by Frank McCourt, THE JOY OF COOKING by Irma
S. Rombauer, Mary Higgins Clark's PRETEND YOU DON'T SEE HER and Andrew Morton's
DIANA: HER TRUE STORY, THE COMMEMORATIVE EDITION.

Online (Interactive Online Services)

Revenues were $10.4 million and EBITDA and operating income were $2.3 million
for 1997.

Other Income and Expense Information

Corporate Expenses

Corporate expenses, including depreciation and amortization expense, increased
14% to $201.5 million for 1997 from $176.8 million for 1996, principally
reflecting increased general and administrative expenses and increased
intercompany profit elimination for the year.

Interest Expense

Net interest expense decreased 4% to $750.9 million for 1997 from $785.5 million
for 1996, principally reflecting the reduction of debt with proceeds from the
sale of Viacom Radio Stations and USA Networks partially offset by increases in
debt to finance capital expenditures and other investments including the
exercise by the Company of its option to purchase a 50% interest in UPN. The
Company had approximately $7.8 billion and $9.9 billion principal amount of debt
outstanding as of December 31, 1997 and December 31, 1996, respectively, at
weighted average interest rates of 7.8% and 7.4%, respectively. (See Note 8 of
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)

Other Items, net

On October 21, 1997, the Company completed the sale of its half-interest in USA
Networks, including Sci-Fi Channel, to Universal Studios, Inc. for a total of
$1.7 billion in cash. The Company realized a pre-tax gain of approximately $1.1
billion in the fourth quarter of 1997. The net proceeds from this transaction
were used to repay debt.

In addition, during 1997, the Company recorded pre-tax gains on the swap of
certain television stations of approximately $190.9 million partially offset by
write-offs of certain cost investments.


                                     II-14


Provision for Income Taxes

The provision for income taxes represents federal, state and foreign income
taxes on earnings before income taxes. The annual effective tax rates of 54.9%
for 1997 and 59.3% for 1996 were both adversely affected by amortization of
intangibles in excess of amounts which are deductible for tax purposes.
Excluding the non-deductible amortization of intangibles, the annual effective
tax rates would have been 44.1% for 1997 and 35.7% for 1996.

Due to the unusual nature of the 1997 charge recorded by Blockbuster, the full
income tax effect is reflected in the second quarter 1997 tax provision, and is
excluded from the annual effective tax rate.

Equity in Loss of Affiliates

"Equity in loss of affiliated companies, net of tax" was $163.3 million for 1997
as compared to $13.3 million for 1996. The net equity loss for 1997 increased
significantly due to the start-up losses of UPN, the absence of income from USA
Networks subsequent to its sale on October 21, 1997 and charges associated with
international network ventures.

Minority Interest

Minority interest primarily represents the minority ownership of Spelling's
common stock.

Discontinued Operations

For 1997 and 1996, discontinued operations reflect the results of operations,
net of tax, of Non-Consumer Publishing and the music retail stores.
Additionally, for 1997, discontinued operations reflect the Viacom Radio
Stations' net earnings prior to disposal on July 2, 1997 and the realized
after-tax gain of approximately $416.4 million, a net reversal of approximately
$20.8 million principally of cable split-off reserves that were no longer
required, partially offset by a reserve of $32.0 million, net of minority
interest, for anticipated additional losses associated with the operations of
Virgin through disposition.

For the year ended December 31, 1997, the revenues and operating losses of the
interactive game businesses were $241.3 million and $43.5 million, respectively.
These losses were provided for in the estimated loss on disposal of $159.3
million, net of minority interest, which included a provision for future
operating losses of approximately $44.0 million, net of minority interest, as of
December 31, 1996.

For 1996, discontinued operations reflect the results of operations, net of tax,
of the Cable segment, the interactive game businesses, including Virgin, and the
Viacom Radio Stations. The Cable segment was split-off from the Company on July
31, 1996 and the gain realized of approximately $1.3 billion is included in the
net gain on dispositions, net of tax, offset by the anticipated loss on disposal
of the interactive game businesses.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

The Company expects to fund its anticipated cash requirements (including the
anticipated cash requirements of its capital expenditures, joint ventures,
commitments and payments of principal and interest on its outstanding
indebtedness) with internally generated funds, in addition to various external
sources of funds. The external sources of funds may include the Company's
existing Credit Agreements and amendments thereto, co-financing arrangements by
the Company's various divisions relating to the production of entertainment
products, and/or additional financings.


                                     II-15


Dispositions

On November 27, 1998, the Company completed the sale of Non-Consumer Publishing
to Pearson plc for approximately $4.6 billion in cash plus approximately $92
million related to changes in net assets, which is subject to change based upon
final determination of net assets. Viacom retained its consumer publishing
operations, including the Simon & Schuster name.

On October 26, 1998, the Company completed the sale of its music retail stores
to Wherehouse Entertainment, Inc. for approximately $115 million in cash before
adjustments for changes in working capital and recorded a loss of $138.5
million, net of tax, on the disposition. The Company had previously closed the
remaining music stores that were not part of the transaction.

On September 4, 1998, Spelling completed the sale of substantially of all of the
development operations of Virgin to Electronic Arts Inc. for $122.5 million in
cash. In addition, on November 10, 1998, Spelling completed the sale of all
non-U.S. operations of Virgin to an investor group.

Debt Transactions

During December 1998, the Company commenced the unconditional tender offers to
purchase for cash, all of its outstanding 8.0% Merger Debentures due 2006 at a
purchase price of 104% of the principal amount, and to purchase Viacom
International's outstanding 10.25% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2001 at a
purchase price of 112.925% of the principal amount. The tender offer for the
8.0% Merger Debentures expired on January 4, 1999. The offer for the 10.25%
Senior Subordinated Notes expired December 30, 1998 and $163.7 million of such
notes were tendered. Through December 31, 1998, $533.8 million of the 8% Merger
Debentures were tendered and classified as part of accrued liabilities as the
settlement date occurred subsequent to year end. In 1999, an additional $307.5
million of the 8.0% Merger Debentures were tendered for a total principal amount
of $841.3 million of notes tendered.

On December 30, 1998, the Company redeemed all $231.5 million of Viacom
International's outstanding 7% Senior Subordinated Debentures due 2003 at a
redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount.

On May 15, 1998, the Company redeemed all $100.0 million of Viacom
International's outstanding 8.75% Senior Subordinated Reset Notes due 2001 at a
redemption price equal to 101% of the principal amount.

On February 17, 1998, the Company retired all $150.0 million of its outstanding
6.625% Senior Notes due 1998.

On February 15, 1998, the Company redeemed all $150 million of Viacom
International's outstanding 9.125% Senior Subordinated Notes due 1999 at a
redemption price equal to 101.3% of the principal amount.

In addition, the Company purchased $21.8 million of the 8.0% Merger Debentures
and $29.0 million of the 7.75% Senior Notes in open market transactions during
1998.

Effective December 23, 1997, the Company permanently reduced its commitments
under the March 1997 Credit Agreement by $1.0 billion.


                                     II-16


Effective June 30, 1997, certain financial covenants in the March 1997 Credit
Agreements and the film financing credit agreement were amended to provide the
Company with increased financial flexibility. (See Note 8 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.)

The Company's scheduled maturities of indebtedness through December 31, 2003,
assuming full utilization of the March 1997 Credit Agreements, as amended, are
$1.2 billion (1999), $1.7 billion (2000), $1.8 billion (2001), $2.0 billion
(2002) and $350.0 million (2003). The Company's maturities of long-term debt
outstanding at December 31, 1998, excluding capital leases, are $327.9 million
(1999), $150.0 million (2000), $36.3 million (2001), $1.1 billion (2002) and
$350.0 million (2003). The Company has classified certain short-term
indebtedness as long-term debt based upon its intent and ability to refinance
such indebtedness on a long-term basis.

Debt as a percentage of total capitalization of the Company decreased to 26% at
December 31, 1998 from 37% at December 31, 1997.

The Company was in compliance with all debt covenants and had satisfied all
financial ratios and tests as of December 31, 1998 under its Credit Agreements
and the Company expects to be in compliance and satisfy all such covenant ratios
as may be applicable from time to time during 1999.

Share Repurchase Programs

On March 24, 1999, the Company initiated a repurchase program to acquire up to
$500 million in the Company's common stock.

On December 2, 1998, as part of its repurchase program described below, the
Company repurchased 12 million shares of its convertible preferred stock from
Bell Atlantic Corporation for $564 million in cash. On January 5, 1999, the
Company repurchased the remaining 12 million shares of its convertible preferred
stock from Bell Atlantic Corporation for $612 million in cash. The
preferred stock had a cumulative cash dividend of $60 million per
year and was convertible into approximately 34.3 million common shares of the
Company's Class B common stock.

On August 31, 1998, the Company initiated a repurchase program to acquire one or
more classes of the Company's equity securities. Through December 31, 1998, the
Company had repurchased 12,000 shares of Class A Common Stock, 26,190,200 shares
of Class B Common Stock, 5,502,000 Viacom Five-Year Warrants, expiring on July
7, 1999, and 12 million shares of its convertible preferred stock for
approximately $1.4 billion in the aggregate. On February 10, 1999, the program
was completed and the Company had repurchased a total of 12,000 shares of Class
A Common Stock 26,255,600 shares of Class B Common Stock, 5,546,500 Viacom
Five-Year warrants, expiring on July 7, 1999 and 24 million shares of its
convertible preferred stock. The total repurchase program approximated $2.0
billion.


                                     II-17


During 1997, the Company completed its joint purchase program initially
established in September 1996 with NAI, for each to acquire up to $250 million,
or $500 million in total, of the Company's Class A Common Stock, Class B Common
Stock, and, as to the Company, Viacom Warrants. The Company repurchased
1,319,400 shares of Viacom Inc. Class A Common Stock, 11,632,600 shares of
Viacom Inc. Class B Common Stock and 6,824,590 Viacom Five-Year Warrants,
expiring on July 7, 1999, for approximately $250 million in the aggregate. As of
December 31, 1997, NAI had separately acquired 2,564,400 shares of Viacom Inc.
Class A Common Stock and 11,204,000 shares of Viacom Inc. Class B Common Stock
pursuant to the joint purchase program for approximately $250 million, raising
its ownership to approximately 67% of Viacom Inc. Class A Common Stock and
approximately 28% of Class A and Class B Common Stock on a combined basis, and
as of December 31, 1998, NAI's ownership percentages were approximately the
same.

                                   ----------

Planned capital expenditures, including information systems costs, are
approximately $600 million to $700 million in 1999. Capital expenditures are
primarily related to capital additions for new and existing video stores,
expansion of Paramount's theatres and theme park attractions. The Company's
joint ventures, including UPN, are expected to require estimated net cash
contributions of approximately $90 million to $140 million in 1999.

The Company uses derivative financial instruments to reduce its exposure to
market risks from changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. The
Company does not hold or issue financial instruments for speculative trading
purposes. The derivative instruments used are foreign exchange forward contracts
and options. The foreign exchange contracts have principally been used to hedge
the British Pound, the Australian Dollar, the Japanese Yen, the Canadian Dollar,
the Singapore Dollar, the European Union's common currency (the "Euro") and the
European Currency Unit/British Pound relationship. These derivatives, which are
over-the-counter instruments, are non-leveraged. At December 31, 1998, the
Company had outstanding contracts with a notional value of approximately $4.3
million which expire in 1999. Realized gains and losses on contracts that hedge
anticipated future cash flows are recognized in "other items, net" and were not
material in any of the periods presented.

The Company continually monitors its positions with, and credit quality of, the
financial institutions which are counterparties to its financial instruments.
The Company is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the
counterparties to the agreements. However, the Company does not anticipate
nonperformance by the counterparties. The Company's receivables do not represent
significant concentrations of credit risk at December 31, 1998, due to the wide
variety of customers, markets and geographic areas to which the Company's
products and services are sold.


                                     II-18


The Company filed a shelf registration statement with the Securities and
Exchange Commission registering debt securities, preferred stock and contingent
value rights of Viacom and guarantees of such debt securities by Viacom
International which may be issued for aggregate gross proceeds of $3.0 billion.
The registration statement was declared effective on May 10, 1995. The net
proceeds from the sale of the offered securities may be used by Viacom to repay,
redeem, repurchase or satisfy its obligations in respect of its outstanding
indebtedness or other securities; to make loans to its subsidiaries; for general
corporate purposes; or for such other purposes as may be specified in the
applicable Prospectus Supplement. The Company filed a post-effective amendment
to this registration statement on November 19, 1996. To date, the Company has
issued $1.55 billion of notes and debentures and has $1.45 billion remaining
availability under the shelf registration statement.

The commitments of the Company for program license fees, which are not reflected
in the balance sheet as of December 31, 1998 and are estimated to aggregate
approximately $1.2 billion, excluding intersegment commitments of approximately
$738.9 million, principally reflect SNI's commitments of approximately $1.1
billion for the acquisition of programming rights and the production of original
programming. This estimate is based upon a number of factors. A majority of such
fees are payable over several years, as part of normal programming expenditures
of SNI. These commitments to acquire programming rights are contingent upon
delivery of motion pictures which are not yet available for premium television
exhibition and, in many cases, have not yet been produced.

See Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of
the Company's future minimum lease commitments.

There are various lawsuits and claims pending against the Company. Management
believes that any ultimate liability resulting from those actions or claims will
not have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations,
financial position or liquidity.

Certain subsidiaries and affiliates of the Company from time to time receive
claims from federal and state environmental regulatory agencies and other
entities asserting that they are or may be liable for environmental cleanup
costs and related damages, principally relating to discontinued operations
conducted by its former mining and manufacturing businesses (acquired as part of
the mergers with Paramount and Blockbuster). The Company has recorded a
liability reflecting its best estimate of environmental exposure. Such liability
was not discounted or reduced by potential insurance recoveries and reflects
management's estimate of cost sharing at multiparty sites. The estimated
liability was calculated based upon currently available facts, existing
technology and presently enacted laws and regulations. On the basis of its
experience and the information currently available to it, the Company believes
that the claims it has received will not have a material adverse effect on its
results of operations, financial position or liquidity.


                                     II-19


Current assets decreased to $5.1 billion as of December 31, 1998 from $5.7
billion as of December 31, 1997, principally reflecting the sale of Non-Consumer
Publishing and the reduction of receivables due to the asset securitization
programs. Proceeds from the sale of these receivables under the asset
securitization programs were used to reduce outstanding borrowings. The
allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of receivables increased to 5%
for 1998 from 4% for 1997. The change in property and equipment principally
reflects capital expenditures of $603.5 million related to capital additions for
new and existing video stores, construction of new movie theaters and additional
construction and equipment upgrades for the Parks offset by depreciation expense
of $441.8 million. Current liabilities increased to $5.6 billion from $5.1
billion reflecting the timing of the settlement for the 8% Merger Debentures and
increased participation liabilities primarily attributable to successful films
such as TITANIC and other normal operating activity. Long-term debt including
current maturities, decreased to $4.2 billion from $7.8 billion, reflecting debt
reduction from proceeds received with the sale of Non-Consumer Publishing and
the asset securitization programs.

Net cash flow from operating activities increased to $864.1 million in 1998 from
$340.0 million in 1997 due to the reductions in accounts receivable as a result
of the asset securitization programs and increased operating results of the
Company, partially offset by the first quarter 1998 tax payment related to the
sale of USA Networks. Net cash flow from investing activities of $4.2 billion
for 1998 principally reflects the proceeds from the sale of Non-Consumer
Publishing of approximately $4.6 billion in cash plus approximately $92 million
related to changes in net assets and the sale of certain investments offset by
capital expenditures. Net cash flow from investing activities of $1.9 billion
for 1997, principally reflects the proceeds of $1.1 billion from the sale of the
Company's Radio business, as well as $1.7 billion in proceeds from the sale of
USA Networks, both of which were partially offset by capital expenditures and
other investing activities. Financing activities reflect repayment of debt, the
repurchase of convertible preferred stock and purchase of treasury stock and
warrants, offset by the exercise of stock options and warrants.

Other Matters

On March 19, 1999, the Company announced that it has offered to purchase the
remaining shares of Spelling that it does not already own, approximately 20%,
for $9 in cash per share in a merger transaction. The offer, approved by the
Company's Board of Directors, is contingent upon approval of Spelling's
independent Directors.

In April 1998, Statement of Position 98-5 "Reporting on the Costs of Start-Up
Activities" ("SOP 98-5") was issued. SOP 98-5 provides guidance on the financial
reporting of start-up costs and organization costs. The SOP is effective for
financial statements for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1998. The
Company does not anticipate that the adoption of this statement will have a
material effect on its financial statements.


                                     II-20


In June 1998, the FASB issued SFAS 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments
and Hedging Activities" ("SFAS 133"), effective for fiscal years beginning after
June 15, 1999. The Company anticipates that due to its limited use of derivative
instruments, the adoption of SFAS 133 will not have a material effect on its
financial statements.

In October 1998, the FASB released an exposure draft of the proposed statement
on "Rescission of FASB Statement No. 53, Financial Reporting by Producers and
Distributors of Motion Picture Films," ("SFAS 53"). An entity that previously
was subject to the requirements of SFAS 53 would follow the guidance in a
proposed Statement of Position, "Accounting by Producers and Distributors of
Films." This proposed Statement of Position would be effective for financial
statements for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1999 and could have a
significant impact on the Company's results of operations and financial position
depending on its final outcome. The Company has not concluded on its impact
given the preliminary stages of the proposed Statement of Position.

Euro Conversion

In January 1999, eleven member countries of the European Union established
permanent conversion rates between their existing currencies and the Euro. The
transition period for the introduction of the Euro will be between January 1,
1999 and June 30, 2002. The Company conducts business in member countries and is
addressing the issues involved with the introduction of the Euro. The more
important issues facing the Company include: converting information technology
systems, reassessing currency risk, negotiating and amending licensing
agreements and contracts, and processing tax, accounting, payroll and customer
records.

Based on the progress to date, the Company believes that the introduction of the
Euro will not have a significant impact on the manner in which it conducts its
business affairs and processes its business and accounting records. Accordingly,
conversion to the Euro is not expected to have a material effect on the
Company's financial condition or results of operations.

Year 2000

Overview

The widespread use of computer programs that rely on two-digit dates to perform
computations and decision making functions may cause computer systems to
malfunction prior to or in the year 2000 ("Y2K") and lead to significant
business delays and disruptions in the U.S. and internationally. In December
1997, the Company formalized its Y2K initiative to optimize the divisional Y2K
efforts that had already begun, by developing a Company wide program to identify
and mitigate Y2K risks. Pursuant to this program, each of the Company's
principal business units developed programs to address Y2K exposures. In
addition, under the direction of its Board of Directors, the Company has
designated a committee of senior officers to oversee these programs and has
engaged an independent consulting firm to assist in the review and oversight. At
present, the Company anticipates completing its program to have substantially
all critical and non-critical systems compliant prior to the end of the third
quarter of 1999.

The Company is reviewing its Y2K issues based upon three areas: applications,
infrastructure and business partners.

o     Applications cover the software systems resident on mainframe, mid-range,
      network and personal computers. The Company defines an application as one
      or a collection of programs directly related to a common system. For
      example, a financial application may include all the general ledger and
      accounts receivable software code used to process information throughout
      an operating segment. In addition, the Company's applications have been
      segregated into critical and non-critical applications. Critical
      applications are software systems which, if not operational, could have a
      material impact on business operations.

o     Infrastructure includes the computers, data and voice communications
      networks, and other equipment which use embedded chip processors (e.g.,
      inventory movement systems, tape duplication equipment, telephone systems,
      etc.).

o     Business partners include third party vendors, customers and other
      entities whose systems may interface with the Company or whose own
      operations are important to the Company's daily operations.


                                     II-21


These three areas have been addressed using a five phase program: inventory,
assessment, remediation, testing and contingency planning.

o     Phase 1 inventories the respective applications, hardware and business
      partners.

o     Phase 2 assesses the possible impact of a Y2K error on the continuing
      operation of each identified application, hardware systems or business
      partner relationship; and subsequently determines the risk to operations
      and assigns priorities.

o     Phase 3 establishes and implements specific plans for the remediation of
      applications and hardware systems and for the determination of business
      partners' compliance.

o     Phase 4 tests each application and hardware system and reviews business
      partners' compliance under the plans established in phase 3, to ensure
      that Y2K issues no longer exist.

o     Phase 5 establishes and implements contingency plans in the event internal
      or external systems are not compliant.

Changes may occur to the Company's operations during the implementation of its
Y2K program or subsequent to the completion of each phase, therefore, management
may periodically revise its plans. The Company continues to review and test
systems for Y2K compliance as changes occur.

State of Readiness

The Company's Y2K progress as of March 22, 1999 is as follows:

Applications

The inventory and assessment phases for the Company have been completed.
Applications status of each operating segment is discussed below.

Networks, Corporate, Online - We have identified 15 critical domestic and 29
critical international applications which primarily relate to program
scheduling, finance/payroll and network transmission. A majority of critical
domestic applications has been remediated and tested and the remaining systems
are scheduled for completion during the second quarter of 1999. International's
critical applications are currently being remediated and testing is scheduled
for completion in the second quarter of 1999. A significant number of domestic
and international non-critical applications have been remediated and tested and
the remaining applications are scheduled for completion in the second quarter
of 1999.

Entertainment - We have identified 71 critical domestic and 50 critical
international applications which primarily relate to theatrical and video
distribution, TV syndication, theater point-of-sale and finance/payroll. A
significant number of critical and non-critical worldwide applications have been
remediated and tested and the remaining systems are scheduled for completion
during the second and third quarters of 1999.

Video - We have identified 16 critical domestic and 6 critical international
applications which primarily relate to point-of-sale, warehousing and
distribution, and finance/payroll. A significant number of critical and
non-critical worldwide applications have been remediated and tested and the
remaining applications are scheduled for completion during the second and third
quarters of 1999.


                                     II-22


Publishing - We have identified 13 critical domestic applications which
primarily relate to order processing, warehousing and billing. A majority of
critical domestic applications has been remediated and tested and the remaining
systems are scheduled for completion in the second quarter of 1999. A
significant number of non-critical applications have been remediated and tested
and the remaining systems are scheduled for completion in the second quarter of
1999.

Parks - We have identified 20 critical domestic and 4 critical international
applications which primarily relate to point-of-sale, ticketing and
finance/payroll. All critical worldwide applications have been remediated and
tested. A significant number of non-critical applications have been remediated
and tested and the remaining systems are scheduled to be completed in the second
quarter of 1999.

Infrastructure

Infrastructure status of each operating segment is discussed below.

Networks, Corporate, Online - The inventory and assessment phases for domestic
and international operations have been completed. A majority of the remediation
and testing of domestic and international hardware systems has been completed.
The remaining infrastructure systems will be completed by the third quarter of
1999.

Entertainment - The inventory and assessment phases for domestic computer
systems have been completed. The inventory and assessment of the remaining
non-computer domestic systems (e.g., studio production facilities and equipment)
will be completed by the second quarter of 1999. International's inventory and
assessment phases are substantially complete; the remainder will be completed by
the second quarter of 1999. Worldwide remediation and testing of infrastructure
systems will be completed in the second and third quarters of 1999.

Video - Domestic and international inventory and assessment phases have been
completed. A majority of the systems with embedded processors have completed
remediation and testing. The remaining hardware systems will be completed during
the second and third quarters of 1999.

Publishing - The inventory and assessment phases have been completed. A
substantial number of hardware systems have been remediated and tested; the
remaining systems are scheduled for completion during the second and third
quarters of 1999.

Parks - The inventory and assessment phases have been completed. Substantially
all systems with embedded processors have been remediated and tested. The
remainder are scheduled for remediation and testing during the second quarter of
1999.


                                     II-23


Business Partners

During the course of business operations, the Company relies on third party
business partners to provide raw materials and services and to distribute and
sell products. These business partners include financial institutions,
governmental agencies and utilities. The disruption of the ability to receive
raw materials or services or to distribute or sell the Company's products could
adversely affect the financial condition of the Company. Although the Company
has little or no control over the remediation and testing of these third party
systems, the Company is taking appropriate action to determine the level of Y2K
compliance at each third party. These actions include, but are not limited to,
requesting written confirmation of a business or business system's Y2K
compliance; directly meeting with business management; and, performing
additional independent tests. Subsequent to the Company's review of third party
Y2K compliance, management is determining the need for contingency plans.

The Company has substantially completed the inventory phase and is in the
assessment phase of business partners and expects this phase to be completed by
the second quarter of 1999. The determination of third party Y2K compliance will
continue through the end of the year.

Contingency Plans and Risks

As the remediation, testing and review of each application, infrastructure item
and business partners occur, the Company is determining the need for contingency
plans. Where appropriate, plans addressing both operational and technical
alternatives are being developed. This phase has begun and will continue through
the end of 1999.

The Company's goal is to achieve timely and substantial Y2K compliance, with
remediation work assigned based upon how critical each system is to the
Company's business. Due to the general uncertainty inherent in the Y2K problem
resulting in part from the uncertainty of compliance by the Company's principal
business partners and third party providers, the Company is unable to determine
at this time what the consequences of Y2K may be. Also, the Company's
international operations may be adversely affected by failures of businesses in
other parts of the world to take adequate steps to address the Y2K problem. The
Company will continue to devote the necessary resources to complete its Y2K
program and contingency plans and believes that the completion of its Y2K
program and contingency plans will significantly mitigate operational and
financial risks.

Costs

Y2K costs have been expensed as incurred, except those costs directly related to
the replacement of systems requiring upgrades in the ordinary course of business
which have been capitalized. As of February 28, 1999, the Company had incurred
costs of approximately $31.7 million, of which $8.4 million has been
capitalized. The estimated additional costs to complete the Y2K program are
currently expected to approximate $20.7 million, of which approximately $4.0
million are expected to be capitalized. Based on these amounts, the Company does
not expect the costs of the Y2K program to have a material effect on its results
of operations, financial position or liquidity.

                                     II-24


Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and
Shareholders of Viacom Inc.

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related
consolidated statements of operations, of cash flows and of shareholders' equity
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Viacom Inc.
and its subsidiaries (the "Company") at December 31, 1998 and 1997, and the
results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 1998, in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement
schedule listed in the index appearing under Item 14(a) present fairly, in all
material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction
with the related consolidated financial statements. These financial statements
and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company's
management; our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits. We conducted
our audits of these statements in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above.


PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

New York, New York
February 8, 1999, except for the first paragraph of Note 2, which is as of
February 25, 1999


                                     II-25


        MANAGEMENT'S STATEMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL REPORTING

Management has prepared and is responsible for the consolidated financial
statements and related notes of Viacom Inc. They have been prepared in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and necessarily include
amounts based on judgments and estimates by management. All financial
information in this annual report is consistent with the consolidated financial
statements.

The Company maintains internal accounting control systems and related policies
and procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance that assets are
safeguarded, that transactions are executed in accordance with management's
authorization and properly recorded, and that accounting records may be relied
upon for the preparation of consolidated financial statements and other
financial information. The design, monitoring, and revision of internal
accounting control systems involve, among other things, management's judgment
with respect to the relative cost and expected benefits of specific control
measures. The Company also maintains an internal auditing function which
evaluates and reports on the adequacy and effectiveness of internal accounting
controls, policies and procedures.

Viacom Inc.'s consolidated financial statements have been audited by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent accountants, who have expressed their
opinion with respect to the presentation of these statements.

The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, which is comprised solely of
directors who are not employees of the Company, meets periodically with the
independent accountants, with our internal auditors, as well as with management,
to review accounting, auditing, internal accounting controls and financial
reporting matters. The Audit Committee is also responsible for recommending to
the Board of Directors the independent accounting firm to be retained for the
coming year, subject to shareholder approval. The independent accountants and
the internal auditors have full and free access to the Audit Committee with and
without management's presence.

                                       VIACOM INC.


                                       By: /s/ Sumner M. Redstone
                                           -------------------------------------
                                                   Sumner M. Redstone
                                            Chairman of the Board of Directors,
                                                Chief Executive Officer


                                       By: /s/ George S. Smith, Jr.
                                           -------------------------------------
                                                  George S. Smith, Jr.
                                                 Senior Vice President,
                                                Chief Financial Officer


                                       By: /s/ Susan C. Gordon
                                           -------------------------------------
                                                     Susan C. Gordon
                                                Vice President, Controller,
                                                 Chief Accounting Officer


                                     II-26


VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(In millions, except per share amounts)




                 See notes to consolidated financial statements.


                                     II-27


VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In millions)



                 See notes to consolidated financial statements.


                                     II-28


VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In millions, except per share amounts)



                 See notes to consolidated financial statements.


                                     II-29


VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(In millions)



                 See notes to consolidated financial statements.


                                     II-30


VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
(In millions)



                 See notes to consolidated financial statements.


                                     II-31


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
            (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

1) DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Basis of Presentation - Viacom Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company") is a
diversified entertainment company with operations in the six segments described
below. These operating segments have been determined in accordance with the
Company's internal management structure, which is organized based on products
and services. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
("SFAS") 131, "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
Information", certain similar operating segments have been aggregated. See Note
3 regarding the presentation of discontinued operations. See Note 14 regarding
the relative contribution to revenues and operating results of each of the
following operating segments:

Networks

MTV Networks owns and operates advertiser-supported basic cable television
program services, and Showtime Networks Inc. owns and operates premium
subscription cable television program services.

Entertainment

Paramount Pictures: 1) produces, acquires, finances and distributes feature
motion pictures, normally for exhibition in U.S. and foreign theaters followed
by videocassettes and discs, pay-per-view television, premium subscription
television, network television, basic cable television and syndicated television
exploitation; 2) produces, acquires and distributes series, mini-series,
specials and made-for-television movies initially for network television,
first-run syndication and basic cable television, and subsequently for
syndication; 3) operates movie theaters; 4) acquires and exploits a library of
music copyrights to various musical works, including songs, scores and cues; and
5) owns and operates 17 televisions stations and operates 2 stations pursuant to
local marketing agreements.

Spelling Entertainment Group Inc. ("Spelling") is a producer and distributor of
television series, mini-series and made-for-television movies.

Video

Blockbuster Video operates and franchises videocassette rental and retail sales
stores throughout the United States and internationally.

Parks

Paramount Parks owns and operates five regional theme parks and a themed
attraction in the United States and Canada.

Publishing

Simon & Schuster publishes and distributes consumer hardcover books, trade
paperbacks, mass-market paperbacks, children's books, audiobooks, electronic
books and CD-ROM products in the United States and internationally.

Online

Viacom online services provides online music and children destinations featuring
entertainment, information, community tools and e-commerce.


                                     II-32


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

Use of Estimates - The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Actual results could subsequently differ from those estimates.

Principles of Consolidation - The consolidated financial statements include the
accounts of the Company and investments of more than 50% in subsidiaries and
other entities. Investments in affiliated companies over which the Company has a
significant influence or ownership of more than 20% but less than or equal to
50% are accounted for under the equity method. Investments of 20% or less are
accounted for under the cost method. All significant intercompany transactions
have been eliminated.

Cash Equivalents - Cash equivalents are defined as short-term (three months or
less) highly liquid investments.

Inventories - Inventories related to theatrical and television product (which
include direct production costs, production overhead, acquisition costs, prints
and certain exploitation costs) are stated at the lower of amortized cost or net
realizable value. Inventories are amortized, and liabilities for residuals and
participations are accrued, on an individual product basis based on the
proportion that current revenues bear to the estimated remaining total lifetime
revenues. Estimates for initial domestic syndication and basic cable revenues
are not included in the estimated lifetime revenues of network series until such
sales are probable. Estimates of total lifetime revenues and expenses are
periodically reviewed. The costs of feature and television films are classified
as current assets to the extent such costs are expected to be recovered through
their respective primary markets, with the remainder classified as non-current.
A portion of the cost to acquire Paramount and Spelling was allocated to
theatrical and television inventories based upon estimated revenues from certain
films less related costs of distribution and a reasonable profit allowance for
the selling effort. The cost allocated to films is being amortized over their
estimated economic lives not to exceed 20 years.

The Company estimates that approximately 70% of unamortized film costs
(including amounts allocated under purchase accounting) at December 31, 1998
will be amortized within the next three years.

Inventories related to base stock videocassettes (generally less than five
copies per title for each store) are recorded at cost and a portion of these
costs are amortized on an accelerated basis over three months, generally to $8
per unit, with the remaining base stock videocassette costs amortized on a
straight-line basis over 33 months to an estimated $4 salvage value. The cost of
non-base stock videocassettes (generally greater than four copies per title for
each store) is amortized on an accelerated basis over three months to an
estimated $4 salvage value. Video games are amortized on an accelerated basis
over a 12 month period to an estimated $10 salvage value (See Note 4).


                                     II-33


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

Program Rights - The Company acquires rights to exhibit programming on its
broadcast stations or cable networks. The costs incurred in acquiring programs
are capitalized and amortized over the license period. Program rights and the
related liabilities are recorded at the gross amount of the liabilities when the
license period has begun, the cost of the program is determinable, and the
program is accepted and available for airing.

Property and Equipment - Property and equipment is stated at cost. Depreciation
is computed principally by the straight-line method over estimated useful lives
ranging from 3 to 40 years. Depreciation expense, including capitalized lease
amortization, was $441.8 million (1998), $447.2 million (1997) and $331.1
million (1996).

Property and equipment includes capital leases of $399.0 million and $463.1
million as of December 31, 1998 and December 31, 1997, respectively, net of
accumulated amortization of $272.7 million and $192.5 million, respectively.
Amortization expense related to capital leases was $62.6 million (1998), $58.4
million (1997) and $63.0 million (1996).

In 1996, the Company adopted SFAS 121 "Accounting for the Impairment of
Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of" ("SFAS 121").
SFAS 121 requires that the Company assess long-lived assets and certain
identifiable intangibles for impairment whenever there is an indication that the
carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of these
assets is determined by comparing the forecasted undiscounted cash flows
generated by those assets to the assets' net carrying value. The amount of
impairment loss, if any, will generally be measured by the difference between
the net book value of the assets and the estimated fair value of the related
assets. The adoption of SFAS 121 did not have a significant effect on the
consolidated financial position or results of operations.

Intangible Assets - Intangible assets, which primarily consist of the cost of
acquired businesses in excess of the fair value of tangible assets and
liabilities acquired ("goodwill"), are generally amortized by the straight-line
method over estimated useful lives of up to 40 years. The Company evaluates the
amortization period of intangibles on an ongoing basis in light of changes in
any business conditions, events or circumstances that may indicate the potential
impairment of intangible assets. Accumulated amortization of intangible assets
was $1.6 billion at December 31, 1998 and 1997.

Revenue Recognition - Subscriber fees for Networks are recognized in the period
the service is provided. Advertising revenues for Networks are recognized in the
period during which the spots are aired. Video segment revenues are recognized
at the time of rental or sale. The publishing segment recognizes revenue when
merchandise is shipped.

Theatrical revenues from domestic and foreign markets are recognized as films
are exhibited; revenues from the sale of videocassettes and discs are recognized
upon availability of sale to the public; and revenues from all television
sources are recognized upon availability of the film for telecast. On average,
the length of the initial revenue cycle for feature films approximates four to
seven years.


                                     II-34


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

Television series initially produced for the networks and first-run syndication
are generally licensed to domestic and foreign markets concurrently. The more
successful series are later syndicated in domestic markets and in certain
foreign markets. The length of the revenue cycle for television series will vary
depending on the number of seasons a series remains in active production.
Revenues arising from television license agreements are recognized in the period
that the films or television series are available for telecast and therefore may
cause fluctuation in operating results.

Interest - Costs associated with the refinancing or issuance of debt, as well as
with debt discount, are expensed as interest over the term of the related debt.
The Company enters into interest rate exchange agreements; the amount to be paid
or received under such agreements is accrued as interest rates change and is
recognized over the life of the agreements as an adjustment to interest expense.
Amounts paid for purchased interest rate cap agreements are amortized as
interest expense over the term of the agreement.

Foreign Currency Translation and Transactions - The Company's foreign
subsidiaries' assets and liabilities are translated at exchange rates in effect
at the balance sheet date, while results of operations are translated at average
exchange rates for the respective periods. The resulting translation gains or
losses are included as a separate component of shareholders' equity in
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income. Foreign currency transaction gains and
losses have been included in "other items, net", and have not been material in
any of the years presented.

Provision for Doubtful Accounts - The provision for doubtful accounts charged to
expense was $29.5 million (1998), $83.1 million (1997) and $55.1 million (1996).

Net Earnings (Loss) per Common Share - Basic earnings per share is based upon
the net earnings applicable to common shares after preferred dividend
requirements and upon the weighted average number of common shares outstanding
during the period. Diluted earnings per share reflects the effect of the assumed
conversions of convertible securities and exercise of stock options only in the
periods in which such effect would have been dilutive.

In December 1998, the Company repurchased 12 million shares of its convertible
preferred stock. The preferred stock had a cumulative cash dividend of $30
million per year.

For each of the full years presented, the effect of the assumed conversion of
preferred stock is antidilutive and therefore, not reflected in diluted net
earnings per common share. Prior period amounts have been adjusted to reflect
the effect of the 2-for-1 stock split (See Note 2). The numerator used in the
calculation of both basic and diluted EPS for each respective year reflects
earnings from continuing operations less preferred stock dividends of $57.2
million for 1998 and $60 million for both 1997 and 1996 plus the discount on
repurchase of preferred stock of $30 million for 1998. The table below presents
a reconciliation of weighted average shares used in the calculation of basic and
diluted EPS:


                                     II-35


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

                                                      1998       1997       1996
                                                    ------     ------     ------
Weighted average shares for basic EPS .........      708.7      705.8      728.0
Plus incremental shares for stock options .....         --        2.7        6.7
                                                    ------     ------     ------
Weighted average shares for diluted EPS .......      708.7      708.5      734.7
                                                    ======     ======     ======

Comprehensive Income (Loss) -- The Company adopted SFAS 130, "Reporting
Comprehensive Income", effective January 1, 1998. The components of accumulated
other comprehensive income (loss) were as follows:



Reclassifications - Certain amounts reported for prior years have been
reclassified to conform with the current year's presentation.

Recent Pronouncements - In April 1998, Statement of Position 98-5 "Reporting on
the Costs of Start-Up Activities" ("SOP 98-5") was issued. SOP 98-5 provides
guidance on the financial reporting of start-up costs and organization costs.
The SOP is effective for financial statements for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 1998. The Company does not anticipate that the adoption of this
statement will have a material effect on its financial statements.

In June 1998, the FASB issued SFAS 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments
and Hedging Activities" ("SFAS 133"), effective for fiscal years beginning after
June 15, 1999. The Company anticipates that due to its limited use of derivative
instruments, the adoption of SFAS 133 will not have a material effect on its
financial statements.


                                     II-36


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

In October 1998, the FASB released an exposure draft of the proposed statement
on "Rescission of FASB Statement No. 53, Financial Reporting by Producers and
Distributors of Motion Picture Films," ("SFAS 53"). An entity that previously
was subject to the requirements of SFAS 53 would follow the guidance in a
proposed Statement of Position, "Accounting by Producers and Distributors of
Films." This proposed Statement of Position would be effective for financial
statements for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1999 and could have a
significant impact on the Company's results of operations and financial position
depending on its final outcome. The Company has not concluded on its impact
given the preliminary stages of the proposed Statement of Position.

2) SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

On February 25, 1999, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a 2-for-1
common stock split, to be effected in the form of a dividend. The additional
shares will be issued on March 31, 1999 to shareholders of record on March 15,
1999. All common share and per share amounts have been adjusted to reflect the
stock split for all periods presented (See Note 10).

On January 5, 1999, the Company repurchased the remaining 12 million shares of
its convertible preferred stock from Bell Atlantic Corporation for $612 million
in cash.


                                     II-37


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

3) DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

In accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion ("APB") 30, "Reporting
the Results of Operations - Reporting the Effects of Disposal of a Segment of a
Business, and Extraordinary, Unusual and Infrequently Occurring Events and
Transactions", the Company has presented the following lines of business as
discontinued operations: its educational, professional and reference publishing
businesses ("Non-Consumer Publishing"), its music retail stores, interactive
game businesses, Viacom Radio Stations and Viacom Cable.

On November 27, 1998, the Company completed the sale of Non-Consumer Publishing
to Pearson plc for approximately $4.6 billion in cash plus approximately $92
million related to changes in net assets, which is subject to change based upon
final determination of net assets. Viacom retained its consumer publishing
operations, including the Simon & Schuster name. As a result of the sale, the
Company recorded a net gain on the transaction of $65.5 million.

On October 26, 1998, the Company completed the sale of its music retail stores
to Wherehouse Entertainment, Inc. for approximately $115 million in cash before
adjustments for changes in working capital and recorded a net loss on the
transaction of $138.5 million. The Company had previously closed the remaining
music stores that were not part of the transaction.

On February 19, 1997, the Company adopted a plan to dispose of its interactive
game businesses, including Viacom New Media, the operations of which were
terminated in 1997. On that same date, the Board of Directors of Spelling
approved a formal plan to dispose of Virgin Interactive Entertainment Limited
("Virgin"). Accordingly, the interactive game businesses were presented as
discontinued operations. On September 4, 1998, Spelling completed the sale of 
substantially all of the development operations of Virgin to Electronic Arts 
Inc. for $122.5 million in cash. In addition, on November 10, 1998, Spelling 
completed the sale of all non-U.S. operations of Virgin to an investor group.

For the year ended December 31, 1997, the revenues and operating losses of the
interactive game businesses were $241.3 million and $43.5 million, respectively.
These losses were provided for in the estimated loss on disposal of $159.3
million, net of minority interest, which included a provision for future
operating losses of approximately $44.0 million, net of minority interest, as of
December 31, 1996. In the fourth quarter of 1997, an estimated loss of $32.0
million, net of minority interest, was recorded, reflecting anticipated future
operating losses and cash funding requirements through completion of the
disposition.

On July 2, 1997, the Company completed the sale of Viacom Radio Stations to
Chancellor Media Corp. for approximately $1.1 billion in cash. As a result of
the sale, the Company realized a gain on disposition of approximately $416.4
million, net of tax, in the third quarter of 1997.

On July 31, 1996, the Company completed the split-off of its Cable segment
pursuant to an exchange offer and related transactions. As a result, the Company
realized a gain of approximately $1.3 billion, reduced its debt and retired
approximately 4.1% of the Company's then total outstanding common shares.


                                     II-38



                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

For the year ended December 31, 1998, the net gain on dispositions of $49.9
million includes the gain from the sale of Non-Consumer Publishing of $65.5
million, net of tax, a tax benefit related to the sale of Virgin of $134.0
million and the reversal of cable split-off reserves that were no longer
required, partially offset by the loss on the sale of the Company's music retail
stores of $138.5 million, net of tax, and additional reserves of $20.3 million,
net of minority interest, which provided for Virgin's operating losses through
its disposition.

For the year ended December 31, 1997, the net gain on dispositions of $405.2
million includes approximately $416.4 million, net of tax, for the Viacom Radio
Stations sale, a net reversal of approximately $20.8 million principally of
Cable split-off reserves that were no longer required partially offset by a
reserve of $32.0 million, net of minority interest, for anticipated additional
losses associated with the operations of Virgin through disposition.

For the year ended December 31, 1996, the net gain on dispositions of
approximately $1.2 billion includes the Cable gain of approximately $1.3 billion
and the Company's estimated loss on disposal of its interactive game businesses
of $159.3 million.

Basic earnings (loss) per share for discontinued operations was ($0.01), $0.60
and $1.50 for 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. Diluted earnings (loss) per
share for discontinued operations was $(0.01), $0.60 and $1.49 for 1998, 1997
and 1996, respectively.


                                     II-39


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

Summarized financial data of discontinued operations are as follows:



                                                          At December 31, 1997
                                                          --------------------
Financial position(5):
Current assets .............................                   $  114.9
Net property and equipment .................                       14.5
Other assets ...............................                      153.1
Total liabilities ..........................                     (293.0)
                                                               --------
Net liabilities of discontinued operations .                   $  (10.5)
                                                               ========

      (1)   Results of operations reflect Non-Consumer Publishing for the period
            January 1 through November 26, 1998.
      (2)   Results of operations reflect the music retail stores for the period
            January 1 through August 10, 1998.
      (3)   Results of operations include Radio for the six months ended June
            30, 1997. Results of operations of Interactive for 1997 were
            provided for in the prior year's estimated loss on disposal.
      (4)   Results of operations include Cable for the six months ended June
            30, 1996.
      (5)   Reflects financial position of Interactive at December 31, 1997.

The provisions for income taxes of $18.0 million for 1998 and $53.8 million for
1997 represent effective tax rates of (49.9%) and 78.3%, respectively. The
effective tax rate for 1996 is not meaningful. The differences between the
effective tax rates and the statutory federal tax rate of 35% principally relate
to certain non-deductible expenses, the allocation of nondeductible goodwill
amortization, state and local taxes and, for 1996, the provision of valuation
allowances attributable to net operating losses of Virgin.


                                     II-40


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

4) CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING METHOD AND OTHER CHARGES

Effective April 1, 1998, Blockbuster adopted an accelerated method of amortizing
videocassette and game rental inventory. Blockbuster has adopted this new method
of amortization because it has implemented a new business model, including
revenue sharing agreements with Hollywood studios, which has dramatically
increased the number of videocassettes in the stores and is satisfying consumer
demand over a shorter period of time. Revenue sharing allows Blockbuster to
purchase videocassettes at a lower product cost than the traditional buying
arrangements, with a percentage of the net rental revenues shared with the
studios over a contractually determined period of time. As the new business
model results in a greater proportion of rental revenue over a shorter period of
time, Blockbuster has changed its method of amortizing rental inventory in order
to more closely match expenses in proportion with the anticipated revenues to be
generated therefrom.

Pursuant to the new accounting method, the Company records base stock
videocassettes (generally less than five copies per title for each store) at
cost and amortizes a portion of these costs on an accelerated basis over three
months, generally to $8 per unit, with the remaining base stock videocassette
costs amortized on a straight-line basis over 33 months to an estimated $4
salvage value. The cost of non-base stock videocassettes (generally greater than
four copies per title for each store) is amortized on an accelerated basis over
three months to an estimated $4 salvage value. Video games are amortized on an
accelerated basis over a 12 month period to an estimated $10 salvage value.
Revenue sharing payments are expensed when revenues are earned pursuant to the
applicable contractual arrangements.

The new method of accounting has been applied to rental inventory held as of
April 1, 1998. The adoption of the new method of amortization has been accounted
for as a change in accounting estimate effected by a change in accounting
principle. The Company recorded a pre-tax charge of $436.7 million to operating
expenses in the second quarter of 1998. Approximately $424.3 million of the
charge represents an adjustment to the carrying value of the rental tapes due to
the new method of accounting and approximately $12.4 million represents a
write-down of retail inventory.

The Company believes that the new amortization method developed for
Blockbuster's new business model will result in a better matching of revenue and
expense recognition. Under the new model, operating expense attributable to
videocassettes is comprised of revenue sharing payments, which are expensed when
earned, and amortization of product costs. The calculation of the change in
operating expense attributable to videocassettes and games for the twelve months
ended December 31, 1998 would not be meaningful because the method of accounting
applied prior to April 1, 1998 did not contemplate the new business model.

Prior to April 1, 1998, videocassette rental inventory was recorded at cost and
amortized over its estimated economic life. Base stock videocassettes (1 to 4
copies per title for each store) were amortized over 36 months on a
straight-line basis. Non-base stock videocassettes (the fifth and succeeding
copies per title for each store) were amortized over six months on a
straight-line basis. Video game inventory was amortized on a straight-line basis
over a period of 12 to 24 months.


                                     II-41


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

During the second quarter of 1997, Blockbuster shifted its strategic emphasis
from retailing a broad assortment of merchandise to focusing on its core rental
business. Rationalization of the retail product lines such as sell-through
video, confectionery items, literature, music and fashion merchandise allowed
the Company to devote more management time and attention, as well as retail
floor selling space, to its video and rental game business. In addition, as part
of its effort to improve the performance of its operations, Blockbuster adopted
a plan to close consistently underperforming stores primarily located in the
United Kingdom and Australia and to exit the German market. As a result,
Blockbuster recorded a pre-tax charge of $322.8 million which consisted of
operating and general and administrative expenses of approximately $247.5
million, as well as depreciation expense attributable to the write-off of
long-lived assets of $45.9 million and write-offs attributable to international
joint ventures accounted for under the equity method of $29.4 million. As a
result of exiting the music business, approximately $72.6 million of the charge
has been presented as part of discontinued operations. The remaining balance of
the charge consisted principally of $100.8 million for a reduction in the
carrying value of excess merchandise inventories, $69.6 million for the closing
of underperforming stores principally located in international markets, and
$39.3 million recognized as general and administrative expenses, primarily
related to relocation costs incurred in connection with the move of the
Company's employees, corporate offices and data center from Fort Lauderdale,
Florida to Dallas, Texas.

The $69.6 million charge for the closing of underperforming stores is comprised
of a $41.8 million non-cash impairment charge associated with long-lived assets
and a $27.8 million charge for lease exit obligations. These amounts have been
recognized as depreciation expense and general and administrative expense,
respectively. Through December 31, 1998, the Company has paid and charged
approximately $12.8 million against the lease exit obligations.

During the fourth quarter of 1996, Blockbuster adopted a plan to abandon certain
music retail stores, relocate its headquarters from Fort Lauderdale to Dallas
and eliminate third party distributors domestically. As a result of such plan,
Blockbuster recognized a restructuring charge of approximately $88.9 million of
which approximately $38.7 million related to Music retail stores closings which
is included as part of discontinued operations. Of the remaining charge, $25.0
million reflects estimated severance benefits payable to approximately 650
employees who had chosen not to relocate to Dallas, $11.6 million of other costs
related to the disposition of its corporate headquarters and $13.6 million for
eliminating third party distributors.

The Company relocation to Dallas was completed during the second quarter of
1997. Through December 31, 1998, the Company paid and charged approximately
$25.0 million against the severance liability and approximately $11.4 million
against the Fort Lauderdale exit. In addition, as of December 31, 1998,
substantially all activities related to the music retail store closings have
been completed.


                                     II-42


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

5) ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE

As of December 31, 1998, the Company had an aggregate of $399.6 million
outstanding under revolving receivable securitization programs. Proceeds from
the sale of these receivables were used to reduce outstanding borrowings. The
resulting loss on the sale of receivables was not material to the Company's
financial position and results of operations.

6) INVENTORIES

Inventories consist of the following:




                                     II-43


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

7) INVESTMENTS IN AFFILIATED COMPANIES

The Company accounts for its investments in affiliated companies over which the
Company has significant influence or ownership of more than 20% but less than or
equal to 50%, under the equity method. Such investments principally include but
are not limited to the Company's interest in Comedy Central (50% owned), United
Paramount Network (50%, owned) and United Cinemas International (50% owned).
Investments in affiliates are included as a component of other assets.

      The following is a summary of combined financial information which is
      based on information provided by the equity investees.

                                                 Year Ended December 31,
                                       -----------------------------------------
                                            1998           1997           1996
                                            ----           ----           ----

      Results of operations:
        Revenues ...................   $  1,898.3     $  2,324.9     $  2,074.9
        Operating income (loss) ....        (73.2)        (142.5)           7.3
        Net loss ...................       (115.4)        (150.6)         (28.2)

                                                       At December 31,
                                                 ---------------------------
                                                  1998                 1997
                                                  ----                 ----

      Financial position:
        Current assets...................        $740.5               $866.6
        Non-current assets...............         781.2                616.7
        Current liabilities..............         694.9                788.1
        Non-current liabilities..........         451.8                366.0
        Equity...........................         375.0                329.2

      The Company, through the normal course of business, is involved in
      transactions with affiliated companies that have not been material in any
      of the periods presented.

      In 1998, equity in loss of affiliated companies, net of tax, principally
      reflects the net operating loss of United Paramount Network ("UPN"), a 50%
      interest which was acquired in January 1997, partially offset by the
      positive results of Comedy Central. In 1997, the equity loss primarily
      reflects the net operating loss of UPN and charges associated with
      international network ventures partially offset by earnings from the
      Company's half-interest in USA Networks which was sold on October 21,
      1997.


                                     II-44


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

8) BANK FINANCING AND DEBT

   Long-term debt consists of the following:


*Issues of Viacom International guaranteed by the Company.

(a) -- Effective March 26, 1997, the Company and Viacom International Inc.
("Viacom International") amended and restated the $6.489 billion and $311
million Credit Agreements and the $1.8 billion Credit Agreement, originally
established in 1994, to provide for credit agreements of $6.4 billion (the
"March 1997 Viacom Credit Agreement") and $100 million (the "March 1997 Viacom
International Credit Agreement," together with the March 1997 Viacom Credit
Agreement, collectively the "March 1997 Credit Agreements"). The March 1997
Credit Agreements increased commitments by $400 million, extended maturities and
reduced pricing.


                                     II-45


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

Effective December 23, 1997, the Company permanently reduced its commitments
under the March 1997 Credit Agreements by $1.0 billion.

Certain proceeds from the disposition of Non-Consumer Publishing in November of
1998 were used to reduce borrowings under the March 1997 Credit Agreements.

Effective June 30, 1997, certain financial covenants in the March 1997 Credit
Agreements and the film financing credit agreement were amended to provide the
Company with increased financial flexibility.

The following is a summary description of the March 1997 Credit Agreements as
amended. The description does not purport to be complete and should be read in
conjunction with each of the credit agreements which have been filed as exhibits
and are incorporated by reference herein.

      The March 1997 Viacom Credit Agreement is comprised of (i) a $4.7 billion
      senior unsecured reducing revolving loan maturing July 1, 2002 and (ii) a
      $700 million term loan maturing April 1, 2002. The March 1997 Viacom
      International Credit Agreement is comprised of a $100 million term loan
      maturing July 1, 2002.

      The Company guarantees the March 1997 Viacom International Credit
      Agreement and notes and debentures issued by Viacom International. Viacom
      International guarantees the March 1997 Viacom Credit Agreement and notes
      and debentures issued by the Company.

      The Company may prepay the loans and reduce commitments under the March
      1997 Credit Agreements in whole or in part at any time.

      The March 1997 Credit Agreements contain certain covenants which, among
      other things, require that the Company maintain certain financial ratios
      and impose on the Company and its subsidiaries certain limitations on
      substantial asset sales and mergers with any other company in which the
      Company is not the surviving entity.

      The March 1997 Credit Agreements contain certain customary events of
      default and provide that it is an event of default if NAI fails to own at
      least 51% of the outstanding voting stock of the Company.

The interest rate on all loans made under the three facilities is based upon
Citibank, N.A.'s base rate or the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") and is
affected by the Company's credit rating. At December 31, 1998, the LIBOR (upon
which the Company's borrowing rate was based) for borrowing periods of one month
and two months were each 5.09%. At December 31, 1997, LIBOR for borrowing
periods of one and two months were 5.72% and 5.75%, respectively.

The Company is required to pay a commitment fee based on the aggregate daily
unborrowed portion of the loan commitments. As of December 31, 1998, the Company
had $4.7 billion of available unborrowed loan commitments. The March 1997 Credit
Agreements do not require compensating balances.

On May 8, 1998, a subsidiary of the Company amended the 364-day film financing
credit agreement, guaranteed by Viacom International and the Company, which
extended the expiration date for one year, reduced pricing and decreased the
available credit by $109 million to $361 million.


                                     II-46


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

(b) -- On February 17, 1998, the Company retired all $150.0 million of its
outstanding 6.625% Senior Notes due 1998.

(c) -- On February 15, 1998, the Company redeemed all $150.0 million of Viacom
International's outstanding 9.125% Senior Subordinated Notes due 1999, at a
redemption price equal to 101.3% of the principal amount.

(d) -- On May 15, 1998, the Company redeemed all $100.0 million of Viacom
International's outstanding 8.75% Senior Subordinated Reset Notes due 2001 at a
redemption price equal to 101% of the principal amount.

(e) -- During December 1998, the Company commenced the unconditional tender
offers to purchase for cash, all of its outstanding 8.0% Merger Debentures due
2006 at a purchase price of 104% of the principal amount, and to purchase Viacom
International's outstanding 10.25% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2001 at a
purchase price of 112.925% of the principal amount. The tender offer for the
8.0% Merger Debentures expired on January 4, 1999. The offer for the 10.25%
Senior Subordinated Notes expired December 30, 1998 and $163.7 million of such
notes were tendered. Through December 31, 1998, $533.8 million of the 8% Merger
Debentures were tendered and classified as part of accrued liabilities as the
settlement date occurred subsequent to year end. In 1999, an additional $307.5
million of the 8.0% Merger Debentures were tendered for a total principal amount
of $841.3 million of notes tendered.

In addition, the Company purchased $21.8 million of the 8.0% Merger Debentures
and $29.0 million of the 7.75% Senior Notes in open market transactions during
1998.

(f) -- On December 30, 1998, the Company redeemed all $231.5 million of Viacom
International's outstanding 7% Senior Subordinated Debentures due 2003 at a
redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount.

The Company filed a shelf registration statement with the Securities and
Exchange Commission registering debt securities, preferred stock and contingent
value rights of Viacom and guarantees of such debt securities by Viacom
International which may be issued for aggregate gross proceeds of $3.0 billion.
The registration statement was declared effective on May 10, 1995. The net
proceeds from the sale of the offered securities may be used by Viacom to repay,
redeem, repurchase or satisfy its obligations in respect of its outstanding
indebtedness or other securities; to make loans to its subsidiaries; for general
corporate purposes; or for such other purposes as may be specified in the
applicable Prospectus Supplement. The Company filed a post-effective amendment
to this registration statement on November 19, 1996. To date, the Company has
issued $1.55 billion of notes and debentures and has $1.45 billion remaining
availability under the shelf registration statement.


                                     II-47


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

Interest costs incurred, interest income and capitalized interest are summarized
below:

                                               Year Ended December 31,
                                         -----------------------------------
                                              1998         1997         1996

      Interest Incurred ...........      $   622.3    $   772.8    $   823.9
      Interest Income .............           23.4         21.0         33.9
      Capitalized Interest ........             --          1.0          4.5

The Company's scheduled maturities of indebtedness through December 31, 2003,
assuming full utilization of the March 1997 Credit Agreements, as amended, are
$1.2 billion (1999), $1.7 billion (2000), $1.8 billion (2001), $2.0 billion
(2002) and $350.0 million (2003). The Company's maturities of long-term debt
outstanding at December 31, 1998, excluding capital leases, are $327.9 million
(1999), $150.0 million (2000), $36.3 million (2001), $1.1 billion (2002) and
$350.0 million (2003). The Company has classified certain short-term
indebtedness as long-term debt based upon its intent and ability to refinance
such indebtedness on a long-term basis.

9) FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The Company's carrying value of financial instruments approximates fair value,
except for differences with respect to the notes and debentures and certain
differences related to other financial instruments which are not significant.
The carrying value of the senior debt, senior subordinated debt and subordinated
debt is $2.8 billion and the fair value, which is estimated based on quoted
market prices, is approximately $3.0 billion.

The Company enters into foreign currency exchange contracts in order to reduce
its exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates that affect the value
of its firm commitments and certain anticipated foreign currency cash flows.
These contracts generally mature within the calendar year. The Company does not
enter into foreign currency contracts for speculative purposes. To date, the
contracts utilized have been purchased options, spots and forward contracts. A
spot or forward contract is an agreement between two parties to exchange a
specified amount of foreign currency, at a specified exchange rate on a
specified date. An option contract provides the right, but not the obligation,
to buy or sell currency at a fixed exchange rate on a future date. In 1998 the
foreign exchange contracts have principally been used to hedge the British
Pound, the Australian Dollar, the Japanese Yen, the Canadian Dollar, the
Singapore Dollar, the European Union's common currency (the "Euro") and the
European Currency Unit/British Pound relationship. At December 31, 1998, the
Company had outstanding contracts with a notional value of approximately $4.3
million which expire in 1999. Realized gains and losses on contracts that hedge
anticipated future cash flows are recognized in "other items, net" and were not
material in each of the periods. Option premiums are expensed at the inception
of the contract. Deferred gains and losses on foreign currency exchange
contracts as of December 31, 1998 were not material.


                                     II-48


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

The Company continually monitors its positions with, and credit quality of, the
financial institutions which are counterparties to its financial instruments.
The Company is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the
counterparties to the agreements. However, the Company does not anticipate
nonperformance by the counterparties. The Company's receivables do not represent
significant concentrations of credit risk at December 31, 1998, due to the wide
variety of customers, markets and geographic areas to which the Company's
products and services are sold.

10) SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

On February 25, 1999, the Company announced a 2-for-1 common stock split in the
form of a dividend with a record date of March 15, 1999 and a distribution date
of March 31, 1999. An amount equal to the par value of the shares issued has
been transferred from additional paid-in capital to the common stock account.
All common shares and per-share amounts have been adjusted to reflect the stock
split for all periods presented.

On December 2, 1998, as part of its repurchase program described below, the
Company repurchased 12 million shares of its convertible preferred stock, par
value $.01 per share, from Bell Atlantic Corporation for $564 million in cash.
On January 5, 1999, the Company repurchased the remaining 12 million shares of
its convertible preferred stock from Bell Atlantic Corporation for $612 million
in cash. The preferred stock had a cumulative cash dividend of $60 million per
year and was convertible into approximately 34.3 million shares of the Company's
Class B common stock.

On August 31, 1998, the Company initiated a repurchase program to acquire one or
more classes of the Company's equity securities. Through December 31, 1998, the
Company had repurchased 12,000 shares of Class A Common Stock, 26,190,200 shares
of Class B Common Stock, 5,502,000 Viacom Five-Year Warrants, expiring on July
7, 1999, and 12 million shares of its convertible preferred stock for
approximately $1.4 billion in the aggregate. On February 10, 1999, the program
was completed and the Company had repurchased a total of 12,000 shares of Class
A Common Stock 26,255,600 shares of Class B Common Stock, 5,546,500 Viacom
Five-Year warrants, expiring on July 7, 1999 and 24 million shares of its
convertible preferred stock. The total repurchase program approximated $2.0
billion. The cost of the acquired treasury stock has been reflected separately
as a reduction to shareholders' equity. The acquired warrants have been canceled
and the cost has been reflected as a reduction to additional paid-in capital.

At December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively, there were 6,090,822 and 11,522,695
outstanding Viacom Five-Year Warrants, expiring July 7, 1999 and at December 31,
1996 there were 30,576,562 outstanding Viacom Three-Year Warrants, which expired
July 7, 1997. The decrease in the outstanding Viacom Five-Year Warrants is
attributable to the 1998 stock repurchase program.


                                     II-49


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

During 1997, the Company completed its joint purchase program initially
established in September 1996 with NAI, for each to acquire up to $250 million,
or $500 million in total, of the Company's Class A Common Stock, Class B Common
Stock, and, as to the Company, Viacom Warrants. The Company repurchased
1,319,400 shares of Viacom Inc. Class A Common Stock, 11,632,600 shares of
Viacom Inc. Class B Common Stock and 6,824,590 Viacom Five-Year Warrants,
expiring on July 7, 1999, for approximately $250 million in the aggregate. The
cost of the acquired treasury stock has been reflected separately as a reduction
to shareholders' equity. The cost of the warrants has been reflected as a
reduction to additional paid-in-capital and such warrants have been cancelled.
As of December 31, 1997, NAI has separately acquired 2,564,400 shares of Viacom
Inc. Class A Common Stock and 11,204,000 shares of Viacom Inc. Class B Common
Stock pursuant to the joint purchase program for approximately $250 million,
raising its ownership to approximately 67% of Viacom Inc. Class A Common Stock
and approximately 28% of Class A and Class B Common Stock on a combined basis.

Long-Term Incentive Plans - The purpose of the Company's 1989, 1994 and 1997
Long-Term Incentive Plans (the "Plans") is to benefit and advance the interests
of the Company by rewarding certain key employees for their contributions to the
financial success of the Company and thereby motivating them to continue to make
such contributions in the future. The Plans provide for fixed grants of
equity-based interests pursuant to awards of phantom shares, stock options,
stock appreciation rights, restricted shares or other equity-based interests
("Awards"), and for subsequent payments of cash with respect to phantom shares
or stock appreciation rights based, subject to certain limits, on their
appreciation in value over stated periods of time. The stock options generally
vest over a four to six year period from the date of grant and expire 10 years
after the date of grant.

The stock options available for future grant are as follows:

            December 31, 1996 ...................         40,701,682
            December 31, 1997 ...................         26,753,956
            December 31, 1998 ...................         14,849,484

The Company has adopted the disclosure-only provisions of SFAS 123, "Accounting
for Stock-Based Compensation" ("SFAS 123"). In accordance with the provisions of
SFAS 123, the Company applies APB 25 "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees"
and related interpretations in accounting for the Plans and accordingly, does
not recognize compensation expense for its stock option plans because the
Company typically does not issue options at exercise prices below the market
value at date of grant. Had compensation expense for its stock option plans been
determined based upon the fair value at the grant date for awards consistent
with the methodology prescribed by SFAS 123, the Company's consolidated pre-tax
income would have decreased by $67.4 million ($40.5 million after tax or $.06
per basic and diluted common share), $36.3 million ($22.2 million after tax or
$.03 per basic and diluted common share) and $18.3 million ($11.0 million after
tax or $.02 per basic and diluted common share) in 1998, 1997 and 1996,
respectively. These pro forma effects may not be representative of future
amounts since the estimated fair value of stock options on the date of grant is
amortized to expense over the vesting period, and additional options may be
granted in future years.


                                     II-50


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted-average
assumptions:

                                                  1998       1997       1996
                                                  ----       ----       ----
      Expected dividend yield(a) ........           --         --         --
      Expected stock price volatility ...        32.76%     31.74%     32.50%
      Risk-free interest rate ...........         5.43%      6.04%      6.19%
      Expected life of options (years) ..          6.0        6.0        6.0

            (a)   The Company has not declared any cash dividends on its common
                  stock for any of the periods presented and has no present
                  intention of so doing.

The weighted-average fair value of each option as of the grant date was $12.97,
$6.58 and $8.14 in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

The following table summarizes the Company's stock option activity under the
various plans (all options and prices reflect the stock split):

                                                    Options     Weighted-Average
                                                  Outstanding    Exercise Price
                                                  -----------    --------------
      Balance at December 31, 1995 .........       37,136,642        $15.35
                                                  -----------
        Granted ............................       12,527,600         18.75
        Exercised ..........................       (7,677,298)        15.18
        Canceled ...........................       (2,695,930)        18.78
                                                  -----------
      Balance at December 31, 1996 .........       39,291,014         16.23
                                                  -----------
        Granted ............................       18,406,000         15.34
        Exercised ..........................       (5,467,748)        14.40
        Canceled ...........................       (7,012,692)        18.24
                                                  -----------
      Balance at December 31, 1997 .........       45,216,574         15.78
                                                  -----------
        Granted ............................       13,576,420         30.53
        Exercised ..........................      (12,077,298)        16.16
        Canceled ...........................       (1,802,390)        16.97
                                                  -----------
      Balance at December 31, 1998 .........       44,913,306         20.09
                                                  ===========


                                     II-51


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

The following table summarizes information concerning currently outstanding and
exercisable stock options of the Company at December 31, 1998:



      (a)   Represents information for options assumed with the merger of
            Blockbuster.
      (b)   Represents information for options assumed with the merger of
            Paramount.

Shares issuable under exercisable stock options:
  December 31, 1996....................................      22,486,440
  December 31, 1997....................................      14,795,698
  December 31, 1998....................................       8,892,882

The Company has reserved a total of 85,694 shares of Viacom Inc. Class A Common
Stock and 57,033,736 shares of Viacom Inc. Class B Common Stock principally for
exercise of stock options and warrants.

Spelling Stock Option Plans - Spelling currently has stock option plans under
which both incentive and nonqualified stock options have been granted to certain
key employees, consultants and directors. Options have generally been granted
with an exercise price equal to the fair market value of the underlying Common
Stock on the date of grant, although nonqualified options may be granted with an
exercise price not less than 50% of such fair market value. Each option is
granted subject to various terms and conditions established on the date of
grant, including vesting periods and expiration dates. The options typically
become exercisable at the rate of 20% or 25% annually, beginning one year after
the date of grant. Options expire no later than 10 years from their date of
grant.


                                     II-52


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

The Spelling stock options available for future grant are as follows:

      December 31, 1996 ........................      5,094,251(a)
      December 31, 1997 ........................      3,030,838
      December 31, 1998 ........................      2,867,963

      (a)   Includes 1,360,866 shares available for grant under a plan which
            expired on April 13, 1997.

The weighted average fair value of each option as of the grant date was $2.91,
$2.65 and $2.66 for 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. The fair value of each
Spelling option grant is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions:

                                                  1998       1997       1996
                                                  ----       ----       ----
      Expected dividend yield(a)                    --         --         --
      Expected stock price volatility            34.30%     30.91%     28.45%
      Risk-free interest rate                     4.91%      5.75%      6.60%
      Expected life of options (years)            6.2        5.2        4.8

      (a)   During 1998, 1997 and 1996, Spelling did not declare any cash
            dividends on its common stock.

The following table summarizes Spelling's stock option activity:

                                                   Options     Weighted-Average
                                                 Outstanding    Exercise Price
                                                 -----------    --------------
      Balance at December 31, 1995 ........       5,759,218        $   7.72
                                                 ----------
        Granted ...........................       3,750,010            7.13
        Exercised .........................        (841,943)           4.91
        Canceled ..........................        (688,967)           7.02
                                                 ----------
      Balance at December 31, 1996 ........       7,978,318            7.80
                                                 ----------
        Granted ...........................       1,171,000            6.90
        Exercised .........................        (362,008)           6.29
        Canceled ..........................        (588,519)           8.90
                                                 ----------
      Balance at December 31, 1997 ........       8,198,791            7.66
                                                 ----------
        Granted ...........................       1,287,500            6.76
        Exercised .........................        (671,279)           6.15
        Canceled ..........................      (1,187,839)           8.06
                                                 ----------
      Balance at December 31, 1998 ........       7,627,173            7.58
                                                 ==========


                                     II-53


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

The following table summarizes Spelling's information concerning currently
outstanding and exercisable stock options at December 31, 1998:



Shares issuable under exercisable stock options:
  December 31, 1996....................................       3,079,436
  December 31, 1997....................................       3,813,349
  December 31, 1998....................................       3,914,923

Options related to employees of Virgin and included in the tables above are
875,010 shares granted for the year ended December 31, 1996. Also included are
120,276, 133,582 and 775,220 shares exercised, and 615,060, 184,269 and 149,921
shares terminated for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996,
respectively.

11) INCOME TAXES

Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes are attributable to the
following jurisdictions:

                                                Year Ended December 31,
                                        --------------------------------------
                                          1998            1997           1996
                                          ----            ----           ----
      United States ...........         $  74.1         $  910.4       $ 152.6
      Foreign .................            63.2            268.1         257.5
                                        -------         --------       -------

      Total ...................         $ 137.3         $1,178.5       $ 410.1
                                        =======         ========       =======


                                     II-54


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

Components of the provision for income taxes on earnings from continuing
operations before income taxes are as follows:

                                              Year Ended December 31,
                                      ----------------------------------------
                                         1998            1997           1996
                                         ----            ----           ----
Current:
  Federal .......................     $   151.0       $   370.0      $   155.9
  State and local ...............          34.9           115.1           27.7
  Foreign .......................          50.9            24.5           76.6
                                      ---------       ---------      ---------
                                          236.8           509.6          260.2
Deferred ........................         (98.1)          136.8          (16.9)
                                      ---------       ---------      ---------
                                      $   138.7       $   646.4      $   243.3
                                      =========       =========      =========

The earnings (loss) of affiliated companies accounted for under the equity
method are shown net of tax on the Company's Statements of Operations. The tax
provision (benefit) relating to earnings (loss) from equity investments in
1998, 1997 and 1996 are ($24.0) million, ($29.0) million and $14.9 million,
respectively, which represents an effective tax rate of 36.7%, 15.1% and 762.1%,
respectively.

The difference between the effective tax rates and the statutory U.S. federal
tax rate of 35% is principally due to the effect of non-deductible goodwill
amortization, state and local taxes and foreign losses for which no benefit was
provided. Excluding the non-deductible amortization of intangibles, the annual
effective tax rate on earnings from continuing operations before income taxes
would have been 31.8%, 44.1% and 35.7% for 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
See Note 3 for tax benefits relating to the discontinued operations. In addition
to the amounts reflected in the table above, $55.1 million and $7.8 million of
income tax benefit in 1998 and 1997, respectively, was recorded as a component
of shareholders' equity as a result of exercised stock options.

A reconciliation of the statutory U.S. federal tax rate to the Company's
effective tax rate on earnings from continuing operations before income taxes is
summarized as follows:

                                                    Year Ended December 31,
                                                -------------------------------
                                                  1998        1997        1996
                                                  ----        ----        ----

 Statutory U.S. federal tax rate .........       35.0%       35.0%       35.0%
 State and local taxes, net
   of federal tax benefit ................         5.7         5.9         2.3
 Effect of foreign operations ............       (35.5)       (0.6)      (13.0)
 Amortization of intangibles .............        86.3         9.7        27.1
 Divestiture tax versus book .............         (.5)         --         1.0
 Other, net ..............................        10.0         4.9         6.9
                                                 -----        ----        ---- 
 Effective tax rate on earnings from
   continuing operations before
   income taxes ..........................       101.0%       54.9%       59.3%
                                                 =====        ====        ==== 


                                     II-55


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

The following is a summary of the components of the deferred tax accounts:

                                                              
                                                             
As of December 31, 1998 and December 31, 1997, the Company had total deferred
tax assets of $632.4 million and $771.7 million, respectively, and total
deferred tax liabilities of $179.5 million as of December 31, 1997. There were
no deferred tax liabilities as of December 31, 1998.

As of December 31, 1998, the Company had net operating loss carryforwards of
approximately $173.7 million which expire in various years from 1999 through
2012.

The 1998 and 1997 net deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance
of $88.3 million and $106.8 million, respectively, principally relating to tax
benefits of net operating losses which are not expected to be recognized as a
result of certain limitations applied where there is a change of ownership.


                                     II-56


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

The Company's share of the undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries not
included in its consolidated federal income tax return that could be subject to
additional income taxes if remitted, was approximately $1.5 billion at December
31, 1998 and December 31, 1997. No provision has been recorded for the U.S. or
foreign taxes that could result from the remittance of such undistributed
earnings since the Company intends to reinvest these earnings outside the United
States indefinitely and it is not practicable to estimate the amount of such
taxes.

As of December 31, 1998, the Company owns approximately 80% of Spelling's
outstanding common stock and consolidates Spelling's results for tax purposes.

12) PENSION PLANS, OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS AND POSTEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS

The Company and certain of its subsidiaries have non-contributory pension plans
covering specific groups of employees. Effective January 1, 1996, the pension
plans of Paramount were merged with the Company's pension plans. The Pension
Plan for Employees of PVI Transmission Inc. and Paramount Distribution Inc. was
merged with and into the Viacom Pension Plan effective December 31, 1996. The
benefits for these plans are based primarily on an employee's years of service
and pay near retirement. Participant employees are vested in the plans after
five years of service. The Company's policy for all pension plans is to fund
amounts in accordance with the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
Plan assets consist principally of common stocks, marketable bonds and U.S.
government securities. The Company's Class B Common Stock represents
approximately 15.8% and 10% of the plan assets' fair value at December 31, 1998
and 1997, respectively.

The Company adopted SFSA 132, "Employers' Disclosures about Pensions and Other
Postretirement Benefits - an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88 and 106"
in 1998.

                                     II-57


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

The following table sets forth the change in benefit obligation for the
Company's benefit plans:



The projected benefit obligations and accumulated benefit obligations for the
pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets were
$99.6 million and $88.4 million for 1998, and $85.7 million and $75.1 million
for 1997.

The accrued pension and postretirement costs recognized in the Company's
consolidated balance sheets are computed as follows:




                                     II-58


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

Net periodic cost for the Company's pension and postretirement benefit plans
consists of the following:



The following assumptions were used in accounting for the pension plans:

                                                  1998        1997        1996
                                                  ----        ----        ----
Discount rate ..............................      6.75%       7.25%       7.75%
Expected return on plan assets .............      9.5%        9.5%        9.5%
Rate of increase in future compensation ....      5.0%        5.0%        5.0%

The following assumptions were used in accounting for postretirement benefits:

                                                   1998       1997       1996
                                                   ----       ----       ----
Projected health care cost trend rate ..........   6.0%       7.0%       9.0%
Ultimate trend rate ............................   5.5%       5.5%       5.5%
Year ultimate trend rate is achieved ...........  1999       1999       1999
Discount rate ..................................  6.75%      7.25%      7.75%

Assumed health care cost trend rates could have a significant effect on the
amounts reported for the postretirement health care plan. A one percentage point
change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:

                                                 One Percentage   One Percentage
                                                 Point Increase   Point Decrease
                                                 --------------   --------------
Effect on total of service and interest 
  cost components.............................       $   .6            $   (.5)
Effect on the postretirement benefit 
  obligation..................................       $  4.4            $  (3.8)

As a result of the sale of Non-Consumer Publishing, the Company realized
curtailment gains of $31.4 million related to pension benefits and $77.5 million
related to postretirement benefits, which have been included in the net gain on
disposition in 1998.

The Company contributes to multi-employer plans which provide pension and health
and welfare benefits to certain employees under collective bargaining
agreements. The contributions to these plans were $35.4 million (1998) and $52.5
million (1997).

In addition, the Company sponsors a health and welfare plan which provides
certain postretirement health care and life insurance benefits to retired
employees and their covered dependents who are eligible for these benefits if
they meet certain age and service requirements. The plan is contributory and
contains cost-sharing features such as deductibles and coinsurance which are
adjusted annually. The plan is not funded and the Company funds these benefits
as claims are paid.


                                     II-59


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

SFAS 112, "Employers' Accounting For Postemployment Benefits" does not have a
significant effect on the Company's consolidated financial position or results
of operations.

In addition, the Company has defined contribution plans for the benefit of
substantially all employees meeting certain eligibility requirements. Employer
contributions to such plans were $21.1 million, $19.2 million and $24.4 million
for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996.

13) COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

The Company has long-term noncancelable lease commitments for retail and office
space and equipment, transponders, studio facilities and vehicles.

At December 31, 1998, minimum rental payments under noncancelable leases are as
follows:

                                                         Leases
                                                ------------------------
                                                Operating        Capital

1999 .......................................    $    553.2      $  120.4
2000 .......................................         516.9         106.8
2001 .......................................         441.6         101.1
2002 .......................................         347.7          90.7
2003 .......................................         314.4          69.4
2004 and thereafter ........................       1,630.3         164.3
                                                ----------      --------
Total minimum lease payments ...............    $  3,804.1         652.7
                                                ==========
Less amounts representing interest .........                      (151.3)
                                                                --------
Present value of net minimum payments ......                    $  501.4
                                                                ========


                                     II-60


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

The Company has entered into capital leases for satellite transponders with
future minimum commitments commencing in future periods. Future minimum capital
lease payments have not been reduced by future minimum sublease rentals of $40.0
million. Rent expense amounted to $533.8 million (1998), $523.1 million (1997)
and $392.3 million (1996).

The commitments of the Company for program license fees, which are not reflected
in the balance sheet as of December 31, 1998 and are estimated to aggregate
approximately $1.2 billion, excluding intersegment commitments of approximately
$738.9 million, principally reflect Showtime Networks Inc.'s ("SNI's")
commitments of approximately $1.1 billion for the acquisition of programming
rights and the production of original programming. This estimate is based upon a
number of factors. A majority of such fees are payable over several years, as
part of normal programming expenditures of SNI. These commitments to acquire
programming rights are contingent upon delivery of motion pictures which are not
yet available for premium television exhibition and, in many cases, have not yet
been produced.

There are various lawsuits and claims pending against the Company. Management
believes that any ultimate liability resulting from those actions or claims will
not have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations,
financial position or liquidity.

Certain subsidiaries and affiliates of the Company from time to time receive
claims from federal and state environmental regulatory agencies and other
entities asserting that they are or may be liable for environmental cleanup
costs and related damages, principally relating to discontinued operations
conducted by its former mining and manufacturing businesses (acquired as part of
the mergers with Paramount and Blockbuster). The Company has recorded a
liability reflecting its best estimate of environmental exposure. Such liability
was not discounted or reduced by potential insurance recoveries and reflects
management's estimate of cost sharing at multiparty sites. The estimated
liability was calculated based upon currently available facts, existing
technology and presently enacted laws and regulations. On the basis of its
experience and the information currently available to it, the Company believes
that the claims it has received will not have a material adverse effect on its
results of operations, financial position or liquidity.


                                     II-61


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

14) OPERATING SEGMENTS

The Company's reportable operating segments have been determined in accordance
with the Company's internal management structure, which is organized based on
products and services. See Note 1 for descriptive information about the
Company's business segments and the summary of significant accounting policies.
The Company evaluates performance based on many factors, one of the primary
measures is earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
("EBITDA").

The following tables set forth the Company's financial results by operating
segments. The prior years' results have also been reclassified to conform to the
new presentation. Intersegment revenues, recorded at fair market value, of the
Entertainment segment for 1998, 1997 and 1996 were $156.7 million, $114.0
million and $45.9 million, respectively. All other intersegment revenues were
immaterial for any of the periods presented.




                                     II-62


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

                                                Year Ended or at December 31,
                                              ---------------------------------
                                                 1998        1997        1996
                                                 ----        ----        ----

Total assets:
Networks ..................................   $ 2,770.2   $ 2,692.8   $ 2,925.3
Entertainment .............................     9,361.6     9,342.9     9,224.4
Video .....................................     8,142.6     8,965.4     9,273.7
Parks .....................................       914.8       897.2       883.1
Publishing ................................       962.4     5,439.4     5,405.1
Online ....................................         5.8         1.4          --
                                              ---------   ---------   ---------
    Segment total .........................    22,157.4    27,339.1    27,711.6
Corporate .................................     1,455.7       949.6       833.0
Net assets of discontinued operations .....          --          --       289.4
                                              ---------   ---------   ---------
    Total assets ..........................   $23,613.1   $28,288.7   $28,834.0
                                              =========   =========   =========

Capital expenditures:
Networks ..................................   $    89.8   $    67.9   $    86.4
Entertainment .............................       174.3        66.7        67.6
Video .....................................       196.0       294.2       304.3
Parks .....................................        61.0        35.0        54.2
Publishing ................................        37.5        36.1        37.3
Online ....................................          --          --          --
                                              ---------   ---------   ---------
    Segment total .........................       558.6       499.9       549.8
Corporate .................................        44.9        30.4        48.8
                                              ---------   ---------   ---------
    Total capital expenditures ............   $   603.5   $   530.3   $   598.6
                                              =========   =========   =========

Information regarding the Company's operations by geographic area is as follows:

                                                 Year Ended or at December 31,
                                               ---------------------------------
                                                 1998        1997        1996
                                                 ----        ----        ----
Revenues(a):
     United States .........................   $ 9,268.3   $ 8,227.9   $ 7,428.2
     International .........................     2,827.8     2,457.0     2,255.7
                                               ---------   ---------   ---------
              Total revenues ...............   $12,096.1   $10,684.9   $ 9,683.9
                                               =========   =========   =========

Long-lived assets(b):
     United States .........................   $16,857.0   $20,914.3   $21,570.7
     International .........................     1,326.9     1,421.6     1,223.9
                                               ---------   ---------   ---------
              Total long-lived assets ......   $18,183.9   $22,335.9   $22,794.6
                                               =========   =========   =========

Intercompany transfers between geographic areas are not significant.

(a) Revenue classification is based on location of customer.
(b) Includes all non-current assets.


                                     II-63


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

15) QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (unaudited):



The timing of the Company's results of operations is affected by the typical
timing of major motion picture releases, the summer operation of the theme
parks, the positive effect of the holiday season on advertising and video store
revenues, and the impact of the broadcasting television season on television
production.

(1)   The first three quarters of 1998 and all four quarters of 1997 results
      have been restated for the effect of discontinued operations (See Note 3).

(2)   The second quarter of 1998 included a $436.7 million charge for
      Blockbuster representing the adjustment to the carrying value of the
      library tapes due to a change in Blockbuster's business model and a
      revaluation of retail inventory (See Note 4).

(3)   The third quarter of 1998 included a loss of $138.5 million, net of tax,
      resulting from the sale of the Company's music retail stores, partially
      offset by a tax benefit of $134.0 million related to the sale of Virgin.

(4)   The fourth quarter of 1998 included a gain of $65.5 million, net of tax,
      resulting from the sale of Non-Consumer Publishing.

(5)   The fourth quarter of 1998 included an extraordinary loss of $74.7
      million, net of tax, for the early extinguishment of debt (See Note 17).

(6)   All prior quarters' earnings per common share and weighted average number
      of common shares have been adjusted to reflect the effect of the 2-for-1
      stock split.

(7)   The second quarter of 1997 included a $220.8 million charge for
      Blockbuster representing the reduction in carrying value of excess retail
      inventory and costs associated with closing underperforming stores
      principally located in international markets (See Note 4).

(8)   The fourth quarter of 1997 included a gain of $640.5 million, net of tax,
      resulting from the sale of USA Networks.

(9)   The third quarter of 1997 included a gain of $416.4 million, net of tax,
      resulting from the sale of Viacom Radio Stations.

(10)  For the fourth quarter of 1997, the assumed conversion of preferred stock
      had a dilutive effect on earnings per share, therefore, the sum of the
      quarterly earnings per share will not equal full year earnings per share.


                                     II-64


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

16) OTHER ITEMS, NET

The Company continued the strategy of focusing on its core businesses and in
December 1998, announced plans to close the Viacom Entertainment Store in
Chicago and to phase out its Nickelodeon stores in January 1999. As a result,
the Company recorded a loss of approximately $91 million, which is reflected in
"other items, net", for the year ended December 31, 1998. The loss principally
reflects $8.5 million for estimated severance benefits payable to approximately
530 employees and $32.7 million for lease exit obligations. The loss also
reflects the write-off of property and equipment, inventory and prepaid assets
of $21.1 million, $10.3 million and $3.1 million, respectively, as well as
future vendor commitments of $3.3 million. Additionally, "other items, net" for
1998 principally reflects foreign exchange losses and the write-off of certain
investments, partially offset by a gain of approximately $118.9 million from the
sale of a cost investment.

On October 21, 1997, the Company completed the sale of its half-interest in USA
Networks, including Sci-Fi Channel, to Universal Studios, Inc. for a total of
$1.7 billion in cash. The Company realized a pre-tax gain of approximately $1.1
billion in the fourth quarter of 1997. The net proceeds from this transaction
were used to repay debt.

In addition, during 1997, the Company recorded pre-tax gains on the swap of
certain television stations of approximately $190.9 million partially offset by
write-offs of certain cost investments.

17) EXTRAORDINARY LOSS

For the year ended December 31, 1998, the Company recognized an extraordinary
loss of $74.7 million, net of tax of $51.9 million, or a loss of $.10 per
basic and diluted common share for the early extinguishment of the 10.25% Senior
Subordinated Notes, 7.0% Senior Subordinated Debentures and the 8.0% Merger
Debentures (See Note 8).

18) SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION



                                                                           
                                     II-65           


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

19) CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Viacom International is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. The Company
has fully and unconditionally guaranteed Viacom International debt securities
(See Note 8). The Company has determined that separate financial statements and
other disclosures concerning Viacom International are not material to investors.
The following condensed consolidating financial statements present the results
of operations, financial position and cash flows of the Company, Viacom
International (in each case carrying investments in Non-Guarantor Affiliates
under the equity method), the direct and indirect Non-Guarantor Affiliates of
the Company, and the eliminations necessary to arrive at the information for the
Company on a consolidated basis.




                                     II-66


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)




                                     II-67


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)




                                     II-68


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

                                


                                     II-69


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)




                                     II-70


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)




                                     II-71


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)




                                     II-72


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)




                                     II-73


                                    PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers.

      The information contained in the Viacom Inc. Definitive Proxy Statement
under the captions "Information Concerning Directors and Nominees" and
"Compliance with Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 11. Executive Compensation.

      The information contained in the Viacom Inc. Definitive Proxy Statement
under the captions "Directors' Compensation" and "Executive Compensation" is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.

      The information contained in the Viacom Inc. Definitive Proxy Statement
under the caption "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management" is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.

      The information contained in the Viacom Inc. Definitive Proxy Statement
under the captions "Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation"
and "Related Transaction" is incorporated herein by reference.


                                     III-1


                                     PART IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K.

      (a) and (d) Financial Statements and Schedules (see Index on Page F-1)

      (b) Reports on Form 8-K

      Current Report on Form 8-K of Viacom Inc. with a Report Date of November
27, 1998 relating to the sale of the Company's educational, professional and
reference publishing businesses to Pearson plc for approximately $4.6 billion.

      (c) Exhibits (see index on Page E-1)


                                      IV-1


                                   SIGNATURES

      Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, Viacom Inc. has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereto duly authorized.

                                       VIACOM INC.


                                       By /s/ SUMNER M. REDSTONE
                                          --------------------------------------
                                                   Sumner M. Redstone,
                                           Chairman of the Board of Directors,
                                                  Chief Executive Officer


                                       By /s/ GEORGE S. SMITH, Jr.
                                          --------------------------------------
                                                 George S. Smith, Jr.,
                                                Senior Vice President,
                                               Chief Financial Officer


                                       By /s/ SUSAN C. GORDON
                                          --------------------------------------
                                                   Susan C. Gordon,
                                               Vice President, Controller,
                                                Chief Accounting Officer

Date: March 31, 1999

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of Viacom Inc. and in
the capacities and on the dates indicated:

            Signature                      Title                 Date
            ---------                      -----                 ----
                                       
                                       
                  *                    Director             March 31, 1999
- -----------------------------------    
         George S. Abrams                  
                                       
                                       
                  *                    Director             March 31, 1999
- -----------------------------------    
        Philippe P. Dauman                 
                                       
                                        
                  *                    Director             March 31, 1999
- -----------------------------------    
         Thomas E. Dooley                  
                                       
                                       
                  *                    Director             March 31, 1999
- -----------------------------------    
            Ken Miller                     
                                       
                                       
                  *                    Director             March 31, 1999
- -----------------------------------    
        Brent D. Redstone                  


            Signature                      Title                 Date
            ---------                      -----                 ----
                                       
                                       
                  *                    Director             March 31, 1999
- -----------------------------------    
          Shari Redstone                   
                                       
                                       
      /s/ SUMNER M. REDSTONE           Director             March 31, 1999
- -----------------------------------    
         Sumner M. Redstone                 
                                       
                                       
                  *                    Director             March 31, 1999
- -----------------------------------    
         Frederic V. Salerno                 
                                       
                                       
                  *                    Director             March 31, 1999
- -----------------------------------    
           William Schwartz                  
                                       
                                       
                  *                    Director             March 31, 1999
- -----------------------------------    
           Ivan Seidenberg                   
                                       
                                      
*By /s/ MICHAEL D. FRICKLAS                                 March 31, 1999
   --------------------------------    
          Michael D. Fricklas          
            Attorney-in-Fact           
           for the Directors       


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                INDEX TO EXHIBITS
                                   ITEM 14(c)

 Exhibit
    No.                Description of Document                          Page No.
 -------               -----------------------                          --------

(2)         Plan of Acquisition

      (a)   Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of January 7,
            1994, as amended as of June 15, 1994, between Viacom
            Inc. and Blockbuster Entertainment Corporation
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the
            Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed by Viacom
            Inc.) (File No. 33-55271).

      (b)   Amended and Restated Agreement and Plan of Merger
            dated as of February 4, 1994 between Viacom Inc. and
            Paramount Communications Inc., as further amended as
            of May 26, 1994, among Viacom, Viacom Sub Inc. and
            Paramount Communications Inc. (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 2.1, included as Annex I, to the
            Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed by Viacom
            Inc.) (File No. 33-53977).

(3)         Articles of Incorporation and By-laws

      (a)   Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Viacom Inc.
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(a) to the
            Annual Report on Form 10-K of Viacom Inc. for the
            fiscal year ended December 31, 1992, as amended by
            Form 10-K/A Amendment No. 1 dated November 29, 1993
            and as further amended by Form 10-K/A Amendment No. 2
            dated December 9, 1993) (File No. 1-9553).

      (b)   Amendment to Restated Certificate of Incorporation of
            Viacom Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2
            to the Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed by
            Viacom Inc.) (File No. 33-55271).

      (c)   Certificate of Merger merging Blockbuster
            Entertainment Corporation with and into Viacom Inc.
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the
            Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed by Viacom
            Inc.) (File No. 33-55785).

      (d)   Certificate of the Designations, Powers, Preferences
            and Relative, Participating or other Rights, and the
            Qualifications, Limitations or Restrictions thereof,
            of Series B Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock
            ($0.01 par value) of Viacom Inc. (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Quarterly Report on
            Form 10-Q of Viacom Inc. for the quarter ended
            September 30, 1993) (File No. 1-9553).

      (e)   By-laws of Viacom Inc. (incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 3.3 to the Registration Statement on Form S-4
            filed by Viacom Inc.) (File No. 33-13812).

(4)         Instruments defining the rights of security holders, including
            indentures

      (a)   Specimen certificate representing the Viacom Inc.
            Voting Common Stock (currently Class A Common Stock)
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the
            Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed by Viacom
            Inc.) (File No. 33-13812).

      (b)   Specimen certificate representing Viacom Inc. Class B
            Non-Voting Common Stock (incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 4(a) to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of
            Viacom Inc. for the quarter ended June 30, 1990)
            (File No. 1-9553).

      (c)   Specimen certificate representing Viacom Inc. Series
            B Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock of Viacom
            Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(d) to
            the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Viacom Inc. for the
            fiscal year ended December 31,


                               E-1


 Exhibit
    No.                Description of Document                          Page No.
 -------               -----------------------                          --------

            1993, as amended by Form 10-K/A Amendment No. 1 dated
            May 2, 1994) (File No. 1-9553).

      (d)   Form of Warrant Agreement between Viacom Inc. and
            Harris Trust and Savings Bank, as Warrant Agent with
            respect to the Warrants expiring July 7, 1999 of
            Viacom Inc. (including the Form of Warrant expiring
            July 7, 1999) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            4.8 to the Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed
            by Viacom Inc.) (File No. 33-53977).

      (e)   Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of
            March 26, 1997 among Viacom Inc.; the Bank parties
            thereto; The Bank of New York ("BNY"), Citibank N.A.
            ("Citibank"), Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New
            York ("Morgan Guaranty"), Bank of America NT&SA
            ("BofA") and The Chase Manhattan Bank ("Chase"), as
            Managing Agents; BNY, as Documentation Agent;
            Citibank, as Administrative Agent; JP Morgan
            Securities Inc. ("JP Morgan") and BofA, as
            Syndication Agents; and the Agents and Co-Agents
            named therein (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            4(f) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Viacom Inc.
            for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996) and
            Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of
            March 26, 1997 among Viacom International Inc.; the
            Bank parties thereto; BNY, Citibank, Morgan Guaranty,
            BofA and Chase, as Managing Agents; BNY, as
            Documentation Agent; Citibank, as Administrative
            Agent; JP Morgan and BofA, as Syndication Agents; and
            the Agents and Co-Agents named therein (incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 4(f) to the Annual Report on
            Form 10-K of Viacom Inc. for the fiscal year ended
            December 31, 1996) (File No. 1-9553) as amended by
            Amendment No. 1, dated as of June 30, 1997
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
            Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Viacom Inc. for the
            quarter ended June 30, 1997) (File No. 1-9553) and as
            further amended by Amendment No. 2, dated as of
            December 19, 1997 (incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 4(e) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of
            Viacom Inc. for the fiscal year ended December 31,
            1997) (File No. 1-9553).

      (f)   Film Finance Credit Agreement, dated as of May 10,
            1996, among Viacom Film Funding Company Inc. as
            Borrower; Viacom Inc. and Viacom International Inc.
            as Guarantors; the Bank parties thereto; The Bank of
            New York ("BNY"), Citibank N.A. ("Citibank"), Morgan
            Guaranty Trust Company of New York and Bank of
            America NT&SA, as Managing Agents; BNY, as
            Documentation Agent; Citibank, as Administrative
            Agent; JP Morgan Securities Inc., as Syndication
            Agent; and the Agents and Co-Agents named therein
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the
            Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Viacom Inc. for the
            quarter ended June 30, 1996) (File No. 1-9553), as
            amended by Amendment No. 1, dated as of May 9, 1997
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
            Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Viacom Inc. for the
            quarter ended March 31, 1997) (File No. 1-9553), as
            further amended by Amendment No. 2, dated as of June
            30, 1997 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2
            to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Viacom Inc.
            for the quarter ended June 30, 1997) (File No.
            1-9553), and as further amended by Amendment No. 3,
            dated as of May 8, 1998 (incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of
            Viacom Inc. for the quarter ended March 31, 1998)
            (File No. 1-9553).

      (g)   The instruments defining the rights of holders of the
            long-term debt securities of Viacom Inc. and its
            subsidiaries are omitted pursuant to section
            (b)(4)(iii)(A) of Item 


                               E-2


 Exhibit
    No.                Description of Document                          Page No.
 -------               -----------------------                          --------

            601 of Regulation S-K. Viacom Inc. hereby agrees
            to furnish copies of these instruments to the
            Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.

(10)        Material Contracts

      (a)   Viacom Inc. 1989 Long-Term Management Incentive Plan
            (as amended and restated through April 23, 1990, as
            further amended and restated through April 27, 1995,
            and as further amended and restated through November
            1, 1996) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a)
            to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Viacom Inc. for
            the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996) (File No.
            1-9553).*

      (b)   Viacom Inc. 1994 Long-Term Management Incentive Plan
            (as amended and restated through April 27, 1995 and
            as further amended and restated through November 1,
            1996) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to
            the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Viacom Inc. for the
            fiscal year ended December 31, 1996) (File No.
            1-9553).*

      (c)   Viacom Inc. 1997 Long-Term Management Incentive Plan
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to Viacom
            Inc.'s Definitive Proxy Statement dated April 17,
            1997).*

      (d)   Viacom Inc. Senior Executive Short-Term Incentive
            Plan (as amended and restated through March 27, 1996)
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the
            Annual Report on Form 10-K of Viacom Inc. for the
            fiscal year ended December 31, 1995).*

      (e)   Viacom Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan (Divisional)
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the
            Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Viacom Inc. for the
            quarter ended June 30, 1993) (File No. 1-9553).*

      (f)   Viacom International Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan
            for Non-Employee Directors (as amended and restated
            through December 17, 1992) (incorporated by reference
            to Exhibit 10(e) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of
            Viacom Inc. for the fiscal year ended December 31,
            1992, as amended by Form 10-K/A Amendment No. 1 dated
            November 29, 1993 and as further amended by Form
            10-K/A Amendment No. 2 dated December 9, 1993) (File
            No. 1-9553).*

      (g)   Viacom Inc. and Viacom International Inc. Retirement
            Income Plan for Non-Employee Directors (incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the Annual Report on
            Form 10-K of Viacom Inc., for the fiscal year ended
            December 31, 1989) (File No. 1-9553).*

      (h)   Viacom Inc. Stock Option Plan for Outside Directors
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the
            Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Viacom Inc. for the
            quarter ended June 30, 1993) (File No. 1-9553).*

      (i)   Viacom Inc. 1994 Stock Option Plan for Outside
            Directors (incorporated by reference to Exhibit B to
            Viacom Inc.'s Definitive Proxy Statement dated April
            28, 1995).*

      (j)   Viacom Inc. Excess Investment Plan (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Viacom Inc.
            Registration Statement on Form S-8) (File No.
            1-9553).*

- --------
* Management contract or compensatory plan required to be filed as an exhibit
to this form pursuant to Item 14(c).


                               E-3


 Exhibit
    No.                Description of Document                          Page No.
 -------               -----------------------                          --------

      (k)   Excess Pension Plan for Certain Key Employees of
            Viacom International Inc. (incorporated by reference
            to Exhibit 10(i) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of
            Viacom Inc. for the fiscal year ended December 31,
            1990) (File No. 1-9553).*

      (l)   Agreement, dated as of January 1, 1996, between
            Viacom Inc. and Philippe P. Dauman (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 10(l) to the Annual Report on
            Form 10-K of Viacom Inc. for the fiscal year ended
            December 31, 1995) (File No. 1-9553), as amended by
            an Agreement dated August 20, 1998 (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on
            Form 10-Q of Viacom Inc. for the quarter ended
            September 30, 1998) (File No. 1-9553).*

      (m)   Agreement, dated as of January 1, 1996, between
            Viacom Inc. and Thomas E. Dooley (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 10(m) to the Annual Report on
            Form 10-K of Viacom Inc. for the fiscal year ended
            December 31, 1995) (File No. 1-9553), as amended by
            an Agreement dated August 20, 1998 (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Quarterly Report on
            Form 10-Q of Viacom Inc. for the quarter ended
            September 30, 1998) (File No. 1-9553).*

      (n)   Agreement, dated as of January 1, 1996, between
            Viacom Inc. and Michael D. Fricklas, as amended by an
            Agreement dated March 31, 1998, and as further
            amended by an Agreement dated October 12, 1998
            (filed herewith).*

      (o)   Agreement, dated as of April 1, 1995, between Viacom
            Inc. and George S. Smith, Jr., as amended by an
            Agreement dated as of March 30, 1998 (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 10(o) to the Annual Report on
            Form 10-K of Viacom Inc. for the fiscal year ended
            December 31, 1997) (File No. 1-9553).*

      (p)   Service Agreement, dated as of March 1, 1994, between
            George S. Abrams and Viacom Inc. (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 10(q) to the Annual Report on
            Form 10-K of Viacom Inc. for the fiscal year ended
            December 31, 1994) (File No. 1-9553).*

      (q)   Blockbuster Entertainment Corporation ("BEC") stock
            option plans* assumed by Viacom Inc. after the
            Blockbuster Merger consisting of the following:

            (i)   BEC's 1989 Stock Option Plan (incorporated by
                  reference to BEC's Proxy Statement dated March
                  31, 1989).

            (ii)  Amendments to BEC's 1989 Stock Option Plan
                  (incorporated by reference to BEC's Proxy
                  Statement dated April 3, 1991).

            (iii) BEC's 1990 Stock Option Plan (incorporated by
                  reference to BEC's Proxy Statement dated March
                  29, 1990).

            (iv)  Amendments to BEC's 1990 Stock Option Plan
                  (incorporated by reference to BEC's Proxy
                  Statement dated April 15, 1991).

            (v)   BEC's 1991 Employee Director Stock Option Plan
                  (incorporated by reference to BEC's Proxy
                  Statement dated April 15, 1991).

            (vi)  BEC's 1991 Non-Employee Director Stock Option
                  Plan (incorporated by reference to BEC's Proxy
                  Statement dated April 15, 1991).

- --------
* Management contract or compensatory plan required to be filed as an exhibit
to this form pursuant to Item 14(c).


                               E-4


 Exhibit
    No.                Description of Document                          Page No.
 -------               -----------------------                          --------

            (vii) BEC's 1994 Stock Option Plan (incorporated by
                  reference to Exhibit 10.35 to the Annual Report
                  on Form 10-K of BEC for the fiscal year ended
                  December 31, 1993) (File No. 0-12700).

      (r)   Parents Agreement dated as of July 24, 1995 among
            Viacom Inc., Tele-Communications, Inc. and TCI
            Communications, Inc. (incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 10.1 to the Registration Statement on Form
            S-4 filed by Viacom International Inc.) (File No.
            33-64467).

      (s)   Implementation Agreement dated as of July 24, 1995
            between Viacom International Inc. and Viacom
            International Services Inc. (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registration
            Statement on Form S-4 filed by Viacom International
            Inc.) (File No. 33-64467).

      (t)   Subscription Agreement dated as of July 24, 1995
            among Viacom International Inc., Tele-Communications,
            Inc. and TCI Communications, Inc. (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registration
            Statement on Form S-4 filed by Viacom International
            Inc.) (File No. 33-64467).

      (u)   Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of February 16,
            1997, between Viacom International Inc. and Evergreen
            Media Corporation of Los Angeles (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 10(u) to the Annual Report on
            Form 10-K of Viacom Inc. for the fiscal year ended
            December 31, 1996) (File No. 1-9553).

      (v)   Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of May 17, 1998,
            among Viacom International Inc., Pearson Inc., and
            Pearson plc (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Viacom
            Inc. for the quarter ended June 30, 1998) (File No.
            1-9553), as amended by Amendment No. 1 dated as of
            November 25, 1998 (filed herewith).

(11)        Statements re Computation of Net Earnings Per Share

(21)        Subsidiaries of Viacom Inc.

(23)        Consents of Experts and Counsel

      (a)   Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

(24)        Powers of Attorney

(27)        Financial Data Schedule


                                       E-5



VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULE

Item 14a


The following consolidated financial statements and schedule of the registrant
and its subsidiaries are submitted herewith as part of this report:

                                                                       Reference
                                                                        (Page/s)
                                                                        --------
 
1. Report of Independent Accountants                                       II-25
 
2. Management's Statement of Responsibility for Financial 
    Reporting ....................................................         II-26

3. Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended
    December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996 .............................         II-27

4. Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 
    1998 and 1997 ................................................ II-28 - II-29

5. Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
     December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996 ............................         II-30

6. Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the
     years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996 ................         II-31

7. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements .................... II-32 - II-73

Financial Statement Schedule:

       II. Valuation and Qualifying Accounts .....................           F-2


All other Schedules are omitted since the required information is not present or
is not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the schedule.


                                      F-1


VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS


(Millions of Dollars)



Notes:
- ------
(A)   Primarily related to the sale of Non-Consumer Publishing and amounts
      written off, net of recoveries.
(B)   Includes amounts written off, net of recoveries and amounts related to
      discontinued operations.
(C)   Primarily related to the second quarter 1997 Blockbuster charge associated
      with the reduction in the carrying value of excess inventory.
(D)   Prior year amounts charged to the Statement of Operations have been
      restated to conform with the current discontinued operations presentation.


                                      F-2


