
10-K
FORM 10-K



                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                            ------------------------
                                    FORM 10-K
                            ------------------------
                                  ANNUAL REPORT
                     PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
    FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996 COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-9553
                            ------------------------

                                   VIACOM INC.
             (Exact Name Of Registrant As Specified In Its Charter)
                            ------------------------

                Delaware                              04-2949533
     (State or Other Jurisdiction of               (I.R.S. Employer
      Incorporation Or Organization)               Identification No.)

                        1515 Broadway, New York, NY 10036
               (Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code)

        Registrant's telephone number, including area code (212) 258-6000
                            ------------------------
           Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(B) of the Act:

           Title of Each Class         Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered
     -----------------------------------------------------------------------
Class A Common Stock, $0.01 par value                    American Stock Exchange
Class B Common Stock, $0.01 par value                    American Stock Exchange
Warrants Expiring on July 7, 1997                        American Stock Exchange
Warrants Expiring on July 7, 1999                        American Stock Exchange
6.625% Senior Notes due 1998                             New York Stock Exchange
6.75% Senior Notes due 2003                              American Stock Exchange
7.75% Senior Notes due 2005                              American Stock Exchange
8% Exchangeable Subordinated Debentures due 2006         American Stock Exchange
7.625% Senior Debentures due 2016                        American Stock Exchange

           Securities Registered Pursuant To Section 12(G) of the Act:
                                      None
                                (Title Of Class)

      Indicate by check mark whether registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes |X| No |_|

      Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. |X|


      As of March 21, 1997, 69,460,550 shares of Viacom Inc. Class A Common
Stock, $0.01 par value ("Class A Common Stock"), and 282,799,274 shares of
Viacom Inc. Class B Common Stock, $0.01 par value ("Class B Common Stock"), were
outstanding. The aggregate market value of the shares of Class A Common Stock
(based upon the closing price of $36.50 per share as reported by the American
Stock Exchange on that date) held by non-affiliates was approximately
$825,705,701.00 and the aggregate market value of the shares of the Class B
Common Stock (based upon the closing price of $37.00 per share as reported by
the American Stock Exchange on that date) held by non-affiliates was
approximately $8,532,322,359.00.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

      The Definitive Proxy of the Registrant for the 1997 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders (Part III to the extent described herein).


                                     Part I

Item 1. Business.
Background

      Viacom Inc. (together with its subsidiaries and divisions, unless the
context otherwise requires, the "Company") is a diversified entertainment and
publishing company with operations in four segments: (i) Networks and
Broadcasting, (ii) Entertainment, (iii) Video and Music/Theme Parks, and (iv)
Publishing. Through the Networks and Broadcasting segment, the Company operates
MTV: MUSIC TELEVISION(R), SHOWTIME(R), NICKELODEON(R)/NICK AT NITE(R) and VH1
MUSIC FIRST(TM), among other program services, and 11 broadcast television
stations. Through the Entertainment segment, which includes PARAMOUNT
PICTURES(R) and the Company's approximately 75%-owned subsidiary SPELLING
ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC. ("SPELLING"), the Company produces and distributes
theatrical motion pictures and television programming. Through the Video and
Music/Theme Parks segment, which includes the BLOCKBUSTER(R) family of
businesses and PARAMOUNT PARKS(R), the Company owns, operates and franchises
videocassette rental and sales stores worldwide and owns and operates music
stores in the U.S. In addition, PARAMOUNT PARKS owns and operates five theme
parks and one water park in the U.S. and Canada. Through the Publishing segment,
which includes SIMON & SCHUSTER(R), MACMILLAN PUBLISHING USA(TM) and PRENTICE
HALL(R), the Company publishes and distributes educational, consumer, business,
technical and professional books, and audio-video software products.

      The Company was organized in Delaware in 1986 for the purpose of acquiring
the stock of a predecessor. On March 11, 1994, the Company acquired a majority
of outstanding shares of Paramount Communications Inc. by tender offer; on July
7, 1994, Paramount Communications Inc. became a wholly owned subsidiary of the
Company, and, on January 3, 1995, Paramount Communications Inc. was merged into
the principal subsidiary of the Company. On September 29, 1994, Blockbuster
Entertainment Corporation merged with and into the Company. On July 31, 1996,
the Company completed the split-off of a subsidiary that held its cable
television systems to its shareholders pursuant to an exchange offer and related
transactions. On February 16, 1997, the Company entered into an agreement to
sell its ten radio stations to Evergreen Media Corporation of Los Angeles.
Additionally, the Company has determined to dispose of its interactive game
businesses, including VIRGIN INTERACTIVE ENTERTAINMENT(TM) which SPELLING plans
to dispose of in 1997. Each of the radio and interactive games business units
are now accounted for as discontinued operations (see "Business -- Discontinued
Operations").

      As of March 21, 1997, National Amusements, Inc. ("NAI"), a closely held
corporation that owns and operates more than 1,100 movie screens in the U.S. and
the U.K., owned approximately 67% of the Company's voting Class A Common Stock
("Class A Common Stock"), and approximately 28% of the Company's outstanding
Class A Common Stock and non-voting Class B Common Stock ("Class B Common
Stock") on a combined basis. NAI is not subject to the informational filing
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Sumner M.
Redstone, the controlling shareholder of NAI, is the Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer of the Company.


                                      I-1


      The Company's principal offices are located at 1515 Broadway, New York,
New York 10036 (telephone 212/258-6000). At December 31, 1996, the Company and
its affiliated companies employed approximately 83,500 people, of which
approximately 33,000 were full-time salaried employees.

Business

Networks and Broadcasting

Networks. The Company owns and operates advertiser-supported basic cable
television program services and premium subscription television program services
in the U.S. and internationally. The MTV Networks division ("MTVN") includes
such owned and operated program services as MTV: MUSIC TELEVISION(R) ("MTV") in
the U.S., in Europe and in Latin America, NICKELODEON(R) in the U.S., in Latin
America and in Scandinavia, NICK AT NITE(R), VH1 MUSIC FIRST(TM) (in the U.S.,
"VH1"), and VH-1(TM) in the U.K., MTV's recent spin-off, M2: MUSIC
TELEVISION(TM), and NICKELODEON's recent spin-off, NICK AT NITE'S TV LAND(TM) in
the U.S. MTVN also participates in program services as a joint venturer,
including MTV(TM) in Asia and in Brazil, NICKELODEON(TM) and THE PARAMOUNT
CHANNEL(TM) in the U.K., NICKELODEON(TM) in Australia and in Germany, and VH-1
in Germany. Showtime Networks Inc. ("SNI") owns and operates SHOWTIME(R), THE
MOVIE CHANNEL(TM) and FLIX(R), and participates as a joint venturer in, and is
the manager of, SUNDANCE CHANNEL(R), a premium subscription television program
service which launched on February 29, 1996. Additionally, the Company
participates as a joint venturer in the UNITED PARAMOUNT NETWORK(R) ("UPN"), a
broadcast television network, and in four advertiser-supported basic cable
program services: USA NETWORK(TM) and SCI-FI CHANNEL(TM) (both of which are
operated by USA Networks), COMEDY CENTRAL(R), and ALL NEWS CHANNEL(TM). The
Company also participates as a joint venturer in a direct-to-home platform
offering programming in the Middle East ("GULF DTH"). GULF DTH, which launched
in April 1996, includes programming from MTV, VH-1, NICKELODEON, NICK AT NITE'S
TV LAND, THE PARAMOUNT CHANNEL (see "Business -- Entertainment"), and a Middle
East-oriented premium subscription movie-based program service managed by SNI
called THE MOVIE CHANNEL, among other services.

      Generally, the Company's networks are offered to customers of cable
television operators, distributors of direct-to-home satellite services ("DTH")
and other multichannel distributors. DTH distributors provide service by either
low-powered C-Band satellite technology (received by large satellite dishes at
customers' premises, "TVRO") or mid-to high-powered K-Band satellite technology
(received by smaller satellite dishes at customers' premises, "DBS") (TVRO and
DBS, together, "DTH"). Cable television operators are currently the predominant
distributors of the Company's program services in the U.S. Internationally, the
predominant distribution technology varies territory by territory.

      MTV Networks. MTV targets viewers from the ages of 12 to 34 with
programming that consists primarily of music videos and concerts, augmented by
music and general lifestyle information, comedy and dramatic series, animated
programs, news specials, interviews, documentaries and other youth-oriented
programming. On 


                                      I-2


August 1, 1996, the Company launched M2: Music Television, a new 24-hour,
seven-days-a-week spin-off of MTV that targets a segment of the 12 to 34 year
old audience with a "Freeform" music format which features music videos from a
broad range of musical genres and artists.

      MTV continues to expand its business opportunities based on its
programming. MTV FILMS(TM) produced the highly successful "BEAVIS & BUTTHEAD DO
AMERICA", released by PARAMOUNT PICTURES in December 1996. MTV has also launched
lines of home videos, consumer products and books, featuring MTV programming and
personalities, as well as on-line services offering music information and
interactive versions of MTV programming. In addition, MTV pursues broadcast
network and first-run syndication television opportunities through MTV
PRODUCTIONS(TM).

      MTV was licensed to approximately 61.6 million domestic subscribers at
December 31, 1996 (based on subscriber counts provided by each distributor of
the service, including cable, DTH and other multichannel programming providers).
According to the December 1996 sample reports issued by the A.C. Nielsen Company
(the "Nielsen Report"), MTV reached approximately 66.7 million domestic
subscriber households.

MTV also owns and operates, participates in as a joint venturer and licenses
third parties to operate MTV program services throughout the world. The MTV
international program services are described in the chart below. These
international MTV program services are regionally customized to suit the local
tastes of their young adult viewers by the inclusion of local music,
programming, and on-air personalities, and use of the local language.

      NICKELODEON combines acquired and originally produced programs in a
pro-social, non-violent format comprising two distinct program units tailored to
age-specific demographic audiences: NICKELODEON, targeted to audiences ages 2 to
15 (which includes NICK JR.(R), a program block designed for 2 to 5 year olds),
features a variety of live-action and animated programs, including children's
game shows, educational shows, puppet shows, dramatic specials, comedy,
adventure and magazine shows; and NICK AT NITE, which attracts primarily
audiences ages 18 to 54 and offers mostly situation comedies from various eras,
including I LOVE LUCY, THE DICK VAN DYKE SHOW, HAPPY DAYS, THE MARY TYLER MOORE
SHOW and TAXI. At December 31, 1996, NICKELODEON/NICK AT NITE was licensed to
approximately 63.9 million domestic subscribers (based on subscriber counts
provided by each distributor of the service, including cable, DTH and other
multichannel programming providers). According to the Nielsen Report,
NICKELODEON/NICK AT NITE reached approximately 69.3 million domestic subscriber
households. According to the Nielsen Report for the season ending February 23,
1997, NICKELODEON held 56% of the gross ratings points for the kids ages 2 to 11
market. On April 29, 1996, the Company launched NICK AT NITE'S TV LAND, a
24-hour, seven-days-a-week spin-off of NICKELODEON, comprised of a broad range
of well-known television programs from various genres, including comedies,
dramas, westerns, variety and other formats from the 1950s through the 1980s. At
December 31, 1996, NICK AT NITE'S TV LAND was licensed to approximately 18.3
million domestic subscribers (based on subscriber counts provided by each
distributor of the service, including cable, DTH and other multichannel
programming providers).


                                      I-3


      NICKELODEON licenses its brands and characters for and in connection with
merchandise, home video and publishing worldwide. Additionally, the Company
publishes a monthly NICKELODEON MAGAZINE, which had approximately 603,000
subscribers at December 31, 1996, and created NICKELODEON MOVIES(TM), a new
unit, which is developing a mix of story and character-driven projects based on
original ideas and NICKELODEON programming, such as the feature film, HARRIET
THE SPY, which was co-produced with PARAMOUNT PICTURES and released in 1996.
NICKELODEON also owns and operates theme park attractions and touring shows
under its NICKELODEON RECREATION(TM) unit and interactive public attractions and
television production studios under its NICKELODEON STUDIOS(R) unit located at
Universal Studios Florida. NICKELODEON also promotes its programming through its
on-line services.

      NICKELODEON also owns and operates, participates in as a joint venturer
and licenses third parties to operate NICKELODEON program services throughout
the world. The NICKELODEON international program services are described in the
chart below. These international program services are customized by region and
country to suit the tastes and needs of their viewers by inclusion of regionally
or locally produced programming and by use of local language.

      VH1 presents both current and retrospective music and related programming
in the form of: videos, long-form series and specials, original concerts, artist
interviews and fashion, and music-based news and information, as well as
promotion on its on-line services, and targets an audience from the ages of 25
to 44. At December 31, 1996, VH1 was licensed to approximately 54.5 million
domestic subscribers (based on subscriber counts provided by each distributor of
the service, including cable, DTH and other multichannel programming providers).
According to the Nielsen Report, VH1 reached approximately 56.3 million domestic
subscriber households. International versions of VH1 program services are
described in the chart below.

      MTVN, in exchange for cash and advertising time or for promotional
consideration only, licenses from record companies music videos for exhibition
on MTV, VH1 and other MTVN program services. The agreements generally cover a
three to five year period and contain provisions regarding video debut and
exclusivity rights in the U.S. MTVN has entered into multi-year global music
video licensing agreements with certain of the major record companies. MTVN also
is negotiating and expects to conclude additional license agreements with major
and independent labels. However, there can be no assurance that such agreements
can be concluded on favorable terms. MTVN is continuing to take measures to
assure its music video program services worldwide access to music videos. (See
"Business--Competition--Networks")

      MTVN derives revenues principally from two sources:  the sale of time
on its own networks to advertisers and the license of the networks to cable
television operators, DTH and other distributors.  The sale of MTVN
advertising time is affected by viewer demographics, viewer ratings and
market conditions for advertising time.  Adverse changes in general market
conditions for advertising may affect MTVN's revenues.  (See
"Business--Competition--Networks")


                                      I-4


The following table sets forth information regarding MTVN program services
operated internationally:




                                      I-5





                                      I-6




- ----------
(1) Unless otherwise indicated by an asterisk, the program services are 24
hours-a-day, and seven days-a-week.
(2) All MTV and VH-1 program services include English language music videos.
(3) In 1996 MTV Europe divided its one Pan-European service into three regional
services in order to provide viewers with more locally relevant programming,
including some local language programming. At December 31, 1996, MTV Europe had
56.1 million subscribers (based on subscriber counts provided by each
distributor of the service, including cable, DTH and other multichannel
programming providers).


                                      I-7


      Showtime Networks Inc. SNI owns and operates three commercial-free,
premium subscription television program services: SHOWTIME, offering recently
released theatrical feature films, original movies and series, family
entertainment and boxing and other special events; THE MOVIE CHANNEL, offering
recently released theatrical films and related programming and, beginning in
March 1997, original movies; and FLIX, an added-value program service featuring
theatrical movies primarily from the 1960s, 70s and 80s, as well as select
recent titles. At December 31, 1996, SHOWTIME, THE MOVIE CHANNEL and FLIX, in
the aggregate, had approximately 15.9 million cable and other subscribers in 50
states and certain U.S. territories. SUNDANCE CHANNEL, a joint venture (among
SNI, an affiliate of Robert Redford and an affiliate of PolyGram Filmed
Entertainment Distribution Inc.) which is managed and operated by SNI, launched
on February 29, 1996. SUNDANCE CHANNEL is a commercial-free 24-hour,
seven-days-a-week premium subscription service, dedicated to independent film,
featuring top-quality American independent films, documentaries, foreign and
classic art films, shorts and animation, with an emphasis on recently released
titles.

      SNI also provides special events, such as sports events, to licensees on a
pay-per-view basis. In March 1995, SNI entered into an exclusive multi-year
agreement with former heavyweight champion Mike Tyson and Don King Productions,
Inc. for SHOWTIME EVENT TELEVISION's pay-per-view marketing and distribution of
Mike Tyson's fights over three years. SHOWTIME EVENT TELEVISION(TM) is a
pay-per-view distributor of special events, including boxing events. To date,
SHOWTIME EVENT TELEVISION has distributed four such Mike Tyson fights on a
pay-per-view basis.

      On February 5, 1997, SNI sold certain assets of its subsidiary,
SHOWTIME SATELLITE NETWORKS INC. ("SSN"), to Consumer Satellite Systems, Inc.
("CSS").  SSN had been in the business of offering subscriptions to the
Company's and other program services to TVRO viewers on a direct retail
basis.  SNI will continue to offer its program services to DTH satellite
packagers such as CSS on a wholesale basis.

      In order to exhibit theatrical motion pictures on premium subscription
television, SNI enters into commitments to acquire rights, with an emphasis on
acquiring exclusive rights for SHOWTIME and THE MOVIE CHANNEL, from major or
independent motion picture producers and other distributors. SNI's exhibition
rights cover the U.S. and may, on a contract-by-contract basis, cover additional
territories. SNI has several significant theatrical motion picture license
agreements, including the following: with PARAMOUNT PICTURES for the exclusive
U.S. premium television rights to up to 196 of PARAMOUNT PICTURES' feature
films, commencing with feature films initially theatrically released in the U.S.
during the period from 1998 through at least 2004, as well as 300 titles from
its film library (see "Business--Entertainment"); with Sony Pictures
Entertainment Inc. for the exclusive U.S. premium television rights to up to 125
of TriStar Pictures' feature films initially theatrically released in the U.S.
through December 1998 (as well as certain other feature films); with
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. ("MGM") for the exclusive U.S. premium television
rights to up to 150 of MGM's feature films initially theatrically released in
the U.S. through August 31, 2001; with PolyGram Filmed Entertainment
Distribution Inc. for the exclusive U.S. premium television rights to up to 100
of PolyGram's feature films initially theatrically released in


                                      I-8


the U.S. through the year 2001; with Castle Rock Entertainment for the exclusive
U.S. premium television rights to up to 55 of Castle Rock Entertainment's
feature films initially theatrically released in the U.S. through the year 1999;
and with Phoenix Pictures ("Phoenix") for the exclusive U.S. premium television
rights to up to 40 of Phoenix Pictures' feature films initially theatrically
released in the U.S. through the year 2002. SNI's agreement with Phoenix also
provided for the Company's acquisition of an approximate 11% equity investment
in Phoenix. Theatrical motion pictures are generally exhibited first on SHOWTIME
and THE MOVIE CHANNEL after an initial period for theatrical, home video and
pay-per-view exhibition and before the period has commenced for standard
broadcast television and basic cable television exhibition. Many of the motion
pictures which appear on FLIX have been previously available for standard
broadcast and other exhibitions.

      SNI also arranges for the development, production, acquisition and, in
many cases, distribution of original programs and motion pictures. These
original programs and motion pictures premiere in the U.S. on SHOWTIME, unless
they are previously theatrically released. Such programming is also exploited in
various media worldwide. As part of its original programming strategy, SNI
intends to produce or acquire approximately 50 SHOWTIME original movies in 1997.
The producers of SNI's original motion pictures are given an opportunity to seek
a theatrical release prior to their exhibition on SHOWTIME. If they are not
successful in obtaining such a theatrical release, these pictures then premiere
in the U.S. on SHOWTIME. SNI has entered into and plans to continue to enter
into co-financing, co-production and/or co-distribution arrangements with other
parties to reduce the net cost to SNI for its original movies. In 1996, Hallmark
Entertainment Distribution Company was the predominant co-producer, co-financier
and co-distributor of SNI's original motion pictures that were produced and
premiered in that calendar year.

      The costs of acquiring premium television rights to programming and
producing original motion pictures are the principal expenses of SNI. At
December 31, 1996, in addition to program acquisition commitments reflected in
the Company's financial statements, SNI had commitments to acquire programming
rights and original programming commitments in an aggregate amount of
approximately $1.5 billion, most of which is payable over the next six years as
part of SNI's normal programming expenditures. SNI's commitments to acquire
programming rights are contingent upon delivery of motion pictures which are not
yet available for premium television exhibition and, in many cases, have not yet
been produced.

      Other Joint Ventures. USA Networks, a joint venture of the Company and
Universal Studios, Inc. ("Universal"), operates two advertiser-supported basic
cable television program services in the U.S.: USA NETWORK, a general
entertainment and sports channel, and SCI-FI CHANNEL, a science fiction channel.
Internationally, USA Networks operates USA NETWORK in Latin America and SCI-FI
CHANNEL in Europe. COMEDY CENTRAL, a joint venture of the Company and Home Box
Office ("HBO"), a division of Time Warner, is an advertiser-supported basic
cable television comedy program service. ALL NEWS CHANNEL, a joint venture of
the Company and Conus Communications Company Limited Partnership, a limited
partnership whose managing general partner is Hubbard Broadcasting, Inc.,
consists of national and international news, weather, sports and business news.


                                      I-9


      United Paramount Network. On January 15, 1997, the Company acquired a 50%
interest in UPN(R) from BHC Communications, Inc. ("BHC"), an affiliate of Chris
Craft Industries, Inc., pursuant to an option the Company exercised on December
4, 1996, for a price of approximately $160 million, an amount equaling
approximately one-half of BHC's aggregated cash contributions to UPN through the
exercise date, plus market-based interest. At December 31, 1996, UPN provided 10
hours of programming a week, including two-hour prime-time programming blocks
three nights a week, to affiliates in approximately 159 U.S. television markets,
reaching approximately 90% of all U.S. television households. The Company also
produces original programming for UPN (see "Business -- Entertainment") and owns
and operates nine affiliates of UPN (see "Business -- Broadcasting").

      Broadcasting. The Company owns and operates 11 television stations. All of
these television stations operate pursuant to the Communications Act of 1934, as
amended (the "Communications Act"), under licenses granted by the Federal
Communications Commission ("FCC"). Such licenses are renewable every eight
years.

      In connection with the expansion and development of the Company's interest
in UPN, the Company has pursued a strategy of acquiring television stations in
major U.S. markets through like-kind exchanges of the Company's stations which
are affiliated with networks other than UPN for stations which are or become UPN
affiliates. On February 20, 1997, the Company entered into a three-way exchange
agreement with Cox Broadcasting Corporation and A. H. Belo Corporation whereby
the Company will exchange KMOV-TV, a CBS affiliate serving St. Louis, Missouri,
for KSTW-TV, which will become a UPN affiliate serving Seattle-Tacoma,
Washington, and cash. On September 30, 1996, the Company exchanged WHEC-TV,
serving Rochester, New York, and WNYT-TV, serving Albany-Schenectady-Troy, New
York, for UPN affiliate WTOG-TV, serving Tampa-St. Petersburg-Sarasota, Florida.
The table below sets forth a list of the 11 television stations owned and
operated by the Company at March 21, 1997.

                                                  Network Affiliation and
Station and                      Market           Expiration Date of
Metropolitan Area Served*        Rank    Type     Affiliation Agreement
- -------------------------        ----    ----     ---------------------

WPSG-TV
  Philadelphia, PA               4       UHF      UPN/January 16, 1998
WSBK-TV
  Boston, MA                     6       UHF      UPN/January 16, 1998
WDCA-TV
  Washington, DC                 7       UHF      UPN/January 16, 1998
KTXA-TV
  Dallas-Ft. Worth, TX           8       UHF      UPN/January 16, 1998
WKBD-TV
  Detroit, MI                    9       UHF      UPN/January 16, 1998
WUPA-TV
  Atlanta, GA                    10      UHF      UPN/January 16, 1998


                                      I-10


KTXH-TV
  Houston, TX                    11      UHF      UPN/January 16, 1998
WTOG-TV
  Tampa-St.                      15      UHF      UPN/January 16, 1988
Petersburg-Sarasota, FL
WBFS-TV
  Miami-Ft. Lauderdale, FL       16      UHF      UPN/January 16, 1998
KMOV-TV**
  St. Louis, MO                  21      VHF      CBS/December 31, 1997
WVIT-TV
  Hartford-New Haven, CT         27      UHF      NBC/February 1, 2002

*Metropolitan Areas Served are A.C. Nielsen Company's Designated Market Areas.
** The Company has entered into an agreement to exchange this station for
KSTW-TV, serving Seattle-Tacoma, Washington.

Entertainment

      The Entertainment segment's principal businesses are the production and
distribution of motion pictures and television programming as well as movie
theater operations and music publishing.

      Theatrical Motion Pictures. Through PARAMOUNT PICTURES, the Company
produces, finances and distributes feature motion pictures. Motion pictures are
produced by PARAMOUNT PICTURES, produced by independent producers and financed
in whole or in part by PARAMOUNT PICTURES, or produced by others and distributed
by PARAMOUNT PICTURES. Each picture is a separate and distinct product with its
financial success dependent upon many factors, among which cost and public
response are of fundamental importance. The normal distribution cycle of motion
pictures produced or acquired for distribution by PARAMOUNT PICTURES is
exhibition in U.S. and foreign theaters followed by videocassettes and discs,
pay-per-view television, premium subscription television, network television,
and basic cable television and syndicated television exploitation. During 1996,
PARAMOUNT PICTURES theatrically released 17 feature motion pictures in the U.S.,
including, MISSION: IMPOSSIBLE, THE FIRST WIVES CLUB and STAR TREK: FIRST
CONTACT. PARAMOUNT PICTURES plans to release approximately 17 to 20 films in
1997, including PRIVATE PARTS, THE SAINT, THE FLOOD, FACE/OFF, TITANIC and THE
TRUMAN SHOW.

      In seeking to maximize PARAMOUNT PICTURES' output while limiting its
financial exposure, the Company has pursued a strategy of entering into
agreements to distribute films produced and/or financed, in whole or in part,
with other parties. The parties to these arrangements include studio and
non-studio distributors, both foreign and domestic, as well as producers and
other domestic or foreign investors. In various of these arrangements, the other
parties control certain distribution and other ownership rights.

      PARAMOUNT PICTURES generally distributes its motion pictures for
theatrical release outside the U.S. and Canada through United International
Pictures ("UIP"), a 


                                      I-11


company owned by the Company, MGM and Universal. PARAMOUNT PICTURES distributes
its motion pictures on videocassette and disc in the U.S. and Canada through
PARAMOUNT HOME VIDEO(R) and outside the U.S. and Canada, generally through
Cinema International B.V., a joint venture of entities associated with the
Company and Universal. PARAMOUNT PICTURES has an exclusive premium subscription
television agreement with HBO for exhibition of PARAMOUNT PICTURES' new releases
on U.S. premium subscription television, which includes new PARAMOUNT PICTURES
motion pictures released theatrically through December 1997. PARAMOUNT PICTURES
has licensed to SNI for exhibition on SHOWTIME and THE MOVIE CHANNEL the
exclusive U.S. premium subscription television rights to up to 196 of PARAMOUNT
PICTURES' feature films, commencing with feature films initially theatrically
released in the U.S. during the period from 1998 through at least 2004, as well
as 300 titles from its film library. PARAMOUNT PICTURES also distributes its
motion pictures for premium subscription television release outside the U.S. and
Canada and licenses its motion pictures to home and hotel/motel pay-per-view,
airlines, schools and universities. During 1996, PARAMOUNT PICTURES entered into
transactions with KirchGroup in Germany and with TCM Droits AudioVisuel S.N.C.
and Television par Satellite in France for the licensing of its feature film and
television programming output and libraries for free and pay television
exploitation. SPELLING entered into a similar broad-based agreement with
KirchGroup in 1996. KirchGroup has licensed PARAMOUNT PICTURES' and SPELLING's
libraries for free and pay television, pay-per-view and near video on demand for
the German language territory. KirchGroup had also licensed in the German
language territory, certain rights to television mini-series, movies and series,
and certain theatrical feature films. PARAMOUNT PICTURES, through various
affiliates, is also a joint venture partner in HBO Pacific Partners C.V., Latin
American Pay Television Service, VOF, Telecine Programacao de Filmes Ltda.,
Pay-TV Movies Australia and Star Channel, which are premium television services
in Asia, Spanish-speaking Latin America, Brazil, Australia and Japan,
respectively. UIP and United Cinemas International ("UCI", as described below)
are the subject of governmental inquiries by the Commission of the European
Community ("EC"). UIP has resolved all issues with the EC relating to its pay
television operations in the European Union. Consistent with Paramount's and the
other member studios' recent practices, the UIP member studios have agreed to
license their pay television rights in the future without using the facilities
of UIP. UIP Pay Television will continue to administer certain agreements that
were previously entered into through UIP. The agreement regarding UIP's pay
television operations is separate from the EC's evaluation of UIP's request to
renew the exemption granted as of 1988 under the EC's rules covering UIP's
theatrical distribution operations. That evaluation is ongoing.

      In addition to premium subscription television, most motion pictures are
also licensed for exhibition on broadcast and basic cable television, with fees
generally collected in installments. All of the above license fees for
television exhibition (including international and U.S. premium television and
basic cable television) are recorded as revenue in the year that licensed films
are available for such exhibition, which, among other reasons, may cause
substantial fluctuation in PARAMOUNT PICTURES' operating results. At December
31, 1996, the unrecognized revenues attributable to such licensing of completed
films from PARAMOUNT PICTURES' license agreements were approximately $1.1
billion. PARAMOUNT PICTURES has approximately 900 motion pictures in its
library.


                                      I-12


      Television Production and Syndication. The Company also produces, acquires
and distributes series, miniseries, specials and made-for-television movies
primarily for network television, first-run syndication, and basic cable
television. The Company also owns approximately 75% of SPELLING, which includes
SPELLING TELEVISION(TM), REPUBLIC PICTURES(TM), BIG TICKET TELEVISION(TM) and
WORLDVISION ENTERPRISES(TM).

      The Company's current network programming includes FRASIER, WINGS, LEEZA,
SISTER, SISTER, JAG, DIAGNOSIS: MURDER, SABRINA THE TEENAGE WITCH, CLUELESS,
FIRED UP, CRISIS CENTER and ORLEANS, and through SPELLING, BEVERLY HILLS 90210,
MELROSE PLACE, SAVANNAH, SUNSET BEACH and SEVENTH HEAVEN. The Company also
produces original programming for UPN, including STAR TREK: VOYAGER, THE
SENTINEL and GOODE BEHAVIOR, and through SPELLING, MOESHA (see "Business --
Networks and Broadcasting -- United Paramount Network"). Generally, a network
will license a specified number of episodes for exhibition on the network in the
U.S. during the license period. All other distribution rights, including foreign
and off-network syndication rights, are typically retained by the Company. The
episodic license fee is normally less than the costs of producing each series
episode; however, in many cases, the Company has been successful in obtaining
international sales through its syndication operations. Foreign sales are
generally concurrent with U.S. network runs. Generally, a series must have a
network run of at least four years to be successfully sold in syndication.

      The Company produces and/or distributes original television programming
for first-run syndication which it sells directly to television stations in the
U.S. on a market-by-market basis. The Company sells its programs to television
stations for cash, advertising time or a combination of both. The Company's
first-run syndicated programming includes such shows as STAR TREK: DEEP SPACE
NINE, ENTERTAINMENT TONIGHT, HARD COPY, THE MAURY POVICH SHOW, THE MONTEL
WILLIAMS SHOW, REAL TV and VIPER.

      The Company also distributes its television programming to basic cable
program services, including services in which the Company has an interest, such
as USA NETWORK and MTVN in the U.S. PARAMOUNT PICTURES and NICKELODEON license
programming to and operate THE PARAMOUNT CHANNEL in the U.K., a joint venture
with BSkyB, which features comedies, dramas, light documentaries and films
during the daypart following the NICKELODEON in the U.K. program segment.
PARAMOUNT PICTURES is also a joint venture partner in and licenses programming
to TV1 Australia, a basic cable channel in Australia.

      The Company distributes or syndicates television series, feature films,
made-for-television movies, miniseries and specials for television exhibition in
domestic and/or international broadcast, cable and other marketplaces. Feature
film and television properties distributed by the Company are produced by the
Company and/or SPELLING or acquired from third parties. Third-party agreements
for the acquisition of distribution rights are generally long-term and exclusive
in nature; such agreements frequently guarantee a minimum recoupable advance
payment to such third parties and generally provide for periodic payment to such
third parties based on the amount of revenues derived from distribution
activities after deduction of the Company's distribution fee, recoupment of
distribution expenses and recoupment of any advance payments.


                                      I-13


      The recognition of revenues for license fees for completed television
programming in syndication and on basic cable is similar to that of feature
films exhibited on television and, consequently, operating results are subject
to substantial fluctuation. At December 31, 1996, the unrecognized revenues
attributable to television program license agreements were approximately $589.8
million, of which approximately $159.6 million was attributable to SPELLING.

      Theatrical Exhibition. The Company's movie theater operations consist
primarily of FAMOUS PLAYERS(R) in Canada, FILMS PARAMOUNT(TM) in Europe, UCI in
Europe, Latin America and Asia and CINAMERICA(TM) in the Western U.S. UCI, a
50%-owned joint venture of entities associated with the Company and Universal,
operates theaters in the U.K., Ireland, Germany, Austria, Spain, Japan,
Portugal, Argentina and Panama. CINAMERICA, a 50%-owned joint venture of
entities associated with the Company and Time Warner Inc., includes MANN(TM)
Theaters, and operates 399 screens in 67 theaters in California, Colorado,
Arizona and Alaska. FAMOUS PLAYERS(R), a 100%-owned subsidiary of the Company,
operates 511 screens in 112 theaters across Canada.

      Music Publishing. The FAMOUS MUSIC(R) publishing companies own, control
and/or administer all or a portion of the copyright rights to more than 100,000
musical works (songs, scores, cues). These rights include the right to license
and exploit such works, as well as the right to collect income generated by such
licensing and exploitation.

      The majority of rights acquired by FAMOUS MUSIC are derived from (a) music
acquisition agreements entered into by PARAMOUNT PICTURES, MTVN and various
other divisions of the Company respecting certain motion pictures, television
programs and other properties produced by such units; and (b) music acquisition
agreements entered into directly by FAMOUS MUSIC with songwriters and music
publishers, including exclusive songwriting agreements, catalog purchases and
administration agreements.

Video and Music/Theme Parks

      The Company operates in the home video rental and retailing business and
music retailing business through its BLOCKBUSTER ENTERTAINMENT GROUP
("BLOCKBUSTER").

      Home Video Rental and Retailing. BLOCKBUSTER owns, operates and franchises
videocassette rental and sales stores worldwide. Domestically, BLOCKBUSTER
VIDEO(R) stores generally range in size from approximately 5,000 square feet to
15,000 square feet, averaging 6,100 square feet, and carry a comprehensive
selection of prerecorded videocassettes. Internationally, BLOCKBUSTER VIDEO(R)
stores are generally smaller, averaging 3,600 square feet but varying widely.
The selection of prerecorded videocassettes available for rental and sale varies
widely among international markets. BLOCKBUSTER offers titles primarily for
rental and also offers titles for purchase on a "sell-through" basis (see
"Business--Competition--Video"). During 1996, BLOCKBUSTER combined its domestic


                                      I-14


video and music retail operations under a newly formed Domestic Retail
Operations group. While the stores continue to be operated under different trade
names, their separate operations, finance, marketing and product/merchandising
departments have largely been consolidated. This consolidation is in furtherance
of the Company's intention of offering a comprehensive array of personal
entertainment products and services and related items in each of its retail
outlets.

      At December 31, 1996, there were 5,317 BLOCKBUSTER VIDEO stores operating
worldwide, a net increase of 804 stores over December 31, 1995; there were 3,701
BLOCKBUSTER VIDEO stores operating throughout all 50 states, a net increase of
521 stores over December 31, 1995, 3,066 of which were owned by the Company and
635 of which were owned by franchisees; and there were 1,616 BLOCKBUSTER VIDEO
stores operating in 24 foreign countries, a net increase of 283 stores over
December 31, 1995, 1,364 of which were owned by the Company, 131 of which were
owned by various joint ventures in which the Company is a partner and 121 of
which were owned by franchisees.

      No new franchises to develop, own and operate BLOCKBUSTER VIDEO stores
were granted in 1996. During 1996, the Company entered into two new foreign
markets and increased its participation in three previously franchised foreign
markets.

      During 1996, BLOCKBUSTER announced plans to relocate its headquarters to
Dallas, Texas, and to construct a new 800,000 square foot facility in McKinney,
Texas and implement a program to purchase virtually all product directly from
the manufacturer and distribute that product directly to its stores. This new
distribution facility will double BLOCKBUSTER's existing warehouse capabilities
and is expected to be completed in late 1997.

      The Company's home video business may be affected by a variety of factors,
including but not limited to, general economic trends in the movie and home
video industries, the quality of new release titles available for rental and
sale, competition, marketing programs, weather, special or unusual events (e.g.,
1996 Summer Olympics), changes in technology, and similar factors that may
affect retailers in general. As compared to other months of the year, revenue
from BLOCKBUSTER VIDEO stores in the U.S. has been, and the Company believes
will continue to be, subject to decline during the months of April and May, due
in part to the change to Daylight Savings Time, and during the months of October
and November, due in part to the start of school and the introduction of new
television programs.

      Music Retailing. Through retail stores operating under the "BLOCKBUSTER
MUSIC"(R) trade name and increasingly through BLOCKBUSTER's video stores,
BLOCKBUSTER is among the largest retailers of prerecorded music in the U.S. At
December 31, 1996, BLOCKBUSTER owned and operated 491 BLOCKBUSTER MUSIC stores
in 33 states in the U.S. and four BLOCKBUSTER MUSIC stores in Australia. In
addition, BLOCKBUSTER owns a 19.9% interest in a European music retail joint
venture, which, as of December 31, 1996, operated 20 music stores throughout
Europe under the "Virgin Megastores" tradename. In December 1996, BLOCKBUSTER
announced its intention to close approximately 50 (or approximately 10%) of the
BLOCKBUSTER MUSIC stores.


                                      I-15


      The Company's music business may be affected by a variety of factors,
including but not limited to, general economic trends and conditions in the
music industry, including the quality of new titles and artists, competition,
marketing programs, changes in technology, and similar factors that may affect
retailers in general. The Company's music business is seasonal, with higher than
average monthly revenue experienced during the Thanksgiving and Christmas
seasons, and lower than average monthly revenue experienced in September and
October.

      Theme Parks. The Company, through PARAMOUNT PARKS, owns and operates five
regional theme parks and one water park in the U.S. and Canada: PARAMOUNT'S
CAROWINDS(R), in Charlotte, North Carolina; PARAMOUNT'S GREAT AMERICA(TM), in
Santa Clara, California; PARAMOUNT'S KINGS DOMINION(TM) located near Richmond,
Virginia; PARAMOUNT'S KINGS ISLAND(TM) located near Cincinnati, Ohio; PARAMOUNT
CANADA'S WONDERLAND(R) located near Toronto, Ontario; and RAGING WATERS(TM),
located in San Jose, California. Each of the theme parks features attractions
based on intellectual properties of the Company. Substantially all of the theme
parks' operating income is generated from May through September; however, the
profitability of the leisure-time industry is influenced by various factors
which are not directly controllable, such as economic conditions, amount of
available leisure time, oil and transportation prices, and weather patterns.
PARAMOUNT PARKS and Las Vegas Hilton Corporation expect to launch STAR TREK: THE
EXPERIENCE(TM) at the Las Vegas Hilton, a futuristic-themed, interactive
environment in the summer of 1997.

Publishing

      The Company, through the SIMON & SCHUSTER family of companies, publishes
and distributes hardcover and paperback books, audiobooks, software (including
CD-ROM products), educational textbooks, supplemental educational materials,
multimedia curricula, and information and reference materials for consumers,
schools, businesses and professionals. SIMON & SCHUSTER's flagship imprints
include SIMON & SCHUSTER, POCKET(R) BOOKS, PRENTICE HALL, SILVER BURDETT GINN(R)
and MACMILLAN(R) USA. SIMON & SCHUSTER distributes its products directly and
through third parties. In 1996, SIMON & SCHUSTER also delivered content and sold
products on Internet Web sites operated by various imprints or linked to
individual titles.

      SIMON & SCHUSTER is organized into four operating groups, consisting of
the Education, Consumer, Reference, and International and Business &
Professional Groups.

      Education Group. The Education Group publishes college, elementary and
secondary textbooks and related materials, computer-based educational and staff
development products, audiovisual products and vocational and technical
materials under such imprints as PRENTICE HALL, SILVER BURDETT GINN, GLOBE
FEARON(TM), MODERN CURRICULUM PRESS(R), SIMON & SCHUSTER CUSTOM PUBLISHING and
ALLYN & BACON(R), among others. The Education Group is composed of three
operating units: Higher Education, K-12 Publishing (formed from 


                                      I-16


the merger of the Elementary and Secondary Groups in 1996), and Education
Technology.

      The Higher Education unit publishes titles in all major disciplines, at
both the introductory and advanced levels. Increasingly, titles published by the
Higher Education unit are packaged with CD-ROM software and linked to Internet
Web sites. The K-12 Publishing unit offers textbook and related print materials
as well as software and online educational materials in all major school subject
areas. The Education Technology Group produces electronic instructional products
and services, and includes the EDUCATIONAL MANAGEMENT GROUP(TM) unit, which
broadcasts live interactive and customized television programming into
classrooms via satellite, and COMPUTER CURRICULUM CORPORATION(TM), which
delivers multiple media coursework to students. In 1996, SIMON & SCHUSTER
acquired INVEST LEARNING (formerly Mergent Technologies Group), a company which
offers software for the workplace skills and adult literacy market.

      The educational marketplace is subject to seasonal fluctuations in its
business which correlate to the traditional school year. Sales to elementary and
secondary schools are dependent, in part, on the "adoption" or selection of
instructional materials by designated state agencies. Approximately half the
U.S. states and some localities regulate the purchase of textbooks through the
textbook adoption process.

      Consumer Group. The Consumer Group publishes and distributes hardcover,
trade paperback, mass-market books, audiobooks and CD-ROM products under
imprints including SIMON & SCHUSTER, POCKET BOOKS, SCRIBNER(R), and THE FREE
PRESS(TM). Additionally, SIMON & SCHUSTER develops special imprints and
publishes titles based on MTV, NICKELODEON and PARAMOUNT PICTURES products.

      Fifty-five titles published by the Consumer Group in 1996 were New York
Times bestsellers, including ten New York Times Number One bestsellers. Consumer
titles released in 1996 include "Angela's Ashes" (Frank McCourt), "Blood Sport"
(James B. Stewart), "The Choice" (Bob Woodward), "Harvest" (Tess Gerritsen), "It
Takes a Village" (Hillary Rodham Clinton), "Moonlight Becomes You" (Mary Higgins
Clark), "My Story" (Sarah, the Duchess of York), and "Undaunted Courage"
(Stephen Ambrose).

      The Company publishes audiobooks through SIMON & SCHUSTER AUDIO(TM) and
publishes consumer CD-ROM titles through SIMON & SCHUSTER INTERACTIVE(TM).
Titles published by SIMON & SCHUSTER INTERACTIVE generally consist of CD-ROM
product extensions of well known book publishing properties or titles associated
with recognized authors, including such 1996 titles as "Star Trek: Borg", "Tom
Clancy SSN" and "Richard Scarry's Best Reading Program Ever". SIMON & SCHUSTER
ONLINE(TM), through "SimonSays.com", publishes original content, builds reader
communities, and promotes and sells the Consumer Group's books and products over
the Internet.

      The consumer marketplace is subject to increased periods of demand in the
summer months and during the end-of-year holiday season.


                                      I-17


      Reference Group. The Reference Group, operating as MACMILLAN PUBLISHING
USA, publishes for the consumer and library markets through its MACMILLAN
COMPUTER PUBLISHING USA(TM), MACMILLAN REFERENCE USA(TM) and MACMILLAN DIGITAL
PUBLISHING USA(TM) units.

      MACMILLAN COMPUTER PUBLISHING USA ("MCP") published approximately 600
titles in 1996, of which approximately two-thirds were either packaged with a
CD-ROM or other software, or linked to Web sites on the Internet. MCP also
published original content over the Internet through the MACMILLAN INFORMATION
SUPERLIBRARY(TM) Web site. In 1996, SIMON & SCHUSTER acquired THE WAITE
GROUP(R), a publisher of titles on computer programming languages and emerging
technologies. Other well-known imprints of MCP include QUE(R), SAMS(R), HAYDEN
BOOKS(TM), NEW RIDERS(TM) and ZIFF-DAVIS PRESS.

      MACMILLAN REFERENCE USA is the publisher of such well-known consumer
reference series as Frommer's(R) and Unofficial Guide(R) travel guides, J.K.
Lasser(TM) tax guides, Betty Crocker(R) and Weight Watchers(R) cookbooks,
Arco(TM) test preparation guides, Howell Book House(TM) pet books, Burpee(R)
gardening books and Thorndike(R) large print books. MACMILLAN REFERENCE USA also
publishes library reference materials, including multivolume academic
encyclopedias, many through its CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS(R) imprints. MACMILLAN
DIGITAL PUBLISHING is the software and online division that publishes electronic
products based primarily on the MACMILLAN PUBLISHING USA library.

      International and Business & Professional Publishing Group. Through a wide
variety of imprints, the International and Business & Professional Group
publishes and distributes books and other materials in the international
marketplace, and offers business, professional training, vocational, medical and
healthcare information and human resources management products and related
services, including books, newsletters, journals, seminars, videos, loose-leaf
series and multimedia programs. Operating units include PRENTICE HALL
INTERNATIONAL(R), THE NEW YORK INSTITUTE OF FINANCE(TM), APPLETON & LANGE(R),
JOSSEY-BASS(TM), THE BUREAU OF BUSINESS PRACTICE(TM), PRENTICE-HALL DIRECT(R),
and MASTER DATA CENTER(TM).

      International publishing consists of the international distribution of
English-language titles as well as the publication of non-English language
titles and local translations and adaptations of U.S. titles. The Group,
primarily through PRENTICE-HALL INTERNATIONAL, distributes English-language
books, software and multimedia titles worldwide in more than 150 countries
through a 25,000-title catalog handled by sales offices and subsidiaries in 43
countries. Over 1,400 titles were published indigenously by the International
and Business & Professional Group in 1996. The Group expects to publish books in
11 languages and 20 countries outside North America in 1997, primarily in the
areas of academic, computer, English language training, vocational training, and
professional publishing. The Group also maintains co-publishing partnerships in
approximately 14 countries including Japan (Toppan and Impress) and the People's
Republic of China, where the operations include the co-publishing of computer
books through six local partnerships and the distribution of U.S.


                                      I-18


products. S&S MACMILLAN (France), a computer book publishing unit formed in
1995, published over 120 titles in its first full year of operation.

      In 1996, THE NEW YORK INSTITUTE OF FINANCE, through a joint venture, began
developing a worldwide financial training business based in Singapore. Also in
1996, the Group acquired the human resources development materials titles of
PFEIFFER AND COMPANY(TM), now an imprint of JOSSEY-BASS.

Discontinued Operations

      Cable Television. On July 31, 1996, the Company completed the split-off of
a subsidiary that held its cable television systems to its shareholders pursuant
to an exchange offer and related transactions.

      Radio. On February 16, 1997, the Company entered into an agreement to sell
its ten radio stations to Evergreen Media Corporation of Los Angeles for $1.075
billion. This sale is expected to be completed in the summer of 1997, subject to
customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals. The Company's radio
stations are: WLTW-FM (Adult Contemporary) and WAXQ-FM (Classic Rock), each
serving New York, New York; KYSR-FM and KIBB-FM, each serving Los Angeles,
California (Adult Contemporary); WLIT-FM, serving Chicago, Illinois (Adult
Contemporary); WDRQ-FM, serving Detroit, Michigan (Rhythmic Adult Contemporary);
and WMZQ-FM (Country), WJZW-FM (Jazz), WBZS-AM (Business Talk) and WZHF-AM
(Health and Fitness Talk), each serving Washington, D.C. On July 31, 1996, the
Company exchanged KBSG-AM/FM and KNDD-FM, serving Seattle, Washington, for
WAXQ-FM.

      Interactive Games. On February 19, 1997, SPELLING approved a formal plan
to sell VIRGIN INTERACTIVE ENTERTAINMENT LIMITED ("VIRGIN INTERACTIVE") through
a public offering. On the same date, the Company adopted a plan to dispose of
its interactive game businesses, including VIACOM NEW MEDIA(R), which is
operated by VIRGIN INTERACTIVE under a services agreement entered into during
September 1996. The disposition is expected to be completed by the end of 1997.
Each of VIRGIN INTERACTIVE and VIACOM NEW MEDIA develops and publishes
interactive entertainment software for personal computers and video game
consoles on a wide variety of platforms. In 1996, VIRGIN INTERACTIVE released 94
titles, some of which were released for multiple platforms; the titles represent
119 stock keeping units ("sku's"; a title in each platform is a distinct sku).
VIRGIN INTERACTIVE distributes video games in approximately 30 countries. In
1996, VIACOM NEW MEDIA released ten titles, some of which were released for
multiple platforms; the titles represent 12 sku's.

Intellectual Property

      It is the Company's practice to protect its theatrical and television
product, software, publications and its other original and acquired works. The
following logos and trademarks are among those strongly identified with the
product lines they represent and are significant assets of the Company:
VIACOM(R), the BLOCKBUSTER(R) family of marks, MACMILLAN(R), the MTV: MUSIC
TELEVISION(R) family of marks, THE MOVIE CHANNEL(TM), NICK AT NITE(R) and the
NICKELODEON(R)


                                      I-19


family of marks, NICK AT NITE'S TV LAND(TM), the PARAMOUNT(R) family of marks,
POCKET BOOKS(TM), SIMON & SCHUSTER(R), SHOWTIME(R), the STAR TREK(R) family of
marks and the VH1 MUSIC FIRST(TM) family of marks.

Competition

Networks

      MTVN. MTVN services are in competition for available channel space on
cable systems and for fees from cable operators and other multichannel
distributors, with other cable program services, and nationally distributed and
local independent television stations. MTVN also competes for advertising
revenue with other cable and broadcast television networks, and radio and print
media. For basic cable television networks such as the MTVN services,
advertising revenues derived by each program service depend on the number of
households subscribing to the service through local cable operators and other
distributors in addition to household and demographic viewership as determined
by research companies such as A.C. Nielsen. (See
"Business--Competition--Entertainment")

      Certain major record companies have launched music-based program services
outside the U.S., including but not limited to: Channel V, which is jointly
owned and operated in Asia by Star TV and four major record labels; and Viva and
Viva 2, German-language music channels distributed in Germany and owned in large
part by four major record labels. In addition, MuchMusic, a music service which
originated in Canada, is distributing a MuchMusic service customized for the
Latin American market in Mexico and Argentina, and commenced U.S. distribution
in the spring of 1995.

      Children's oriented programming blocks are currently exhibited on a number
of U.S. broadcast television networks, including, among others, "Fox Kids",
"Kids' WB" and a Saturday morning block on ABC, which directly compete with
NICKELODEON for advertising revenue. There are also a number of other U.S.
cable television program services featuring children's oriented programming,
including The Cartoon Network and the Disney Channel. In addition,
internationally, NICKELODEON also directly competes with other television
programming services and blocks targeted at children for distribution by cable,
satellite and other systems, and for distribution license fees and advertising
revenue.

      SNI. Competition among premium subscription television program services in
the U.S. is primarily dependent on: (1) the acquisition and packaging of an
adequate number of recently released quality motion pictures; and (2) the
offering of prices, marketing and advertising support and other incentives to
cable operators and other distributors for carriage and so as to favorably
position and package SNI's premium subscription television program services to
subscribers. HBO is the dominant company in the U.S. premium subscription
television category, offering two premium subscription television program
services, the HBO service and Cinemax. SNI is second to HBO with a significantly
smaller share of the premium subscription television category. In addition,
Encore Media Corp. (an affiliate of Tele-Communications, Inc.) launched Starz!
in 1994, a premium subscription television program service featuring recently
released motion pictures, in competition with SNI's and HBO's premium program


                                      I-20


services. Since its launch, Starz!, which had initially received distribution
primarily on cable systems owned and/or managed by Tele-Communications, Inc., is
now also carried on cable systems owned or managed by others and on two
significant DBS platforms.

Broadcasting

      The principal method of competition in broadcast television is the
development of audience interest through programming and promotions. The
Company's expansion strategy has been to seek to acquire UPN affiliates or
independent stations which will become primary affiliates of UPN. At this time,
UPN has limited programming. Therefore, with respect to the Company's current
UPN affiliated stations, and, to the extent that the Company acquires
independent stations, there will be a need for those stations to acquire
additional programming to a greater extent than would otherwise be required if
the stations were affiliated with other, more established networks. Television
and radio stations compete for advertising revenues with other stations in their
respective coverage areas as well as with all other advertising media.
Generally, technological advances with respect to the methods of providing home
entertainment alternatives and changing regulatory policies with respect to the
broadcast industry may have an impact upon broadcasting's future competitive
environment. In addition, the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (the "1996
Telecommunications Act") which amended the Communications Act liberalized
television station ownership limits and allows for increased group ownership or
control of stations measured on a national market basis (see
"Business--Regulation--Broadcasting"). The Company is unable to predict what
impact these changes will have on its businesses in each applicable market.

Entertainment

      The Company competes intensely with other major studios and independent
film producers in the production and distribution of motion pictures and
videocassettes. Similarly, as a producer and distributor of television programs,
the Company competes with other studios and independent producers in the
licensing of television programs to both networks and independent television
stations. PARAMOUNT PICTURES' competitive position primarily depends on the
quality of the product produced, public response and cost. The Company also
competes to obtain creative talents and story properties which are essential to
the success of all of the Company's entertainment businesses.

      Corporate mergers consummated in recent years have resulted in greater
consolidation in the entertainment and media industries, which may also present
significant competitive challenges to several of the Company's businesses,
including its theatrical motion picture division and its basic and premium
subscription program services.


                                      I-21


Video Retail

      The home video retail business is highly competitive. The Company believes
that the principal competitive factors in the business are title selection,
number of copies of titles available, the quality of customer service and
pricing. The Company believes that the success of its business depends in part
on its large and attractive Company-owned and franchise-owned BLOCKBUSTER VIDEO
stores offering a wider selection of titles and larger and more accessible
inventory than most of its competitors, in addition to more convenient store
locations, faster and more efficient computerized check-in/check-out procedures,
extended operating hours, effective customer service and competitive pricing.

      Home video companies and distributors from time to time offer titles at a
price substantially lower than the range in which titles are ordinarily priced
to home video retailers. These titles, known as "sell-through" titles because
their lower wholesale price is intended to increase the number of copies sold by
retailers, consist primarily of successful children's movies and other movies
that have unique characteristics or other mass ownership appeal. BLOCKBUSTER
offers these titles both for rental and sale in its stores. The competition for
sales of these titles is greater than "rental-priced products" due to the
participation in this market of mass merchants, grocery stores and other
retailers not engaged in the business of renting videocassettes.

      In the retail rental marketplace, the Company and its franchise owners
compete with other national and regional video rental chains, local video rental
stores, grocery stores and several other retailers engaged in the rental of
videocassettes. The Company and its franchise owners also compete generally with
other feature film distribution media, such as movie theaters and broadcast,
cable and DBS television.

      A significant competitive advantage that the Company and its franchisees
(and all other video retail outlets) currently enjoy over broadcast, cable and
DBS television is a limited exclusive distribution "window" that occurs soon
after a film's theatrical release. Generally, after the initial domestic
theatrical exhibition of a film, studios make the films available to video
rental outlets on an exclusive basis for a period of time. The length of this
period, however, varies based upon a number of factors including, but not
limited to, the box office success of the film and license fee commitments made
by pay-per-view distributors, premium subscription program services and
broadcast networks to exhibit the film in such alternative windows. While the
Company believes that the economic advantages to motion picture distributors of
the home video market favor continuation of present practices regarding
windowing, there can be no assurances that the studios will not alter the home
video window due to new methods of distribution or other factors.

      A number of consumer electronics companies have announced plans to
introduce "digital versatile disc" or "DVD" players into the marketplace during
1997. This new digital technology is an alternative to the videocassette
recorder ("VCR") in that it permits the owner to view prerecorded filmed
entertainment on a standard television set and is being promoted as offering
better audio and video capabilities than a VCR. The DVD players, however, do not
accept videocassettes; they only play a newly developed disc, similar in size
and shape to a compact disc or a CD-ROM. It is unclear at this time how many new
releases and older titles will be made available in this new format. In
addition, the initial DVD players, unlike VCRs, will not have recording
capabilities. Given these issues, the Company is unable to determine


                                      I-22


whether this new format will gain significant consumer acceptance generally or
among the Company's customers. As a result, the Company is unable to determine
the impact, if any, this new format will have on the Company's business. Once
such technology is introduced, the Company will monitor its acceptance by the
market and endeavor to exploit this new medium, both in the rental and sale of
DVD titles.

Music Retail

      In recent years, competition among music retailers has intensified greatly
with the significant expansion of the importance of mass merchants in the
business. A number of these retail chains have significantly reduced their
prices on prerecorded music products (primarily new releases) to attract
customers into their stores and generate sales of other higher margin products.
As a result of this competition, the Company has been required to lower the
prices at which it sells many of its products, resulting in lower revenue and
reduced profit margins. Some of these chains, including the Company, have begun
closing unprofitable stores in an attempt to minimize operating losses while
others have declared bankruptcy. The intense competition in the industry coupled
with a generally soft overall retail environment during 1996 also negatively
affected many of the mass merchants.

Theme Parks

      The Company's theme parks compete directly with other theme parks in their
respective geographic regions as well as generally with other forms of leisure
entertainment. The Company believes that its intellectual properties enhance
existing attractions and facilitate the development of new attractions to
encourage visitors to the PARAMOUNT PARKS theme parks and water park.

Publishing

      The publishing business is highly competitive. Consumer and reference
publishing are affected by well-publicized trends in the retail bookselling
business, including the emergence of the book superstore and the trend toward
consolidation of the retail channel in general. In certain segments of
publishing, particularly in the consumer area, books are sold on a fully
returnable basis, resulting in significant product returns. The Company also
competes with other publishers for the rights to works by well-known authors and
public personalities.

      In elementary and secondary educational publishing, approximately one-half
of the U.S. states and some local jurisdictions regulate the purchase of
textbooks with state funds through formal textbook adoption procedures
administered by state authorities. The Education Group faces considerable
competition from other education publishers to have its textbooks selected.
Further, significant investment is required to develop new textbooks and to
update existing ones. Sales of elementary and secondary school textbooks are
subject to federal, state and local education funding and local enrollment
levels. In higher education publishing, sales of new textbooks are affected by
the availability of used textbooks for purchase, as well as competition from
other publishers. In business and professional publishing, there are numerous
organizations that provide competitive materials and services. International
publishing is subject to global trends, including the consolidation of the
European markets.


                                      I-23


Regulation

      The Company's businesses are either subject to or affected by regulations
of federal, state and local governmental authorities. The rules, regulations,
policies and procedures affecting these businesses are constantly subject to
change. The descriptions which follow are summaries and should be read in
conjunction with the texts of the statutes, rules and regulations described
herein. The descriptions do not purport to describe all present and proposed
statutes, rules and regulations affecting the Company's businesses.

Intellectual Property

      The Company conducts many of its businesses through the control and
exploitation of the numerous copyrights and trademarks underlying its products
and licenses; therefore, domestic and international laws affecting intellectual
property have significant importance to the Company.

      WIPO Copyright Treaties. On December 20, 1996, delegates from countries
belonging to the World Intellectual Property Organization ("WIPO") adopted two
proposed treaties: a Copyright Treaty and a Performers and Phonograms Treaty.
The treaties take effect, if ratified by 30 nations, within the next two years.
The delegates from the U.S, as well as those from virtually every other country
where the Company engages in business, supported adoption of the treaties.

      The proposed Copyright Treaty updates the Berne Convention, last revised
in 1971, and addresses copyright protection with respect to new technologies
that have emerged since that time. Because it is not possible to predict whether
the Copyright Treaty will take effect, how many or which countries will ratify
the Treaty, or how such countries would implement the Treaty after ratification,
it is impossible to predict what impact the Treaty will have on the Company. If
the U.S. decides to ratify the Copyright Treaty, some modest changes may be
required in U.S. copyright law which would not be expected to have any adverse
effect on the Company. The Performers and Phonogram Treaty covers the rights of
audio performers and producers of sound recordings; however, this Treaty is not
expected to have any material effect on the Company if it is ratified.

      National Information Infrastructure Copyright Legislation. In September
1995, the Executive Branch proposed legislation to amend the Copyright Act of
1976 (the "Copyright Act") in several ways, including adding a provision to
prohibit the sale of devices whose primary purpose or effect is to circumvent
anti-copying technologies and a provision to prohibit the dissemination of false
copyright management information. Hearings on this bill were held in both the
Senate and the House. This legislation has not yet been re-introduced in the
105th Congress. The Company cannot predict whether or in what form such
legislation will be enacted into law, or what impact there would be on the
Company.


                                      I-24


      Copyright Term Extension. The Senate Committee on the Judiciary approved
legislation in summer 1996 to extend the term of copyright by 20 years and the
105th Congress is currently considering such legislation. Term extension, if
approved, would have little effect on the Company in the near term, but could
have a small beneficial effect over time.

      Compulsory Copyright. Multichannel video distributors such as cable
television, SMATV, MMDS and DTH systems are each subject to the Copyright Act
which provides a compulsory license for retransmission of "distant" broadcast
signals at prescribed rates (the proceeds are divided among the various
copyright holders of the programs carried on distant broadcast signals). No
license fee is payable to any program copyright holder for retransmission of
broadcast signals which are "local" to the communities served by a cable, SMATV
or MMDS system. DTH systems currently have no compulsory copyright to retransmit
local broadcast signals to subscribers living in communities served by the
broadcast signal. It is expected that a rulemaking now underway at the U.S.
Copyright Office will determine that "open video systems" under the 1996
Telecommunications Act will also be subject to the compulsory license.

      The compulsory license rate for cable, MMDS and SMATV systems is
statutorily set while the fees for DTH service are set through negotiations and
binding arbitration, taking into account fair market value of the signals.

      The DTH compulsory license is scheduled to end in December 1999 and at
some point Congress is expected to authorize an extension of the compulsory
license for DTH services. Congress may also consider authorizing a DTH
compulsory license for programs on local (rather than distant) broadcast signals
which the DTH operator would pick up and transmit back to DTH subscribers in the
local area served by a broadcast station. It is impossible to predict at this
time what changes will be adopted by Congress or what their impact might be.

      First Sale Doctrine. The "First Sale" provision of the Copyright Act
provides that the owner of a legitimate copy of a copyrighted work may rent or
otherwise use or dispose of that copy in such a manner as the owner sees fit.
The First Sale doctrine does not apply to sound recordings or computer software
(other than software made for a limited purpose computer, such as a video game
platform) for which the Copyright Act vests a rental right (i.e., the right to
control the rental of the copy) in the copyright holder. The repeal or
limitation of the First Sale doctrine (or conversely, the creation of a rental
right vested in the copyright holder) for audiovisual works or for computer
software made for limited purpose computers would have an adverse impact on the
Company's home video business; however, no such legislation is pending in
Congress at the present time.

Networks and Broadcasting

Networks

      Communications Act; 1996 Telecommunications Act. The Communications Act
sets forth the framework under which broadcast television networks and cable
television systems are regulated. On February 8, 1996, the 1996
Telecommunications Act was enacted as an amendment to the Communications Act.


                                      I-25


      Among other items, the 1996 Telecommunications Act authorizes entry of
electric utilities and telephone companies into the multichannel video
distribution business. As a result, regional Bell companies, their subsidiaries
and affiliates can now enter the cable distribution business in their own
service areas. The Company cannot predict the impact of this legislation,
although it anticipates that its program services could benefit from increased
distribution opportunities afforded by meaningful telephone company entry into
multichannel video distribution. Such entry has yet to occur except in limited
geographic areas.

      A number of other aspects of the Communications Act may have indirect and
limited effects on the Company's cable networks, but the Company is unable to
predict what the impact would be.

Broadcasting

      Television and radio broadcasting are subject to the jurisdiction of the
FCC pursuant to the Communications Act.

      The Communications Act. The Communications Act authorizes the FCC to
issue, renew, revoke or modify broadcast licenses; to regulate the radio
frequency, operating power and location of stations; to approve the transmitting
equipment used by stations; to adopt rules and regulations necessary to carry
out the provisions of the Communications Act; and to impose certain penalties
for violations of the Communications Act and the FCC's regulations governing the
day-to-day operations of television and radio stations.

      Broadcast Licenses. Unless the FCC finds that doing so would not be in the
public interest, it will grant broadcast station licenses (both television and
radio) for maximum periods of eight years. Upon application to and approval of
the FCC, the licenses are renewable for an indefinite number of additional
eight-year periods.

      A licensee can ordinarily expect renewal of its license if the licensee
has served the public interest and has not seriously violated the Communications
Act or FCC rules. The FCC decides what factors are relevant to whether a
broadcaster has "served the public interest." In addition to the broadcaster's
record of providing news, public affairs, and other informational programming,
the FCC also reviews a licensee's children's programming relevant to television
renewals. Beginning in September 1997, licensees are generally required to
program at least three hours per week of "core" children's programming on a
regularly scheduled basis.

      A license which has expired but is awaiting renewal entitles the licensee
to continue broadcasting pending the renewal. The status of the Company's
television stations' licenses is as follows: WDCA-TV expired on October 1, 1996
and has been renewed; WTOG-TV expired on February 1, 1997 and has been renewed;
WBFS-TV expired on February 1, 1997 and is pending renewal; WUPA-TV will expire
on April 1, 1997; WPSG-TV on August 1, 1999; WKBD-TV on October 1, 1997; KMOV-TV
on February 1, 1998; each of KTXA-TV and KTXH-TV on August 1, 1998; and each of
WVIT-TV and WSBK-TV on April 1, 1999. The Company expects the license pending
renewal (as well as licenses


                                      I-26


which are scheduled to expire in the future) to be renewed. In connection with
the Company's sale of its radio stations, applications for transfer of the radio
stations' licenses have been filed with the FCC and are expected to be granted
during the summer of 1997.

      The Communications Act prohibits the assignment of a license or the
transfer of control of a licensee without prior approval of the FCC.
Additionally, the Communications Act provides that no license may be held by a
corporation if more than 20% of the voting stock is owned of record or voted by
aliens or is subject to control by aliens. In addition, no corporation may hold
the voting stock of another corporation owning broadcast licenses if more than
25% of the voting stock of such parent corporation is owned of record or voted
by aliens or is subject to control by aliens, unless specific FCC authorization
is obtained.

      Broadcast signals are presently transmitted in analog rather than digital
form. The FCC is proposing to allot to broadcasters additional spectrum in new,
digital transmission modes and, pursuant to the 1996 Telecommunications Act,
will permit broadcasters to utilize the digitally transmitted signals for
various purposes including for additional channels of programming and services
"ancillary and supplemental" to broadcasting. Full conversion from analog to
digital mode is expected to occur over the course of a transition period yet to
be determined but expected to be between eight and fifteen years. Until such
transition is complete, broadcasters are expected to be licensed to transmit on
two channels, one for carriage of the analog signal and the second for carriage
of the digital signal, which can be used to transmit either a single "high
definition" channel of video programming or, alternatively, up to six different
channels carrying either an enhanced (although not "high definition") broadcast
signal or the aforesaid ancillary and supplemental services (e.g., data
transmissions or subscription video services). The Communications Act requires
that if separate analog and digital channels are used transitionally, one of the
two channels used during the transition period must eventually be returned to
the government; however, the Act does not establish a time frame for return of
the channel nor specify which of the two channels (i.e., the analog or digital
channel) must be returned. A licensee that retains the analog channel would be
required to convert such channel to digital after the transition period. To the
extent digital spectrum is used for any service which generates subscription or
usage fees, a broadcaster must pay the government, at a rate to be determined by
the FCC, for use of the spectrum.

      Despite these provisions of the 1996 Telecommunications Act, Congress may
yet consider the issue of whether the additional spectrum authorized for
broadcasters should be auctioned to the highest bidder (either broadcasters or
other users) rather than allotted to incumbent broadcasters without charge.
Congress may also consider whether to require broadcasters, should they be
allotted the spectrum, to convert to full digital transmission within a
specified period of time so that returned channels could then be auctioned to
other users not later than a designated date. Certain FCC commissioners have
recently stated that they would like to mandate a relatively fast adoption of
digital technology by broadcasters in order to accelerate the transition from
analog. The Clinton Administration has suggested a date in the year 2005 for
return of the second channel. A spectrum auction or a short-term
analog-to-digital transition period could have an adverse effect on the business
of broadcasting.


                                      I-27


      As part of its plan to convert to digital transmission, the FCC has
proposed a "table of allotments" which would assign, among other things,
frequencies and power allocations for all stations during the transition period
and thereafter. Interested parties have proposed alternative tables of
allotments which are currently being reviewed by the FCC.

      Must Carry/Retransmission Consent. The Communications Act contains
provisions which grant certain "must carry" rights to educational and commercial
broadcast television stations that are "local" to communities served by
multichannel distributors such as cable systems and SMATV systems. Commercial
stations have the additional right to elect either to require a multichannel
distributor to carry the station pursuant to the must carry provisions of the
Act or to require that the cable operator secure the station's "retransmission
consent" on a negotiated basis before the station can be carried (i.e.,
retransmitted) on the cable system. All of the Company's television stations are
carried on cable systems serving the communities in the stations' markets.
Certain of the stations obtained carriage by asserting must carry rights and
other stations granted retransmission consent. Failure to be carried on cable
systems could be detrimental to the business of a television station. The
application of must carry requirements to additional services which a
broadcaster might transmit over the digital spectrum is to be decided by the FCC
except that the 1996 Telecommunications Act expressly provides that any
"ancillary and supplementary" services provided by broadcasters in that spectrum
will not be entitled to mandatory cable carriage. The must carry rules have been
challenged by cable program services and cable system operators. In April 1993,
a District of Columbia three-judge court upheld the rules against a First
Amendment challenge. In June 1994, the U.S. Supreme Court held that the rules
were content-neutral and not unconstitutional on their face, but nevertheless
vacated the District Court's decision and remanded the case back to the District
Court for determination of the impact of such rules on the broadcast and cable
industries. On December 13, 1995, the District Court again upheld the rules in a
two-to-one decision. This decision has been appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court,
which has heard arguments on the issue and has taken it under advisement. A
decision is expected in the spring of 1997.

      Restrictions on Broadcast Advertising. In the past, committees of Congress
examined proposals that would eliminate or severely restrict advertising of beer
and wine either through direct restrictions on content or through elimination or
reduction of the deductibility of expenses for such advertising under federal
tax laws. Such proposals generated substantial opposition. It is possible that
similar proposals will be considered in Congress, particularly in view of the
fact that certain broadcasters and cable networks have recently begun to
advertise distilled spirits after a self-imposed, long-term ban on the airing of
such ads. The elimination of all beer and wine advertising would have an adverse
effect on the revenues of the Company's television stations.

      Ownership Limitations. The Communications Act limits the maximum number of
television stations nationwide in which one entity can have an "attributable
interest" to that number which serves no more than 35% of U.S. television
households. (FCC rules count only one-half of the households in a market when
determining the household reach of stations which broadcast on a UHF frequency
but this "discount" rule will be revisited by the FCC in 1998). Subject to
waiver, the FCC currently 


                                      I-28


prohibits a single entity from owning more than one television station serving
the same market or two or more stations which have overlapping signals with a
certain strength. The FCC is currently considering the definition of "market"
for these purposes and is expected to permit certain previously proscribed
overlaps at the conclusion of the review process. The FCC also permits radio and
television stations to lease the programming and sales inventories of their
stations to other stations ("Local Marketing Agreements" or "LMAs"), subject to
various restrictions, so long as ultimate operational control and ownership are
retained and exercised by the licensee. Such agreements function, as a practical
matter, to effect a consolidation of competitive broadcast stations in much the
same manner as would multiple ownership of facilities by one entity. LMAs among
television stations are not currently subject to explicit FCC regulations. It is
expected that television LMAs will be subject to explicit rules at the
conclusion of the FCC's current ownership rulemaking proceedings. The 1996
Telecommunications Act requires the FCC to review all of its ownership rules
every two years and modify or repeal those that no longer serve the public
interest.

      The FCC's ownership limitations also preclude (except on a grandfathered
basis) common ownership in the same market of (i) television stations and cable
systems; (ii) television or radio stations and daily newspapers of general
circulation; and (iii) radio and television stations. All such restrictions are
subject to waiver by the FCC on a case-by-case basis and radio-television
cross-ownership prohibitions in particular are routinely granted in the major
television markets so long as at least 30 separately owned and operated radio
and television stations serve the market. When the Company acquired majority
ownership of Paramount Communications on March 11, 1994, the Company obtained
ownership of television station WDCA, serving Washington, D.C., in which market
the Company was already operating, and currently operates, two AM and two FM
stations. Pursuant to the FCC's order consenting to the transfer of control of
the broadcast licenses of Paramount Communications to the Company, the Company
became obligated to dispose of one AM and one FM radio station serving
Washington, D.C. The Company requested a continued waiver of this obligation
from the FCC until such time as the FCC completes its pending review of local
ownership limitations.

Entertainment

      The Company's first-run, network and other production operations and its
distribution of off-network, first-run and other programs in domestic and
foreign syndication are not directly regulated by legislation. However, existing
and proposed rules and regulations of the FCC applicable to broadcast networks,
individual broadcast stations and cable could affect the Company's entertainment
businesses.

      Antitrust. The Company, through PARAMOUNT PICTURES, is subject to a
consent decree, entered in 1948, which contains restrictions on certain motion
picture trade practices in the U.S.

      European Union Directive. In October 1989, the European Union ("EU", then
the EC and sometimes referred to as the EC) directed each of the 12 European
Community member countries to adopt broadcast quota regulations based on its
guidelines by October 3, 1991. In March 1995, the Executive Commission of the EU
approved revisions to the directive which would, if adopted, increase the
discrimination 


                                      I-29


against non-European programming. The EU Council of Ministers modified the
proposed revisions in November 1995. In February 1996, the European Parliament
recommended further modifications, which are now being considered by both the
Executive Commission and the Council of Ministers. At this time, it is
impossible to predict what changes will be adopted by the EU, or to predict
their impact on the Company's television syndication business. The Company
believes that its program services in Europe are in compliance with the EU
broadcast quotas.

Video and Music Distribution

      Franchising. Certain states, the United States Federal Trade Commission
and certain foreign jurisdictions require a franchiser to transmit specified
disclosure statements to potential owners before issuing a franchise.
Additionally, some states and foreign jurisdictions require the franchiser to
register its franchise before its issuance. The Company believes the offering
circulars used to market its franchises comply with the Federal Trade Commission
guidelines and all applicable laws of states in the United States and foreign
jurisdictions regulating the offering and issuance of franchises. The Company's
home video and music retailing businesses, other than the franchising aspect,
are not generally subject to any government regulation other than customary laws
and local zoning and permit requirements.


                                      I-30


Item 2. Properties.

      The Company maintains its world headquarters at 1515 Broadway, New York,
New York, where it rents approximately one million square feet for executive
offices and certain of its operating divisions. The lease runs to 2010, with
four renewal options for five years each. The lease also grants the Company
options for additional space and a right of first negotiation for other
available space in the building. The Company also leases approximately 494,000
square feet of office space at 1633 Broadway, New York, New York, which lease
runs to 2010, and approximately 237,000 square feet of office space at 1230
Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York, which lease runs to 2009, which
leases contain options to renew. The Company owns the PARAMOUNT PICTURES studio
at 5555 Melrose Avenue, Los Angeles, California, which consists of approximately
65 acres containing sound stages, administrative, technical and dressing room
structures, screening theaters, machinery and equipment facilities, plus a back
lot and parking lots. PARAMOUNT PARKS' operations in the U.S. include
approximately 1,800 acres owned and 220 acres leased and in Canada include
approximately 380 acres owned. The Company owns the Blockbuster Entertainment
Group currently headquartered at 200 South Andrews Avenue, Fort Lauderdale,
Florida, which consists of approximately 148,000 square feet of office space,
supplemented by another approximately 120,000 square feet of leased office space
at 110 East Broward Avenue and 100 East Broward Avenue, Fort Lauderdale, Florida
and approximately 210,000 square feet of future headquarters office space at
1201 Elm Street, Dallas, Texas. The BLOCKBUSTER retail and distribution
operations in the U.S. and Canada consist of approximately 56 owned properties,
aggregating approximately 361,000 square feet, and approximately 3,803 leased
locations, aggregating approximately 25.4 million square feet. Facilities within
the Publishing segment (other than executive offices at 1230 Avenue of the
Americas described above) include approximately 6,543,000 square feet of space,
of which approximately 4,067,000 square feet are leased. The facilities are used
for warehouse, distribution and administrative functions.

      The Company also owns and leases office, studio, retail and warehouse
space in various cities in the U.S., Canada and several countries around the
world for its businesses. The Company considers its properties adequate for its
present needs.


                                      I-31


Item 3. Legal Proceedings.

      On September 27, 1994, an action entitled Murphy, et al. v. Blockbuster
Entertainment Corporation, et al. (Cause No. 94-10051-M) was filed in the
District Court in and for Dallas County, Texas, alleging breach of fiduciary
duty, conspiracy, fraud, breach of contract, tortious interference with contract
and claims under Texas partnership law against defendants which include
Blockbuster Entertainment Corporation (which has been merged into the Company)
and a limited partnership that had been dissolved into a Company subsidiary. The
action which seeks in excess of $750 million in actual and in excess of $1
billion in punitive damages was brought following the entry of judgment for
approximately $123 million including $108 million in punitive damages in a prior
action commenced by the limited partner of the Murphy plaintiffs (the "Howell
action").

      The Howell action was settled in December 1995. The settlement involved
the vacation of the judgment and withdrawal of all the court's findings of facts
and conclusions of law and a stipulation by the Murphy plaintiffs that they will
make no use of the Howell judgment or findings of facts or conclusions of law in
their action. On defendants' motion for summary judgment, all the Murphy
plaintiffs' claims except for breach of fiduciary duty, conspiracy to breach
fiduciary duty and for an accounting were dismissed. Trial is presently
scheduled for May, 1997.

      The Company believes that it has substantial defenses to these claims,
including, among others, that the claims are barred by the statute of
limitations and by releases entered into by the plaintiffs or their
predecessors, and intends to vigorously defend the claims. (While the Company
maintained that certain of these defenses were also available in the Howell
litigation, significantly stronger facts support their application in this
litigation.) In addition, the Murphy plaintiffs have stipulated that they will
make no use of the Howell judgment or findings of fact or conclusions of law in
their action.

      On April 29, 1996, an action (the "Universal Action") was filed entitled
MCA Inc. v. Viacom Inc., et al. , C.A. No. 14971 in the Court of Chancery of the
State of Delaware against the Company and Viacom International Inc. and Eighth
Century Corp., two subsidiaries of the Company, alleging various breaches of
contract and fiduciary duties relating to the USA Networks joint venture between
Eighth Century Corp. and Universal (formerly known as MCA). On that same day,
the Company commenced an action (the "Viacom Action"; C.A. No 14973) in that
same court entitled Viacom Inc. and Eighth Century Corporation v. The Seagram
Company Ltd, MCA and Universal City Studios Inc., alleging, inter alia, that the
Universal defendants were improperly seeking to force the Company to sell its
50% interest in the USA Networks joint venture to Universal at an unfairly low
price.

      The Universal action seeks damages, an accounting and injunctive relief,
including, specific performance of a noncompetition provision such that the
Company would be unable to own both USA Networks and other domestic
advertiser-supported basic cable entertainment networks, such as those operated
by MTVN. Universal also seeks an order requiring the Company to trigger a
buy/sell provision that could require that the Company sell its interest in the
USA Networks joint venture, or that the Company or its designee purchase
Universal's interest in the joint venture. The matters were tried during the
fourth quarter of 1996 and the parties are awaiting the Court's decision. The
Company


                                      I-32


believes it has substantial defenses both to Universal's claims of breach and to
the availability of the relief sought in the action and is vigorously pursuing
its defenses.

      Certain subsidiaries of the Company from time to time receive claims from
federal and state environmental regulatory agencies and other entities asserting
that they are or may be liable for environmental cleanup costs and related
damages arising out of former operations. While the outcome of these claims
cannot be predicted with certainty, on the basis of its experience and the
information currently available to it, the Company does not believe that the
claims it has received will have a material adverse effect on its results of
operations, financial position or liquidity (see "Item 7. Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and
"Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplemental Data").

      The Company and various of its subsidiaries are parties to certain other
legal proceedings. However, these proceedings are not likely to result in
judgments that will have a material adverse effect on its results of operations,
financial position or liquidity.

Financial Information About Foreign and Domestic Operations

      Financial information relating to foreign and domestic operations for each
of the last three years ending December 31, is set forth in Notes 13 and 14 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company included elsewhere herein.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

      Not Applicable


                                      I-33


Executive Officers of the Company

      Set forth below is certain information concerning the current executive
officers of the Company, which information is hereby included in Part I of this
report.

Name                    Age            Title
- ----                    ---            -----

Sumner M. Redstone      73       Chairman of the Board of Directors and
                                  Chief Executive Officer
Philippe P. Dauman      43       Deputy Chairman, Executive Vice President,
                                   General Counsel, Chief Administrative Officer
                                   and Secretary and Director
Thomas E. Dooley        40       Deputy Chairman, Executive Vice President--
                                   Finance, Corporate Development and
                                   Communications and Director
Vaughn A. Clarke        43       Senior Vice President, Treasurer
Carl D. Folta           39       Senior Vice President, Corporate Relations
Michael D. Fricklas     37       Senior Vice President, Deputy General
                                   Counsel
Susan C. Gordon         43       Vice President, Controller and Chief
                                   Accounting Officer
Rudolph L. Hertlein     56       Senior Vice President, Corporate Development
William A. Roskin       54       Senior Vice President, Human Resources and
                                   Administration
George S. Smith, Jr.    48       Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
Mark M. Weinstein       54       Senior Vice President, Government Affairs

- ----------
      None of the executive officers of the Company is related to any other
executive officer or director by blood, marriage or adoption except that Brent
D. Redstone and Shari Redstone, Directors of the Company, are the son and
daughter, respectively, of Sumner M. Redstone.

      Mr. Redstone has been a Director of the Company since 1986 and Chairman of
the Board since 1987, acquiring the additional title of Chief Executive Officer
in January 1996. Mr. Redstone has served as President, Chief Executive Officer
of NAI since 1967, and continues to serve in such capacity; he has also served
as the Chairman of the Board of NAI since 1986. Mr. Redstone became a Director
of Spelling in 1994 and became Chairman of the Board of Spelling in January
1996. He served as the first Chairman of the Board of the National Association
of Theater Owners, and is currently a member of the Executive Committee of that
organization. Mr. Redstone is Chairman of the Corporate Commission on Education
Technology whose mission is to advance the quality of education in the United
States through the use of technology. The Commission comprises chief executive
officers from leading media and telecommunications companies. Since 1982, Mr.
Redstone has been a member of the faculty of Boston University Law School, where
he has lectured in entertainment law, and since 1994, he has been a Visiting
Professor at Brandeis University. In 1944, Mr. Redstone graduated from Harvard
University and, in 1947, received an LL.B. from Harvard University School of
Law. Upon graduation, he served as Law Secretary with the United States Court of
Appeals, and then as a Special Assistant to the United States Attorney General.


                                      I-34


      Mr. Dauman has been a Director of the Company since 1987 and was
appointed Deputy Chairman of the Company in January 1996.  In March 1994, he
was elected Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Chief Administrative
Officer and Secretary of the Company.  Mr. Dauman became a Director of
Spelling in 1994 and Director of NAI in 1992.  From February 1993 to March
1994, he served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of
the Company.  Prior to that, Mr. Dauman was a partner in the law firm of
Shearman & Sterling in New York, which he joined in 1978.

      Mr. Dooley was appointed a Director and Deputy Chairman of the Company
in January 1996 and has been an executive officer of the Company since
January 1987.  Mr. Dooley became a director of Spelling in 1996 and a
director of StarSight Telecast, Inc. in 1995.  In March 1994, he was elected
Executive Vice President--Finance, Corporate Development and Communications
of the Company.  From July 1992 to March 1994, Mr. Dooley served as Senior
Vice President, Corporate Development of the Company.  From August 1993 to
March 1994, he also served as President, Interactive Television.  Prior to
that, he served as Vice President, Treasurer of the Company since 1987.  In
December 1990, he was named Vice President, Finance of the Company.  Mr.
Dooley joined Viacom International Inc. in 1980 in the corporate finance area
and has held various positions in the corporate and divisional finance areas.

      Mr. Clarke was elected Senior Vice President, Treasurer of the Company in
July 1994, having joined the Company as Vice President, Treasurer in April 1993.
Prior to that, he spent 12 years at Gannett Co., Inc., where he held various
management positions, most recently as Assistant Treasurer.

      Mr. Folta was elected Senior Vice President, Corporate Relations of the
Company in November 1994. Prior to that, he served as Vice President, Corporate
Relations of the Company from April 1994 to November 1994. From 1984 until
joining the Company in April 1994, Mr. Folta held various Corporate
Communications positions at Paramount, serving most recently as Senior Director,
Corporate Communications.

      Mr. Fricklas was elected Senior Vice President, Deputy General Counsel
of the Company in March 1994.  From June 1993 to March 1994, he served as
Vice President, Deputy General Counsel of the Company.  He served as Vice
President, General Counsel and Secretary of Minorco (U.S.A.) Inc. from 1990
to 1993.  Prior to that, Mr. Fricklas was an attorney in private practice at
the law firm of Shearman & Sterling.

      Ms. Gordon was elected Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting
Officer in April 1995.  Prior to that, she served as Vice President, Internal
Audit of the Company since October 1986.  From June 1985 to October 1986, Ms.
Gordon served as Controller of Viacom Broadcasting.  She joined the Company
in 1981 and held various positions in the corporate finance area.

      Mr. Hertlein was elected Senior Vice President of the Company in July
1994. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President and Controller of
Paramount from September 1993 to July 1994 and as Senior Vice President,
Internal Audit and Special Projects of Paramount from September 1992 to
September 1993 and, before that, as Vice President, Internal Audit and Special
Projects of Paramount.


                                      I-35


      Mr. Roskin has been an executive officer of the Company since April 1988
when he became Vice President, Human Resources and Administration. In July 1992,
Mr. Roskin was elected Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Administration
of the Company. From May 1986 to April 1988, he was Senior Vice President, Human
Resources at Coleco Industries, Inc. From 1976 to 1986, he held various
executive positions at Warner Communications, Inc., serving most recently as
Vice President, Industrial and Labor Relations.

      Mr. Smith has been an executive officer of the Company since May 1985. In
November 1987, he was elected Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer of
the Company and he continues to serve in such capacity. In May 1985, Mr. Smith
was elected Vice President, Controller and, in October 1987, he was elected Vice
President, Chief Financial Officer of the Company. From 1983 until May 1985, he
served as Vice President, Finance and Administration of Viacom Broadcasting and
from 1981 until 1983, he served as Controller of Viacom Radio. Mr. Smith joined
the Company in 1977 in the Corporate Treasurer's office and until 1981 served in
various financial planning capacities.

      Mr. Weinstein has been an executive officer of the Company since
January 1986.  In February 1993, he was elected Senior Vice President,
Government Affairs of the Company.  Prior to that, Mr. Weinstein served as
Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of the Company since the
fall of 1987.  In January 1986, Mr. Weinstein was appointed Vice President,
General Counsel of the Company.  From 1976 through 1985, he was Deputy
General Counsel of Warner Communications Inc. and in 1980 became Vice
President.  Previously, Mr. Weinstein was an attorney in private practice at
the law firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison.


                                      I-36


PART II

Item 5. Market for Viacom Inc.'s Common Equity and Related Security Holder
Matters.

Viacom Inc. voting Class A Common Stock and Viacom Inc. non-voting Class B
Common Stock are listed and traded on the American Stock Exchange ("AMEX") under
the symbols "VIA" and "VIA B", respectively.

The following table sets forth, for the calendar period indicated, the per share
range of high and low sales prices for Viacom Inc.'s Class A Common Stock and
Class B Common Stock, as reported on the AMEX Composite Tape.

                                     Viacom Class A             Viacom Class B
                                      Common Stock               Common Stock
                                  ----------------------------------------------
                                    High         Low         High            Low
                                    ----         ---         ----            ---
  1st quarter ..............      $48 1/4      $41 1/8      $47 3/8      $40 1/4
  2nd quarter ..............       49 1/2           41       48 5/8       40 3/4
  3rd quarter ..............       54 1/8       44 3/4       54 1/4       44 5/8
  4th quarter ..............       50 5/8           44       50 3/4       44 5/8
  1st quarter ..............      $46 3/4      $36 5/8      $47 5/8      $37 1/8
  2nd quarter ..............       43 3/8       36 3/8       44 3/8       37 1/8
  3rd quarter ..............       38 3/8       29 5/8           39       29 3/4
  4th quarter ..............       38 1/4       30 7/8       38 3/4       30 7/8

Viacom Inc. has not declared cash dividends on its common stock and has no
present intention of so doing.

As of March 21, 1997 there were approximately 11,641 holders of Viacom Inc.
Class A Common Stock, and 21,882 holders of Viacom Inc. Class B Common Stock.


                                      II-1


Item 6. Selected Financial Data

VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
(In millions, except per share amounts)



(a) Operating income is defined as net earnings before cumulative effect of
change in accounting principle, extraordinary losses, discontinued operations,
minority interest, equity in earnings (loss) of affiliated companies (net of
tax), income taxes, other items (net), and interest expense (net).

Paramount Communication Inc.'s and Blockbuster Entertainment Corporation's
results of operations are included commencing March 1, 1994 and October 1, 1994,
respectively. Results for each year presented exclude the Cable segment,
interactive game operations, including Virgin, and Viacom Radio Stations which
are reported as discontinued operations. See Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements for additional information on transactions and accounting
classifications which have affected the comparability of the periods presented
above.

Viacom Inc. has not declared cash dividends on its common stock for any of the
periods presented above.


                                      II-2


Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and
        Financial Condition.

General

Management's discussion and analysis of the results of operations and financial
condition of Viacom Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company") should be read in
conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes.
Descriptions of all documents incorporated by reference herein or included as
exhibits hereto are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of
such documents so incorporated or included.

On February 19, 1997, the Board of Directors of Spelling Entertainment Group
Inc. ("Spelling"), a majority owned subsidiary of the Company, approved a formal
plan to sell Virgin Interactive Entertainment Limited ("Virgin") through a
public offering. On the same date, the Company adopted a plan to dispose of its
interactive game businesses, including Viacom New Media which is operated by
Virgin under a services agreement entered into during September 1996. The
disposition is expected to be completed by the end of 1997. Accordingly, such
interactive game operations have been accounted for as discontinued operations
and the Company has recorded a loss on the disposal of $159.3 million, which
includes estimated losses through the expected date of disposition of $58.0
million.

On February 16, 1997, the Company entered into an agreement to sell the Viacom
Radio Stations to Evergreen Media Corporation for approximately $1.075 billion
in cash. The transaction is expected to result in a gain and be completed during
the summer of 1997. The Viacom Radio Stations have been accounted for as a
discontinued operation.

On July 31, 1996, the Company completed the split-off of its Cable segment
pursuant to an exchange offer and related transactions. As a result, the Company
realized a gain of $1.317 billion, reduced its debt and retired approximately
4.1% of the total outstanding common shares. The Cable segment has been
accounted for as a discontinued operation.

Operating results and the related gain or loss attributable to discontinued
operations have been separately disclosed in the Company's notes to the
consolidated financial statements. (See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements).

During 1994, the Company made two significant acquisitions of large and
diversified businesses. Where appropriate the Company merged the operations of
previously existing and acquired businesses. On March 11, 1994, the Company
acquired a majority of the outstanding shares of Paramount Communications Inc.
("Paramount") by tender offer; on July 7, 1994, Paramount became a wholly owned
subsidiary of the Company (the "Paramount Merger"); and on January 3, 1995,
Paramount merged into Viacom International. On September 29, 1994, Blockbuster
Entertainment Corporation ("Blockbuster") merged with and into the Company (the
"Blockbuster Merger"). Paramount's and Blockbuster's results of operations are
included commencing March 1, 1994 and October 1, 1994, respectively.


                                      II-3


The Company's consolidated statements of operations reflect four operating
segments:

Networks and Broadcasting - Basic Cable and Premium Subscription Television
                            Program Services, and Television Stations.

Entertainment - Production and Distribution of Motion Pictures and
                Television Programming as well as Movie Theater Operations
                and Music Publishing.

Video and Music/Theme Parks - Home Video and Music Retailing, and Theme Parks.

Publishing - Education; Consumer; Business and Professional; Reference; and
             International Groups.

The following tables set forth revenues and operating income by business
segment, for each of the three years ending December 31, 1996, with the year
ended December 31, 1994 presented on a pro forma and historical basis. The pro
forma information is provided in addition to historical information solely to
assist in the comparison of results of operations and is not necessarily
indicative of the combined results of operations of Viacom, Paramount and
Blockbuster that would have occurred if the completion of the Mergers and
related transactions had occurred on January 1, 1994. Results for each year
presented exclude the Cable segment, interactive game operations, and Viacom
Radio Stations which are reported as discontinued operations.

Business Segment Information
(In millions)


(a)  Operating income is defined as net earnings before cumulative effect of
     change in accounting principle, extraordinary losses, discontinued
     operations, minority interest, equity in earnings (loss) of affiliated
     companies (net of tax), income taxes, other items (net), and interest
     expense (net).

(b)  Pro forma represents the Company's 1994 results of operations as if the
     Paramount and Blockbuster Mergers occurred on January 1, 1994 and are
     adjusted to exclude $332.1 million of non-recurring merger-related charges
     (See Note 2 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements).

(c)  Paramount's and Blockbuster's results of operations are included commencing
     March 1, 1994 and October 1, 1994, respectively.


                                      II-4


EBITDA

The following table sets forth EBITDA (defined as operating income (loss) before
depreciation and amortization principally of goodwill related to business
combinations) for the years ended December 31, 1996 and 1995, with December 31,
1994 presented on a pro forma and historical basis. While many in the financial
community consider EBITDA to be an important measure of comparative operating
performance, it should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for
or superior to operating income, net earnings, cash flow and other measures of
financial performance prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles.



(a)  EBITDA is defined as operating income (loss) before depreciation and
     amortization.

(b)  Pro forma represents the Company's 1994 results of operations as if the
     Paramount and Blockbuster Mergers occurred on January 1, 1994 and are
     adjusted to exclude $332.1 million of non-recurring merger-related charges
     (See Note 2 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements).

(c)  Paramount's and Blockbuster's results of operations are included commencing
     March 1, 1994 and October 1, 1994, respectively.

Results of Operations 1996 versus 1995

Revenues increased 11% to $12.1 billion for 1996 from $10.9 billion for 1995.
Revenue increases were driven primarily by the Networks and Broadcasting and
Video and Music/Theme Parks segments, which reported increased advertising and
affiliate revenues and continued expansion of Video stores which also reported a
6% increase in worldwide same-store sales. EBITDA decreased 1% to $2.09 billion
for 1996 from $2.12 billion for 1995. Operating income decreased 9% to $1.3
billion for 1996 from $1.4 billion for 1995. Operating results decreased due
principally to the Video and Music/Theme Parks segment which recorded a
restructuring charge of $88.9 million, a write-off of music inventory of $9.4
million and continued to encounter difficult conditions in the music retailing
industry. The Entertainment segment also recognized approximately $250.0 million
of revenues and $68.0 million of EBITDA and operating income during 1995
resulting from the conforming of accounting policies pertaining to the
television programming libraries of Viacom Entertainment, Spelling and
Paramount. The Networks and Broadcasting and Video and Music/Theme Parks
segments contributed 49% and 21%, respectively, of consolidated operating income
for 1996 versus 37% and 36%, respectively, for 1995.


                                      II-5


The restructuring charge noted above includes costs associated with the closing
of approximately 10% or 50 Blockbuster Music stores, as well as certain costs
associated with the move of Blockbuster's headquarters from Fort Lauderdale to
Dallas. Excluding the impact of the $98.3 million Blockbuster restructuring and
inventory charges described above, the Company's EBITDA increased 4% to $2.2
billion for 1996 from $2.1 billion for 1995.

Segment Results of Continuing Operations - 1996 versus 1995

Networks and Broadcasting (Basic Cable and Premium Subscription Television
Program Services, and Television Stations)

The Networks and Broadcasting segment is comprised of MTV Networks ("MTVN"),
basic cable television program services, Showtime Networks Inc. ("SNI"), premium
subscription television program services, and Television stations. Revenues
increased 18% to $2.4 billion for 1996 from $2.0 billion for 1995. EBITDA
increased 20% to $755.3 million for 1996 from $627.9 million for 1995. Operating
income increased 21% to $630.2 million for 1996 from $520.3 million for 1995.
MTVN revenues of $1.3 billion increased 27%, EBITDA of $529.2 million increased
29% and operating income of $464.1 million increased 30%. The increase in MTVN's
revenues principally reflects higher advertising and affiliate revenues.
Advertising revenue gains were driven by rate increases at Nickelodeon and
higher unit volume at MTV. MTVN's EBITDA and operating income gains were driven
by the increased revenues partially offset by start-up costs of Nick at Nite's
TV Land and M2 and increased expenses associated with programming and
international expansion. SNI's revenues, EBITDA and operating income increased
12%, 19% and 14%, respectively, reflecting an increase of 1.0 million
subscribers to 15.9 million as of December 31, 1996, partially offset by
increased programming costs. The Television stations revenues and EBITDA each
increased 2% and operating income increased 1%, primarily reflecting the
swapping of network affiliated television stations for independent stations
which are or become affiliated with United Paramount Network. On a same-station
basis, revenues and EBITDA for Television stations increased 6% and 11%,
respectively.

Entertainment (Motion Pictures and Television Programming, Movie Theaters, and
Music Publishing)

The Entertainment segment is principally comprised of Paramount Pictures,
Paramount Television and Spelling Entertainment Group Inc. ("Spelling").
Revenues increased 3% to $3.5 billion for 1996 from $3.4 billion for 1995.
EBITDA decreased 5% to $454.7 million for 1996 from $480.9 million for 1995.
Operating income decreased 8% to $326.6 million for 1996 from $354.8 million for
1995. Feature Film revenues from Paramount Pictures' major 1996 theatrical
releases, including Mission: Impossible, The First Wives Club and Star Trek:
First Contact and the impact, principally in the first quarter, of Paramount's
KirchGroup transaction, were offset primarily by lower operating results at
Spelling, stemming from softness in the direct-to-video market and significantly
higher production spending. In 1995, the Company also recognized $250.0 million
of revenues and $68.0 million of EBITDA and operating income resulting from the
conforming of accounting policies pertaining to the television programming
libraries of Viacom Entertainment, Spelling and Paramount.


                                      II-6


License fees for the television exhibition of motion pictures and for
syndication and basic cable exhibition of television programming are recorded as
revenue in the period that the products are available for such exhibition,
which, among other reasons, may cause substantial fluctuation in operating
results. As of December 31, 1996, the unrecognized revenues attributable to such
licensing agreements were approximately $1.7 billion.

Video and Music/Theme Parks (Home Video and Music Retailing/Theme Parks)

The Video and Music/Theme Parks segment is comprised of Blockbuster Video and
Music and Paramount Parks. Revenues increased 18% to $3.9 billion for 1996 from
$3.3 billion for 1995. EBITDA decreased 18% to $676.6 million for 1996 from
$823.0 million for 1995. Operating income decreased 46% to $273.1 million for
1996 from $501.5 million for 1995. The revenue increase primarily reflects the
increased number of Company-owned video stores in operation in 1996 as compared
to 1995 and a 6% increase in worldwide same-store sales. Blockbuster Video ended
the year with 5,317 stores, a net increase of 804 stores from the prior year.
EBITDA of $676.6 million reflects the impact of a write-off of music inventory
of $9.4 million, a restructuring charge of $88.9 million and increased rental
tape amortization. The restructuring charge includes costs associated with the
closing of approximately 10% or 50 Blockbuster Music stores, as well as certain
costs associated with the move of Blockbuster's headquarters from Fort
Lauderdale to Dallas. Music stores revenues of $616.2 million for 1996 increased
5% over the comparable prior-year period. Music stores operating losses before
depreciation and amortization of $46.2 million for 1996 decreased from EBITDA of
$33.1 million for 1995 reflecting continuing difficult conditions in the music
retailing industry. Music stores recorded operating losses of $79.2 million as
compared to operating income of $14.7 million for 1995. Theme Parks revenues
increased 5%, operating income increased 28% and EBITDA increased 16% driven
principally by increased attendance.

Excluding the impact of the Blockbuster restructuring and inventory charges of
$98.3 million, 1996 Video and Music/Theme Parks posted EBITDA of $774.9 million
and Music stores posted EBITDA of $1.9 million.

Publishing (Education; Consumer; Business and Professional; Reference; and
International Groups)

Publishing is comprised of Simon & Schuster which includes imprints such as
Simon & Schuster, Pocket Books, Prentice Hall and Macmillan Computer Publishing.
Revenues increased 7% to $2.3 billion for 1996 from $2.2 billion for 1995.
EBITDA increased 7% to $365.2 million for 1996 from $340.2 million for 1995.
Operating income increased 17% to $217.2 million for 1996 from $186.3 million
for 1995. Revenue increases for the year primarily reflect strong sales from the
Higher Education, Macmillan Publishing USA, and International divisions,
stemming principally from strong domestic title sales and an enhanced focus in
the Latin American and Asian markets. The Consumer Group's EBITDA rose slightly
reflecting strong sales for Undaunted Courage by Stephen Ambrosia, Angela's
Ashes by Frank McCourt, Moonlight Becomes You by Mary Higgins Clark and It Takes
A Village by Hillary Rodham Clinton.


                                      II-7


Other Income and Expense Information

Corporate expenses
Corporate expenses, including depreciation and amortization expense, increased
5% to $172.8 million for 1996 from $164.2 million for 1995, principally
reflecting the impact of executive severance expense in 1996.

Interest Expense
Net interest expense decreased 1% to $798.0 million for 1996 from $809.3 million
for 1995, principally reflecting the reduction of debt attributable to the Cable
split-off partially offset by increases in debt to finance capital expenditures
and other investments including the purchase of treasury stock during 1996. The
Company had approximately $9.9 billion and $10.8 billion principal amount of
debt outstanding as of December 31, 1996 and December 31, 1995, respectively, at
a weighted average interest rate of 7.4% for each period. (See Note 7 of Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements.)

Provision for Income Taxes
The provision for income taxes represents federal, state and foreign income
taxes on earnings before income taxes. The annual effective tax rates of 61.5%
for 1996 and 63.3% for 1995, were both adversely affected by amortization of
intangibles in excess of the amounts deductible for tax purposes.

Equity in Loss of Affiliates
"Equity in loss of affiliated companies, net of tax" was $13.0 million for 1996
as compared to $52.9 million for 1995. The net equity loss of $13.0 million for
1996 principally reflects the losses from international start-up equity
ventures, partially offset by improved operating results for both USA Networks,
a basic cable network and United Cinemas International Multiplex B.V. The equity
loss for 1995 primarily reflects the loss of $49.4 million, net of tax, related
to the Company's write off of its approximately 49% interest in Discovery Zone,
which filed for protection under bankruptcy laws, and losses of international
ventures, partially offset by operating results of USA Networks.

Minority Interest
Minority interest primarily represents the minority ownership of Spelling's
common stock.

Discontinued Operations
For 1996 and 1995, discontinued operations reflect the results of operations,
net of tax, of the Cable segment, the interactive game operations, including
Virgin, and the Viacom Radio Stations. The Cable segment was split-off from the
Company on July 31, 1996 and the gain realized of $1.317 billion is included in
the net gain on discontinued operations, net of tax, offset by the anticipated
loss of $159.3 million on disposal of the interactive game operations. The Radio
Station transaction is expected to result in a gain which will be recognized
upon completion of the transaction. Madison Square Garden Corporation ("MSG") is
also included within discontinued operations in 1995, as it was sold March 10,
1995. The Company acquired MSG during March 1994 as a part of the Paramount
Merger with its book value recorded at fair value and therefore no gain was
recorded on its sale. (See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements).


                                      II-8


1995 versus 1994

Results of operations presented below exclude the Cable segment, interactive
game operations, including Virgin, Viacom Radio Stations and MSG, sold March 10,
1995, to conform with the current year's discontinued operations presentation.

Revenues increased to $10.9 billion for 1995 from $6.7 billion for 1994. EBITDA
increased to $2.1 billion for 1995 from $881.9 million for 1994. Operating
income increased to $1.4 billion for 1995 from $505.9 million for 1994.

The comparability of results of operations for 1995 and 1994 has been affected
by the Mergers and the non-recurring merger-related charges (see Note 2 of Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements). The following discussion of segment
results of operations includes the 1994 results of operations presented on a pro
forma basis, as if the Mergers occurred on January 1, 1994, and are adjusted to
exclude non-recurring merger-related charges.

Revenues increased 16% to $10.9 billion for 1995 from pro forma revenues of $9.4
billion for 1994. EBITDA increased 32% to $2.1 billion for 1995 from pro forma
EBITDA of $1.6 billion for 1994. Operating income increased 50% to $1.4 billion
for 1995 from pro forma operating income of $935.2 million for 1994.

Segment Results of Continuing Operations - 1995 versus Pro Forma 1994

Networks and Broadcasting (Basic Cable and Premium Subscription Television
Program Services, and Television Stations)

Revenues increased 14% to $2.0 billion for 1995 from $1.8 billion for 1994.
EBITDA increased 24% to $627.9 million for 1995 from $504.8 million for 1994.
Operating income increased 26% to $520.3 million for 1995 from $412.2 million
for 1994. MTVN revenues of $1.0 billion, EBITDA of $410.9 million and operating
income of $355.8 million increased 20%, 26% and 25%, respectively. The increase
in MTVN's revenues was principally attributable to higher advertising revenues
due to rate increases and to a lesser extent increased affiliate revenues.
MTVN's EBITDA and operating income gains were driven by the increased revenues
partially offset by higher operating costs, primarily representing increased
programming costs. SNI's revenues, EBITDA and operating income increased 6%, 44%
and 51%, respectively, reflecting an increase of 1.3 million subscribers from
December 31, 1994, partially offset by the absence in 1995 of royalty revenues
resulting from the settlement of a contractual claim with a third party during
1994 and increased programming costs. The Television stations revenues increased
11%, EBITDA increased 12% and operating income increased 17% primarily
reflecting increased advertising revenues and the Company's acquisition of
television stations in large markets, offset by the disposition of television
stations in smaller markets.


                                      II-9


Entertainment (Motion Pictures and Television Programming, Movie Theaters, and
Music Publishing)

Revenues increased 25% to $3.4 billion for 1995 from $2.7 billion for 1994.
EBITDA increased 79% to $480.9 million for 1995 from $269.0 million for 1994.
Operating income increased 156% to $354.8 million for 1995 from $138.7 million
for 1994. The increase in results of operations is attributable to a number of
factors, notably during 1995 the strong home video performance of Paramount
Pictures' Forrest Gump, Clear and Present Danger, Congo and Star Trek:
Generations and the sale of certain syndication rights to Carsey Werner, as
compared to the 1994 domestic and foreign theatrical success of Forrest Gump and
Clear and Present Danger. The Company also recognized approximately $250.0
million of revenues and $68.0 million of EBITDA and operating income during 1995
resulting from the conforming of accounting policies pertaining to the
television programming libraries of Viacom Entertainment, Spelling and
Paramount.

License fees for the television exhibition of motion pictures and for
syndication and basic cable exhibition of television programming are recorded as
revenue in the year that the products are available for such exhibition, which,
among other reasons, may cause substantial fluctuation in operating results. As
of December 31, 1995, the unrecognized revenues attributable to such licensing
agreements were approximately $1.1 billion.

Video and Music/Theme Parks (Home Video and Music Retailing/Theme Parks)

Revenues increased 15% to $3.3 billion for 1995 from $2.9 billion for 1994.
EBITDA increased 20% to $823.0 million for 1995 from $688.5 million for 1994.
Operating income increased 29% to $501.5 million for 1995 from $388.3 million
for 1994. The gains in results of operations primarily reflect the increased
number of domestic Company-owned video stores in operation in 1995 as compared
to 1994 and an increase of greater than 3% in worldwide same-store sales,
partially offset by increased overall operating and overhead expenses. Music
stores revenues increased $26.4 million, EBITDA and operating income decreased
$13.4 million and $20.2 million, respectively, reflecting the highly competitive
music retail environment. Theme Parks revenues increased $10.3 million, EBITDA
increased $7.3 million and operating income increased $6.9 million primarily
reflecting increased attendance, and the acquisition of a water park partially
offset by increased operating expenses and in the case of operating income,
higher depreciation expenses.

Publishing (Education; Consumer; Business and Professional; Reference; and
International Groups)

Publishing revenues increased 7% to $2.2 billion for 1995 from $2.0 billion for
1994. EBITDA increased 33% to $340.2 million for 1995 from $254.9 million for
1994. Operating income increased 54% to $186.3 million for 1995 from $121.3
million for 1994. Results of operations primarily reflect increased Education
Group sales resulting from strong Higher Education frontlist sales and increased
Elementary and Secondary Group state adoptions and contributions from Consumer
Group frontlist titles at Pocket Books. EBITDA and operating income for 1994
reflect an aggregate charge of $32.8 million attributable to certain
non-recurring transition costs and the pro forma results of operations of
Macmillan for the two months prior to acquisition.


                                     II-10


Other Income and Expense Information 1995 vs. Actual 1994

Corporate expenses
Corporate expenses, including depreciation, increased 24% to $164.2 million for
1995 from $132.6 million for 1994. The increase in Corporate expenses reflects
the recognition of higher systems, facility and incentive compensation
obligations that occurred in 1995.

Interest Expense
Net interest expense of $809.3 million for 1995 compared to $491.6 million for
1994 reflects the effects of the full year impact of the issuance of 8%
exchangeable subordinated debentures and debt incurred and acquired as part of
the Mergers and the issuance of notes during 1995, offset by decreased bank
borrowings. The notes issued during 1995, pursuant to the shelf registration
statement described in Liquidity and Capital Resources, were $350 million of
6.75% Senior Notes, $200 million of 7.625% of Senior Debentures and $1 billion
of 7.75% Senior Notes. The Company had approximately $10.8 billion and $10.4
billion principal amount of debt outstanding as of December 31, 1995 and
December 31, 1994, respectively, at a weighted average interest rate of 7.4% and
7.5%. (See Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)

Other Items, Net
For 1994, "Other items, net" primarily reflects the pre-tax gain of $267.4
million, which resulted from the sale of the Company's one-third partnership
interest in Lifetime for $317.6 million in April 1994. Proceeds from the sale
were used to reduce outstanding debt.

Provision for Income Taxes
The provision for income taxes represents federal, state and foreign income
taxes on earnings before income taxes. The annual effective tax rates of 63.3%
for 1995 and 84.8% for 1994 were both adversely affected by amortization of
intangibles resulting from the Mergers which are not deductible for tax
purposes.

Equity in Earnings (Loss) of Affiliates
"Equity in loss of affiliated companies, net of tax" was $52.9 million for 1995
as compared to earnings of $19.2 million for 1994, primarily reflecting, in
1995, an equity loss, net of tax, of $49.4 million related to the Company's
approximately 49% interest in Discovery Zone and net losses of equity
investments in international start-up ventures, partially offset by improved
operating results of USA Networks.

Minority Interest
Minority interest primarily represents the minority ownership of Spelling's
common stock for 1995 and fourth quarter 1994 and minority ownership of
Paramount's common stock, for the period March through June 1994.


                                     II-11


Discontinued Operations
For 1995 and 1994, discontinued operations reflect the results of operations,
net of tax, of the Cable segment, the interactive game operations, including
Virgin, Viacom Radio Stations and MSG, sold March 10, 1995. The Company acquired
MSG during March 1994 as a part of the Paramount Merger with its book value
recorded at fair value and therefore no gain was recorded on its sale. (See Note
3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)

Extraordinary Losses
During 1994, the Company refinanced its existing credit facilities and therefore
recognized an after-tax extraordinary loss from the extinguishment of debt of
$20.4 million, net of tax benefit of $11.9 million.

Acquisitions

On March 11, 1994, the Company acquired a majority of the shares of Paramount's
common stock outstanding at a price of $107 per share in cash. On July 7, 1994,
Paramount became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. The total cost to
acquire Paramount of $9.9 billion was financed through $3.7 billion of borrowing
from banks, $3.1 billion of cash and $3.1 billion of securities. (See Note 2 of
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Such cash was obtained through the
issuance of $1.8 billion of Preferred Stock (of which $600 million and $1.2
billion were issued to Blockbuster and NYNEX Corporation, respectively) and
$1.25 billion of Viacom Inc. Class B Common Stock was issued to Blockbuster. The
securities issued to Blockbuster were canceled upon consummation of the
Blockbuster Merger.

On September 29, 1994, Blockbuster was merged with and into the Company. The
total cost to acquire Blockbuster of $7.6 billion was financed through the
issuance of equity securities to Blockbuster shareholders. (See Note 2 of Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements).

Restructuring Charge

In 1996, following a strategic analysis, Blockbuster adopted a plan to abandon
certain Music stores, relocate its headquarters and eliminate third party
distributors domestically. As a result of such plan, Blockbuster recognized a
fourth quarter restructuring charge of approximately $88.9 million principally
reflecting costs associated with the closing of approximately 10% or 50 of its
Music retail stores and costs associated with relocating Blockbuster's
headquarters from Fort Lauderdale to Dallas. As a result of the music store
closings, Blockbuster recognized lease termination costs of $28.3 million and
accrued shut-down and other costs of $14.6 million through the restructuring
charge in the fourth quarter of 1996. The music store closings were completed
during the first quarter of 1997.


                                     II-12


In the fourth quarter of 1996, Blockbuster recognized $25 million of estimated
severance benefits payable to approximately 650 of its Fort Lauderdale
headquarters employees who have chosen not to relocate. Blockbuster, through the
restructuring charge, also recognized $21.0 million of other costs of exiting
Fort Lauderdale and eliminating third party distributors. The Blockbuster
relocation to Dallas is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 1997.
Through December 31, 1996, no significant payments have been made related to the
restructuring charge.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

The Company expects to fund its anticipated cash requirements (including the
anticipated cash requirements of its capital expenditures, joint ventures,
commitments and payments of principal, interest and dividends on its outstanding
indebtedness and preferred stock) with internally generated funds and from
various external sources, which may include the Company's existing Credit
Agreements and amendments thereto, co-financing arrangements by the Company's
various divisions, additional financings and the sale of non-strategic assets as
opportunities may arise. On March 26, 1997 the Company amended and restated the
Credit Agreements. (See Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).

The Company's scheduled maturities of indebtedness through December 31, 2001,
assuming full utilization of the amended credit agreements are $536 million
(1997), $650 million (1998), $1.2 billion (1999), $1.7 billion (2000) and $2.1
billion (2001). The Company has classified certain short-term indebtedness as
long-term debt based upon its intent and ability to refinance such indebtedness
on a long-term basis. The Company's Preferred Stock dividend requirement is $60
million per year.

Planned capital expenditures, including information systems costs, are
approximately $600 million to $750 million in 1997. Capital expenditures are
primarily related to capital additions for new and existing video stores and
theme park attractions. The Company's joint ventures are expected to require
estimated net cash contributions of approximately $125 million to $175 million
in 1997, including United Paramount Network ("UPN"), and MTV Asia. On January
15, 1997, the Company acquired a 50% interest in UPN from BHC Communications,
Inc. ("BHC"), an affiliate of Chris Craft Industries, Inc., pursuant to an
option the Company exercised on December 4, 1996, for a price of approximately
$160 million, an amount equaling approximately one-half of BHC's aggregated cash
contributions to UPN through the exercise date, plus market-based interest. The
joint venture will be recorded as an equity investment beginning in the first
quarter of 1997. In March 1997, the Company assumed 100% of the funding
requirements of MTV Asia, a joint venture between MTVN and PolyGram N.V., as
PolyGram N.V. completed its maximum contribution requirements per the
partnership agreement. The Company is actively seeking a third partner for this
joint venture.

The Company was in compliance with all debt covenants and had satisfied all
financial ratios and tests as of December 31, 1996 under its Credit Agreements
and the Company expects to be in compliance and satisfy all such covenant ratios
as may be applicable from time to time during 1997.


                                     II-13


Debt as a percentage of total capitalization of the Company decreased to 44% at
December 31, 1996 from 47% at December 31, 1995.

The Company entered into interest rate exchange agreements with off-balance
sheet risk in order to reduce its exposure to changes in interest rates on its
variable rate long-term debt. As of December 31, 1996, the Company and its
subsidiaries had obtained interest rate protection agreements with respect to
approximately $600 million of indebtedness, which effectively changed the
Company's interest rate on variable rate borrowings to fixed interest rates. The
interest rate protection agreements matured during March 1997. The Company has
not entered into additional interest rate protection agreements as of March 26,
1997.

The Company uses derivative financial instruments to reduce its exposure to
market risks from changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. The
Company does not hold or issue financial instruments for speculative trading
purposes. The derivative instruments used are foreign exchange forward contracts
and options, and interest rate swap agreements. The foreign exchange contracts
have principally been used to hedge the British Pound, the Australian Dollar,
the Japanese Yen, the Canadian Dollar, the French Franc, the Singapore Dollar,
the German Deutschemark and the European Currency Unit/British Pound
relationship. These derivatives, which are over-the-counter instruments, are
non-leveraged. At December 31, 1996, the Company had outstanding contracts with
a notional value of approximately $52.0 million which expire in 1997 and 1998.
Realized gains and losses on contracts that hedge anticipated future cash flows
are recognized in "Other Items, Net" and were not material in each of the
periods.

The Company continually monitors its positions with, and credit quality of, the
financial institutions which are counterparties to its financial instruments.
The Company is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the
counterparties to the agreements. However, the Company does not anticipate
nonperformance by the counterparties. The Company's receivables do not represent
significant concentrations of credit risk at December 31, 1996, due to the wide
variety of customers, markets and geographic areas to which the Company's
products and services are sold.

The Company filed a shelf registration statement with the Securities and
Exchange Commission registering debt securities, preferred stock and contingent
value rights of Viacom and guarantees of such debt securities by Viacom
International which may be issued for aggregate gross proceeds of $3.0 billion.
The registration statement was declared effective on May 10, 1995. The net
proceeds from the sale of the offered securities may be used by Viacom to repay,
redeem, repurchase or satisfy its obligations in respect to its outstanding
indebtedness or other securities; to make loans to its subsidiaries; for general
corporate purposes; or for such other purposes as may be specified in the
applicable Prospectus Supplement. The Company filed a post-effective amendment
to this registration statement on November 19, 1996. To date, the Company has
issued $1.6 billion of notes and debentures and has $1.4 billion remaining
availability under the shelf registration statement.


                                     II-14


During 1996, the Company, together with National Amusements, Inc. ("NAI"),
initiated a joint share repurchase program. As of December 31, 1996, the Company
repurchased 658,200 shares of Viacom Inc. Class A Common Stock, 5,594,600 shares
of Viacom Inc. Class B Common Stock and 5,450,390 Viacom Five-Year Warrants,
expiring on July 7, 1999, for approximately $240.2 million in the aggregate. As
of December 31, 1996, NAI had acquired 1,282,200 shares of Viacom Inc. Class A
Common Stock and 5,602,000 shares of Class B Common Stock for approximately
$249.6 million, raising its ownership to approximately 67% of Viacom Inc. Class
A Common Stock and approximately 28% of Class A and Class B Common Stock on a
combined basis.

The commitments of the Company for program license fees, which are not reflected
in the balance sheet as of December 31, 1996 and are estimated to aggregate
approximately $1.7 billion, principally reflect commitments of approximately
$1.5 billion under SNI's exclusive arrangements with several motion picture
companies. This estimate is based upon a number of factors. A majority of such
fees are payable over several years, as part of normal programming expenditures
of SNI. These commitments are contingent upon delivery of motion pictures which
are not yet available for premium television exhibition and, in many cases, have
not yet been produced.

See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of
the Company's future minimum lease commitments.

There are various lawsuits and claims pending against the Company. Management
believes that any ultimate liability resulting from those actions or claims will
not have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations,
financial position or liquidity.

Certain subsidiaries and affiliates of the Company from time to time receive
claims from Federal and state environmental regulatory agencies and other
entities asserting that they are or may be liable for environmental cleanup
costs and related damages, principally relating to discontinued operations
conducted by its former mining and manufacturing businesses (acquired as part of
the Mergers). The Company has recorded a liability reflecting its best estimate
of environmental exposure. Such liability was not reduced by potential insurance
recoveries and reflects management's estimate of cost sharing at multiparty
sites. The estimated liability was calculated based upon currently available
facts, existing technology and presently enacted laws and regulations. On the
basis of its experience and the information currently available to it, the
Company believes that the claims it has received will not have a material
adverse effect on its results of operations, financial position or liquidity.


                                     II-15


Current assets increased to $5.7 billion for 1996 from $5.2 billion for 1995
primarily reflecting the classification of net assets of discontinued operations
and increased receivables. The increase in receivables is attributable to
revenue growth at Paramount from domestic theatrical and home video releases,
and higher network and syndication sales. The allowance for doubtful accounts as
a percentage of receivables decreased to 5% for 1996 from 6% for 1995. Both
current and non-current inventory increased principally reflecting the timing of
the release of motion pictures at Paramount Pictures, and increased video and
game product purchases at Blockbuster for new and existing video stores. The
change in property and equipment principally reflects capital expenditures of
$598.6 million and equipment acquired under capital leases of $211.1 million
primarily related to capital additions for new and existing video stores offset
by the split-off of Cable and depreciation expense of $401.3 million. Current
liabilities increased to $4.3 billion for 1996 from $4.1 billion for 1995 due to
increased foreign syndication deferred revenue and other normal operating
activity. Long-term debt including current maturities, decreased to $9.9 billion
for 1996 from $10.8 billion for 1995, reflecting debt reduction attributable to
the cable split-off, partially offset by continued investment in the Company's
businesses and the purchase of treasury stock.

Net cash flow from operating activities increased 27% to $70.5 million in 1996
from $55.6 million for 1995 principally due to a reduction of $410.6 million in
payments for interest and taxes during 1996 partially offset by increases in
foreign syndication receivables and investment in feature film inventory at
Paramount Pictures, and the timing of payments for higher purchases of rental
inventory at Blockbuster Video. Net cash flow from operating activities
decreased 85% to $55.6 million in 1995 from $376.9 million for 1994. Such
amounts are not comparable due to the Mergers. The decreased operating cash flow
primarily reflects interest and tax payments of $1.4 billion for 1995 versus
$429 million for 1994 as well as payments for significant levels of Blockbuster
video product purchases made, in the first quarter of 1995 partially offset by
increased operating income. Net cash flow from investing activities of $839.6
million for 1996, principally reflects the proceeds of $1.7 billion from the
split-off of the Company's Cable systems, partially offset by capital
expenditures and other investing activities. Net cash expenditures from
investing activities of $79.6 million for 1995 principally reflects capital
expenditures and other acquisitions partially offset by proceeds from the sale
of MSG and other dispositions. Financing activities reflect borrowings and
repayment of debt under the credit agreements during each period presented, the
purchase of treasury stock during 1996, proceeds from the issuance of senior
notes during 1995 and the issuance of Viacom Inc. Class B Common Stock to
Blockbuster during 1994.


                                     II-16


Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and
Shareholders of Viacom Inc.

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related
consolidated statements of operations, of cash flows and of shareholders' equity
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Viacom Inc.
and its subsidiaries (the "Company") at December 31, 1996 and 1995, and the
results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 1996, in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles. These financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company's management; our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these
statements in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards which
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit
includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles
used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above.

Our audits of the consolidated financial statements of Viacom Inc. also included
an audit of the Financial Statement Schedule listed in Item 14(a) of this Form
10-K. In our opinion, the Financial Statement Schedule presents fairly, in all
material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction
with the related consolidated financial statements.

PRICE WATERHOUSE LLP
New York, New York
February 14, 1997, except as to the second and first paragraphs of Note 3 which
are as of February 16, 1997 and February 19, 1997, respectively


                                     II-17


MANAGEMENT'S STATEMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL REPORTING

Management has prepared and is responsible for the consolidated financial
statements and related notes of Viacom Inc. They have been prepared in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and necessarily include
amounts based on judgments and estimates by management. All financial
information in this annual report is consistent with the consolidated financial
statements.

The Company maintains internal accounting control systems and related policies
and procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance that assets are
safeguarded, that transactions are executed in accordance with management's
authorization and properly recorded, and that accounting records may be relied
upon for the preparation of consolidated financial statements and other
financial information. The design, monitoring, and revision of internal
accounting control systems involve, among other things, management's judgment
with respect to the relative cost and expected benefits of specific control
measures. The Company also maintains an internal auditing function which
evaluates and reports on the adequacy and effectiveness of internal accounting
controls, policies and procedures.

Viacom Inc.'s consolidated financial statements have been audited by Price
Waterhouse LLP, independent accountants, who have expressed their opinion with
respect to the presentation of these statements.

The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, which is comprised solely of
directors who are not employees of the Company, meets periodically with the
independent accountants, with our internal auditors, as well as with management,
to review accounting, auditing, internal accounting controls and financial
reporting matters. The Audit Committee is also responsible for recommending to
the Board of Directors the independent accounting firm to be retained for the
coming year, subject to shareholder approval. The independent accountants and
the internal auditors have full and free access to the Audit Committee with and
without management's presence.

                                                  VIACOM INC.


                                     By: /s/ Sumner M. Redstone
                                         ---------------------------------------
                                         Sumner M. Redstone
                                         Chairman of the Board of Directors,
                                         Chief Executive Officer


                                     By: /s/ George S. Smith, Jr.
                                         ---------------------------------------
                                         George S. Smith, Jr.
                                         Senior Vice President,
                                         Chief Financial Officer


                                     By: /s/ Susan C. Gordon
                                         ---------------------------------------
                                         Susan C. Gordon
                                         Vice President, Controller,
                                         Chief Accounting Officer


                                     II-18


VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(In millions, except per share amounts)



                 See notes to consolidated financial statements.


                                     II-19


VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In millions)

                                                              December 31,
                                                          --------------------
                                                            1996       1995
                                                          ---------  ---------
Assets

Current Assets:
  Cash and cash equivalents ............................  $   209.0  $   464.1
  Receivables, less allowances of $101.3 (1996) and
    $126.0 (1995) ......................................    2,153.1    1,872.4
  Inventory (See Note 5) ...............................      923.3      888.1
  Theatrical and television inventory (See Note 5) .....    1,419.1    1,275.0
  Other current assets .................................      723.8      684.4
  Net assets of discontinued operations ................      289.4       --
                                                          ---------  ---------
Total current assets ...................................    5,717.7    5,184.0
                                                          =========  =========

Property and Equipment:
  Land .................................................      466.9      477.6
  Buildings ............................................    1,382.6    1,161.7
  Capital leases .......................................      637.1      412.0
  Equipment and other ..................................    1,403.1    1,363.6
  Cable television systems .............................       --        539.8
                                                          ---------  ---------
                                                            3,889.7    3,954.7
  Less accumulated depreciation and amortization .......      733.9      756.8
                                                          ---------  ---------

    Net property and equipment .........................    3,155.8    3,197.9
                                                          ---------  ---------

Inventory (See Note 5) .................................    2,619.4    2,271.5

Intangibles, at amortized cost .........................   14,894.2   16,153.2

Other assets ...........................................    2,446.9    2,184.4
                                                          ---------  ---------
                                                          $28,834.0  $28,991.0
                                                          =========  =========

                 See notes to consolidated financial statements.


                                     II-20


VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In millions, except per share amounts)



                 See notes to consolidated financial statements.


                                     II-21


VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(In millions)



                 See notes to consolidated financial statements.


                                     II-22


VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
(In millions)



                 See notes to consolidated financial statements.


                                     II-23


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
             (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

1) DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Basis of Presentation - Viacom Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company") is a
diversified entertainment and publishing company with operations in the four
segments described below. In accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion
("APB") 30 "Reporting the Results of Operations - Reporting the Effects of
Disposal of a Segment of a Business, and Extraordinary, Unusual and Infrequently
Occurring Events and Transactions", the Company has presented three lines of
businesses as discontinued operations: Viacom Cable, which was split-off from
the Company on July 31, 1996; Viacom Radio Stations, which the Company has
agreed to sell to Evergreen Media Corporation for $1.075 billion in cash; and
its interactive game operations including Virgin Interactive Entertainment
Limited ("Virgin"), a unit of Spelling Entertainment Group, Inc.
("Spelling"), for which the Company has adopted a plan of disposal (See Note 3).
Prior years' statements of operations have been reclassified to conform with the
current year's discontinued operations presentation. The Company's consolidated
results of operations include the results of operations of Paramount
Communications Inc. ("Paramount") commencing March 1, 1994 and Blockbuster
Entertainment Corporation ("Blockbuster") commencing October 1, 1994 (See Note
2). See Note 13 regarding the relative contribution to revenues and operating
income of each of the following business segments:

Networks and Broadcasting
The Company, through MTV Networks, owns and operates advertiser-supported basic
cable television program services, and, through Showtime Networks Inc., owns and
operates premium subscription cable television program services. The Company
also owns and operates 11 television stations.

Entertainment
The Company, through Paramount and Spelling: 1) produces, acquires, finances and
distributes feature motion pictures, normally for exhibition in U.S. and foreign
theaters followed by videocassettes and discs, pay-per-view television, premium
subscription television, network television, basic cable television and
syndicated television exploitation; 2) produces, acquires and distributes
series, mini-series, specials and made-for-television movies primarily for
network television, first-run syndication and basic cable television; and 3)
operates movie theaters.

Video and Music/Theme Parks
The Company, through Blockbuster, operates and franchises videocassette rental
and retail sales stores, and operates music stores throughout the United States
and internationally. Additionally, the Company, through Paramount Parks, owns
and operates five regional theme parks and one water park in the United States
and Canada.

Publishing
The Company, through Simon & Schuster, publishes and distributes consumer
hardcover and paperback books, CD-ROM products, audio books, educational
textbooks and supplemental educational materials, multimedia curriculum and
information and reference materials for businesses and professionals.


                                     II-24


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
            (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and
the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could subsequently differ from those estimates.

Principles of Consolidation - The consolidated financial statements include the
accounts of the Company and investments of more than 50% in subsidiaries and
other entities. Investments in affiliated companies over which the Company has a
significant influence or ownership of more than 20% but less than or equal to
50% are accounted for under the equity method. All significant intercompany
transactions have been eliminated. Investments of 20% or less are accounted for
under the cost method.

Cash Equivalents - Cash equivalents are defined as short-term (3 months or less)
highly liquid investments.

Inventories - Publishing related inventories are generally determined using the
lower of cost (first-in, first-out method) or net realizable value. Prerecorded
music and videocassette sell through inventory costs are determined using the
moving weighted average method, the use of which approximates the first-in,
first-out basis. Videocassette rental inventory is recorded at cost and
amortized over its estimated economic life. Videocassettes which are base stock
are amortized over 36 months on a straight-line basis. Videocassettes which are
new release feature films are frequently ordered in large quantities to satisfy
initial demand ("hits"). For each store, the fifth and any succeeding copies of
hit titles purchased are amortized over six months on a straight-line basis.

Theatrical and Television Inventories - Inventories related to theatrical and
television product (which include direct production costs, production overhead,
acquisition costs, prints and certain exploitation costs) are stated at the
lower of amortized cost or net realizable value. Inventories are amortized, and
liabilities for residuals and participation's are accrued, on an individual
product basis based on the proportion that current revenues bear to the
estimated remaining total lifetime revenues. Estimates for initial domestic
syndication and basic cable revenues are not included in the estimated lifetime
revenues of network series until such sales are probable. Estimates of total
lifetime revenues and expenses are periodically reviewed. The costs of feature
and television films are classified as current assets to the extent such costs
are expected to be recovered through their respective primary markets, with the
remainder classified as noncurrent. A portion of the cost to acquire Paramount
and Blockbuster was allocated to theatrical and television inventories based
upon estimated revenues from certain films less related costs of distribution
and a reasonable profit allowance for the selling effort. The cost allocated to
films is being amortized over their estimated economic lives not to exceed 20
years.

The Company estimates that approximately 69% of unamortized film costs
(including amounts allocated under purchase accounting) at December 31, 1996
will be amortized within the next three years.


                                     II-25


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
            (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

Program Rights - The Company acquires rights to exhibit programming on its
broadcast stations or cable networks. The costs incurred in acquiring programs
are capitalized and amortized over the license period. Program rights and the
related liabilities are recorded at the gross amount of the liabilities when the
license period has begun, the cost of the program is determinable, and the
program is accepted and available for airing.

Property and Equipment - Property and equipment is stated at cost. Depreciation
is computed principally by the straight-line method over estimated useful lives
ranging from 3 to 40 years. Depreciation expense, including capitalized lease
amortization, was $401.3 million (1996), $292.9 million (1995) and $155.0
million (1994).

Property and equipment includes capital leases of $513.8 million and $358.5
million as of December 31, 1996 and December 31, 1995, respectively, net of
accumulated amortization of $123.3 million and $53.5 million, respectively.
Amortization expense related to capital leases was $70.4 million (1996), $39.1
million (1995) and $13.1 million (1994).

In 1996, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
("SFAS") 121 "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for
Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of". SFAS 121 requires that long-lived assets
and certain identifiable intangibles to be held and used by the Company be
reviewed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the carrying amount
of the asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of these assets is
determined by comparing the forecasted undiscounted net cash flows of the
operation to which the assets relate, to the carrying amount including
associated intangible assets of such operation. If the operation is determined
to be unable to recover the carrying amount of its assets, then intangible
assets are written down first, followed by the other long-lived assets of the
operation, to fair value. Measurement of an impairment loss is based on the fair
value of the underlying asset. Fair value is principally determined by
discounted cash flows, depending upon the nature of the assets. The adoption of
SFAS 121 did not have a significant effect on the consolidated financial
position or results of operations.

Intangible Assets - Intangible assets, which primarily consist of the cost of
acquired businesses in excess of the fair value of tangible assets and
liabilities acquired ("goodwill"), are generally amortized by the straight-line
method over estimated useful lives of up to 40 years. The Company evaluates the
amortization period of intangibles on an ongoing basis in light of changes in
any business conditions, events or circumstances that may indicate the potential
impairment of intangible assets. Accumulated amortization of intangible assets
at December 31 was $1.3 billion (1996) and $1.1 billion (1995).

Revenue Recognition - Subscriber fees for Networks are recognized in the period
the service is provided. Advertising revenues for Networks and Broadcasting are
recognized in the period during which the spots are aired. Revenues from the
video and music stores are recognized at the time of rental or sale. The
publishing segment recognizes revenue when merchandise is shipped.


                                     II-26


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
            (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

Theatrical and Television Revenues - On average, the length of the initial
revenue cycle for feature films approximates four to seven years. Theatrical
revenues from domestic and foreign markets are recognized as films are
exhibited; revenues from the sale of videocassettes and discs are recognized
upon delivery of the merchandise; and revenues from all television sources are
recognized upon availability of the film for telecast.

Television series initially produced for the networks and first-run syndication
are generally licensed to domestic and foreign markets concurrently. The more
successful series are later syndicated in domestic markets and in certain
foreign markets. The length of the revenue cycle for television series will vary
depending on the number of seasons a series remains in active production.
Revenues arising from television license agreements are recognized in the period
that the films or television series are available for telecast and therefore may
cause fluctuation in operating results.

Interest - Costs associated with the refinancing or issuance of debt, as well as
with debt discount, are expensed as interest over the term of the related debt.
The Company enters into interest rate exchange agreements; the amount to be paid
or received under such agreements is accrued as interest rates change and is
recognized over the life of the agreements as an adjustment to interest expense.
Amounts paid for purchased interest rate cap agreements are amortized as
interest expense over the term of the agreement (See Note 8).

Foreign Currency Translation and Transactions - The Company's foreign
subsidiaries' assets and liabilities are translated at exchange rates in effect
at the balance sheet date, while results of operations are translated at average
exchange rates for the respective periods. The resulting translation gains or
losses are included as a separate component of shareholders' equity. Foreign
currency transaction gains and losses have been included in other items, net,
and have not been material in any of the years presented.

Provision for Doubtful Accounts - The provision for doubtful accounts charged to
expense was $71.1 million (1996), $70.8 million (1995) and $39.6 million (1994).

Net Earnings per Common Share - Primary net earnings per common share is
calculated based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding
during each period, the effects of common shares potentially issuable in
connection with stock options and warrants, and in 1995 and 1994, variable
common rights ("VCRs") and contingent value rights ("CVRs") (prior to their
settlement). For each of the full years presented, the effect of the assumed
conversion of Preferred Stock is antidilutive and therefore, not reflected in
fully diluted net earnings per common share.

During February 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued
SFAS 128, "Earnings per Share," which is effective for financial statements for
both interim and annual periods ending after December 15, 1997. The Company does
not expect this statement to have a material impact on its earnings per share.


                                     II-27


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
            (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

Reclassifications - Certain amounts reported for prior years have been
reclassified to conform with the current year's presentation.

2) PARAMOUNT MERGER, BLOCKBUSTER MERGER AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

On March 11, 1994, the Company acquired a majority of the shares of Paramount
common stock outstanding at a price of $107 per share in cash. On July 7, 1994,
Paramount became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (the "Paramount
Merger"). Each share of Paramount common stock outstanding at the time of the
Paramount Merger (other than shares held in the treasury of Paramount or owned
by the Company and other than shares held by any stockholders who demanded and
perfected appraisal rights) was converted into the right to receive (i) 0.93065
of a share of Class B Common Stock, (ii) $17.50 principal amount of 8%
exchangeable subordinated debentures ("8% Merger Debentures"), (iii) 0.93065 of
a CVR, (iv) 0.5 of a warrant to purchase one share of Viacom Inc. Class B Common
Stock at any time prior to the third anniversary of the Paramount Merger at a
price of $60 per share, and (v) 0.3 of a warrant to purchase one share of Viacom
Inc. Class B Common Stock at any time prior to the fifth anniversary of the
Paramount Merger at a price of $70 per share.

On July 7, 1995 the CVRs matured. The Company paid approximately $81.9 million
in cash, or approximately $1.44 per CVR, to settle its obligation under the
CVRs.

On September 29, 1994, Blockbuster was merged with and into the Company (the
"Blockbuster Merger"). Each share of Blockbuster Common Stock outstanding at the
time of the Blockbuster Merger (other than shares held in the treasury of
Blockbuster or owned by the Company) was converted into the right to receive (i)
0.08 of a share of Viacom Inc. Class A Common Stock, (ii) 0.60615 of a share of
Viacom Inc. Class B Common Stock and (iii) one VCR.

On September 29, 1995 the VCRs matured. The Company issued approximately 6.1
million shares of Viacom Inc. Class B Common Stock, or .022665 of a share of
Viacom Inc. Class B Common Stock per VCR, to settle its obligation under the
VCRs.

The Paramount Merger and the Blockbuster Merger (collectively, the "Mergers")
were accounted for under the purchase method of accounting. Accordingly, the
total cost to acquire Paramount of $9.9 billion and Blockbuster of $7.6 billion
was allocated to the respective assets and liabilities acquired based on their
fair values at the time of the Mergers with the aggregate excess cost over the
fair value of net tangible assets acquired of $7.9 billion and $6.8 billion,
respectively, allocated to goodwill.


                                     II-28


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
            (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

The unaudited condensed pro forma results of operations data presented below
assumes that the Mergers and related transactions, the sale of the one-third
partnership interest in Lifetime and the sale of MSG (as described in Note 3)
occurred January 1, 1994. The unaudited condensed pro forma results of
operations data was prepared based upon the historical consolidated results of
operations of the Company for the year ended December 31, 1994, Paramount for
the two months ended February 28, 1994, and Blockbuster for the nine months
ended September 30, 1994, adjusted to exclude the non-recurring merger-related
charges of $332.1 million.

The results presented below exclude the Cable segment, the interactive game
operations, including Virgin, and the Viacom Radio Stations (see Note 3).
Financial information for Paramount and Blockbuster subsequent to the date of
acquisition is included in the Company's historical information. Intangible
assets are amortized principally over 40 years on a straight-line basis. The
following unaudited pro forma information is not necessarily indicative of the
combined results of operations of the Company, Paramount and Blockbuster that
would have occurred if the completion of the transactions had occurred on the
dates previously indicated nor are they necessarily indicative of future
operating results of the combined company.

                                                    Year ended December 31, 1994
                                                    ----------------------------
                                                             (Unaudited)

Revenues...................................................  $ 9,426.0
Operating income...........................................      935.2
Earnings from continuing operations
   before extraordinary loss and preferred
   stock dividends.........................................       55.8
Loss from continuing operations per
   common share before extraordinary loss..................       (.01)

Pro forma operating income for the year ended December 31, 1994 excludes $332.1
million of non-recurring merger-related charges reflecting the integration of
the Company's pre-merger businesses with similar Paramount units, and related
management and strategic changes principally related to the merger with
Paramount.

As part of the Mergers, the Company recognized costs of plans to exit activities
and terminate and relocate employees of Paramount and Blockbuster. The total
liabilities accrued for such costs were $228.7 million, of which $71.4 million
represents costs to exit activities, $119.2 million for severance costs and
$38.1 million for relocation costs. During 1996, 1995 and 1994, the Company paid
and charged against the liabilities approximately $42.9 million, $79.9 million
and $84.6 million, respectively. The Company expects to substantially complete
the activities related to these liabilities during 1997.


                                     II-29


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
            (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

3) DISPOSITIONS

On February 19, 1997, the Board of Directors of Spelling, a majority owned
subsidiary of the Company, approved a formal plan to sell Virgin through a
public offering. On the same date, the Company adopted a plan to dispose of its
interactive game businesses, including Viacom New Media which is operated by
Virgin under a services agreement entered into during September 1996. The
disposition is expected to be completed by the end of 1997. Accordingly, such
interactive game operations have been accounted for as discontinued operations
and the Company has recorded a loss on the disposal of $159.3 million, which
includes estimated losses through the expected date of disposition of $58.0
million.

On February 16, 1997, the Company entered into an agreement to sell the Viacom
Radio Stations to Evergreen Media Corporation for $1.075 billion in cash. The
transaction is expected to result in a gain and be completed during the summer
of 1997, and accordingly, the Viacom Radio Stations have been accounted for as a
discontinued operation.

On July 31, 1996, the Company completed the split-off of its Cable segment
pursuant to an exchange offer and related transactions. As a result, the Company
realized a gain of $1.317 billion, reduced its debt by $1.7 billion and retired
5,413,917 shares of Viacom Inc. Class A Common Stock and 9,943,043 shares of
Class B Common Stock or approximately 4.1% of the total outstanding common
shares. National Amusements, Inc. ("NAI"), which owns approximately 28% of
Viacom Inc. Class A and Class B Common Stock on a combined basis, did not
participate in the exchange offer.

On March 10, 1995, the Company sold Madison Square Garden Corporation, which
included the Madison Square Garden Arena, The Paramount theater, the New York
Knickerbockers, the New York Rangers and the Madison Square Garden Network
(collectively "MSG") to a joint venture of ITT Corporation and Cablevision
Systems Corporation for closing proceeds of approximately $1.0 billion,
representing the sale price of approximately $1.075 billion, less approximately
$66 million in working capital adjustments. The Company acquired MSG during 1994
as part of Paramount with its book value recorded at fair value and therefore no
gain was recorded on its sale. Proceeds from the sale of MSG and other
dispositions were used to repay notes payable to banks, of which approximately
$600 million represented a permanent reduction of the Company's bank
commitments.


                                     II-30


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
            (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

Summarized financial data of discontinued operations are as follows:

Results of discontinued operations:


                                                  At December 31, 1996
                                                  --------------------
Financial position (4):
Current assets.................................           $217.8
Net property and equipment.....................             30.6
Other assets...................................            526.3
Total liabilities..............................           (485.3)
                                                          ------
Net assets of discontinued operations..........           $289.4
                                                          ======

     (1)  Results of operations include Cable for the six months ended June 30.
     (2)  Results of operations include MSG for the period January 1 through
          March 9.
     (3)  Results of operations include MSG for March 1 through December 31,
          and Virgin for October 1 through December 31.
     (4)  Financial position data reflects Radio and Interactive at December 31.

The provision for income taxes of $38.8 million for 1996, $55.0 million for 1995
and $41.1 million for 1994 represent effective tax rates of 54.8%, 45.0% and
54.2%, respectively. The differences between the effective tax rate and the
statutory federal tax rate of 35% principally relate to certain nondeductible
expenses, the allocation of nondeductible goodwill amortization, state and local
taxes and the provision of valuation allowances attributable to net operating
losses of Virgin.


                                     II-31


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
            (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

4) RESTRUCTURING CHARGE

In 1996, following a strategic analysis, Blockbuster adopted a plan to abandon
certain Music stores, relocate its headquarters and eliminate third party
distributors domestically. As a result of such plan, Blockbuster recognized a
fourth quarter restructuring charge of approximately $88.9 million principally
reflecting costs associated with the closing of approximately 10% or 50 of its
Music retail stores and costs associated with relocating Blockbuster's
headquarters from Fort Lauderdale to Dallas. As a result of the music store
closings, Blockbuster recognized lease termination costs of $28.3 million and
accrued shut-down and other costs of $19.3 million through the restructuring
charge in the fourth quarter of 1996. The music store closings were completed
during the first quarter of 1997.

In the fourth quarter of 1996, Blockbuster recognized $25 million of estimated
severance benefits payable to approximately 650 of its Fort Lauderdale
headquarters employees who have chosen not to relocate. Blockbuster, through the
restructuring charge, also recognized $16.3 million of other costs of exiting
Fort Lauderdale and eliminating third party distributors. The Blockbuster
relocation to Dallas is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 1997.
Through December 31, 1996, no significant payments have been made related to the
restructuring charge.

In the fourth quarter of 1996, Blockbuster recognized $13.1 million of
depreciation, attributable to fixed asset write downs for Music stores and the
Fort Lauderdale headquarters. In addition, Blockbuster recognized music
inventory impairment costs charged to operating expenses of $9.4 million.


                                     II-32


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
            (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

5) INVENTORIES

Inventories consist of the following:

                                                                December 31,
                                                           ---------------------
                                                             1996          1995
                                                             ----          ----

Prerecorded music and video cassettes ................     $  564.2     $  459.8
Videocassette rental inventory .......................        668.2        520.3
Publishing:
      Finished goods .................................        298.4        303.6
      Work in process ................................         33.9         44.9
      Materials and supplies .........................         14.5         30.2
Other ................................................         12.3         87.9
                                                           --------     --------
                                                            1,591.5      1,446.7
     Less current portion ............................        923.3        888.1
                                                           --------     --------

                                                           $  668.2     $  558.6
                                                           ========     ========
Theatrical and television inventory:
      Theatrical and television productions:
           Released ..................................     $1,811.3     $1,612.1
           Completed, not released ...................         32.6         52.5
           In process and other ......................        352.6        357.0
      Program rights .................................      1,173.8        966.3
                                                           --------     --------
                                                            3,370.3      2,987.9
      Less current portion ...........................      1,419.1      1,275.0
                                                           --------     --------
                                                           $1,951.2     $1,712.9
                                                           ========     ========

Total non-current inventory ..........................     $2,619.4     $2,271.5
                                                           ========     ========

6) INVESTMENTS IN AFFILIATED COMPANIES

The Company accounts for its investments in affiliated companies over which the
Company has significant influence or ownership of more than 20% but less than or
equal to 50% under the equity method. Such investments are principally comprised
of the Company's interest in Comedy Central (50% owned), MTV Asia (50% owned)
and Nick Germany (45% owned). Investments acquired as part of the Mergers were
USA Networks (50% owned), United Cinemas International Multiplex B.V. (50%
owned) and other theatrical exhibition and distribution ventures. Investments in
affiliates are included as a component of other assets.


                                     II-33


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
            (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

The following is a summary of combined financial information which is based on
information provided by the equity investees.

                                                  Year Ended December 31,
                                          --------------------------------------
                                            1996           1995           1994
                                          --------       --------       --------

Results of operations:
Revenues ...........................      $2,082.0       $2,152.3       $1,464.8
Operating income (loss) ............           2.3         (360.7)          86.2
Net earnings (loss) ................         (33.1)        (408.1)          57.3

                                                             December 31,
                                                      --------------------------
                                                        1996              1995
                                                      --------          --------

Financial position:
Current assets .............................          $  919.4          $  891.8
Noncurrent assets ..........................           1,091.8           1,367.8
Current liabilities ........................             733.1             990.5
Noncurrent liabilities .....................             656.7             825.8
Equity .....................................             621.4             443.3

The Company, through the normal course of business, is involved in transactions
with affiliated companies that have not been material in any of the periods
presented.


                                     II-34


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
            (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

7) BANK FINANCING AND DEBT

Long-term debt consists of the following:
                                                                 December 31,
                                                                 ------------
                                                               1996       1995
                                                               ----       ----

Notes payable to banks (a)................................. $5,253.0   $ 6,206.9
6.625% Senior Notes due 1998...............................    150.0       150.0
5.875% Senior Notes * due 2000.............................    149.6       149.5
7.5% Senior Notes * due 2002...............................    247.8       247.4
6.75% Senior Notes due 2003, net of unamortized
    discount of $.3 (b)....................................    349.7       349.7
7.75% Senior Notes due 2005, net of unamortized
    discount of $8.1 (c)...................................    991.9       991.0
7.625% Senior Debentures due 2016, net of unamortized
    discount of $1.3 (b)...................................    198.7       198.6
8.25% Senior Debentures * due 2022.........................    247.2       247.1
7.5% Senior Debentures * due 2023..........................    149.5       149.5
9.125% Senior Subordinated Notes * due 1999................    150.0       150.0
8.75%  Senior Subordinated Reset Notes * due 2001 (d)......    100.0       100.0
10.25% Senior Subordinated Notes * due 2001................    200.0       200.0
7.0% Senior Subordinated Debentures * due 2003, net of
    unamortized discount of $40.5 (1996) and $44.6 (1995)..    191.0       186.8
8.0% Merger Debentures due 2006, net of unamortized
    discount of $110.3 (1996) and $120.8 (1995)............    960.0       947.9
Other Notes................................................      8.7        60.9
Obligations under capital leases...........................    571.2       421.9
                                                            --------   ---------
                                                            $9,918.3   $10,757.2
Less current portion.......................................     62.6        45.1
                                                            --------   ---------
                                                            $9,855.7   $10,712.1
                                                            ========   =========

* Issues of Viacom International guaranteed by the Company.

      (a) -- On July 1, 1994, the Company entered into an aggregate $6.489
billion credit agreement (the "Viacom Credit Agreement"), and Viacom
International Inc. ("Viacom International") and certain of its subsidiaries (the
"Subsidiary Obligors") entered into a $311 million credit agreement (the "Viacom
International Credit Agreement," together with the Viacom Credit Agreement,
collectively the "Credit Agreements") each with certain banks. On September 29,
1994, the Company entered into an aggregate $1.8 billion credit agreement (the
"$1.8 billion Credit Agreement") with certain banks. As a result of the July 31,
1996 Cable split-off, the Company reduced its notes payable to banks by $1.7
billion, of which $1.5 billion represented a permanent reduction of its credit
facility.


                                     II-35


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
            (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

The interest rate on all loans made under the three facilities is based upon
Citibank, N.A.'s base rate or the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") and is
affected by the Company's credit rating. At December 31, 1996, the LIBOR (upon
which the Company's borrowing rate was based) for borrowing periods of one month
and two months were each 5.50%. At December 31, 1995, LIBOR for borrowing
periods of one and two months were 5.69% and 5.63%, respectively.

The Company is required to pay a commitment fee based on the aggregate daily
unborrowed portion of the loan commitments. As of December 31, 1996, the Company
had $1.4 billion of available unborrowed loan commitments. The Credit Agreements
do not require compensating balances.

Effective March 26, 1997, the Company and Viacom International amended and
restated the Credit Agreements and the $1.8 billion Credit Agreement to provide
for credit agreements of $6.4 billion (the "March 1997 Viacom Credit Agreement")
and $100 million (the "March 1997 Viacom International Credit Agreement,"
together with the March 1997 Viacom Credit Agreement, collectively the "March
1997 Credit Agreements"). The March 1997 Credit Agreements increased commitments
by $400 million, extended maturities and reduced pricing.

The following is a summary description of the March 1997 Credit Agreements. The
description does not purport to be complete and should be read in conjunction
with each of the credit agreements which have been filed as an exhibit and are
incorporated by reference herein.

     The March 1997 Viacom Credit Agreement is comprised of (i) a $5.5 billion
     senior unsecured reducing revolving loan maturing July 1, 2002 and (ii) a
     $900 million term loan maturing April 1, 2002. The March 1997 Viacom
     International Credit Agreement is comprised of a $100 million term loan
     maturing July 1, 2002.

     The Company guarantees the March 1997 Viacom International Credit Agreement
     and notes and debentures issued by Viacom International. Viacom
     International guarantees the March 1997 Viacom Credit Agreement and notes
     and debentures issued by the Company.

     The Company may prepay the loans and reduce commitments under the March
     1997 Credit Agreements in whole or in part at any time.

     The March 1997 Credit Agreements contain certain covenants which, among
     other things, require that the Company maintain certain financial ratios
     and impose on the Company and its subsidiaries certain limitations on
     substantial asset sales and mergers with any other company in which the
     Company is not the surviving entity.

     The March 1997 Credit Agreements contain certain customary events of
     default and provide that it is an event of default if NAI fails to own at
     least 51% of the outstanding voting stock of the Company.


                                     II-36


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
            (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

On May 10, 1996, a subsidiary of the Company entered into a $500 million 364-day
Film Financing credit agreement, guaranteed by Viacom International and the
Company.

     (b) -- During December 1995, the Company issued an aggregate principal
     amount of $350 million of 6.75% Senior Notes due 2003 at a price to the
     public of 99.903% and $200 million of 7.625% Senior Debentures due 2016 at
     a price to the public of 99.29%. Proceeds from the issuance were used to
     repay notes payable to banks. Such notes and debentures were issued
     pursuant to the shelf registration statement described below.

     (c) -- During May 1995, the Company issued an aggregate principal amount of
     $1.0 billion of 7.75% Senior Notes due June 1, 2005 at a price to the
     public of 99.04%. Proceeds from the issuance were used to repay notes
     payable to banks, of which approximately $400 million was a permanent
     reduction of the Company's bank commitments. Such notes were issued
     pursuant to the shelf registration statement described below.

     (d) -- The $100 million aggregate principal amount of 8.75% Senior
     Subordinated Reset Notes ("8.75% Reset Notes") are due on May 15, 2001. On
     May 15, 1995 the interest rate was reset at the original interest rate of
     8.75% . On May 15, 1998, unless a notice of redemption of the 8.75% Reset
     Notes on such date has been given by the Company, the interest rate on the
     8.75% Reset Notes will, if necessary, be adjusted from the rate then in
     effect to a rate to be determined on the basis of market rates in effect on
     May 5, 1998, as the rate the 8.75% Reset Notes should bear in order to have
     a market value of 101% of principal amount immediately after the resetting
     of the rate. In no event will the interest rate be lower than 8.75% or
     higher than the average three year treasury rate (as defined in the
     indenture) multiplied by two. Interest rate reset on May 15, 1998 will
     remain in effect on the 8.75% Reset Notes thereafter. The 8.75% Reset Notes
     are redeemable at the option of the Company, in whole but not in part, or
     on May 15, 1998, at a redemption price of 101% of principal amount plus
     accrued interest to, but not including, the date of redemption.

The Company filed a shelf registration statement with the Securities and
Exchange Commission registering debt securities, preferred stock and contingent
value rights of Viacom and guarantees of such debt securities by Viacom
International which may be issued for aggregate gross proceeds of $3.0 billion.
The registration statement was declared effective on May 10, 1995. The net
proceeds from the sale of the offered securities may be used by Viacom to repay,
redeem, repurchase or satisfy its obligations in respect of its outstanding
indebtedness or other securities; to make loans to its subsidiaries; for general
corporate purposes; or for such other purposes as may be specified in the
applicable Prospectus Supplement. The Company filed a post-effective amendment
to this registration statement on November 19, 1996. To date, the Company has
issued $1.6 billion of notes and debentures and has $1.4 billion remaining
availability under the shelf registration statement.


                                     II-37


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
            (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

Interest costs incurred, interest income and capitalized interest are summarized
below:

                                                  Year Ended December 31,
                                           -------------------------------------
                                            1996           1995           1994
                                           -------        -------        -------

Interest Incurred .................        $ 832.8        $ 864.2        $ 535.6
Interest Income ...................           30.3           43.0           34.4
Capitalized Interest ..............            4.5           11.9            9.6

The Company's scheduled maturities of indebtedness through December 31, 2001,
assuming full utilization of the March 1997 Credit Agreements are $536 million
(1997), $650 million (1998), $1.2 billion (1999), $1.7 billion (2000) and $2.1
billion (2001). The Company has classified certain short-term indebtedness as
long-term debt based upon its intent and ability to refinance such indebtedness
on a long-term basis.

During 1994, the proceeds from the Viacom Credit Agreement were used to
refinance the previously existing bank debt of the Company. The Company
recognized an extraordinary loss from the extinguishment of debt of $20.4
million, net of a tax benefit of $11.9 million. The effective tax rate of 36.8%
is greater than the federal statutory tax rate of 35% due to state tax benefits.

8) FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The Company's carrying value of financial instruments approximates fair value,
except for differences with respect to the notes and debentures and certain
differences related to other financial instruments which are not significant.
The carrying value of the senior debt, senior subordinated debt and subordinated
debt is $4.09 billion and the fair value, which is estimated based on quoted
market prices, is approximately $4.11 billion.

The Company entered into interest rate exchange agreements with off-balance
sheet risk in order to reduce its exposure to changes in interest rates on its
variable rate long-term debt and/or take advantage of changes in interest rates.
These interest rate exchange agreements included interest rate swaps and
interest rate caps. At December 31, 1996, the Company had $600 million of
interest rate exchange agreements outstanding with commercial banks. These
agreements, which expired in March 1997, effectively changed the Company's
interest rate on an equivalent amount of variable rate borrowings to a fixed
rate of 6.30%.


                                     II-38


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
            (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

The Company enters into foreign currency exchange contracts in order to reduce
its exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates that affect the value
of its firm commitments and certain anticipated foreign currency cash flows.
These contracts generally mature within the calendar year. The Company does not
enter into foreign currency contracts for speculative purposes. To date, the
contracts utilized have been purchased options and forward contracts. A forward
contract is an agreement between two parties to exchange a specified amount of
foreign currency, at a specified exchange rate on a specified future date. An
option contract provides the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell
currency at a fixed exchange rate on a future date. The foreign exchange
contracts have principally been used to hedge the British Pound, the Australian
Dollar, the Japanese Yen, the Canadian Dollar, the French Franc, the Singapore
Dollar, the German Deutschemark and the European Currency Unit/British Pound
relationship. At December 31, 1996, the Company had outstanding contracts with a
notional value of approximately $52.0 million which expire in 1997 and 1998.
Realized gains and losses on contracts that hedge anticipated future cash flows
are recognized in "Other Items, Net" and were not material in each of the
periods. Option premiums are expensed at the inception of the contract. Deferred
gains and losses on foreign currency exchange contracts as of December 31, 1996
were not material.

The Company continually monitors its positions with, and credit quality of, the
financial institutions which are counterparties to its financial instruments.
The Company is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the
counterparties to the agreements. However, the Company does not anticipate
nonperformance by the counterparties. The Company's receivables do not represent
significant concentrations of credit risk at December 31, 1996, due to the wide
variety of customers, markets and geographic areas to which the Company's
products and services are sold.

9) SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

On September 5, 1996 the Company, together with NAI, initiated a joint purchase
program for each to acquire up to $250 million, or $500 million in total, of the
Company's Class A Common Stock, Class B Common Stock, and, as to the Company,
Viacom Warrants. As of December 31, 1996, the Company repurchased 658,200 shares
of Class A Common Stock, 5,594,600 shares of Class B Common Stock and 5,450,390
Viacom Five-Year Warrants, expiring on July 7, 1999, for approximately $240.2
million in the aggregate. The cost of the acquired treasury stock has been
reflected separately as a reduction to shareholders' equity. The cost of the
warrants has been reflected as a reduction to additional paid-in-capital. As of
December 31, 1996, NAI has separately acquired 1,282,200 shares of Class A
Common Stock and 5,602,000 shares of Class B Common Stock pursuant to the joint
purchase program for approximately $249.6 million, raising its ownership to
approximately 67% of Class A Common Stock and approximately 28% of Class A and
Class B Common Stock on a combined basis.


                                     II-39


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
            (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

On September 29, 1995 the VCRs matured. The Company issued approximately 6.1
million shares of Viacom Inc. Class B Common Stock, or .022665 of a share of
Viacom Inc. Class B Common Stock per VCR, to settle its obligation under the
VCRs.

On July 7, 1995 the CVRs matured. The Company paid approximately $81.9 million
in cash, or approximately $1.44 per CVR, to settle its obligation under the
CVRs.

During March 1994, Blockbuster purchased 22.7 million shares of Viacom Inc.
Class B Common Stock at a price of $55 per share. The common stock was canceled
upon consummation of the Blockbuster Merger.

NYNEX Corporation owns 24 million shares of cumulative convertible preferred
stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Company ("Preferred Stock") valued at
$1.2 billion. Preferred Stock has a liquidation preference of $50 per share, an
annual dividend rate of 5%, is convertible into shares of Viacom Inc. Class B
Common Stock at a conversion price of $70 and does not have voting rights other
than those required by law. The Preferred Stock is redeemable by the Company at
declining premiums after November 1998.

At December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively, there were 30,576,562 and
30,563,773 outstanding Viacom Three-Year Warrants, expiring July 7, 1997 and
there were 12,889,316 and 18,332,028 outstanding Viacom Five-Year Warrants,
expiring July 7, 1999. The decrease in the outstanding Viacom Five-Year Warrants
is primarily attributable to the stock repurchase program initiated in 1996.

Long-Term Incentive Plans - The purpose of the Company's 1989 and 1994 Long-Term
Incentive Plans (the "Plans") is to benefit and advance the interests of the
Company by rewarding certain key employees for their contributions to the
financial success of the Company and thereby motivating them to continue to make
such contributions in the future. The Plans provide for fixed grants of
equity-based interests pursuant to awards of phantom shares, stock options,
stock appreciation rights, restricted shares or other equity-based interests
("Awards"), and for subsequent payments of cash with respect to phantom shares
or stock appreciation rights based, subject to certain limits, on their
appreciation in value over stated periods of time. The stock options generally
vest over a four to six year period from the date of grant and expire 10 years
after the date of grant.

The stock options available for future grant are as follows:

December 31, 1994 ...................................               6,143,638
December 31, 1995 ...................................               7,229,853
December 31, 1996 ...................................              20,350,841(a)

(a)  Includes 20,000,000 shares available for grant pending shareholder approval
     at the Viacom Annual Meeting of Shareholders on May 29, 1997.


                                     II-40


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
            (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

Each of the unexercised stock options to purchase Paramount or Blockbuster
common stock that was outstanding at the time of the respective mergers
automatically became options to purchase the merger consideration applicable to
the stock option under the same price and terms, except that, for employees of
Paramount who were employees on the date of the Paramount Merger, additional
Viacom Inc. Class B Common Stock valued in July 1995, will be issued on exercise
of such options as consideration for the cash portion of the blended purchase
price per share of Paramount that was not reflected in the Merger consideration
because of the transaction structure. These options generally became vested upon
the effective date of the Merger, and are exercisable over a three to five year
period and expire 10 years after the date of grant.

The Company has adopted the disclosure-only provisions of SFAS 123, "Accounting
for Stock-Based Compensation". In accordance with the provisions of SFAS 123,
the Company applies APB 25 "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" and
related interpretations in accounting for the Plans and accordingly, does not
recognize compensation expense for its stock option plans because the Company
typically does not issue options at exercise prices below the market value at
date of grant. Had compensation expense for its stock option plans been
determined based upon the fair value at the grant date for awards consistent
with the methodology prescribed by SFAS 123, the Company's consolidated pretax
income would have decreased by $18.3 million ($11.0 million after tax or $.03
per share) and $.8 million ($.5 million after tax) in 1996 and 1995,
respectively. The 1995 earnings per share effect was not material. These pro
forma effects may not be representative of future disclosures since the
estimated fair value of stock options is amortized to expense over the vesting
period, and additional options may be granted in future years.

The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted-average
assumptions:

                                                          1996            1995
                                                        -------         -------
Expected dividend yield(a) .....................           --              --
Expected stock price volatility ................          32.50%          32.04%
Risk-free interest rate ........................           6.19%           5.80%
Expected life of options (years) ...............            6.0             6.0

     (a)  During 1996 and 1995, the Company has not declared any cash dividends
          on its common stock.

The weighted-average fair value of each option as of the grant date was $16.27
and $20.44, in 1996 and 1995, respectively.


                                     II-41


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
            (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

The following table summarizes the Company's stock option activity under the
various plans:

                                                   Options     Weighted-Average
                                                  Outstanding   Exercise Price
                                                  -----------   --------------

Balance at December 31, 1993 .................     3,973,057       $32.62
  Granted ....................................     3,931,562        36.35
  Assumed in connection with the Mergers .....    19,955,783        28.71
  Exercised ..................................    (1,336,751)       26.82
  Canceled ...................................    (1,508,535)       37.84
                                                  ----------
Balance at December 31, 1994 .................    25,015,116        30.08
                                                  ----------
  Granted ....................................       295,184        46.61
  Exercised ..................................    (5,312,711)       28.58
  Canceled ...................................    (1,429,268)       31.09
                                                  ----------
Balance at December 31, 1995 .................    18,568,321        30.70
                                                  ----------
  Granted ....................................     6,263,800        37.51
  Exercised ..................................    (3,838,649)       30.35
  Canceled ...................................    (1,347,965)       37.55
                                                  ----------
Balance at December 31, 1996 .................    19,645,507        32.47
                                                  ----------

The following table summarizes information concerning currently outstanding and
exercisable stock options of the Company at December 31, 1996:



     (a)  Represents information for options assumed with the merger of
          Blockbuster.
     (b)  Represents information for options assumed with the merger of
          Paramount.

Shares issuable under exercisable stock options:
  December 31, 1994......................................       18,110,234
  December 31, 1995......................................       13,120,626
  December 31, 1996......................................       11,243,220


                                     II-42


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
            (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

The Company has reserved a total of 850,372 shares of Viacom Inc. Class A Common
Stock and 35,937,993 shares of Viacom Inc. Class B Common Stock principally for
exercise of stock options and warrants, and the conversion of the Preferred
Stock.

Spelling Stock Option Plans - Spelling has stock option plans under which both
incentive and nonqualified stock options have been granted to certain key
employees, consultants and directors. Options have generally been granted with
an exercise price equal to the fair market value of the underlying common stock
on the date of grant, although nonqualified options may be granted with an
exercise price not less than 50% of such fair market value. Each option is
granted subject to various terms and conditions established on the date of
grant, including vesting periods and expiration dates. The options typically
become exercisable at the rate of 20% or 25% annually, beginning one year after
the date of grant. Options must expire no later than 10 years from their date of
grant.

The Spelling stock options available for future grant are as follows:

December 31, 1994 ....................................           2,905,542
December 31, 1995 ....................................           3,158,343
December 31, 1996 ....................................           5,094,251(a)(b)

     (a)  Includes 5,000,000 shares available for grant pending shareholder
          approval of an increase to the number of shares available for grant
          under the plans at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders on May 21, 1997.

     (b)  Includes 1,360,866 shares available for grant under a plan which 
          expires on April 13, 1997.

The fair value of each Spelling option grant is estimated on the date of grant
using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted-average
assumptions:

                                                         1996            1995
                                                        -------         -------
Expected dividend yield(c) .....................           --              --
Expected stock price volatility ................          28.45%          29.91%
Risk-free interest rate ........................           6.60%           6.88%
Expected life of options (years) ...............            4.8             4.8

     (c)  During 1996 and 1995, Spelling has not declared any cash dividends on
          its common stock.

The weighted-average fair value of each option as of the grant date was $2.66
and $3.89 for 1996 and 1995, respectively.


                                     II-43


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
            (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

The following table summarizes Spelling's stock option activity:

                                             Options        Weighted-Average
                                           Outstanding       Exercise Price
                                           -----------       --------------

Balance at December 31, 1993 ...........    3,749,262            $ 6.34
  Granted ..............................    4,859,181              7.72
  Exercised ............................   (1,463,429)             6.00
  Canceled .............................      (21,345)             7.06
                                           ----------
Balance at December 31, 1994 ...........    7,123,669              7.23
                                           ----------
  Granted ..............................      200,000             10.31
  Exercised ............................     (974,649)             6.04
  Canceled .............................     (589,802)             6.84
                                           ----------
Balance at December 31, 1995 ...........    5,759,218              7.72
                                           ----------
  Granted ..............................    3,750,010(a)           7.13
  Exercised ............................     (841,943)             4.91
  Canceled .............................     (688,967)             7.02
                                           ----------
Balance at December 31, 1996 ...........    7,978,318              7.80
                                           ----------

     (a)  Includes 1,622,500 shares granted pending shareholder approval of an
          increase to the number of shares available for grant under the plans
          at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders on May 21, 1997.

The following table summarizes Spelling's information concerning currently
outstanding and exercisable stock options at December 31, 1996:



Shares issuable under exercisable stock options:
  December 31, 1994......................................    1,069,847
  December 31, 1995......................................    2,694,082
  December 31, 1996......................................    3,079,436

Options related to employees of Virgin and included in the tables above are
875,010, 387,000 and 2,265,806 shares granted, 775,220, 643,003 and 241,164
shares exercised, and 149,921, 140,189 and 20,520 shares terminated for 1996,
1995 and 1994, respectively.


                                     II-44


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
            (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

10) INCOME TAXES

Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes are attributable to the
following jurisdictions:

                                                  Year Ended December 31,
                                         ---------------------------------------
                                           1996            1995            1994
                                         -------         -------         -------
United States ..................         $ 194.3         $ 306.9         $  78.2
Foreign ........................           286.2           272.9           197.3
                                         -------         -------         -------

Total ..........................         $ 480.5         $ 579.8         $ 275.5
                                         =======         =======         =======

Components of the provision for income taxes on earnings from continuing
operations before income taxes are as follows:

                                                   Year Ended December 31,
                                          --------------------------------------
                                           1996            1995           1994
                                          -------         -------        -------
Current:
  Federal ........................        $ 194.1         $  32.2        $  88.5
  State and local ................           36.8            48.1           74.9
  Foreign ........................           81.5            64.1           59.3
                                          -------         -------        -------
                                            312.4           144.4          222.7
Deferred .........................          (16.9)          222.7           11.0
                                          -------         -------        -------
                                          $ 295.5         $ 367.1        $ 233.7
                                          =======         =======        =======


                                     II-45


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
            (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

The earnings (loss) of affiliated companies accounted for under the equity
method are shown net of tax on the Company's Statements of Operations. The tax
provision (benefits) relating to earnings (loss) from equity investments in
1996, 1995 and 1994 are $14.9 million, ($22.7) million and $9.8 million,
respectively, which represents an effective tax rate of 762.1%, 29.6% and 35.0%,
respectively. The difference between the effective tax rates and the federal
statutory tax rate of 35% is principally due to the effect of nondeductible
goodwill amortization and state and local taxes related to equity earnings
(loss). See Notes 3 and 7 for tax benefits relating to the discontinued
operations and extraordinary losses, respectively. In addition to the amounts
reflected in the table above, $15.3 million and $35.8 million of income tax
benefit in 1996 and 1995, respectively, was recorded as a component of
shareholders' equity as a result of exercised stock options.

A reconciliation of the U.S. Federal statutory tax rate to the Company's
effective tax rate on earnings from continuing operations before income taxes is
summarized as follows:

                                                     Year Ended December 31,
                                               --------------------------------
                                                   1996        1995        1994
                                                 ------      ------      ------

Statutory U.S. tax rate .....................      35.0%       35.0%       35.0%
State and local taxes, net
  of federal tax benefit ....................       3.1         4.4         9.1
Effect of foreign operations ................     (13.0)       (4.8)         .1
Amortization of intangibles .................      29.3        23.9        32.9
Divestiture tax versus book .................        .9          .5         2.1
Other, net ..................................       6.2         4.3         5.6
                                                 ------      ------      ------
Effective tax rate on earnings from
  continuing operations before
  income taxes ..............................      61.5%       63.3%       84.8%
                                                 ======      ======      ======


                                     II-46


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
            (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

The following is a summary of the components of the deferred tax accounts:

                                                         Year Ended December 31,
                                                         -----------------------
                                                                1996      1995
                                                              -------   -------
Current deferred tax assets and (liabilities):
Recognition of revenue .....................................  $  70.1   $  68.4
Sales return and allowances ................................     89.3     100.6
Publishing costs ...........................................     11.7      37.8
Employee compensation and other payroll related expenses ...     37.9      37.5
Other differences between tax and financial statement values      5.5       2.1
                                                              -------   -------
     Gross current deferred net tax assets .................    214.5     246.4
                                                              -------   -------

Noncurrent deferred tax assets and (liabilities):
Depreciation/amortization of fixed assets and intangibles ..    (90.7)   (138.5)
Reserves including restructuring and relocation charges ....    253.1     285.1
Program costs ..............................................    (17.4)    (17.4)
Acquired net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards ...     86.7     105.4
Amortization of discount on 8% Merger Debentures ...........     72.8      78.5
Recognition of revenue .....................................     23.5      24.8
Other differences between tax and financial statement values     76.4     125.0
                                                              -------   -------
   Gross noncurrent deferred net tax assets ................    404.4     462.9
                                                              -------   -------

Valuation allowance ........................................    (81.8)    (81.8)
                                                              -------   -------
      Total net deferred tax assets (liabilities) ..........  $ 537.1   $ 627.5
                                                              =======   =======

As of December 31, 1996 and December 31, 1995, the Company had total deferred
tax assets of $727.0 million and $865.2 million, respectively, and total
deferred tax liabilities of $108.1 million and $155.9 million, respectively.

As of December 31, 1996, the Company had net operating loss carryforwards of
approximately $238.9 million which expire in various years from 1997 through
2011. The Company has a general business credit carry forward of approximately
$3.7 million which expires by the year 2010.

The 1996 and 1995 net deferred tax asset is reduced by a valuation allowance of
$81.8 million principally relating to tax benefits of net operating loss and tax
credit carryforwards which are not expected to be recognized as a result of
limitations applied where there is a change of ownership.


                                     II-47


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
            (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

The Company's share of the undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries not
included in its consolidated Federal income tax return that could be subject to
additional income taxes if remitted, was approximately $1.3 billion and $1.1
billion at December 31, 1996 and December 31, 1995, respectively. No provision
has been recorded for the U.S. or foreign taxes that could result from the
remittance of such undistributed earnings since the Company intends to reinvest
these earnings outside the United States indefinitely and it is not practicable
to estimate the amount of such taxes.

11) PENSION PLANS, OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS AND POSTEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS

The Company and certain of its subsidiaries have non-contributory pension plans
covering specific groups of employees. Effective January 1, 1996, the pension
plans of Paramount were merged with the Company's pension plans. The benefits
for these plans are based primarily on an employee's years of service and pay
near retirement. Participant employees are vested in the plans after five years
of service. The Company's policy for all pension plans is to fund amounts in
accordance with the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. Plan assets
consist principally of common stocks, marketable bonds and United States
government securities. The Company's Class B Common Stock represents
approximately 8% of the plan assets at both December 31, 1996 and 1995.

Net periodic pension cost consists of the following components:

                                                     Year Ended December 31,
                                                -------------------------------
                                                 1996        1995        1994
                                                -------     -------     -------

Service cost -- benefits earned during
  the period ...............................    $  31.1     $  25.2     $  22.1
Interest cost on projected benefit
  obligation ...............................       50.6        48.9        33.4
(Actual return) loss on plan assets ........      (65.9)     (108.9)        2.9
Net amortization and deferral ..............       18.1        66.8       (37.1)
                                                -------     -------     -------
Net periodic pension cost ..................    $  33.9     $  32.0     $  21.3
                                                =======     =======     =======

During 1996, the Company split-off its Cable segment, affecting participants in
its pension plans. The curtailment gains reduced pension cost by $2.9 million.


                                     II-48


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
            (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

The funded status of the pension plans for the periods indicated is as follows:



The following assumptions were used in accounting for the pension plans:

                                                   1996       1995       1994
                                                 -------  ---------  ---------
Discount rate ................................      7.75%      7.25%       8.5%
Expected return on plan assets ...............       9.5%       9.5%  9.0-10.0%
Rate of increase in future compensation ......       5.0%   5.0-5.5%   5.0-6.0%

In addition, the Company contributes to multiemployer pension plans which
provide benefits to certain employees under collective bargaining agreements.
The pension expense for these plans was $27.8 million (1996) and $18.0 million
(1995).

The Company sponsors a welfare plan which provides certain postretirement health
care and life insurance benefits to retired employees and their covered
dependents who are eligible for these benefits if they meet certain age and
service requirements. The welfare plan is contributory and contains cost-sharing
features such as deductibles and coinsurance which are adjusted annually. The
plan is not funded. The Company continues to fund these benefits as claims are
paid.


                                     II-49


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
            (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

The components of the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation are as
follows:

                                                                  December 31,
                                                                ----------------
                                                                  1996     1995
                                                                -------  -------

Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation attributable to:
Current retirees .............................................  $  86.0  $  98.5
Fully eligible active plan participants ......................     17.6     15.7
Other active plan participants ...............................      6.0     40.5
Prior service cost ...........................................     28.3     --
Unrecognized net gain ........................................     27.1     13.6
                                                                -------  -------
Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation ................  $ 165.0  $ 168.3
                                                                =======  =======

The components of net periodic postretirement benefit cost are as follows:

                                                            December 31,
                                                   ----------------------------
                                                     1996       1995      1994
                                                   -------    -------   -------

Service costs-benefits earned ...................  $   1.0    $   3.8   $   4.4
Interest cost on accumulated postretirement
     benefit obligation .........................      8.1       10.8       9.5
Prior service cost ..............................     (3.2)      --        --
Amortization of gain ............................     (1.3)      (1.4)     --
                                                   -------    -------   -------
Net periodic postretirement benefit cost ........  $   4.6    $  13.2   $  13.9
                                                   =======    =======   =======

The following assumptions were used in accounting
for post retirement benefits:

     Projected health care cost trend rate ......        9%        11%       12%
     Ultimate trend rate ........................      5.5%       5.5%      5.5%
     Year ultimate trend rate is achieved .......     1999       2001      2001
     Discount rate ..............................     7.75%      7.25%      8.5%
Effect of a 1% point increase in the health care
     cost trend rate:
     Postretirement benefit obligation ..........  $   9.6    $  20.6   $  19.9
     Aggregate of service and interest cost .....  $   0.8    $   2.4   $   2.6

In addition, the Company contributed to multiemployer plans which provide health
and welfare benefits to active as well as retired employees. The Company had
costs of $12.5 million and $12.1 million related to these benefits during the
years ended December 31, 1996 and 1995.

In 1994, the Company adopted SFAS 112, "Employers' Accounting For Postemployment
Benefits". SFAS 112 did not have a significant effect on the Company's
consolidated financial position or results of operations.


                                     II-50


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
            (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

12) COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

The Company has long-term noncancelable lease commitments for retail and office
space and equipment, transponders, studio facilities and vehicles.

At December 31, 1996, minimum rental payments under noncancelable leases are as
follows:

                                                        Leases
                                                -----------------------
                                                Operating       Capital
                                                ---------       -------

1997........................................   $   607.2       $  118.6
1998........................................       558.3          126.1
1999........................................       489.2          127.0
2000........................................       443.0          103.7
2001........................................       346.2           85.8
2002 and thereafter.........................     1,475.4          267.8
                                               ---------       --------
Total minimum lease payments................   $ 3,919.3          829.0
                                               =========
Less amounts representing interest..........                     (257.8)
                                                               -------- 
Present value of net minimum payments.......                   $  571.2
                                                               ========

The Company has also entered into capital leases for transponders with future
minimum commitments commencing in future periods of approximately $196.8 million
payable over the next fifteen years. Such commitments are contingent upon the
successful operation of satellites. Future minimum capital lease payments have
not been reduced by future minimum sublease rentals of $63.9 million. Rent
expense amounted to $501.1 million (1996), $475.2 million (1995) and $232.1
million (1994).

The commitments of the Company for program license fees, which are not reflected
in the balance sheet as of December 31, 1996 and are estimated to aggregate
approximately $1.7 billion, principally reflect commitments of approximately
$1.5 billion under Showtime Networks Inc.'s ("SNI's") exclusive arrangements
with several motion picture companies. This estimate is based upon a number of
factors. A majority of such fees are payable over several years, as part of
normal programming expenditures of SNI. These commitments are contingent upon
delivery of motion pictures which are not yet available for premium television
exhibition and, in many cases, have not yet been produced.

There are various lawsuits and claims pending against the Company. Management
believes that any ultimate liability resulting from those actions or claims will
not have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations,
financial position or liquidity. 


                                     II-51


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
            (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

Certain subsidiaries and affiliates of the Company from time to time receive
claims from federal and state environmental regulatory agencies and other
entities asserting that they are or may be liable for environmental cleanup
costs and related damages, principally relating to discontinued operations
conducted by its former mining and manufacturing businesses (acquired as part of
the Mergers). The Company has recorded a liability reflecting its best estimate
of environmental exposure. Such liability was not reduced by potential insurance
recoveries and reflects management's estimate of cost sharing at multiparty
sites. The estimated liability was calculated based upon currently available
facts, existing technology and presently enacted laws and regulations. On the
basis of its experience and the information currently available to it, the
Company believes that the claims it has received will not have a material
adverse effect on its results of operations, financial position or liquidity.


                                     II-52


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
            (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

13) BUSINESS SEGMENTS

                                                 Year Ended or at December 31,
                                              ---------------------------------
                                                1996        1995        1994
                                              ---------   ---------   ---------
Revenues:
Networks and Broadcasting ..................  $ 2,404.0   $ 2,030.8   $ 1,754.0
Entertainment ..............................    3,493.4     3,407.5     2,112.2
Video and Music/Theme Parks ................    3,920.4     3,333.4     1,070.4
Publishing .................................    2,331.7     2,171.1     1,786.4
Intercompany elimination ...................      (65.3)      (26.9)      (21.6)
                                              ---------   ---------   ---------

     Total revenues ........................  $12,084.2   $10,915.9   $ 6,701.4
                                              =========   =========   =========

Operating income:
Networks and Broadcasting ..................  $   630.2   $   520.3   $   322.3
Entertainment ..............................      326.6       354.8       (77.2)
Video and Music/Theme Parks ................      273.1       501.5       199.5
Publishing .................................      217.2       186.3       193.9
Corporate ..................................     (172.8)     (164.2)     (132.6)
                                              ---------   ---------   ---------

    Total operating income .................  $ 1,274.3   $ 1,398.7   $   505.9
                                              =========   =========   =========

Depreciation and amortization:
Networks and Broadcasting ..................  $   125.1   $   107.6   $    86.8
Entertainment ..............................      128.1       126.1        90.5
Video and Music/Theme Parks ................      403.5       321.5        90.4
Publishing .................................      148.0       153.9       103.0
Corporate ..................................       12.9         7.6         5.3
                                              ---------   ---------   ---------

    Total depreciation and amortization ....  $   817.6   $   716.7   $   376.0
                                              =========   =========   =========

Identifiable assets at year end:
Networks and Broadcasting ..................  $ 4,053.3   $ 4,417.8   $ 4,115.2
Entertainment ..............................    8,096.4     7,920.1     8,171.8
Video and Music/Theme Parks ................   10,156.8     9,611.3     9,189.6
Publishing .................................    5,405.1     5,343.7     5,194.7
Corporate ..................................      833.0       634.5       572.3
Net assets of discontinued operations ......      289.4        --          --
Cable television systems ...................       --       1,063.6     1,030.1
                                              ---------   ---------   ---------

    Total identifiable assets at year end ..  $28,834.0   $28,991.0   $28,273.7
                                              =========   =========   =========

Capital expenditures:
Networks and Broadcasting ..................  $    98.1   $    58.2   $    53.8
Entertainment ..............................       56.0        58.1        19.6
Video and Music/Theme Parks ................      358.4       388.5       145.9
Publishing .................................       37.3        52.4        34.5
Corporate ..................................       48.8        54.1        11.3
Cable television systems ...................       --         119.3        99.8
                                              ---------   ---------   ---------

    Total capital expenditures .............  $   598.6   $   730.6   $   364.9
                                              =========   =========   =========


                                     II-53


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
            (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

14) OPERATIONS BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA

                                                  Year ended or at December 31,
                                               ---------------------------------
                                                  1996        1995        1994
                                               ---------   ---------   ---------

Revenues:
     United States .........................   $ 9,514.7   $ 8,887.1   $ 5,441.5
     United States export sales ............       282.8       215.2       137.4
     International .........................     2,286.7     1,813.6     1,122.5
                                               ---------   ---------   ---------
              Total revenues ...............   $12,084.2   $10,915.9   $ 6,701.4
                                               =========   =========   =========

Operating income:
     United States .........................   $   981.7   $ 1,179.7   $   329.2
     International .........................       292.6       219.0       176.7
                                               ---------   ---------   ---------
              Total operating income .......   $ 1,274.3   $ 1,398.7   $   505.9
                                               =========   =========   =========

Identifiable assets at year end:
     United States .........................   $25,578.7   $26,111.6   $25,876.1
     Other .................................     3,255.3     2,879.4     2,397.6
                                               ---------   ---------   ---------
              Total identifiable assets ....   $28,834.0   $28,991.0   $28,273.7
                                               =========   =========   =========

Intercompany transfers between geographic areas are not significant.


                                     II-54


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
            (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

15) QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (unaudited):

Summarized quarterly financial data for 1996 and 1995 appears below:



The timing of the Company's results of operations is affected by the seasonality
of the educational publishing business, the typical timing of major motion
picture releases, the summer operation of the theme parks, the positive effect
of the holiday season on advertising and video store revenues, and the impact of
the broadcasting television season on television production.

(1)  The first three quarters of 1996 and all four quarters of 1995 results have
     been adjusted for the effect of discontinued operations (See Note 3).
(2)  The fourth quarter of 1996 included a $88.9 million restructuring charge
     for Blockbuster (See Note 4).
(3)  The third quarter and fourth quarter of 1996 included a gain of $1,304.3
     million and a loss of $146.6 million, respectively, related to discontinued
     operations.
(4)  For the quarter ended September 30, 1996, fully diluted earnings from
     continuing operations per share exceeds primary earnings from continuing
     operations per share due to the assumed conversion of preferred stock which
     is dilutive to net earnings per share, therefore, the sum of the quarterly
     earnings per share will not equal the full year earnings per share.
(5)  The first quarter of 1995 included $250.0 million of revenues and $68.0
     million of operating income resulting from the conforming of accounting
     principles pertaining to the television programming libraries of Viacom
     Entertainment, Spelling and Paramount.
(6)  The fourth quarter of 1995 included an after-tax equity loss of $31.5
     million related to Discovery Zone.
(7)  The first and second quarters of 1995 included shares of common stock
     potential issuance of common stock under CVRs. The CVRs were settled in
     cash on July 7, 1995 (See Note 2).


                                     II-55


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
            (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

16) OTHER ITEMS, NET

On April 4, 1994, Viacom International sold its one-third partnership interest
in Lifetime for approximately $317.6 million, which resulted in a pre-tax gain
of approximately $267.4 million in the second quarter of 1994. Proceeds from the
sale reduced outstanding debt.

17) SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION

                                                        Year Ended December 31,
                                                       -------------------------
                                                        1996     1995     1994
                                                       ------   ------  --------
                                                                         
Cash payments for interest net of amounts capitalized  $808.0   $925.9  $  293.6
Cash payments for income taxes ......................   193.0    485.7     135.2
                                                                         
Supplemental schedule of non-cash financing and                          
investing activities:                                                    
   Equipment acquired under capitalized leases ......   211.1    314.5      47.6
   Settlement of VCRs with Class B Common Stock .....    --      402.6      --
   Shares retired with Cable Split-off                  625.8     --        --
   Paramount Merger Consideration ...................    --       --     3,175.0
   Blockbuster Merger Consideration .................    --       --     7,622.8
   Cancellation of Preferred Stock and Viacom Inc.
      Class B Common Stock issued to Blockbuster ....    --       --     1,850.0
                                                                         
18) CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                       

Viacom International is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. The Company
has fully and unconditionally guaranteed Viacom International debt securities
(See Note 7). The Company has determined that separate financial statements and
other disclosures concerning Viacom International are not material to investors.
The following condensed consolidating financial statements present the results
of operations, financial position and cash flows of the Company, Viacom
International (in each case carrying investments in Non-Guarantor Affiliates
under the equity method), the direct and indirect Non-Guarantor Affiliates of
the Company, and the eliminations necessary to arrive at the information for the
Company on a consolidated basis. Certain Non-Guarantor subsidiaries of the
Company previously included in the Viacom Inc. column are now properly reflected
in the Non-Guarantor Affiliates column. Prior periods reflect this presentation.


                                     II-56


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
            (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)




                                     II-57


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
            (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)




                                     II-58


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
            (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)




                                     II-59


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
            (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)




                                     II-60


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
            (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)




                                     II-61


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
            (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)




                                     II-62


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
            (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)




                                     II-63


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
            (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)




                                     II-64


                                    PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers.

      The information contained in the Viacom Inc. Definitive Proxy Statement
under the captions "Information Concerning Directors and Nominees" and
"Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934" is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 11. Executive Compensation.

      The information contained in the Viacom Inc. Definitive Proxy Statement
under the captions "Directors' Compensation" and "Executive Compensation" is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.

      The information contained in the Viacom Inc. Definitive Proxy Statement
under the caption "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management" is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.

      The information contained in the Viacom Inc. Definitive Proxy Statement
under the captions "Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation"
and "Related Transactions" is incorporated herein by reference.


                                     III-1


                                     PART IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K.

      (a) and (d) Financial Statements and Schedules (see Index on Page F-1)

      (b) Reports on Form 8-K

      None

      (c) Exhibits (see index on Page E-1)


                                      IV-1


VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULE

Item 14a

The following consolidated financial statements and schedule of the registrant
and its subsidiaries are submitted herewith as part of this report:



All other Schedules are omitted since the required information is not present or
is not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the schedule.


                                       F-1


VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

(In millions)



Notes:
(A)  Includes amounts charged to goodwill as part of the determination of the
     fair value of net assets acquired.
(B)  Represents balance sheet reclassifications related to certain entertainment
     receivables.
(C)  Includes amounts written off, net of recoveries and amounts related to
     discontinued operations.
(D)  Prior year amounts charged to the income statement have been adjusted
     restated to conform with the current discontinued operation presentation.


                                      F-2


                                  SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(D) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, Viacom Inc. has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned, thereto duly authorized.

                                     VIACOM INC.

                                     By /s/ SUMNER M. REDSTONE
                                        -----------------------------
                                        Sumner M. Redstone,
                                        Chairman of the Board of
                                        Directors, Chief Executive
                                        Officer

                                     By /s/ GEORGE S. SMITH, JR.
                                        -----------------------------
                                        George S. Smith, Jr.,
                                        Senior Vice President,
                                        Chief Financial Officer

                                     By /s/ SUSAN C. GORDON
                                        -----------------------------
                                        Susan C. Gordon,
                                        Vice President,
                                        Controller, Chief
                                        Accounting Officer

Date: March 31, 1997

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of Viacom Inc.
and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:

      Signature              Title              Date

          *                  Director           March 31, 1997
- -------------------------
      George S. Abrams

/s/ PHILIPPE P. DAUMAN       Director           March 31, 1997
- -------------------------
      Philippe P. Dauman

          *                  Director           March 31, 1997
- -------------------------
      Thomas E. Dooley


          *                  Director           March 31, 1997
- -------------------------
      Ken Miller

          *                  Director           March 31, 1997
- -------------------------
      Brent D. Redstone

          *                  Director           March 31, 1997
- -------------------------
      Shari Redstone

/s/ SUMNER M. REDSTONE       Director           March 31, 1997
- -------------------------
      Sumner M. Redstone

          *                  Director           March 31, 1997
- -------------------------
      Frederic V. Salerno

          *                  Director           March 31, 1997
- -------------------------
      William Schwartz

          *                  Director           March 31, 1997
- -------------------------
      Ivan Seidenberg

*By  /s/ PHILIPPE P. DAUMAN                     March 31, 1997
- ---------------------------
      Philippe P. Dauman
        Attorney-in-Fact
        for the Directors


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                INDEX TO EXHIBITS
                                   ITEM 14(C)

EXHIBIT
NO.               DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT       PAGE NO.

(2)         Plan of Acquisition
      (a)   Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of January 7, 1994,
            as amended as of June 15, 1994, between Viacom Inc. and
            Blockbuster Entertainment Corporation (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Registration Statement on
            Form S-4 filed by Viacom Inc.) (File No. 33-55271).
      (b)   Amended and Restated Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as
            of February 4, 1994 between Viacom Inc. and Paramount
            Communications Inc., as further amended as of May 26, 1994,
            among Viacom, Viacom Sub Inc. and Paramount Communications
            Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1, included as
            Annex I, to the Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed by
            Viacom Inc.) (File No. 33-53977).
(3)         Articles of Incorporation and By-laws
      (a)   Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Viacom Inc.
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(a) to the Annual
            Report on Form 10-K of Viacom  Inc. for the fiscal year
            ended December 31, 1992, as amended by Form 10-K/A
            Amendment No. 1 dated November 29, 1993 and as further
            amended by Form 10-K/A Amendment No. 2 dated December 9,
            1993) (File No. 1-9553).
      (b)   Amendment to Restated Certificate of Incorporation of
            Viacom Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to
            the Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed by Viacom
            Inc.) (File No. 33-55271).
      (c)   Certificate of Merger merging Blockbuster Entertainment
            Corporation with and into Viacom Inc. (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Registration Statement on
            Form S-3 filed by Viacom Inc.) (File No. 33-55785).
      (d)   Certificate of the Designations, Powers, Preferences and
            Relative, Participating or other Rights, and the
            Qualifications, Limitations or Restrictions thereof, of
            Series B Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock ($0.01 par
            value) of Viacom Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            4.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Viacom Inc. for
            the quarter ended September 30, 1993) (File No. 1-9553).
      (e)   By-laws of Viacom Inc. (incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 3.3 to the Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed
            by Viacom Inc.) (File No. 33-13812).
(4)         Instruments defining the rights of security holders, including
            indentures
      (a)   Specimen certificate representing the Viacom Inc. Voting
            Common Stock (currently Class A Common Stock) (incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registration Statement
            on Form S-4 filed by Viacom Inc.) (File No. 33-13812).


                                      E-1


EXHIBIT
NO.               DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT       PAGE NO.

      (b)   Specimen certificate representing Viacom Inc. Class B
            Non-Voting Common Stock (incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 4(a) to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Viacom
            Inc. for the quarter ended June 30, 1990) (File No. 1-9553).
      (c)   Specimen certificate representing Viacom Inc. Series B
            Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock of Viacom Inc.
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(d) to the Annual
            Report on Form 10-K of Viacom Inc. for the fiscal year
            ended December 31, 1993, as amended by Form 10-K/A
            Amendment No. 1 dated May 2, 1994) (File No. 1-9553).
      (d)   Form of Warrant Agreement between Viacom Inc. and Harris Trust and
            Savings Bank, as Warrant Agent with respect to the Warrants expiring
            July 1, 1997 of Viacom Inc. (including the Form of Warrant expiring
            July 1, 1997) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.7 to the
            Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed by Viacom Inc.)
            (File No. 33-53977).
      (e)   Form of Warrant Agreement between Viacom Inc. and Harris Trust and
            Savings Bank, as Warrant Agent with respect to the Warrants expiring
            July 1, 1999 of Viacom Inc. (including the Form of Warrant expiring
            July 1, 1999) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.8 to the
            Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed by Viacom Inc.)
            (File No. 33-53977).
      (f)   Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of March 26,
            1997 among Viacom Inc.; the Bank parties thereto; The Bank
            of New York ("BNY"), Citibank N.A. ("Citibank"), Morgan
            Guaranty Trust Company of New York ("Morgan Guaranty"),
            Bank of America NT&SA ("BofA") and The Chase Manhattan Bank
            ("Chase"), as Managing Agents; BNY, as Documentation Agent;
            Citibank, as Administrative Agent; JP Morgan Securities
            Inc. ("JP Morgan") and BofA, as Syndication Agents; and the
            Agents and Co-Agents named therein (filed herewith), and
            Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of March 26,
            1997 among Viacom International Inc.; the Bank parties
            thereto; BNY, Citibank, Morgan Guaranty, BofA and Chase, as
            Managing Agents; BNY, as Documentation Agent; Citibank, as
            Administrative Agent; JP Morgan and BofA, as Syndication
            Agents; and the Agents and Co-Agents named therein (filed
            herewith).


                                      E-2


EXHIBIT
NO.               DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT       PAGE NO.

      (g)   Film Finance Credit Agreement, dated as of May 10, 1996, among
            Viacom Film Funding Company Inc. as Borrower; Viacom Inc. and
            Viacom International Inc. as Guarantors; the Bank parties
            thereto; The Bank of New York ("BNY"), Citibank N.A.
            ("Citibank"), Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York and
            Bank of America NT&SA, as Managing Agents; BNY, as
            Documentation Agent; Citibank, as Administrative Agent; JP
            Morgan Securities Inc., as Syndication Agent; and the Agents
            and Co-Agents named therein (incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 10.2 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Viacom
            Inc. for the quarter ended June 30, 1996) (File No. 1-9553).
      (h)   The instruments defining the rights of holders of the
            long-term debt securities of Viacom Inc. and its
            subsidiaries are omitted pursuant to section (b)(4)(iii)(A)
            of Item 601 of Regulation S-K. Viacom Inc. hereby agrees to
            furnish copies of these instruments to the Securities and
            Exchange Commission upon request.
(10)        Material Contracts
      (a)   Viacom Inc. 1989 Long-Term Management Incentive Plan (as
            amended and restated through April 23, 1990, as further
            amended and restated through April 27, 1995, and as further
            amended and restated through November 1, 1996) (filed
            herewith).*
      (b)   Viacom Inc. 1994 Long-Term Management Incentive Plan (as
            amended and restated through April 27, 1995 and as further
            amended and restated through November 1, 1996) (filed
            herewith).*
      (c)   Viacom Inc. Senior Executive Short-Term Incentive Plan (as
            amended and restated through March 27, 1996) (incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the Annual Report on Form
            10-K of Viacom Inc. for the fiscal year ended December 31,
            1995).*
      (d)   Viacom Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan (Divisional)
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Quarterly
            Report on Form 10-Q of Viacom Inc. for the quarter ended
            June 30, 1993) (File No. 1-9553).*
      (e)   Viacom International Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan for
            Non-Employee Directors (as amended and restated through
            December 17, 1992) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            10(e) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Viacom Inc. for
            the fiscal year ended December 31, 1992, as amended by Form
            10-K/A Amendment No. 1 dated November 29, 1993 and as
            further amended by Form 10-K/A Amendment No. 2 dated
            December 9, 1993) (File No. 1-9553).*

*Management contract or compensatory plan required to be filed as an
exhibit to this form pursuant to Item 14(c).


                                      E-3


EXHIBIT
NO.               DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT       PAGE NO.

      (f)   Viacom Inc. and Viacom International Inc. Retirement Income Plan for
            Non-Employee Directors (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f)
            to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Viacom Inc. for the fiscal year
            ended December 31, 1989) (File No. 1-9553).*
      (g)   Viacom Inc. Stock Option Plan for Outside Directors
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Quarterly
            Report on Form 10-Q of Viacom Inc. for the quarter ended
            June 30, 1993) (File No. 1-9553).*
      (h)   Viacom Inc. 1994 Stock Option Plan for Outside Directors
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit B to Viacom Inc.'s
            Definitive Proxy Statement dated April 28, 1995).*
      (i)   Excess Benefits Investment Plan for Certain Key Employees
            of Viacom International Inc. (effective April 1, 1984 and
            amended as of January 1, 1990) (incorporated by reference
            to Exhibit 10(h) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of
            Viacom Inc. for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1990)
            (File No. 1-9553).*
      (j)   Excess Pension Plan for Certain Key Employees of Viacom
            International Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            10(i) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Viacom Inc. for
            the fiscal year ended December 31, 1990) (File No. 1-9553).*
      (k)   Employment Agreement, dated as of August 1, 1994, between
            Viacom Inc. and Frank J. Biondi, Jr. (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form
            10-Q of Viacom Inc. for the quarter ended September 30,
            1994) (File No. 1-9553).*    Supplemental Agreement, dated
            as of January 17, 1996, between Viacom Inc., Viacom
            International Inc. and Frank J. Biondi, Jr. (incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 10 to the Quarterly Report on Form
            10-Q of Viacom Inc. for the quarter ended March 31,
            1996)(File No. 1-9553).*
      (l)   Agreement, dated as of January 1, 1996, between Viacom Inc.
            and Philippe P. Dauman (incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 10(l) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Viacom
            Inc. for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995)(File No.
            1-9553).*
      (m)   Agreement, dated as of January 1, 1996, between Viacom Inc.
            and Thomas E. Dooley (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            10(m) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Viacom Inc. for
            the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995)(File No. 1-9553).*
      (n)   Agreement, dated as of July 1, 1994, between Viacom Inc.
            and Edward D. Horowitz (incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 10(o) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Viacom
            Inc. for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994)(File No.
            1-9553), as amended by an Agreement, dated as of June 1,
            1996 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the
            Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Viacom Inc. for the
            quarter ended June 30, 1996)(File No. 1-9553).*

*Management contract or compensatory plan required to be filed as an
exhibit to this form pursuant to Item 14(c).


                                      E-4


EXHIBIT
NO.               DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT       PAGE NO.

      (o)   Agreement, dated as of August 1, 1990, between Viacom
            International Inc. and Mark M. Weinstein (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 10(p) to the Annual Report on Form
            10-K of Viacom Inc. for the fiscal year ended December 31,
            1990) (File No. 1-9553), as amended by an Agreement dated
            as of February 1, 1993 (incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 10(n) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Viacom
            Inc. for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1992, as
            amended by Form 10-K/A Amendment No. 1 dated November 29,
            1993 and as further amended by Form 10-K/A Amendment No. 2
            dated December 9, 1993) (File No. 1-9553), and as further
            amended by an Agreement dated February 7, 1995
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(m) to the Annual
            Report on Form 10-K of Viacom Inc. for the fiscal year
            ended December 31, 1994)(File No. 1-9553).*
      (p)   Service Agreement, dated as of March 1, 1994, between
            George S. Abrams and Viacom Inc. (incorporated by reference
            to Exhibit 10(q) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of
            Viacom Inc. for the fiscal year ended December 31,
            1994)(File No. 1-9553).*
      (q)   Blockbuster Entertainment Corporation ("BEC") stock option
            plans* assumed by Viacom Inc. after the Blockbuster Merger
            consisting of the following:
            (i)   BEC's 1989 Stock Option Plan (incorporated by
            reference to BEC's Proxy Statement dated March 31, 1989).
            (ii)  Amendments to BEC's 1989 Stock Option Plan
            (incorporated by reference to BEC's Proxy Statement dated
            April 3, 1991).
            (iii) BECs 1990 Stock Option Plan (incorporated by
            reference to BEC's Proxy Statement dated March 29, 1990).
            (iv)  Amendments to BEC's 1990 Stock Option Plan
            (incorporated by reference to BEC's Proxy Statement dated
            April 15, 1991).
            (v)   BEC's 1991 Employee Director Stock Option Plan
            (incorporated by reference to BEC's Proxy Statement dated
            April 15, 1991).
            (vi)  BEC's 1991 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan
            (incorporated by reference to BEC's Proxy Statement dated
            April 15, 1991).
            (vii) BEC's 1994 Stock Option Plan (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 10.35 to the Annual Report on Form
            10-K of BEC for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993)
            (File No. 0-12700).

*Management contract or compensatory plan required to be filed as an
exhibit to this form pursuant to Item 14(c).


                                      E-5


EXHIBIT
NO.               DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT       PAGE NO.

      (r)   Parents Agreement dated as of July 24, 1995 among Viacom
            Inc., Tele-Communications, Inc. and TCI Communications,
            Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
            Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed by Viacom
            International Inc.) (File No. 33-64467).
      (s)   Implementation Agreement dated as of July 24, 1995 between
            Viacom International Inc. and Viacom International Services
            Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the
            Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed by Viacom
            International Inc.) (File No. 33-64467).
      (t)   Subscription Agreement dated as of July 24, 1995 among
            Viacom International Inc., Tele-Communications, Inc. and
            TCI Communications, Inc. (incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 10.3 to the Registration Statement on Form S-4
            filed by Viacom International Inc.) (File No. 33-64467).
      (u)   Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of February 16, 1997,
            between Viacom International Inc. and Evergreen Media
            Corporation of Los Angeles (filed herewith).
(11)        Statements re Computation of Net Earnings Per Share
(21)        Subsidiaries of Viacom Inc.
(23)        Consents of Experts and Counsel
      (a)   Consent of Price Waterhouse LLP
(24)        Powers of Attorney
(27)        Financial Data Schedule


                                      E-6


