
10-K


(Note: WORD for DOS; Courier 12; 1" margins)
        UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                      Washington, DC  20549

                            FORM 10-K
                            =========

           ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D)
             OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

           For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 1995

                 Commission File Number 1-13318

                    REALTY INCOME CORPORATION
                    -------------------------
     (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

           Delaware                             33-0580106
           --------                             ----------
(State or other jurisdiction of                (IRS Employer
 incorporation or organization)            Identification Number)

       220 West Crest Street, Escondido, California  92025
       ---------------------------------------------------
            (Address of principal executive offices)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (619)741-2111
                                                    -------------

  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (b) of the Act:

                                           Name of Each Exchange
        Title of Each Class                 On Which Registered
- -----------------------------------       -----------------------
   Common Stock, $1.00 Par Value          New York Stock Exchange
Variable Rate Senior Notes Due 2001       New York Stock Exchange
- -----------------------------------       -----------------------

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (g) of the Act: None
                                                             ----

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15 (d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months
(or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to
file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  [ X ]   No  [   ]




Continued

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge,
in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  [ X ]

     At March 19, 1996 the aggregate market value of the
Registrant's shares of common stock, $1.00 par value, held by
non-affiliates of the Registrant was $466,043,674, at the New
York Stock Exchange closing price of $21.125.

     There were 22,976,237 shares of common stock outstanding at
March 19, 1996.

     Documents incorporated by reference:  Part III, Item 10, 11,
12 and 13 are incorporated by reference to the definitive proxy
statement for Realty Income Corporation's Annual Meeting to be
held on May 14, 1996, to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A.
































                                                           Page 1

                    REALTY INCOME CORPORATION
                       Index To Form 10-K
                       ==================

                                                             Page
PART I                                                       ====

   Item 1:   Business.........................................  3

   Item 2:   Properties....................................... 22

   Item 3:   Legal Proceedings................................ 23

   Item 4:   Submission of Matters to a
             Vote of Security Holders......................... 23

PART II

   Item 5:   Market for the Registrant's Common
             Equity and Related Stockholder Matters........... 23

   Item 6:   Selected Financial Data.......................... 25

   Item 7:   Management's Discussion and Analysis
             of Financial Condition and Results of
             Operations....................................... 26

   Item 8:   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data...... 39

   Item 9:   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants
             on Accounting and Financial Disclosure...........184

PART III

   Item 10:  Directors and Executive Officers
             of the Registrant................................184

   Item 11:  Executive Compensation...........................184

   Item 12:  Security Ownership of Certain
             Beneficial Owners and Management.................184

   Item 13:  Certain Relationships and Related
             Transactions.....................................184

PART IV

   Item 14:  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules
             and Reports on Form 8-K..........................185

SIGNATURES....................................................188
EXHIBIT INDEX.................................................190

                                                           Page 2

PART I
======

ITEM 1:  BUSINESS
- -----------------

                           THE COMPANY
                           ===========

     Realty Income Corporation ("Realty Income" or the "Company")
is a fully integrated, self-administered and self-managed Real
Estate Investment Trust ("REIT") and the nation's largest
publicly-traded owner of freestanding, single-tenant, retail
properties diversified geographically and by industry and
operated under triple-net lease agreements.  As of
February 1, 1996, the Company owned a diversified portfolio of
686 properties located in 42 states with over 4.6 million square
feet of leasable space.  Over 99% of the Company's properties
were leased as of February 1, 1996.  Unless otherwise indicated,
information regarding the Company's properties is as of
February 1, 1996.

     Realty Income adheres to a focused strategy of acquiring
freestanding, single-tenant, retail properties leased to national
and regional retail chains under long-term, triple-net lease
agreements.  The Company typically acquires, and then leases
back, retail store locations from retail chain store operators,
providing capital to the operators for continued expansion and
other purposes.  The Company's triple-net lease agreements
generally are for initial terms of 15 to 25 years, require the
tenant to pay a minimum monthly rent and all property operating
expenses (taxes, insurance and maintenance), and provide for
future rent increases based on increases in the consumer price
index or additional rent calculated as a percentage of the
tenant's gross sales above a specified level.

     Since 1970, Realty Income has acquired and leased back to
national and regional retail chains over 630 properties
(including approximately 20 properties that have been sold) and
has collected in excess of 98% of the contractual rent
obligations on those properties.  Realty Income believes that the
long-term ownership of an actively managed, diversified portfolio
of retail properties leased under long-term, triple-net lease
agreements will produce consistent, predictable income and the
potential for long-term capital appreciation.  Management
believes that long-term leases, coupled with tenants assuming
responsibility for property expenses under the triple-net lease
structure, generally produce a more predictable income stream
than many other types of real estate portfolios.  As of
February 1, 1996, the Company's single-tenant properties were
leased pursuant to leases with an average remaining term
(excluding extension options) of approximately 9.2 years.  See
"Properties."
                                                           Page 3

     The Company was formed on September 9, 1993 in the State of
Delaware.  Realty Income commenced operations as a REIT on
August 15, 1994 through the merger of 25 public and private real
estate limited partnerships with and into the Company (the
"Consolidation"). Each of the partnerships was formed between
1970 and 1989 for the purpose of acquiring and managing
long-term, triple-net leased properties.  The partnerships
historically made regular monthly cash distributions to
investors.  Realty Income pays a regular monthly distribution to
its stockholders.

     The Company is a fully integrated real estate company with
in-house acquisition, leasing, legal, financial underwriting,
portfolio management and capital markets expertise.  The seven
senior officers of the Company, who have each managed the
Company's properties and operations for between five and 26
years, owned approximately 3.9% of the Company's outstanding
common stock, par value $1.00 per share (the "Common Stock") as
of March 15, 1996.

     Realty Income has 34 employees as of March 1, 1996.

                       RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
                       ===================

     Since the Consolidation, the Company has implemented its
growth plan, which is intended to increase the Company's revenue
and funds from operations ("FFO") per share.  FFO is defined in
Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations.  As part of its growth plan,
from the date of the Consolidation through February 1, 1996, the
Company acquired 63 additional triple-net leased retail
properties with an aggregate initial annual contractual base rent
of approximately $7.9 million.

     INCREASE IN MONTHLY DISTRIBUTION.  In August 1995, the
Company increased its monthly distribution to $0.155 per share
from $0.15 per share, representing an increase of 3.3%. The
Company has paid distributions of $0.155 per share in August 1995
through February 1996.  The February 1996 distribution was paid
on January 26, 1996 and a special distribution of $0.23 per share
was also paid in January 1996.  The monthly distribution of
$0.155 per share represents a current annualized distribution of
$1.86 per share, and an annualized distribution yield of
approximately 8.6% based on the last reported sale price of the
Company's Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") on
February 27, 1996.  Although the Company expects to continue its
policy of paying monthly distributions, there can be no assurance
that the current level of distributions will be maintained by the
Company or as to the actual distribution yield for any future
period.  See "Distribution Policy."


                                                           Page 4

     MERGER OF THE ADVISOR COMPANY.  Prior to August 17, 1995,
the day-to-day operations of the Company were managed by R.I.C.
Advisor, Inc.  (the "Advisor Company") pursuant to an advisory
agreement.  In order to create a fully integrated company and
more closely align the interests of management with the interests
of the Company's stockholders, the Advisor Company was merged
with and into Realty Income on August 17, 1995 (the "Merger").
Pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated April 28, 1995
(the "Merger Agreement"), the outstanding shares of the Advisor
Company's common stock were converted into 990,704 newly issued
shares of Realty Income Common Stock.  As a result of the Merger,
the employees of the Advisor Company became employees of the
Company, and the Company became a fully integrated,
self-administered and self-managed REIT.

     ACQUISITION OF 63 TRIPLE-NET LEASED, RETAIL PROPERTIES.
Since the Consolidation, the Company has increased the size of
its portfolio through a strategic program of acquisitions.  The
Company has acquired 63 additional properties (the "New
Properties"), and selectively sold five properties, increasing
the number of properties in its portfolio by 9.2% from 628
properties at August 15, 1994 to 686 properties as of
February 1, 1996.  Of the New Properties, 61 were occupied as of
February 1, 1996 and the remaining two were pre-leased and under
construction pursuant to contracts under which the tenants have
agreed to develop the properties (with development costs funded
by the Company) and to begin paying rent when the premises open
for business.  The New Properties were acquired for an aggregate
cost of approximately $70.7 million (including the estimated
development costs of the two properties under construction), are
located in 20 states, will contain approximately 655,900 leasable
square feet and are 100% leased under triple-net leases, with an
average initial lease term of 16.4 years.  The weighted average
annual unleveraged return on the cost of the New Properties
(including the estimated cost of properties under construction)
is estimated to be 11.3%, computed as estimated contractual net
operating income (which in the case of a triple-net leased
property is equal to the base rent or, in the case of properties
under construction, the estimated base rent under the lease) for
the first year of each lease, divided by total acquisition and
estimated development costs.  No assurance can be given that the
actual return on the cost of the New Properties will not differ
from the foregoing percentage.  In addition to acquiring the New
Properties, at February 1, 1996 the Company had entered into
purchase agreements to acquire three additional properties for an
aggregate cost of approximately $2.6 million.

     VARIABLE SENIOR NOTE REDEMPTION.  On February 15, 1996, the
Company announced its intent to redeem all of its outstanding
variable rate senior notes due 2001 (the "Notes").  The Notes
will be redeemed at par plus accrued interest to the date of
redemption, which is scheduled for March 29, 1996.

                                                           Page 5

     $130 MILLION UNSECURED ACQUISITION CREDIT FACILITY.  In
November 1994, the Company obtained a $100 million, three-year,
revolving, unsecured acquisition credit facility (the
"Acquisition Credit Facility") from The Bank of New York, as
agent, and several major U.S. and non-U.S. commercial banks.  In
December 1995, the Company negotiated several modifications to
the credit facility including (i) an increase in borrowing
capacity to $130 million from $100 million; (ii) a reduction in
the initial interest rate to London Interbank Offered Rate
("LIBOR") plus 1.25% from LIBOR plus 1.375%; and (iii) an
extension of the credit facility from November 1997 to
November 1998.  The Acquisition Credit Facility has been used to
fund a portion of the property acquisitions completed since the
Consolidation and is anticipated to continue to be used to
acquire triple-net leased, retail properties.

     LISTING OF THE COMMON STOCK ON THE NYSE.  The Common Stock
was authorized for listing on the NYSE under the symbol "O" and
commenced trading on the NYSE on October 18, 1994.

                 BUSINESS OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGY
                 ================================

     GENERAL.  The Company's primary business objective is to
generate a consistent and predictable level of FFO per share and
distributions to stockholders.  Additionally, the Company
generally will seek to increase FFO per share and distributions
to stockholders through both internal and external growth, while
also seeking to lower the ratio of distributions to stockholders
as a percentage of FFO in order to allow internal cash flow to be
used to fund additional acquisitions and for other corporate
purposes.  The Company pursues internal growth through
(i) contractual rent increases on existing leases; (ii) rental
increases at the termination of existing leases when market
conditions permit; and (iii) the active management of the
Company's property portfolio, including selective sales of
properties.  The Company generally pursues external growth
through the acquisition of additional properties under long-term,
triple-net lease agreements with initial contractual base rent
which, at the time of acquisition, is in excess of the Company's
estimated cost of capital.

     INVESTMENT PHILOSOPHY.  Realty Income believes that the
long-term ownership of an actively managed, diversified portfolio
of retail properties under long-term, triple-net lease agreements
should produce consistent, predictable income and the potential
for long-term capital appreciation.  Under a triple-net lease
agreement, the tenant agrees to pay a minimum monthly rent and
all property expenses (taxes, maintenance, and insurance) plus,
typically, future rent increases based on increases in the
consumer price index or additional rent calculated as a
percentage of the tenant's gross sales above a specified level.

                                                           Page 6

The Company believes that long-term leases, coupled with the
tenants assuming responsibility for property expenses, produce a
more predictable income stream than many other types of real
estate portfolios, while continuing to offer the opportunity for
capital appreciation.

     INVESTMENT STRATEGY.  In identifying new properties for
acquisition, Realty Income focuses on providing expansion capital
to middle market retail chains by acquiring, then leasing back,
their retail store locations.  The Company classifies retail
tenants into three categories: venture, middle market, and upper
market.  Venture companies are those which typically offer a new
retail concept in one geographic region of the country and
operate  between five and 100 retail outlets.  In general, these
retail chains are thinly capitalized and are in the process of
solving distribution, marketing, concept, geographic adaptation,
and other problems associated with a new, growing company.
Middle market retail chains are those which typically have 100 to
500 retail outlets, operations in more than one geographic
region, success through one or more economic cycles, a proven,
replicable concept, and an objective of further expansion.  The
upper market retail chains typically consist of companies with
500 or more stores which operate nationally in a mature retail
concept.  They generally have strong operating histories and
access to several sources of capital.

     Realty Income focuses on acquiring properties leased to
emerging, middle market retail chains which the Company believes
are more attractive for investment because: (i) they generally
have overcome many of the operational and managerial obstacles
that tend to adversely affect venture retailers; (ii) they
typically require capital to fund expansion but have more limited
financing options compared to upper market retailers;
(iii) historically, they generally have provided attractive
risk-adjusted returns to the Company over time, since their
financial strength has in many cases tended to improve as their
businesses have matured; (iv) their relatively large size
compared to venture retailers allows them to spread corporate
expenses among a greater number of stores; and (v) compared to
venture retailers, middle market retailers typically have the
critical mass to survive if a number of locations have to be
closed due to underperformance.

     ACQUISITION STRATEGY.  Realty Income seeks to invest in
industries that are dominated by independent local operators and
in which several well organized regional and national chains are
capturing market share through service, quality control,
economies of scale, mass media advertising, and selection of
prime retail locations.  The Company executes its acquisition
strategy by acting as a source of capital to regional and
national retail chain stores in a variety of industries by
acquiring, then leasing back, their retail store locations.

                                                           Page 7

Relying on executives from its acquisitions, portfolio
management, finance, accounting, operations, capital markets, and
legal departments, the Company undertakes stringent research and
analysis in identifying appropriate industries, tenants, and
property locations for investment.  In selecting real estate for
potential investment, the Company generally will seek to acquire
properties that have the following characteristics:

     *  Freestanding, commercially zoned property with a single
        tenant;

     *  Properties that are important retail locations for
        national and regional retail chains;

     *  Properties that are located within attractive demographic
        areas relative to the business of their tenants, with
        high visibility and easy access to major thoroughfares;

     *  Properties that can be purchased with the simultaneous
        execution or assumption of long-term, triple-net lease
        agreements, providing the opportunity for both current
        income and future rent increases based on increases in
        the consumer price index or through the payment of
        additional rent calculated as a percentage of the
        tenant's gross sales above a specified level; and

     *  Properties that can be acquired at or below their
        appraised value at prices generally ranging from $300,000
        to $10 million.

     PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT STRATEGY.  The active management of the
property portfolio is an essential component of the Company's
long-term strategy.  The Company continually monitors its
portfolio for changes that could affect the performance of the
industries, tenants, and locations in which it has invested.
Realty Income's executive committee meets at least monthly to
review industry and tenant research, due diligence, property
operations and portfolio management.  This monitoring typically
includes ongoing review and analysis of: (i) the performance of
various tenant industries; (ii) the operation, management,
business planning, and financial condition of the tenants;
(iii) the health of the individual markets in which the Company
owns properties, from both an economic and real estate
standpoint; and (iv) the physical maintenance of the Company's
individual properties.  The portfolio is analyzed on an ongoing
basis with a view towards optimizing performance and returns.

     While the Company generally intends to hold its triple-net
leased properties for long-term investment, the Company believes
that opportunities may exist to increase FFO through the active
management of its portfolio of triple- net lease properties.  The
Company intends to pursue a strategy of identifying properties

                                                           Page 8

that may be sold at attractive prices where the reinvestment of
the sales proceeds is expected to generate a higher cash flow to
the Company.  While the Company intends to pursue such a
strategy, it will only do so within the constraints of the
rules regarding REIT status.

     CAPITAL STRATEGY.  The Company utilizes its $130 million,
unsecured Acquisition Credit Facility as a vehicle for the
short-term financing of the acquisition of new properties.  When
outstanding borrowings under the Acquisition Credit Facility
reach a certain level (generally in the range of $50 to $100
million), the Company intends to refinance those borrowings with
the net proceeds of long-term or permanent financing, which may
include the issuance of Common Stock, Preferred Stock or
convertible Preferred Stock, debt securities or convertible debt
securities.  However, there can be no assurance that the Company
will be able to effect any such refinancing or regarding the
terms on which any such refinancing may be accomplished.  The
Company believes that it is best served by a conservative capital
structure, with a majority of its capital consisting of equity.
As of December 31, 1995, the Company's total indebtedness was
approximately 4.9% of its total assets.

     COMPETITIVE STRATEGY.  The Company believes that to utilize
its investment philosophy and strategy most successfully, it must
seek to maintain the following competitive strategy:

     *  SIZE OF INVESTMENT PROPERTIES:  The Company believes that
        smaller ($300,000 to $10,000,000) retail triple-net
        leased properties represent an attractive investment
        opportunity in today's real estate environment.  Due to
        the complexities of acquiring and managing a large
        portfolio of relatively small assets, the Company
        believes that these types of properties have not
        experienced significant institutional participation or
        the corresponding yield reduction experienced by larger
        income producing properties.  The Company believes the
        less intensive day to day property management required
        by triple-net lease agreements, coupled with the active
        management of a large portfolio of smaller properties by
        the Company, is an effective investment strategy.

     *  INVESTMENT IN NEW INDUSTRIES:  While specializing in
        smaller properties, the Company will seek to further
        diversify its portfolio among a variety of industries.
        The Company believes that diversification will allow it
        to invest in industries that are currently growing and
        have characteristics the Company finds potentially
        profitable.  These characteristics include, but are not
        limited to, industries dominated by local operators where
        national and regional chain operators can gain
        substantial market share and dominance through more

                                                           Page 9

        efficient operations, as well as industries taking
        advantage of major demographic shifts in the population
        base.  For example, in the early 1970s, Realty Income
        targeted the fast food industry to take advantage of the
        country's increasing desire to dine away from home, and
        in the early 1980s, it targeted the child day care
        industry, responding to the need for professional child
        care as more women entered the work force.

     *  DIVERSIFICATION:  Diversification of the portfolio by
        industry type, tenant and geographic location is key to
        the Company's objective of providing predictable
        investment results for its stockholders.  As the Company
        expands it will seek to further diversify its portfolio.

     *  MANAGEMENT SPECIALIZATION:  The Company believes that its
        management's specialization in small properties operated
        under triple-net lease agreements is important to meeting
        its objectives.  The Company plans to maintain this
        specialization and will seek to employ and train high
        quality professionals in this specialized area of real
        estate ownership, finance and management.

     *  TECHNOLOGY:  The Company intends to stay at the forefront
        of technology in its efforts to efficiently and
        economically carry out its operations.  The Company
        maintains a sophisticated information system that allows
        it to analyze its portfolio's performance and actively
        manage its investments.  In addition, the Company
        maintains record-keeping on an optical disc storage and
        retrieval system which gives it ready access to records
        on a cost efficient and timely basis.  The Company
        believes that technology and information based systems
        will play an increasingly important role in its
        competitiveness as an investment manager and source of
        capital to a variety of industries and tenants.

                           PROPERTIES
                           ==========

     As of February 1, 1996, the Company owned 686 properties in
42 states consisting of 135 after-market automotive retail
locations, 319 child care centers, 36 convenience stores, 4 home
furnishings stores, 177 restaurant facilities and 15 other
properties.  Of the 686 properties, 627 or 91% are leased to
national or regional retail chain operators; 35 or 5% are leased
to franchisees of retail chain operators; 20 or 3% are leased to
other tenant types; and four or less than 1% are available for
lease.  Over 97% of the properties were under triple-net lease
agreements.  Triple-net leases typically require the tenant to be
responsible for substantially all property operating costs
including property taxes, insurance, maintenance and structural
repairs.
                                                          Page 10

     The Company's net-leased retail properties are primary
retail locations of national and regional retail chain store
operators.  The properties average approximately 6,800 square
feet of leasable retail space on approximately 42,400 square feet
of land.  Generally, buildings are single-story properties with
adequate parking on site to accommodate peak retail traffic
periods.  The properties tend to be on major thoroughfares with
relatively high traffic counts and adequate access, egress and
proximity to a sufficient population base to constitute a
sufficient market or trade area for the retailer's business.

     As of February 1, 1996, Realty Income owned a diversified
portfolio of 686 properties in 42 states consisting of over 4.6
million square feet of leasable space.  The following table sets
forth certain geographic diversification information regarding
these properties:



                                                          Page 11



(1)  Does not include percentage rents (i.e., additional rent
calculated as a percentage of the tenant's gross sales above a
specified level), if any, that may be payable under leases
covering certain of the properties.  Annualized base rent is
calculated by multiplying the monthly contractual base rent as of
February 1, 1996 for each of the properties by 12.















                                                          Page 12

     The following table sets forth certain information regarding
the Company's properties as of February 1, 1996, classified
according to the business of the respective tenants:



                                                          Page 13



(1)  Approximate total number of retail locations operated by
each tenant (including both owned and franchised locations),
based on information provided to the Company by the respective
tenants.

(2)  Does not include percentage rents (i.e., additional rent
calculated as a percentage of the tenant's gross sales above a
specified level), if any, that may be payable under leases
covering certain of the properties.  Annualized base rent is
calculated by multiplying the monthly contractual base rent as of
February 1, 1996 for each of the properties by 12.

     Of the 686 properties, 676 are single-tenant properties with
the remaining properties being multi-tenant properties.  As of

                                                          Page 14

February 1, 1996, 672 or over 99% of the single-tenant properties
were triple-net leased pursuant to leases with an average
remaining lease term (excluding extension options) of
approximately 9.2 years.  The following table sets forth certain
information regarding the timing of lease expirations on the
Company's 672 triple-net leased, single tenant retail properties:



(1)  The table does not include ten multi-tenant properties and
four vacant, unleased properties owned by the Company.  The
average remaining lease term for all leases on the Company's
properties, excluding the multi-tenant properties, is
approximately 9.2 years.  The lease expirations for two
properties under construction are based on the estimated date of
completion of such properties.



                                                          Page 15

(2)  Does not include percentage rents (i.e., additional rent
calculated as a percentage of the tenant's gross sales above a
specified level), if any, that may be payable under leases
covering certain of the properties.  Annualized base rent is
calculated by multiplying the monthly contractual base rent as of
February 1, 1996 for each of the properties by 12.

     DESCRIPTION OF LEASING STRUCTURE.  As of February 1, 1996,
over 97% of the Company's properties were leased pursuant to
triple-net leases.  In most cases, the leases are for initial
terms of from 15 to 20 years and the tenant has an option to
extend the initial term.  The leases generally provide for a
minimum base rent plus future increases based on increases in the
consumer price index or additional rent based upon the tenant's
gross sales above a specified level (i.e., percentage rent).
Where leases provide for rent increases based on increases in the
consumer price index, such increases permanently become part of
the base rent.  Where leases provide for percentage rent, this
additional rent is typically payable only if the tenant's gross
sales for a given period (usually one year) exceed a specified
level, and then is typically calculated as a percentage of only
the amount of gross sales in excess of such level.  In general,
the leases require the tenant to pay all real property taxes,
insurance, and expenses of maintaining the property.

Description of Industries
- -------------------------

     The Company's investments in properties at February 1, 1996
were concentrated in five major industries: after-market
automotive parts and service stores, child care, convenience
stores, home furnishings stores and restaurants.  In addition,
the Company owns three mixed-use light industrial business parks.

     THE AFTER-MARKET AUTOMOTIVE PARTS AND SERVICE INDUSTRY AND
TENANTS.  The motor vehicle and parts after- market industry is
comprised of various parts producing firms and retail outlets
providing parts, service and repair to automobiles throughout the
country.  The Company has selectively invested in the following
sectors of the after-market automotive industry: auto parts and
accessories stores, lubrication services and tire stores.

     Auto Parts and Accessories.  The Company believes Northern
Automotive is one of the largest operators of retail after-market
auto parts stores in the nation based on number of stores.  The
Company began investing in Northern Automotive stores in 1987 and
currently owns 79 Northern Automotive properties located in 14
states.  Based on information provided by Northern Automotive,
the Company believes it is the largest owner of Northern
Automotive properties.



                                                          Page 16

     Lubrication Services.  Based upon industry reports, the
Company believes that the quick lube market is a growing segment
of the motor oil business.  The Company began investing in Jiffy
Lube International, Inc.  ("Jiffy Lube") in 1985 and currently
owns 24 Jiffy Lube locations in eight states.

     Tire Stores.  With approximately 294 outlets as of
February 1, 1996, the Company believes Discount Tire Stores is
one of the largest independent retail tire sales operation in the
nation.  The Company began investing in Discount Tire Stores in
1990 and currently owns 18 Discount Tire Stores properties
located in five states.

     THE CHILD CARE INDUSTRY AND TENANTS.  According to the U.S.
Bureau of Labor Statistics, the number of children under age six
with mothers in the labor force grew from 6.5 million in 1980 to
9.6 million in 1993.  Fueled by the increase in the number of
women in the workplace, child care has grown into a national
industry.

     The Company believes that child day care remains a highly
fragmented industry, with only three chains operating in excess
of 500 centers.  The Company's child care properties are
geographically diversified, with properties leased to the three
largest operators (based on number of locations) of child day
care centers in the United States: La Petite Academy in 27
states, Children's World Learning Centers in 18 states, and
KinderCare Learning Centers in eight states.

     THE CONVENIENCE STORE INDUSTRY AND TENANTS.  As the
supermarket replaced the neighborhood grocery store, the
convenience store industry emerged to provide a convenient
neighborhood location for the purchase of a limited selection of
high use items.  The industry today is adapting to a new concept
with the combination of a gas station and a traditional
convenience store.  The integration of the two businesses on one
location gives newer convenience stores a competitive advantage
over older, single-concept stores.  As a result, traditional
convenience store chains are beginning to sell gas at their
locations while certain petroleum companies are adding
convenience stores to their traditional gas stations.

     The Company currently owns 36 convenience store properties
with 18 leased to Dairy Mart Convenience Stores, Inc., 14 leased
to The Pantry, three operated as 7-ELEVEN'S, and one to another
tenant.  The Company is actively seeking to expand its
participation in the convenience store industry through
additional acquisitions.

     THE HOME FURNISHINGS INDUSTRY AND TENANT.  According to the
U.S. Bureau of the Census Current Business Reports, the U.S.
furniture stores total estimated retail sales were approximately

                                                          Page 17

$17.7 billion for the first six months of 1995, a 6.9% increase
over estimated retail sales for the last six months of 1994.  The
industry is segmented into a number of different niches that
compete with one another.  The Company believes the largest
segments include conventional furniture stores, specialty stores,
specialty furniture stores, manufacturers' gallery stores,
vertically integrated furniture stores, department stores,
general merchandise discounters, and catalog retailers.  The
Company believes that historically, the conventional furniture
store segment was dominated by numerous local, independent
retailers operating in a fragmented market.  The Company believes
that in recent years regional and national retail chains have
been taking market share from independent operators through more
efficient operations, distribution, marketing, advertising and
lower prices.

     The Company owns four home furnishing retail store
properties which are leased to Levitz Furniture Corporation, one
of the nation's largest home furnishings retailers.

     THE RESTAURANT INDUSTRY AND TENANTS.  According to industry
estimates cited in Standard & Poor's Industry Surveys--Leisure
Time Basic Analysis, spending for food prepared outside the home
has grown steadily for most of the past two decades.  The Company
currently owns a total of 177 restaurant properties, 133 of them
leased to five leading restaurant chains.  All five of the
Company's major restaurant tenants, Golden Corral, Taco Bell,
Sizzler, Hardees and Whataburger, were ranked by NATION'S
RESTAURANT NEWS among the top 100 restaurant companies for 1994
based on sales volume.

Matters Pertaining to Certain Properties and Tenants
- ----------------------------------------------------

     As of February 1, 1996, the Company's four largest tenants
were Children's World Learning Centers, La Petite Academy, Golden
Corral and Northern Automotive, which accounted for approximately
25.6%, 18.0%, 12.8% and 9.1%, respectively, of the Company's
rental revenue for the year ended December 31, 1995.

     Four of the Company's properties were vacant as of
February 1, 1996 and available for lease.  Three of the vacant
properties were previously leased to restaurant operators.  One
of the vacant properties was formerly leased to a child care
operator.

     As of February 1, 1996, 16 of the Company's properties which
were under lease, were vacant and available for sublease by the
tenant.  Fifteen of these properties (nine restaurants, three
automotive stores, two day care and one medical building) were
available for sublease and had tenants who were current with
their rent and other lease obligations.  The other property, a

                                                          Page 18

restaurant, has a tenant who is delinquent with respect to rent
payments.

     As of February 1, 1996, 17 of the Company's properties had
been sublet to tenants in different industries than the original
tenant.  At February 1, 1996, all of these tenants were current
with their rent and other lease obligations.

     For a nine month period in 1992, the Company granted
temporary rent concessions to Northern Automotive with respect to
certain of its leases.  Northern Automotive resumed paying full
rent on all of its leases in December 1992 and is currently
repaying the concessions previously granted.

Development of Certain Properties
- ---------------------------------

     Of the 63 New Properties acquired by the Company since the
Consolidation, 53 were completed properties occupied by the
tenant at the time of acquisition while the remaining 10
properties were parcels of undeveloped land acquired for
development.  In the case of undeveloped land, the Company
typically enters into an agreement with a prospective tenant
pursuant to which the tenant retains a contractor to construct
the improvements on the property and the Company funds the costs
of such development.  The tenant is contractually obligated to
complete the construction on a timely basis, generally within
eight months after the Company purchases the land, to pay
construction cost overruns to the extent they exceed the
construction budget by more than 5% and, in some cases, to obtain
a completion bond.  The Company also enters into a lease with the
prospective tenant at the time the Company purchases the land,
which generally requires that the tenant begin paying base rent,
calculated as a percentage of the Company's acquisition cost for
the property, including construction costs and capitalized
interest, when the premises open for business.  As of
February 1, 1996, eight of the Company's leased and operating New
Properties had been developed through Company funding and the
Company was funding the development of two additional New
Properties.  The total acquisition and estimated development
costs for these two properties is $1.5 million, of which
$1.0 million had not been funded as of February 1, 1996.  The
Company will continue to seek to acquire land for development
under similar arrangements.

                       DISTRIBUTION POLICY
                       ===================

     Distributions are paid to the Company's stockholders on a
monthly basis if, as and when declared by the Company's Board of
Directors.  In order to maintain its tax status as a REIT, the
Company is generally required to distribute annually to its

                                                          Page 19

stockholders at least 95% of its taxable income (determined
without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and by
excluding any net capital gain). The Company intends to make
distributions to its stockholders which are sufficient to meet
this requirement.

     Future distributions by the Company will be at the
discretion of its Board of Directors and will depend on, among
other things, its results of operations, financial condition and
capital requirements, the annual distribution requirements under
the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (the "Code"), its debt service requirements and such
other factors as the Board of Directors may deem relevant.  In
addition, the Acquisition Credit Facility contains financial
covenants which could limit the amount of distributions payable
by the Company in the event of a deterioration in the results of
operations or financial condition of the Company, and which
prohibit the payment of distributions on the Common Stock in the
event that the Company fails to pay when due (subject to any
applicable grace period) any principal of or interest on
borrowings under the Acquisition Credit Facility.

     Distributions by the Company to the extent of its current
and accumulated earnings and profits for federal income tax
purposes generally will be taxable to stockholders as ordinary
income.  Distributions in excess of such earnings and profits
generally will be treated as a non-taxable reduction in the
stockholders basis in its stock to the extent of such basis, and
thereafter as a gain from the sale of such stock.  Approximately
4.7% of the distributions made or deemed to have been made in
1995 were classified as a return of capital for federal income
tax purposes, the Company is unable to predict the portion of
1996 or future distributions which may be classified as a return
of capital since such amount depends on the Company's taxable
income for the entire year.

     In connection with the Merger, the Company was treated as
having acquired the accumulated earnings and profits of the
Advisor Company (the "Acquired Earnings").  In order to maintain
its status as a REIT, the Company was required to make or be
deemed to have made distributions sufficient to eliminate the
Acquired Earnings prior to December 31, 1995.  To meet this
requirement, the Company declared in December 1995 a $0.155 per
share regular distribution paid on January 15, 1996, a $0.155 per
share regular distribution paid on January 26, 1996 (in lieu of
the regular February distribution) and a $0.23 per share special
distribution paid on January 11, 1996.






                                                          Page 20

                           OTHER ITEMS
                           ===========

     COMPETITION FOR ACQUISITION OF REAL ESTATE.  The Company
will face competition in the acquisition, operation and sale of
its properties.  Such competition can be expected from other
businesses, individuals, fiduciary accounts and plans and other
entities engaged in real estate investment.  Some of the
Company's competitors are larger and have greater financial
resources than the Company.  This competition may result in a
higher cost for properties the Company wishes to purchase.  The
tenants leasing the Company's properties generally face
significant competition from other operators.  This may result in
an adverse impact on that portion, if any, of the rental stream
to be paid to the Company based on a tenant's revenues and may
also adversely impact the tenants' results of operations or
financial condition.

     ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS.  Investments in real property create
a potential for environmental liability on the part of the owner
of such property for contamination resulting from the presence or
discharge of hazardous substances on the property.  Such
liability may be imposed without regard to knowledge of, or the
timing, cause or person responsible for the release of such
substances onto the property.  The Company believes that its
properties are in compliance in all material respects with all
federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations
regarding hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products.
The Company has not been notified by any governmental authority,
and is not otherwise aware, of any material noncompliance,
liability or claim relating to hazardous or toxic substances or
petroleum products in connection with any of its present
properties.  Moreover, the tenants are required to operate in
compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws and
regulations.  Nevertheless, if environmental contamination should
exist, the Company could be subject to strict liability by virtue
of its ownership interest.

     TAXATION OF THE COMPANY.  The Company has elected to be
taxed as a REIT under the Code, commencing with its taxable year
ended December 31, 1994.  As long as the Company meets the
requirements under the Code for qualification as a REIT each
year, the Company will be entitled to a deduction when
calculating its taxable income for dividends paid to its
stockholders.  For the Company to qualify as a REIT, however,
certain detailed technical requirements must be met (including
certain income, asset and stock ownership tests) under Code
provisions for which, in many cases, there are only limited
judicial or administrative interpretations.  Although the Company
intends to operate so that it will continue to qualify as a REIT,
the highly complex nature of the rules governing REITs, the
ongoing importance of factual determinations and the possibility

                                                          Page 21

of future changes in the Company's circumstances preclude any
assurance that the Company will so qualify in any year.  For any
taxable year that the Company fails to qualify as a REIT, it
would not be entitled to a deduction for dividends paid to its
stockholders in calculating its taxable income.  Consequently,
distributions to stockholders would be substantially reduced and
could be eliminated because of the Company's increased tax
liability.  Should the Company's qualification as a REIT
terminate, the Company may not be able to elect to be treated as
a REIT for the subsequent five-year period, which would
substantially reduce and could eliminate distributions to
stockholders for the years involved.

     EFFECT OF DISTRIBUTION REQUIREMENTS.  To maintain its status
as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, the Company generally
is required each year to distribute to its stockholders at least
95% of its taxable income.  In addition, the Company is subject
to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which
certain distributions paid by it with respect to any calendar
year are less than the sum of 85% of its ordinary income for such
calendar year, 95% of its capital gain net income for the
calendar year and any amount of such income that was not
distributed in prior years.

     ADDITIONAL CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS.  The Company's future
growth will depend in large part upon its ability to raise
additional capital.  If the Company were to raise additional
capital through the issuance of equity securities, the interests
of holders of Common Stock, including the shares of Common Stock
offered hereby, could be diluted.  Likewise, the Company's Board
of Directors is authorized to cause the Company to issue
preferred stock in one or more series and entitled to such
dividends and voting and other rights as the Board of Directors
may determine.  Accordingly, the Board of Directors may authorize
the issuance of preferred stock with voting, dividend and other
similar rights which could be dilutive to or otherwise adversely
affect the interests of holders of Common Stock.

     DEPENDENCE ON KEY PERSONNEL.  The Company is dependent on
the efforts of its directors and executive officers.  The loss of
the services of its key employees could have a material adverse
effect on the Company's operations.

ITEM 2:  PROPERTIES
- -------------------

     Information pertaining to the properties of Realty Income
can be found under Item 1.





                                                          Page 22

ITEM 3:  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
- --------------------------

     The Company is subject to certain claims and lawsuits, the
outcome of which are not determinable at this time.  In the
opinion of management, any liability that might be incurred by
the Company upon the resolution of these claims and lawsuits will
not, in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the
consolidated financial condition or results of operations of the
Company.

ITEM 4:  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
- ------------------------------------------------------------

     No matters were submitted to stockholders during the fourth
quarter of the fiscal year.

PART II
=======

ITEM 5:  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
         STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
- ----------------------------------------------------------

     A.  Common stock of the Company is listed on the New York
Stock Exchange under the symbol "O."  The stock initially began
trading on The New York Stock Exchange on October 18, 1994.
Prior to October 18, 1994, the stock was not publicly traded.

























                                                          Page 23

     The following table shows the high, low and closing sales
prices per share for the Common Stock as reported by the New York
Stock Exchange for the periods indicated:



(1)  Distributions are currently declared monthly by the Company
based on financial results for the prior months.  At
December 31, 1995, a special distribution of $0.23 per share and
two distributions of $0.155 per share had been declared and were
paid on January 11, 1996, January 15, 1996 and January 26, 1996,
respectively.

     B.  There were 18,557 holders of record of Realty Income's
shares of common stock as of March 8, 1996, however, Realty
Income believes the total number of beneficial shareholders of
Realty Income to be approximately 40,000.







                                                          Page 24

ITEM 6:  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
- --------------------------------
(not covered by Independent Auditors' Report)


                                                          Page 25



(1)  Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges is calculated by dividing
net income after adding back interest expense, by fixed charges.
Fixed charges are comprised of interest costs.  Ratio of Earnings
to Fixed Charges is not applicable for 1992 and 1991 because the
Company did not have any fixed charges for these periods.

(2)  Due to the change in the capital structure caused by the
Consolidation (see Item 8, Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements), per share information would not be meaningful for
1993 through 1991 and therefore has not been included.

(3)  The 1994 amount represents distributions paid or declared,
as the case may be, after the Consolidation.

ITEM 7:  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
         CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
- ----------------------------------------------------------

GENERAL
- -------

     Realty Income Corporation ("Realty Income" or the "Company")
was organized to operate as an equity real estate investment
trust ("REIT"). The Company's primary business objective is to
generate a consistent and predictable level of funds from
operations ("FFO") per share and distributions to stockholders.
Additionally, the Company generally will seek to increase FFO per
share and distributions to stockholders through both internal and
external growth, while also seeking to lower the ratio of
distributions to stockholders as a percentage of FFO in order to
allow internal cash flow to be used to fund additional
acquisitions and for other corporate purposes.  Realty Income
pursues internal growth through (i) contractual rent increases on
existing leases; (ii) rental increases at the termination of
existing leases when market conditions permit; and (iii) the
active management of the Company's property portfolio, including
selective sales of properties.  The Company generally pursues

                                                          Page 26

external growth through the acquisition of additional properties
under long-term, triple-net lease agreements with initial
contractual base rent which, at the time of acquisition, is in
excess of the Company's estimated cost of capital.

     Realty Income was organized in the state of Delaware on
September 9, 1993 to facilitate the merger, which was effective
on August 15, 1994 (the "Consolidation"), of 10 private and 15
public real estate limited partnerships (the "Partnerships") with
and into Realty Income.  The Company's common stock is listed on
the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE") under the symbol "O" and
commenced trading on October 18, 1994.

     Investors in the Partnerships who elected to invest in the
equity of the Company received  a total of 19,503,080 shares of
common stock.  Certain investors elected to receive Variable Rate
Senior Notes (the "Notes") totaling $12.6 million.  The Notes are
due in 2001 and are listed on the NYSE.  The Company paid $0.9
million in cash in lieu of issuing promissory notes and $0.5
million in cash in lieu of issuing fractional shares.  On
February 15, 1996, the Company declared its intent to redeem all
of its outstanding Notes at par value, plus accrued interest to
the date of redemption.  The redemption date is scheduled for
March 29, 1996.

     The Consolidation was accounted for as a reorganization of
affiliated entities in a manner similar to a pooling-of-
interests.  Under this method, the assets and liabilities of the
Partnerships were carried over at their historical book values
and operations have been recorded on a combined historical cost
basis.  The pooling-of-interests method of accounting also
requires the reporting of the results of operations as though the
entities had been combined as of the beginning of the earliest
period presented.  Accordingly, the results of operations for the
year ended December 31, 1994 comprise those of the separate
entities combined from the beginning of the period through
August 15, 1994 (the date of the Consolidation) and those of the
Company from August 16, 1994 through December 31, 1994.
Financial information for 1993 has also been restated on a
combined basis to provide comparative information.

     In accordance with the Company's certificate of
incorporation and bylaws, the responsibility for the management
and control of the Company's operations is vested in its board of
directors.  Prior to August 18, 1995, the Company's day-to-day
affairs were managed by R.I.C. Advisor, Inc. (the "Advisor")
which provided advice and assistance regarding acquisitions of
properties by the Company and performed the day-to-day management
of the Company's properties and business.  On August 17, 1995,
the Advisor was merged with and into Realty Income (the "Merger")
and the advisory agreement between Realty Income and the Advisor
was terminated.  Realty Income issued 990,704 shares of common

                                                          Page 27

stock as consideration for the outstanding common stock of the
Advisor.  The Advisor held 57,547 shares of common stock of the
Company which were retired after the Merger.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
- -------------------------------

     Realty Income was organized for the purpose of operating as
an equity REIT which acquires and leases properties and
distributes to stockholders, in the form of monthly cash
distributions, a substantial portion of its net cash flow
generated from lease revenue.  The Company intends to retain an
appropriate amount of cash as working capital reserves.  At
December 31, 1995, the Company had cash and cash equivalents
totaling $1.65 million.

     Capital Funding

     In November 1994, Realty Income entered into a $100 million
three-year, revolving, unsecured acquisition credit facility.  In
December 1995, the Company negotiated several modifications to
the credit facility including (i) an increase in borrowing
capacity to $130 million from $100 million; (ii) a reduction in
the interest rate to London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") plus
1.25% from LIBOR plus 1.375%; and (iii) an extension of the
credit facility from November 1997 to November 1998.  This credit
facility has been and is expected to be used to acquire
additional retail properties leased to national and regional
retail chains under long term lease agreements.  As of
February 9, 1996, $118 million of borrowing capacity was
available to the Company under the acquisition credit facility.
As of February 9, 1996, the interest rate on this facility was
6.9%.

     Realty Income expects to meet its long-term capital needs
for the acquisition of properties through the issuance of public
or private debt or equity.  In August 1995, the Company filed a
universal shelf registration statement with the Securities and
Exchange Commission covering up to $200 million in value of
common stock, preferred stock or debt securities.  In November
and December 1995, the Company issued a total of 2,540,000 shares
of common stock at a price of $19.625 per share.  The shares were
issued pursuant to the registration statement and a related
prospectus supplement.  The net proceeds of $46.6 million from
this offering were used to repay $44.6 million of outstanding
borrowings under the acquisition credit facility with the
remainder invested in properties.

     The Company is not currently involved in any negotiations
and has not entered into any arrangements relating to any
additional securities issuances.


                                                          Page 28

     Property Acquisitions

     During 1995, Realty Income purchased 58 properties in 19
states for $65.4 million.  Two of the properties are currently
under development.  All of the above mentioned properties,
including the properties under development, are leased with
initial terms of ten to 20 years.  The properties were purchased
with $12.8 million of cash on hand, $50.6 million from the
acquisition credit facility and $2.0 million from the stock
offering proceeds.  Additional stock offering proceeds of $44.6
million were used to repay the credit facility.  The Company
invested an additional $288,000 in existing properties.






                                                          Page 29










                                                          Page 30



(1)  The Company acquired these two properties as undeveloped
land and is funding construction and other costs relating to the
development of the properties by the prospective tenants.  The
prospective tenants have entered into leases with the Company
covering these properties and are contractually obligated to
complete construction on a timely basis and to pay construction
cost overruns to the extent they exceed the construction budget
by more than 5%.  As of December 31, 1995, the total acquisition
and estimated construction costs for the two development
properties was $1.3 million, of which $1.0 million had not been
funded.

     Distributions

     Cash distributions paid for the years ended
December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993 were $36.7 million, $44.7
million and $40.8 million, respectively.  The 1994 distributions
were made up of twelve monthly distributions in the aggregate
amount of $38.9 million and the final partnership distribution of
$5.8 million.  The 1994 final partnership distributions were
substantially comprised of proceeds from the sales of properties
sold during 1993.


                                                          Page 31

     For the year ended December 31, 1995, the Company paid
monthly distributions of $0.15 per share from January through
July and increased its monthly distributions to $0.155 per share
in August.  Monthly distributions of $0.155 per share were paid
in August through December 1995.  The distributions paid for 1995
totaled $1.825 per share.  In December 1995, the Company declared
two distributions of $0.155 per share which were paid on
January 15 and January 26, 1996 and a special distribution of
$0.23 per share which was paid on January 11, 1996.  For tax
purposes, a portion of the special distribution, in the amount of
approximately $0.144 per share, is taxable as ordinary income in
1995 and represents the remaining portion of taxable earnings and
profits which were assumed by the Company in the Merger with the
Advisor.  The remaining amount of approximately $0.086 per share
of the special distribution will be included in the 1996
distributions for tax purposes.

     From August 15, 1994, the date of the Consolidation, through
December 1994, the Company paid monthly distributions of $0.15
per share, totaling $0.60 per share.  Prior to the Consolidation
on August 15, 1994, the Company did not have equivalent shares
outstanding so no comparative per share information is presented.

     As a result of the Merger on August 17, 1995, the Company
assumed a defined benefit pension plan (the "Plan") covering
substantially all of its employees.  The board of directors of
the Advisor froze the Plan effective May 31, 1995.  For each Plan
participant, the accrued benefit earned under the Plan as of
May 31, 1995 was frozen.  In October 1995, the Company declared
its intent to terminate the Plan, and the Plan was terminated on
January 2, 1996.  As part of the Plan's termination, the Company
anticipates meeting its obligation to the Plan of approximately
$1.7 million in the second half of 1996.

     Management believes that the Company's cash provided from
operating activities and borrowing capacity are sufficient to
meet its liquidity needs for the foreseeable future.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
- ---------------------

     Prior to the Consolidation on August 15, 1994, the capital
structure of the Partnerships consisted of limited partner
interests with no long term debt.  In the Consolidation, limited
partners exchanged their partnership units for shares of common
stock or Notes of the Company.  The general partners did not
receive any shares or Notes for their general partner interest.
Due to these changes in capital structure, which were caused by
the Consolidation, and additional expenses associated with the
operations of a publicly traded REIT, the results of operations
for the years ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993 are not
necessarily comparable.

                                                          Page 32

     Comparison of 1995 to 1994

     Rental revenue was $51.2 million for 1995 versus $47.9
million for 1994.  The increase in rental revenue was primarily
due to the acquisition of 62 properties from December 1994
through December 1995.  These properties generated revenue of
$3.8 million in 1995.  During 1996, the contractual lease
payments (not including any percentage rents) on these properties
are approximately $7.8 million.

     Substantially all the Company's leases provide for increases
in rents through base rent increases tied to a consumer price
index with adjustment ceilings or overage rent based on a
percentage of the tenants' gross sales.  Some leases contain both
types of clauses.  Percentage rent, which is included in rental
revenue, was $1.6 million for 1995 as compared to $2.6 million in
1994.

     Vacant properties are a factor in determining gross revenue
generated and property costs incurred by the Company.  At
December 31, 1995 and 1994, the Company had four properties that
were not under lease.  All of the remaining properties were under
lease agreements with third party tenants.

     The significant portion of the remaining revenue earned
during 1995 and 1994 was attributable to interest earned on cash
invested in two funds which hold short-term investments in United
States government agency securities or direct purchases of short-
term United States government agency securities.  Interest
revenue was $0.3 million for 1995 as compared to $0.9 million
during 1994.  The interest revenue decreased in 1995 due to a
reduction of cash held, which was invested in properties.

     The Company recorded a net gain on the sale of properties
during 1995 of $18,000 as compared to $1.2 million for 1994.
During 1995 and 1994 cash proceeds generated from these sales
were $0.6 million and $3.8 million, respectively.  The Company
anticipates a small number of property sales will occur in the
normal course of business.

     Depreciation and amortization was $14.8 million in 1995
versus $13.8 million in 1994.  The increase was primarily due to
the depreciation of 62 properties acquired from December 1994
through December 31, 1995 and amortization of goodwill recorded
in connection with the Merger of the Advisor in 1995.

     Advisor fees decreased by $1.7 million to $3.7 million in
1995 as compared to $5.4 million in 1994.  On August 17, 1995 the
Advisor was merged into the Company.  The advisor fees for 1995
were calculated in accordance with the terms of the advisory
agreement which became effective August 15, 1994 and was
terminated on August 17, 1995.  Prior to August 16, 1994, advisor

                                                          Page 33

fees were calculated in accordance with the terms of the
Partnership agreements of the Partnerships.

     General and administrative expenses were $4.8 million in
1995 versus $4.0 million in 1994.  The $0.8 million increase in
general and administrative expenses was due to a $1.3 million
increase in administrative expenses reduced by a $0.5 million
decrease in property expenses.  The increase in administrative
expenses was attributable to costs for management, accounting
systems, professional and support personnel and office
facilities.  Prior to August 17, 1995 these costs were the
responsibility of the Advisor.  The decline in property expenses
during 1995 as compared to 1994 was primarily due to reductions
in property taxes, provision for impairment loss and other
property costs.  Administration expense in 1994 included
approximately $0.5 million of one-time expenses primarily
associated with the distribution of stock certificates,
shareholder informational material and final partnership K-1's to
shareholders after the Consolidation had occurred.  Other
administrative expenses increased in 1995 compared to 1994 due to
additional expenses associated with the operation of a publicly
traded REIT including, but not limited to, transfer agent fees,
NYSE fees, board of directors fees and property acquisition
expenses.

     The Company reviews long-lived assets for impairment
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable.  No charge
was recorded for impairment loss in 1995.  In 1994, a $0.1
million charge was made to general and administrative expenses to
reduce the net carrying value of one property.

     Interest expense was $2.6 million for 1995 as compared to
$0.4 million for 1994.  Of the $2.2 million increase, $1.6
million was interest paid on the acquisition credit facility in
1995 and $0.6 million was interest paid on the Notes.  During
1995, interest of $0.2 million was capitalized.  No interest was
capitalized in 1994.

     In 1994, the Company expensed Consolidation costs
aggregating $11.2 million which were nonrecurring costs incurred
to effect the Consolidation.  In a manner similar to the pooling-
of-interests method of accounting, the Consolidation costs were
charged to expense upon the consummation of the Consolidation.
Such costs included, but were not limited to, fees paid to
underwriters, attorneys, and accountants, as well as costs
associated with obtaining a fairness opinion, soliciting the
stockholders, and registering and listing the common stock and
the Notes on the NYSE.




                                                          Page 34

     For 1995, the Company had net income of $25.6 million versus
$15.2 million in 1994.  The net income in 1994 was negatively
impacted by one time Consolidation costs of $11.2 million.  Net
income for 1994, excluding the Consolidation costs, was $26.4
million.

     Comparison of 1994 to 1993

     Rental revenue was $47.9 million for 1994 versus $48.6
million for 1993.  The decline in the 1994 rental revenue was
mainly due to the sale of four retirement center properties
during December 1993.  The 1993 rental revenue generated from
those properties was $2.4 million.  Percentage rent, which is
included in rental revenue, was $2.6 million for 1994 as compared
to $1.0 million in 1993.

     Vacant properties are a factor in determining gross revenue
generated and property costs incurred by the Company.  At
December 31, 1994, the Company had four properties that were not
under lease as compared to seven properties at December 31, 1993.
All of the remaining properties were under lease agreements with
third party tenants.

     The significant portion of the remaining revenue earned
during 1994 and 1993 was attributable to interest earned on cash
invested in a fund which holds short-term investments in United
States government agency securities or direct purchases of short-
term United States government agency securities.  Interest
revenue was $0.9 million for 1994 as compared to $0.3 million
during 1993.  The interest revenue increased in 1994 due to the
increase in cash from the sale of the four retirement centers as
well as an increase in short-term interest rates.  In the fourth
quarter of 1994, portions of the proceeds from the sale of the
retirement properties were distributed to the limited partners,
used to pay transaction costs associated with the Consolidation
and invested in properties.

     The Company recorded a gain on the sale of properties during
1994 of $1.2 million as compared to $3.6 million for 1993.
During 1994 and 1993 cash proceeds generated from these sales
were $3.8 million and $26.5 million, respectively.  The Company
anticipates a small number of property sales will occur in the
normal course of business.

     Depreciation and amortization was $13.8 million in 1994
versus $14.7 million 1993.  The decrease in 1994 as compared to
1993 was primarily due to the sale of four retirement center
properties during December 1993.

     Advisor fees increased by $0.3 million to $5.4 million in
1994 as compared to $5.1 million in 1993.  The increase in
Advisor fees was due to the increase in expense reimbursements to

                                                          Page 35

the Advisor primarily associated with cost of living increases in
salary and general and administrative expenses.  Under the terms
of the advisory agreement, which became effective
August 15, 1994, the fees with respect to the properties included
in the Consolidation were based upon the aggregate of all fees,
distributions and reimbursements paid to the general partners of
the partnerships merged into the Company during the twelve months
ended prior to the closing date of the Consolidation.  Prior to
August 15, 1994, advisor fees were calculated in accordance with
the terms of the Partnership agreements of the Partnerships.

     General and administrative expenses were $4.0 million in
1994 versus $3.5 million in 1993.  The $0.5 million increase in
general and administrative expenses was due to a $1.1 million
increase in administrative expenses reduced by a $0.6 million
decrease in property expenses.  Of the increase in administrative
expenses, approximately $0.5 million was attributable to one-time
expenses primarily associated with the distribution of stock
certificates, shareholder informational material and final
partnership K-1's to shareholders after the Consolidation had
occurred.  The remainder of the increase was due to additional
expenses associated with the operation of a publicly traded REIT.
The decline in property expenses during 1994 as compared to 1993
was due to the reduction in the provision for impairment loss.
Other property expenses increased due to increases in the cost of
living.

     Interest expense was $0.4 million for 1994 as compared to
$5,000 for 1993.  Of the $0.4 million increase, $0.3 million was
interest paid on the Notes.  The remainder of the increased
interest expense was attributable to short-term borrowings by
certain partnerships to finance their portion of the REIT
transaction costs prior to the Consolidation and amortization of
deferred acquisition credit facility fees.

     In 1994, the Company expensed Consolidation costs
aggregating $11.2 million which were nonrecurring costs incurred
to effect the Consolidation.  In a manner similar to the pooling-
of-interests method of accounting, the Consolidation costs were
charged to expense upon the consummation of the Consolidation.
Such costs included, but were not limited to, fees paid to
underwriters, attorneys, and accountants, as well as costs
associated with obtaining a fairness opinion, soliciting the
stockholders, and registering and listing the common stock and
the Notes on the NYSE.

     For 1994, the Company had net income of $15.2 million versus
$29.3 million in 1993.  The net income in 1994 was negatively
impacted by one time Consolidation costs of $11.2 million.  Net
income for 1994, excluding the Consolidation costs, was $26.4
million.


                                                          Page 36

FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS
- ---------------------

     Funds from operations ("FFO") for 1995 was $40.4 million
versus $39.1 million during 1994 and $40.4 million during 1993.
Excluding the one-time cost to disseminate information to
investors relating to the Consolidation, the 1994 FFO was
approximately $39.6 million.  Realty Income defines FFO as net
income excluding gains or losses from sales of properties and the
one-time expenses of the 1994 Consolidation, plus depreciation
and amortization.  In accordance with the recommendations of the
National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT"),
amortization of deferred financing costs are not added back to
net income to calculate FFO.  Amortization of financing costs are
included in interest expense on the consolidated statements of
income.

      Management considers FFO to be an appropriate measure of
the performance of an equity REIT.  FFO is used by financial
analysts in evaluating REITs and can be one measure of a REIT's
ability to make cash distribution payments.  Presentation of this
information provides the reader with an additional measure to
compare the performance of different REITs.

     FFO is not necessarily indicative of cash flow available to
fund cash needs and should not be considered as an alternative to
net income as an indication of the Company's performance or to
cash flow from operating, investing, and financing activities as
a measure of liquidity or ability to make cash distributions.

     Below is reconciliation of net income to funds from
operations (dollars in thousands):





                                                          Page 37

IMPACT OF INFLATION
- -------------------

     Tenant leases generally provide for increases in rent as a
result of increases in the tenant's sales volumes or increases in
the consumer price index.  Management expects that inflation will
cause these lease provisions to result in increases in rent over
time.  However, inflation and increased costs may have an adverse
impact on the tenants if increases in the tenant's operating
expenses exceed increases in revenues.  Over 97% of the
properties are leased to tenants under triple-net leases in which
the tenant is responsible for substantially all property costs
and expenses.  These features in the leases reduce the Company's
exposure to rising expenses due to inflation.

IMPACT OF NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
- ---------------------------------------

     Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 121
"Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and of Long-
Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of" ("Statement 121") was issued in
March 1995.  Statement 121 provides guidance for recognition and
measurement of impairment of long-lived assets, certain
identifiable intangibles and goodwill related both to assets to
be held and used and assets to be disposed of.  Statement 121 is
effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 1995.

     The Company's existing accounting policies comply with
Statement 121 and therefore implementing Statement 121 is not
expected to have a material effect on the Company's financial
position or results of operations.

     Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123,
"Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" ("Statement 123") was
issued in October 1995.  Statement 123 established the fair value
based method of accounting for stock-based compensation
arrangements, under which compensation cost is determined using
the fair value of the stock options at the grant date and the
number of options vested, and is recognized over the periods in
which the related services are rendered.  Statement 123 is
effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1995.

     If the Company were to retain its current intrinsic value
based method, as allowed by Statement 123, it will be required to
disclose the pro forma effect of adopting the fair value based
method.  To date, the Company has not made a decision to adopt
the fair value based method.





                                                          Page 38

ITEM 8:  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
- ----------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents                                           Page
=================                                          ======

A.  Independent Auditors' Report...........................    40

B.  Consolidated Balance Sheets,
      December 31, 1995 and 1994........................... 41-42

C.  Consolidated Statements of Income,
      Years ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993.........    43

D.  Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity,
      Years ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993......... 44-46

E.  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows,
      Years ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993......... 47-48

F.  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements............. 49-60

G.  Consolidated Quarterly Financial Data
      (unaudited) for 1995 and 1994........................    61

H.  Schedule III-Real Estate and Accumulated
      Depreciation.........................................62-183

Schedules not Filed:  All schedules, other than that indicated in
the Table of Contents, have been omitted as the required
information is inapplicable or the information is presented in
the financial statements or related notes.





















                                                          Page 39

                   Independent Auditors' Report
                   ----------------------------


The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Realty Income Corporation:


We have audited the consolidated financial statements (Note 1) of
Realty Income Corporation and subsidiaries as listed in the
accompanying table of contents.  In connection with our audits of
the consolidated financial statements, we also have audited the
financial statement schedule III listed in the accompanying table
of contents.  These consolidated financial statements and
financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the
Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these consolidated financial statements and financial
statement schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards.  Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
the financial statements are free of material misstatement.  An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating
the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that
our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to
above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of Realty Income Corporation and subsidiaries as of
December 31, 1995 and 1994, and the results of their operations
and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended December 31, 1995, in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles.  Also in our opinion, the related
financial statement schedule III, when considered in relation to
the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set
forth therein.


                          KPMG Peat Marwick LLP



San Diego, California
January 26, 1996,
   except as to Note 5B to the
   consolidated financial statements,
   which is as of February 15, 1996

                                                          Page 40














                                                          Page 41




















   The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
            are an integral part of these statements.

                                                          Page 42











   The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
            are an integral part of these statements.

                                                          Page 43






















                                                          Page 44






                                                          Page 45









   The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
            are an integral part of these statements.

                                                          Page 46



                                                          Page 47



For supplemental disclosure of noncash investing and financing
activities, see Note 9.



   The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
            are an integral part of these statements.

                                                          Page 48

           REALTY INCOME CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
           Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements
           ==========================================
                December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993

1.   Organization and Operation

     Realty Income Corporation (the "Company") was organized in
the state of Delaware on September 9, 1993 to facilitate the
merger, which was effected on August 15, 1994 (the
"Consolidation"), of 10 private and 15 public real estate limited
partnerships (the "Partnerships") with and into the Company.  The
Company invests in commercial real estate and has elected to be
taxed as a real estate investment trust ("REIT").

     Investors in the Partnerships who elected to invest in the
Company received common stock of the Company totaling 19,503,080
shares.  Certain investors elected to receive Variable Rate
Senior Notes (the "Notes") totaling $12.6 million.

     The Consolidation was accounted for as a reorganization of
affiliated entities under common control in a manner similar to a
pooling-of-interests.  Under this method, the assets and
liabilities of the Partnerships were carried over at their
historical book values and their operations have been recorded on
a combined historical cost basis.  The pooling-of-interests
method of accounting also requires the reporting of the results
of operations as though the entities had been combined as of the
beginning of the earliest period presented.  Accordingly, the
results of operations for the year ended December 31, 1994
comprise those of the separate entities combined from
January 1, 1994 through August 15, 1994 and those of the Company
from August 16, 1994 through December 31, 1994.  Financial
information for 1993 has also been restated on a combined basis
to provide comparative information.  Costs incurred to effect the
Consolidation and integrate the continuing operations of the
separate entities were expenses of the Company in the period the
Consolidation was consummated.  These expenses include all costs
and expenses incurred in structuring and consummating the
Consolidation.  Such costs included, but were not limited to,
fees paid to underwriters, attorneys, and accountants, as well as
costs associated with obtaining a fairness opinion, soliciting
the shareholders, and registering and listing the common stock
and the Notes on the New York Stock Exchange.  Prior to the
Consolidation, the Company had no significant operations;
therefore, the combined operations for the periods prior to the
Consolidation represent the operations of the Partnerships.  The
Consolidation did not require any material adjustments to conform
the accounting policies of the separate entities to that of the
Company.  All intercompany transactions and balances have been
eliminated.


                                                          Page 49

1.   Organization and Operation (continued)

     The results of operations of the previously separate
entities for the periods before the Consolidation was consummated
that are included in the results of operations for the years
ended December 31, 1994 and 1993 follow:




                                                          Page 50

2.   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

     Principles of Consolidation - The accompanying consolidated
financial statements include the accounts of the Company and
partnerships more than 50 percent owned (subsidiaries) after
elimination of all material intercompany balances and
transactions.

     Cash and Cash Equivalents - The Company considers all short-
term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to
cash and have an original maturity of three months or less at the
time of purchase to be cash equivalents.

     Depreciation and Amortization - Depreciation of buildings
and improvements and amortization of goodwill are computed using
the straight-line method over an estimated useful life of
approximately 25 years.

     Leases - All leases are accounted for as operating leases.
Under this method, lease payments are recognized as revenue over
the term of the lease on a straight line basis.

     Income Taxes - Prior to the Consolidation, the Company's
operations were conducted through private and public real estate
limited partnerships.  In accordance with partnership taxation,
each partner was responsible for reporting its share of taxable
income.  Accordingly, no federal income tax provision has been
made in the accompanying consolidated financial statements prior
to August 16, 1994.

     After August 15, 1994, the Company elected to be taxed as a
REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Management believes the Company has qualified and continues to
qualify as a REIT and therefore will be permitted to deduct
distributions paid to its stockholders, eliminating the federal
taxation of income represented by such distributions at the
Company's level.  Accordingly, no provision has been made for
federal income taxes in the accompanying consolidated financial
statements for the period August 16, 1994 through
December 31, 1994 and the year ended December 31, 1995.

     Distributions Paid and Payable - For the year ended
December 31, 1995, cash distributions of $1.825 per share were
paid.  As of December 31, 1995, three distributions totaling
$0.54 per share were declared and payable.  In 1995,
distributions of $1.876 per share are taxable as ordinary income
and $0.093 per share was a return of capital.  A portion of the
distributions payable at December 31, 1995, in the amount of
$0.144 per share, is included in the $1.876 per share taxable as
ordinary income and represents the remaining portion of taxable
earnings and profits which were assumed by the Company in the
merger with R.I.C. Advisor, Inc. (the "Advisor").  For the period

                                                          Page 51

2.   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

August 16, 1994 through December 31, 1994, cash distributions of
$0.60 per share were paid and are taxable as ordinary income.

     Provision for Impairment Loss - The Company reviews long-
lived assets, including goodwill, for impairment whenever events
or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of
an asset may not be recoverable.  Provision is made for
impairment loss if estimated future operating cash flows
(undiscounted and without interest charges) over a long-term
holding period plus estimated disposition proceeds (undiscounted)
are less than the current book value.  There was no provision for
the year ended December 31, 1995.  For the years ended
December 31, 1994 and 1993, a provision of $135,000 and $935,000,
respectively, was charged to operations to reduce the net
carrying value of three investment properties.

     Net Income Per Share - Net income per share for 1995 was
calculated based upon the weighted average number of shares
outstanding during the year.  Net income per share for 1994 was
calculated assuming 19,502,091 shares of the Company's common
stock were outstanding.  Prior to the Consolidation, no shares of
common stock were outstanding.  Due to the change in the capital
structure resulting from the Consolidation, the net income per
share information for the year ended December 31, 1993 would not
be meaningful and has not been included.

     Reclassifications - Certain of the 1994 and 1993 balances
have been reclassified to conform to 1995 presentation.  The
reclassifications had no effect on stockholders' equity or net
income.

     Estimates - Management of the Company has made a number of
estimates and assumptions relating to the reporting of assets and
liabilities and the disclosure of assets and liabilities to
prepare these financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles.  Actual results could differ from
those estimates.

3.   The Merger of R.I.C. Advisor, Inc.

     On August 17, 1995, the Company merged with the Advisor and
issued 990,704 shares of the Company's common stock valued at
approximately $21.2 million (the "Merger").  The Merger was
accounted for using the purchase method.  Accordingly, the
purchase price was allocated to assets acquired based on their
estimated fair values.  This treatment resulted in approximately
$22.9 million of goodwill.  Amortization of goodwill for the year
ended December 31, 1995 was $340,000.



                                                          Page 52

3.   The Merger of R.I.C. Advisor, Inc. (continued)

     The following unaudited pro forma summary presents
information as if the Merger had occurred at the beginning of
each period presented.  The pro forma information is provided for
information purposes only.  It is based on historical information
and does not necessarily reflect the actual results that would
have occurred nor is it necessarily indicative of future results
of operations of the combined company.  The Advisor had several
non-recurring expenses during 1995 and 1994 which negatively
impacted net income and net income per share.



4.   Credit Facility Available for Acquisitions

     In November 1994, the Company obtained a $100 million,
three-year, revolving, unsecured acquisition credit facility from
The Bank of New York, as agent, and several major U.S. and non-
U.S. banks.  In December 1995, the credit facility was modified
to (i) increase the borrowing capacity to $130 million from $100
million; (ii) reduce the interest rate to London Interbank
Offered Rate ("LIBOR") plus 1.25% from LIBOR plus 1.375%; and
(iii) extend the credit facility from November 1997 to
November 1998.

     The credit facility is subject to various leverage and
interest coverage ratio limitations, all of which the Company was
in compliance with as of December 31, 1995 and 1994.  As of
December 31, 1995 and 1994, the outstanding balance on the credit
facility was $6 million and $0, respectively.  The effective
interest rate at December 31, 1995 was 7.19%.  A commitment fee
of 0.35% or less, per annum, accrues on the average amount of the
unused available credit commitment.

     Interest of $217,000 was capitalized on properties under
construction in 1995.  No interest was capitalized in 1994.


                                                          Page 53

5.   Notes Payable

     A.  In connection with the Consolidation, certain investors
elected to receive Notes totaling $12.6 million.  The Notes
mature on June 30, 2001, and the interest rate is adjusted
quarterly.  Interest payments are due quarterly and principal is
due at maturity.  Interest incurred for the years ended
December 31, 1995 and 1994 was $997,000 and $332,000,
respectively.  The interest rate on the Notes at
December 31, 1995 and 1994, was 7.44% and 6.94%, respectively.
On January 2, 1996 the interest rate adjusted to 7.13%.

     B.  On February 15, 1996, the Company announced its plan to
redeem all of its outstanding Notes.  The Notes will be redeemed
at par plus accrued interest to the date of redemption.  The
redemption date is scheduled for March 29, 1996.

6.   Operating Leases

     A.  General

         At December 31, 1995, the Company owned 685 properties
in 42 states.  Of the Company's properties, 675 are single-tenant
locations and the remainder are multi-tenant.  At
December 31, 1995, four single-tenant properties were vacant and
available for lease.

         Substantially all leases are triple-net leases whereby
the tenant pays all property taxes and assessments, fully
maintains the interior and exterior of the building, and carries
insurance coverage for public liability, property damage, fire,
and extended coverage.  The Company's leases are primarily for
initial terms of 15 to 20 years and provide for cost of living
increases and/or increased rent based upon a percentage of the
tenant's sales.  Percentage rent for 1995, 1994 and 1993 was $1.6
million, $2.6 million and $1.0 million respectively.

















                                                          Page 54

6.   Operating Leases (continued)

         Minimum annual rents to be received on the operating
leases as of December 31, 1995 are as follows (dollars in
thousands):



     B.  Major Tenants

         The following schedule presents rental income, including
percentage rents, from tenants representing more than 10% of the
Company's total revenue for at least one of the years ended
December 31, 1995, 1994 or 1993 (dollars in thousands):



7.   Net Gain on Sales of Properties

     In 1995, the Company sold three properties for a total of
$617,000 and recognized a net gain of $18,000.  In 1994, the
Company sold five properties and had three land easement
transactions for a total of $3.8 million and recognized a net
gain of $1.2 million.  In 1993, the Company sold six properties,
exchanged one property and had seven land easement transactions
for a total of $26.5 million and recognized a net gain of $3.6
million.



                                                          Page 55

8.   Financial Instruments

     Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 107,
"Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments," requires
that the Company disclose estimated fair values for its financial
instruments, as well as the methods and significant assumptions
used to estimate fair values.  Management of the Company believes
that the carrying values reflected in the balance sheets at
December 31, 1995 and 1994 reasonably approximate the fair values
for cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, due from
affiliates and all liabilities.  In making such assessments, the
Company utilized estimates and quoted market prices.

9.   Supplemental Disclosure of Cash Flow Information

     Interest paid during 1995, 1994 and 1993 was $2,186,000,
$354,000 and $5,000, respectively.

     The following non-cash investing and financing activities
are included in the accompanying financial statements:

     A.  Distributions payable totaled $12.4 million and $2.9
million at December 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

     B.  The Merger of the Advisor into the Company on
August 17, 1995 resulted in the following:



         In 1995, other assets of $95,000 were reclassified to
goodwill.  Common stock retired after the Merger includes par
value of common stock and capital in excess of par value of
$58,000 and $1,172,000, respectively.




                                                          Page 56

9.   Supplemental Disclosure of Cash Flow Information (continued)

     C.  In 1995, the following increases (decreases) occurred
resulting from exchanges of Notes Payable for Common Stock
(dollars in thousands):

         Notes Payable                            $    (19)
         Common Stock                                    1
         Capital in Excess of Par Value                 19

     D.  In 1995, pursuant to the assumption of the defined
benefit pension plan by the Company (Note 11), the Company
recorded a due from affiliate and a liability (included in other
liabilities) of $493,000.  This represents the amount of the
increase in the liability to the plan, of which the Company is
indemnified by the former shareholders of the Advisor.

     E.  In 1994, the following increases occurred resulting from
exchanges of limited partnership units for Notes payable and
Common Stock (dollars in thousands):

         Notes Payable                            $ 12,616
         Common Stock                               19,502
         Capital in Excess of Par Value            452,996

     F.  In October 1993, the Company regained possession of a
property through foreclosure.  The Company held a note on the
property with a net balance of $1.5 million.

10.  Related Party Transactions

     A.  Advisory Agreement

         In August 1994, in connection with the Consolidation,
the Company entered into an advisory agreement under which R.I.C.
Advisor, Inc. advised the Company with respect to its investments
and assumed day-to-day management of the Company (the "Advisory
Agreement").  The Advisory Agreement provided for a monthly
advisor fee equal to 0.1189% of the appraised value of the real
estate properties as of the Consolidation date plus the current
book value of the non-real estate assets of the Company.  Amounts
incurred under the Advisory Agreement for the period from
January 1, 1995 through August 17, 1995 and August 15, 1994
through December 31, 1994 were $3.7 million and $2.2 million,
respectively.  Prior to the Consolidation, the general partners
of the Partnerships received management fees and reimbursements
from the Partnerships (Note 10B).  On August 17, 1995, the
Advisor was merged into the Company (Note 3).  As part of the
Merger, the Advisory Agreement was terminated.




                                                          Page 57

10.  Related Party Transactions (continued)

     B.  Related Party Transactions Prior to the Consolidation

         Cash Distributions - The Advisor and William E. and
Evelyn J. Clark, the former general partners of the Partnerships,
collectively, received approximately 1.0% of the Partnerships'
distributions.  For the period from January 1, 1994 through
August 15, 1994 and the year ended December 31, 1993, the general
partners' distributions totaled $342,000 and $436,000,
respectively.

         Management Fees - The Advisor received management fees
of approximately 1.5% of gross receipts of the Partnerships.  For
the period from January 1, 1994 through August 15, 1994 and the
year ended December 31, 1993, management fees totaled $432,000
and $762,000, respectively.

         Administrative Expenses - The Advisor received
reimbursements for personnel and overhead costs incurred to
administer the operations of the Partnerships.  For the period
from January 1, 1994 through August 15, 1994 and the year ended
December 31, 1993, reimbursements totaled $2.8 million and $4.3
million, respectively.

         The administrative expenses and management fees
described in the preceding paragraphs are included in advisor
fees in the accompanying consolidated statements of income.

11.  Employee Benefit Plan

     As a result of the Merger on August 17, 1995, the Company
assumed a defined benefit pension plan (the "Plan") covering
substantially all of its employees.  The Plan's benefit formulas
generally based payments to retired employees upon their length
of service and a percentage of qualifying compensation during the
final years of employment.  The Company's funding policy was to
contribute annually the amount necessary to satisfy the Internal
Revenue Service's funding standards.  The Plan did not provide
for funding of prior service costs.

     The board of directors of the Advisor froze the Plan
effective May 31, 1995.  No additional employees were entitled to
enter the Plan after May 31, 1995.  For each Plan participant,
the accrued benefit earned under the Plan was frozen as of
May 31, 1995.  In October 1995, the Company declared its intent
to terminate the Plan, and the Plan was terminated on
January 2, 1996.





                                                          Page 58

11.  Employee Benefit Plan (continued)

     The following table sets forth the Plan's funded status and
amounts recognized in the Company's financial statements as of
December 31, 1995 (dollars in thousands):

Actuarial Present Value of Benefit Obligations:
  Accumulated Benefit Obligation, All Vested      $(7,526)
Plan Assets at Fair Value, Primarily Listed
  Stock and Cash and Cash Equivalents               5,319
                                                  -------
Benefit Obligation in Excess of Plan Assets
  (Included in Other Liabilities)                 $(2,207)
                                                  =======

Assumptions Used:
  Discount Rates                                      6.0%
  Rates of Increase in Compensation Levels            N/A
  Expected Long-Term Rates of Return on Assets        8.0%

     At December 31, 1995, the benefit obligation in excess of
plan assets is included in other liabilities in the accompanying
balance sheet.  In connection with the Merger, the Company
assumed a benefit obligation of $1,714,000.  The Merger agreement
provides for indemnification by the former shareholders of the
Advisor with respect to increases in the benefit obligation.
Pursuant to the Merger agreement, an escrow was established to
satisfy certain contingencies, including any potential increases
in the benefit obligation.  Therefore, a receivable from the
Advisor's former shareholders has been recorded for $493,000, and
is included as due from affiliates in the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 1995.

12.  Stock Incentive Plan

     On September 9, 1993, the board of directors and the
original stockholder of the Company approved a stock incentive
plan (the "Stock Plan") designed to attract and retain directors,
officers and employees of the Company by enabling such
individuals to participate in the ownership of the Company.  The
Stock Plan provides for the award (subject to ownership
limitations) of a broad variety of stock-based compensation
alternatives such as nonqualified stock options, incentive stock
options, restricted stock and performance awards.

     In August 1994, options were granted to each of the three
independent directors to purchase 10,000 shares of the Company's
stock at an exercise price of $20 per share (the estimated value
of the shares at the date of grant).  These options vest during
the directors' continued service periods at a rate of 2,500
shares per year.  At December 31, 1995, options to acquire 7,500
shares were vested.

                                                          Page 59

13.  Commitments and Contingencies

     As of December 31, 1995, the Company had entered into
agreements with unrelated parties to acquire two properties to be
purchased under sale/leaseback agreements for an estimated
aggregate amount of $2.3 million and to fund two buildings under
construction on land owned by the Company for an estimated
aggregate amount of $1.3 million.

     In the ordinary course of its business, the Company is a
party to various legal actions which the Company believes are
routine in nature and incidental to the operation of the business
of the Company.  The Company believes that the outcome of the
proceedings will not have a material adverse effect upon its
operations or financial condition.






































                                                          Page 60



(1)  The Consolidation costs expensed in the third quarter of
1994 represent the costs of the Consolidation of the Company and
25 private and public partnerships on August 15, 1994. The
Consolidation was accounted for in a manner similar to a pooling-
of-interests.






                                                          Page 61

                                                  Page 62

                                                  Page 63

                                                  Page 64


                                                          Page 65


                                                          Page 66


                                                          Page 67

                                                  Page 68

                                                  Page 69

                                                  Page 70

                                                  Page 71

                                                  Page 72

                                                  Page 73

                                                  Page 74

                                                  Page 75

                                                  Page 76

                                                  Page 77

                                                  Page 78

                                                  Page 79

                                                  Page 80

                                                  Page 81

                                                  Page 82

                                                  Page 83

                                                  Page 84

                                                  Page 85


                                                          Page 86


                                                          Page 87


                                                          Page 88

                                                  Page 89

                                                  Page 90

                                                  Page 91

                                                  Page 92

                                                  Page 93

                                                  Page 94

                                                  Page 95

                                                  Page 96

                                                  Page 97


                                                          Page 98


                                                          Page 99


                                                         Page 100


                                                         Page 101


                                                         Page 102


                                                         Page 103

                                                 Page 104

                                                 Page 105

                                                 Page 106

                                                 Page 107

                                                 Page 108

                                                 Page 109

                                                 Page 110

                                                 Page 111

                                                 Page 112


                                                         Page 113


                                                         Page 114


                                                         Page 115

                                                 Page 116

                                                 Page 117

                                                 Page 118

                                                 Page 119

                                                 Page 120

                                                 Page 121

                                                 Page 122

                                                 Page 123

                                                 Page 124

                                                 Page 125

                                                 Page 126

                                                 Page 127

                                                 Page 128

                                                 Page 129

                                                 Page 130



                                                         Page 131



                                                         Page 132



                                                         Page 133


                                                         Page 134


                                                         Page 135


                                                         Page 136



                                                         Page 137



                                                         Page 138



                                                         Page 139


                                                         Page 140


                                                         Page 141


                                                         Page 142

                                                 Page 143

                                                 Page 144

                                                 Page 145


                                                         Page 146


                                                         Page 147


                                                         Page 148

                                                 Page 149

                                                 Page 150

                                                 Page 151



                                                         Page 152



                                                         Page 153



                                                         Page 154

                                                 Page 155

                                                 Page 156

                                                 Page 157

                                                 Page 158

                                                 Page 159

                                                 Page 160

                                                 Page 161

                                                 Page 162

                                                 Page 163



                                                         Page 164



                                                         Page 165



                                                         Page 166

                                                 Page 167

                                                 Page 168

                                                 Page 169

                                                 Page 170

                                                 Page 171

                                                 Page 172


                                                         Page 173


                                                         Page 174


                                                         Page 175


                                                         Page 176


                                                         Page 177


                                                         Page 178















                                                         Page 179















                                                         Page 180















                                                         Page 181


            REALTY INCOME CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
     SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

Note 1.  Six hundred eighty two of the properties are single unit
retail outlets.  Trade Center, Silverton Business Center and
Empire Business Center properties are multi-tenant commercial
properties.  All properties were acquired on an all cash basis,
no encumbrances were outstanding for the periods presented.

Note 2.  The aggregate cost for federal income tax purposes is
$446,365,567.

Note 3.  Reconciliation of total real estate carrying value for
the three years ended December 31, 1995 are as follows:


                                                         Page 182

Continued
            REALTY INCOME CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
     SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

Note 4.  Reconciliation of accumulated depreciation for the three
years ended December 31, 1995 are as follows:



Note 5.  Provision is made for impairment loss if estimated
undiscounted future cash flow over a long term holding period
plus estimated undiscounted disposition value is less than
current book value. A provision for impairment loss was made on
the Stone Meadow Center in Spring, TX and the Artesian Center in
Humble, TX in 1993 and on the Automall property in Mesa, AZ in
1994 and 1993.














                                                         Page 183

ITEM 9:  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
         ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
- ---------------------------------------------------------

     The corporation has had no disagreements with its
independent auditors' on accountancy or financial disclosure.

PART III
========

ITEM 10:  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
- ------------------------------------------------------------

     This item is incorporated by reference from the definitive
proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders presently
scheduled to be held on May 14, 1996, to be filed pursuant to
Regulation 14A.

ITEM 11:  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
- --------------------------------

     This item is incorporated by reference from the definitive
proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders presently
scheduled to be held on May 14, 1996, to be filed pursuant to
Regulation 14A.

ITEM 12:  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
          MANAGEMENT
- -------------------------------------------------------------

     This item is incorporated by reference from the definitive
proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders presently
scheduled to be held on May 14, 1996, to be filed pursuant to
Regulation 14A.

ITEM 13:  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
- --------------------------------------------------------

     This item is incorporated by reference from the definitive
proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders presently
scheduled to be held on May 14, 1996, to be filed pursuant to
Regulation 14A.











                                                         Page 184

PART IV
=======

ITEM 14:  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON
          FORM 8-K
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

     A.  The following documents are filed as part of this
report.

         1.  Financial Statements (see Item 8)

             a.   Independent Auditors' Report

             b.   Consolidated Balance Sheets,
                    December 31, 1995 and 1994

             c.   Consolidated Statements of Income,
                    Years ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993

             d.   Consolidated Statements of
                    Stockholders' Equity,
                    Years ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993

             e.   Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows,
                    Years ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993

             f.   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

             g.   Consolidated Quarterly Financial Data
                    (unaudited) for 1995 and 1994

         2.  Financial Statement Schedule (see Item 8)

             Schedule III - Real Estate and Accumulated
             Depreciation

             Schedules not Filed:  All schedules, other than
             those indicated in the Table of Contents, have been
             omitted as the required information is inapplicable
             or the information is presented in the financial
             statements or related notes.

         3.  Exhibits

             2.1  Agreement and Plan of Merger between Realty
                    Income Corporation and R.I.C. Advisor, Inc.
                    dated as of April 28, 1995 (incorporated by
                    reference to Appendix A to the Company's
                    definitive Proxy Statement filed
                    June 30, 1995)


                                                         Page 185

             3.1  Amended and Restated Certificate of
                    Incorporation of Realty Income Corporation
                    (filed as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company's 10-Q
                    for the quarter ended September 30, 1994 and
                    incorporated herein by reference)

             3.2  Amended and Restated Bylaws of Realty Income
                    Corporation (filed as Exhibit 3.2 to the
                    Company's 10-Q for the quarter ended
                    September 30, 1995 and incorporated herein by
                    reference)

             4.1  Indenture between the Company and Chemical
                    Trust Company as Trustee, including the
                    Variable Rate Senior Note Due 2001 (filed as
                    Exhibit 4.05 to the Company's Registration
                    Statement on Form S-4 (Registration No.
                    33-69410) and incorporated herein by
                    reference)

             4.2  Form of Note (attached as Exhibit A to Exhibit
                    4.1 above)

             4.3  Form of Stock Certificate (filed as Exhibit
                    4.04 to the Company's Registration Statement
                    on S-4 (Registration Statement No. 33-69410)
                    and incorporated herein by reference)

             4.4  Form of Indenture (filed as Exhibit 4.3 to the
                    Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3
                    (Registration No. 33-95374) and incorporated
                    herein by reference)

             4.5  Form of Debt Security (filed and included as
                    Exhibit 4.3 to the Company's Registration
                    Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No.
                    33-95374) and incorporated herein by
                    reference)

             10.1 Revolving Credit Agreement (filed as Exhibit
                    99.2 to the Company's 8-K dated
                    December 16, 1994 and incorporated herein by
                    reference)

             10.2 Stock Incentive Plan (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to
                    the Company's Registration Statement on Form
                    S-8 (Registration No. 33-95708) and
                    incorporated by reference)

             21.1 Subsidiaries of the Company as of
                    January 1, 1996, filed herewith


                                                         Page 186

             24.1 Consent of KPMG Peat Marwick LLP

             27   Financial Data Schedule (electronically filed
                    with the Securities and Exchange Commission
                    only)

     B.  Four reports on Form 8-K were filed by registrant during
the last quarter of the period covered by this report.  The
reports were dated September 29, 1995; October 30, 1995;
October 31, 1995 and December 19, 1995.











































                                                         Page 187

                           SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

REALTY INCOME CORPORATION



By:   /s/ William E. Clark
      -----------------------------------------------------------
      William E. Clark
      Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

Date: March 19, 1996



     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, this report has been signed by the following persons on
behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated.



By:   /s/ William E. Clark
      -----------------------------------------------------------
      William E. Clark
      Chairman of the Board of Directors and
      Chief Executive Officer
      (Principal Executive Officer)

Date: March 19, 1996



By:   /s/ Thomas A. Lewis
      -----------------------------------------------------------
      Thomas A. Lewis
      Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors and
      Vice President, Capital Markets

Date: March 19, 1996









                                                         Page 188

                     SIGNATURES (continued)

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, this report has been signed by the following persons on
behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated.



By:   /s/ Donald R. Cameron
      -----------------------------------------------------------
      Donald R. Cameron
      Director

Date: March 19, 1996



By:   /s/ Roger P. Kuppinger
      -----------------------------------------------------------
      Roger P. Kuppinger
      Director

Date: March 19, 1996



By:   /s/ Michael D. McKee
      -----------------------------------------------------------
      Michael D. McKee
      Director

Date: March 19, 1996



By:   /s/ Gary Malino
      -----------------------------------------------------------
      Gary Malino
      Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer
      (Principal Financial Officer)

Date: March 19, 1996



By:   /s/ Gregory J. Fahey
      -----------------------------------------------------------
      Gregory J. Fahey
      Controller

Date: March 19, 1996

                                                         Page 189





































                                                         Page 190

