
10-K






                             UNITED STATES
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                         Washington, DC  20549

                               FORM 10-K
                               =========

             ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D)
                OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

              For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 1998

                    Commission File Number 1-13318

                       REALTY INCOME CORPORATION
                       -------------------------
        (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

              Maryland                             33-0580106
              --------                             ----------
   (State or other jurisdiction of                (IRS Employer
    incorporation or organization)            Identification Number)

          220 West Crest Street, Escondido, California  92025
          ---------------------------------------------------
               (Address of principal executive offices)

   Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (760)741-2111
                                                       -------------

     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (b) of the Act:

                                              Name of Each Exchange
       Title of Each Class                    On Which Registered
   -----------------------------------       -----------------------
   Common Stock, $1.00 Par Value             New York Stock Exchange
   Preferred Stock Purchase Rights           New York Stock Exchange
   8.25% Monthly Income Senior Notes,
     due 2008                                New York Stock Exchange
   -----------------------------------       -----------------------

   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (g) of the Act: None
                                                                ----
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports 
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act 
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the 
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to 
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  [ X ]   No  [   ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information 
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any 
amendment to this Form 10-K.  [ X ]

At March 10, 1999 the aggregate market value of the Registrant's shares of 
common stock, $1.00 par value, held by non-affiliates of the Registrant was 
$561,716,000, at the New York Stock Exchange closing price of $21.75.

There were 26,822,326 shares of common stock outstanding at March 10, 1999.

Documents incorporated by reference: Part III, Item 10, 11 and 12 
incorporate by reference certain specific portions of the definitive proxy 
statement for Realty Income Corporation's Annual Meeting to be held on 
May 5, 1999, to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A.  Only those portions 
of the proxy statement which are specifically incorporated by reference 
herein shall constitute a part of this Annual Report.


FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
- --------------------------

This annual report on Form 10-K (the "Annual Report"), including documents 
incorporated herein by reference, contain forward-looking statements within 
the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the 
Exchange Act.  When used in this Annual Report, the words estimated, 
anticipated and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-
looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, 
uncertainties, and assumptions about Realty Income Corporation, including, 
among other things: 

    -  Our anticipated growth strategies; 
    -  Our intention to acquire additional properties; 
    -  Anticipated trends in our business, including trends in the market 
       for long-term net leases of freestanding, single tenant retail 
       properties;
    -  Future expenditures for development projects; and 
    -  Availability of capital to finance our business. 

Future events and actual results, financial and otherwise, may differ 
materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.  
In particular, among the factors that could cause actual results to differ 
materially are the continued qualification as a real estate investment 
trust, general business and economic conditions, competition, interest 
rates, accessibility of debt and equity capital markets and other risks 
inherent in the real estate business including tenant defaults, potential 
liability relating to environmental matters and illiquidity of real estate 
investments.

Additional factors that may cause risks and uncertainties include those 
discussed in the sections entitled "Business" and "Management's Discussion 
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in this 
Annual Report.                                                
 
                                                                 Page 2

Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking 
statements, which speak only as of the date hereof.  The Company undertakes 
no obligation to publicly release the results of any revisions to these 
forward-looking statements which may be made to reflect events or 
circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of 
unanticipated events.  In light of these risks and uncertainties, the 
forward-looking events discussed in this Annual Report might not occur. 





                                                                 Page 3

PART I
======

ITEM 1:  BUSINESS
- -----------------
                              THE COMPANY
                              ===========

Realty Income Corporation, a Maryland corporation ("Realty Income", the 
"Company", "our" or "we") was organized to operate as an equity real estate 
investment trust ("REIT").  We are a fully integrated, self-administered 
real estate company with in-house acquisition, leasing, legal, retail and 
real estate research, portfolio management and capital markets expertise.  
As of December 31, 1998, we owned a diversified portfolio of 970 retail 
properties located in 45 states with over 7.8 million square feet of 
leasable space.  Of the 970 properties in the portfolio, 963 are single-
tenant retail properties with the remainder being multi-tenant properties.  
As of December 31, 1998, 958, or 99.5%, of the 963 single-tenant properties 
were leased with an average remaining lease term (excluding extension 
options) of approximately 8.6 years. 

Our primary business objective is to generate dependable monthly dividends 
from a consistent and predictable level of funds from operations ("FFO") 
per share.  Additionally, we generally will seek to increase distributions 
to stockholders and FFO per share through both active portfolio management 
and the acquisition of additional properties.  We also seek to lower the 
ratio of distributions to stockholders as a percentage of FFO in order to 
allow internal cash flow to be used to fund additional acquisitions and for 
other corporate purposes while paying dividends that are sufficient to 
maintain our status as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. 

Our portfolio management focus includes:
     -  Contractual rent increases on existing leases;
     -  Rental increases at the termination of existing leases when market
        conditions permit; and
     -  The active management of the Company's property portfolio,
        including selective sales of properties.

Our acquisition of additional properties adheres to a focused strategy of 
acquiring primarily: 
     -  Freestanding, single-tenant, retail properties;
     -  Properties leased to regional and national retail chains; and
     -  Properties under long-term, net lease agreements with initial 
        contractual base rent which, at the time of acquisition and as a 
        percentage of acquisition costs, is in excess of the Company's 
        estimated cost of capital.

We typically acquire, then lease back, retail store locations from chain 
store operators, providing capital to the operators for continued expansion 
and other corporate purposes.  Our acquisitions and investment activities
are concentrated in well-defined target markets and focus generally on 
middle-market retailers providing goods and services that satisfy basic 
consumer needs.
                                                                 Page 4

  Our net lease agreements usually:
    -  Are for initial terms of 10 to 20 years;
    -  Require the tenant to pay a minimum monthly rent and property 
       operating expenses (taxes, insurance and maintenance); and
    -  Provide for future rent increases (typically subject to ceilings) 
       based on increases in the consumer price index, additional rent 
       calculated as a percentage of the tenant's gross sales above a 
       specified level or fixed increases.

Realty Income was formed on September 9, 1993 in the State of Delaware and 
reincorporated in Maryland in May 1997.  Realty Income commenced operations 
as a REIT on August 15, 1994 through the merger of 25 public and private 
real estate limited partnerships with and into the Company.  Each of the 
partnerships was formed between 1970 and 1989 for the purpose of acquiring 
and managing long-term, net leased properties.

The five senior officers of the Company, who have each managed our 
properties and operations for between eight and 13 years, owned 0.9% of the 
Company's outstanding common stock with a market value of $5.4 million as 
of March 2, 1999.  The directors and five senior officers of the Company, 
as a group, owned 2.9% of the Company's outstanding common stock with a 
market value of $17.6 million as of March 2, 1999.

Realty Income's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange 
("NYSE") under the ticker symbol "O", our central index key ("CIK") number 
is 726728 and cusip number is 756109-104.

In October 1998, we issued 8.25% Monthly Income Senior Notes due 2008, 
which began trading on the NYSE on November 3, 1998 under the ticker symbol 
"OUI".  The cusip number of these notes is 756109-AA2.

Realty Income has 50 employees as of March 1, 1999.


                          RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
                          ===================

ACQUISITION OF 149 PROPERTIES DURING 1998.  During 1998, we continued 
implementing our growth plan, which is intended to increase our funds from 
operations per share.  As part of our plan, we acquired 149 additional 
properties (the "New Properties"), and selectively sold five properties, 
increasing the number of properties in the portfolio by 17.4% to 970 
properties at December 31, 1998 from 826 properties at December 31, 1997.

During 1998, we invested $193.4 million in New Properties and properties 
under development (excluding estimated unfunded development costs on 
properties under construction at December 31, 1998 of $19.7 million).  The 
weighted average annual unleveraged return on the $193.4 million invested 
in 1998 is estimated to be 10.4%, computed as estimated contractual net 
operating income (which in the case of a net leased property is equal to 
the base rent or, in the case of properties under construction, the 
estimated base rent under the lease) for the first year of each lease, 

                                                                 Page 5

divided by the estimated total costs of each property.  Since it is 
possible that a tenant could default on the payment of contractual rent, no 
assurance can be given that the actual return on the funds invested will 
not differ from the foregoing percentage.  

The New Properties are located in 38 states, will contain approximately 1.6 
million leasable square feet and are 100% leased under net leases, with an 
average initial lease term of 14.9 years. Of the New Properties, 133 were 
occupied as of March 1, 1999 and the remaining properties were pre-leased 
and under construction pursuant to contracts under which the tenants have 
agreed to develop the properties (with development costs funded by the 
Company) and to begin paying rent when the premises open for business.

INCREASE IN MONTHLY DISTRIBUTION.  In April, July and October 1998, and 
January 1999, the monthly distributions were increased $0.0025 to $0.1625, 
$0.165, $0.1675 and $0.17 per share, respectively.  Realty Income continues 
its policy of paying distributions monthly.  During 1998, the Company paid 
three distributions of $0.16 per share, three distributions of $0.1625 per 
share, three distributions of $0.165 per share, and three distributions of 
$0.1675 per share.  Distributions for 1998 totaled $1.965 per share.  In 
December 1998, January 1999 and February 1999, the Company declared 
distributions of $0.17 per share, which were paid on January 18, 1999, 
February 16, 1999 and March 15, 1999, respectively.  The monthly 
distribution of $0.17 per share represents a current annualized 
distribution of $2.04 per share, and an annualized distribution yield of 
approximately 9.0% based on the last reported sale price of the Company's 
Common Stock on the NYSE of $22.5625 on March 2, 1999.  Although we expect 
to continue our policy of paying monthly distributions, there can be no 
assurance that the current level of distributions will be maintained by the 
Company or as to the actual distribution yield for any future period.

UNSECURED REVOLVING CREDIT FACILITY.  In November 1998, we amended our 
revolving credit facility agreement (the "Credit Facility") to:

    -  Increase the amount available for borrowing from $150 million to
       $170 million; and
    -  Extended the maturity date as to $118 million of credit availability 
       from December 2000 to December 2001.

The increase in the amount available for borrowing under the revolving 
Credit Facility should enable us to continue to implement our growth 
strategy of acquiring additional properties and funding expenditures for 
development projects.  As of March 2, 1999, we had $90.9 million available 
for borrowing under the Credit Facility.  At that time, the outstanding 
balance was $79.1 million with an effective interest rate of 6.0%.

COMMON STOCK OFFERINGS.  In March 1998, we issued 372,093 shares of common 
stock to a unit investment trust at a net price to the Company of $25.531 
per share, based on a 5% discount to the then market price of $26.875 per 
share.  The net proceeds of $9.5 million were used to repay borrowings of 
$7.9 million under the Credit Facility and to acquire additional 
properties.

                                                                 Page 6

In February 1998, we issued 751,174 shares of common stock to a unit 
investment trust at a net price to the Company of $25.295 per share, based 
on a 5% discount to the then market price of $26.625.  The net proceeds of 
$18.9 million were used to repay borrowings under the Credit Facility.

NOTES OFFERING.  In January 1999, we issued $20 million of 8.00% unsecured 
senior notes due 2009 (the "1999 Notes").  The 1999 Notes were sold at 
98.757% of par to yield 8.10%.  The proceeds from the offering were used to 
pay down bank borrowings and for other corporate purposes.  Currently, 
there is no formal trading market for the 1999 Notes and we have not listed 
and do not intend to list the 1999 Notes on any securities exchange. 

In October 1998, we issued $100 million of 8.25% Monthly Income Senior 
Notes due 2008 (the "1998 Notes").  The 1998 Notes are unsecured and were 
sold at par ($25.00).  After taking into effect the results of an U.S. 
Treasury interest rate lock agreement, the effective rate to us is 9.12%.  
The proceeds from the offering were used to pay down $96.0 million of our 
bank borrowings and will allow us to continue our strategic property 
acquisition activities.  Interest on the 1998 Notes is payable monthly on 
the 15th of each month.


                 BUSINESS PHILOSOPHY AND STRATEGY
                 ================================

INVESTMENT PHILOSOPHY.  We believe that the long-term ownership of an 
actively managed, diversified portfolio of retail properties under long-
term, net lease agreements produces consistent, predictable income.  Under 
a net lease agreement, the tenant agrees to pay a minimum monthly rent and 
property operating expenses (taxes, maintenance, and insurance) plus, 
typically, future rent increases (generally subject to ceilings) based on 
increases in the consumer price index, fixed increases or additional rent 
calculated as a percentage of the tenant's gross sales above a specified 
level.  We believe that long-term leases, coupled with the tenant's 
responsibility for property expenses, generally produce a more predictable 
income stream than many other types of real estate portfolios, while 
continuing to offer the potential for growth in rental income.

INVESTMENT STRATEGY.  In identifying new properties for acquisition, we 
focus on providing expansion capital to retail chains by acquiring, then 
leasing back, their retail store locations.  We classify retail tenants 
into three categories: venture, middle market, and upper market.  Venture 
companies are those which typically offer a new retail concept in one 
geographic region of the country and operate between five and 50 retail 
outlets.  Middle market retail chains are those which typically have 50 to 
500 retail outlets, operations in more than one geographic region, have 
been successful through one or more economic cycles, and have a proven, 
replicable concept.  The upper market retail chains typically consist of 
companies with 500 or more stores, operating nationally in a proven mature 
retail concept.  Upper market retail chains generally have strong operating 
histories and access to several sources of capital.


                                                                 Page 7

Realty Income primarily focuses on acquiring properties leased to middle 
market retail chains which we believe are attractive for investment 
because:

    -  They generally have overcome many of the operational and managerial
       obstacles that tend to adversely affect venture retailers;
    -  They typically require capital to fund expansion but have more
       limited financing options;
    -  They generally have provided us with attractive risk-
       adjusted returns over time since their financial strength has in
       many cases tended to improve as their businesses have matured;
    -  Their relatively large size allows them to spread corporate expenses
       across a greater number of stores; and
    -  Middle market retailers typically have the critical mass to survive
       if a number of locations have to be closed due to underperformance.

In 1998, we expanded our investment focus to include upper market retail 
chains and have made some acquisitions on a selective basis.  We believe 
upper market retail chains can be attractive for investment because:

    -  They typically are of a higher credit quality;
    -  They are usually larger brand name, public and private retailers;
    -  They utilize a larger building ranging in size from 10,000 to 50,000
       square feet; and
    -  Their ability to grow because of access to capital facilitates 
       larger transaction sizes.

While our investment strategy focuses primarily on acquiring properties 
leased to middle and upper market retail chains, we also selectively seek 
incremental investment opportunities with venture market retail chains.  
Periodically, venture market opportunities arise where we feel that the 
real estate used by the tenant is of high quality and can be purchased at 
prices that are favorable in the marketplace.  To meet our stringent 
investment standards, however, venture retail companies must have a well-
defined retailing concept and strong financial prospects.  These 
opportunities are examined on a case by case basis and we are highly 
selective in making investments in this area.

CREDIT STRATEGY.  Realty Income principally provides sale leaseback 
financing primarily to less than investment grade retail chains.  Since 
1970 and through December 31, 1998, Realty Income has acquired and leased 
back to regional and national retail chains 944 properties (including
34 properties that have been sold) and has collected in excess of 98% of 
the original contractual rent obligations on those properties.  We believe 
that within this market we can achieve an attractive risk adjusted return 
on the financing that we provide to retailers.

We believe that the primary financial obligations of most retailers 
typically include their bank and other debt, payment obligations to 
suppliers and real estate lease obligations.  Because we own the land and 
buildings on which the tenant conducts its retail business, we believe that 
the risk of default on the retailers' lease obligations is less than the 

                                                                 Page 8

retailers' unsecured general obligations.  It has been our experience that 
since retailers must retain their profitable retail locations in order to 
survive in the event of reorganization they are less likely to reject a 
lease for a profitable location, which would terminate their right to use 
the property.  Thus, as the property owner, we believe we will fare better 
than unsecured creditors of the same retailer in the event of 
reorganization.  In addition, Realty Income believes that the risk of 
default on the real estate leases can be further mitigated by monitoring 
the performance of the retailers' individual unit locations and selling 
those units that are weaker performers. 

In order to qualify for inclusion in our portfolio, new property 
acquisitions must meet stringent investment and credit requirements.  The 
properties must generate attractive current yields, and the tenant must 
meet our credit standards.  We have established a three-part analysis that 
examines each potential investment based on:

    -  Industry, company, market conditions and credit profile;
    -  Location profitability, if profitability data is available; and
    -  Overall real estate characteristics, value, and comparative rental
       rates.

Companies that have been approved for acquisitions are generally those with 
fifty or more retail stores which are located in highly visible areas, with 
easy access to major thoroughfares and attractive demographics.

ACQUISITION STRATEGY.  We seek to invest in industries in which several, 
well-organized, regional and national chains are capturing market share 
through service, quality control, economies of scale, mass media 
advertising, and selection of prime retail locations.  We execute our 
acquisition strategy by acting as a source of capital to regional and 
national retail chain stores in a variety of industries by acquiring, then 
leasing back, their retail store locations.  We undertake thorough research 
and analysis to identify appropriate industries, tenants, and property 
locations for investment.  In selecting real estate for potential 
investment, we generally seek to acquire properties that have the following 
characteristics:

    -  Freestanding, commercially zoned property with a single tenant;
    -  Properties that are important retail locations for regional and 
       national retail chains;
    -  Properties that are located within attractive demographic areas 
       relative to the business of their tenants, with high visibility and 
       easy access to major thoroughfares; and
    -  Properties that can be purchased with the simultaneous execution or
       assumption of long-term, net lease agreements, providing the 
       opportunity for both current income and future rent increases. 

PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT STRATEGY.  The active management of the property 
portfolio is an essential component of our long-term strategy.  We 
continually monitor our portfolio for changes that could affect the 
performance of the industries, tenants, and locations in which we have 

                                                                 Page 9

invested.  The portfolio is analyzed on an ongoing basis with a view 
towards optimizing performance and returns.  Realty Income's investment 
committee is made up of our Chief Executive Officer, President and three 
Senior Vice Presidents.  Our investment committee meets weekly to review 
industry research, tenant research and property due diligence, and 
significant portfolio management activities.  This monitoring typically 
includes ongoing review and analysis of:

    -  The performance of various tenant industries;
    -  The operation, management, business planning, and financial 
       condition of the tenants; and
    -  The health of the individual markets in which we own properties, 
       from both an economic and real estate standpoint.

CAPITAL MARKETS STRATEGY.  We have a $170 million revolving, unsecured 
acquisition Credit Facility.  As of March 2, 1999, the outstanding balance 
on the Credit Facility was $79.1 million with an effective interest rate of 
approximately 6.0%.  A commitment fee of 0.15% per annum accrues on the 
total credit commitment. We are and have been in compliance with the 
various leverage and interest coverage ratio limitations required by the 
Credit Facility.  The Credit Facility has been and is expected to be used 
to acquire additional retail properties leased to regional and national 
retail chains under long term net lease agreements.

We utilize our Credit Facility as a vehicle for the short-term financing of 
the acquisition of new properties.  When outstanding borrowings under the 
Credit Facility reach a certain level (generally in the range of $75 to 
$150 million), we intend to refinance those borrowings with the net 
proceeds of long-term or permanent financing, which may include the 
issuance of common stock, preferred stock, convertible preferred stock, 
debt securities or convertible debt securities.  However, there can be no 
assurance that we will be able to effect any such refinancing or that 
market conditions prevailing at the time of refinancing will enable us to 
issue equity or debt securities upon acceptable terms.  We believe that we 
are best served by a conservative capital structure, with a majority of our 
capital consisting of equity. As of December 31, 1998, our total 
outstanding Credit Facility borrowings and outstanding notes were $294.8 
million or approximately 30.6% of our total capitalization (defined as 
shares of our common stock outstanding multiplied by the last reported 
sales price of the common stock on the NYSE on December 31, 1998 of $24.875 
per share plus the outstanding borrowings on the Credit Facility and 
outstanding notes at December 31, 1998).

We received investment grade credit ratings from Duff & Phelps Credit 
Rating Company, Moody's Investor Service, Inc., and Standard & Poor's 
Rating Group in December 1996.  Currently, Duff & Phelps has assigned a 
rating of BBB, Moody's has assigned a rating of Baa3, and Standard & Poor's 
has assigned a rating of BBB- to our senior debt.  These ratings could 
change based upon, among other things, our results of operations and 
financial condition.



                                                                 Page 10

COMPETITIVE STRATEGY.  We believe that, to utilize our investment 
philosophy and strategy most successfully, we must seek to maintain the 
following competitive advantages:

 - Size and Type of Investment Properties:  We believe that smaller
   ($500,000 to $10,000,000) retail net leased properties represent an 
   attractive investment opportunity in today's real estate environment.
   Due to the complexities of acquiring and managing a large portfolio of 
   relatively small assets, we believe that these types of properties have 
   not experienced significant institutional participation or the 
   corresponding yield reduction experienced by larger income producing 
   properties.  We believe the less intensive day to day property 
   management required by net lease agreements, coupled with the active 
   management of a large portfolio of smaller properties by us, is an 
   effective investment strategy.

   The tenants of our freestanding retail properties generally provide
   goods and services which satisfy basic human needs.  In order to grow
   and expand, they generally need capital.  Since the acquisition of 
   real estate is typically the single largest capital expenditure of many 
   of these retailers, Realty Income's method of purchasing the property 
   and then leasing it back under a net lease arrangement allows the retail 
   chain to free up capital.

- -  Investment in New Industries:  Though we specialize in single-tenant 
   properties, we will seek to further diversify our portfolio among a 
   variety of industries.  We believe that diversification will allow us to 
   invest in industries that are currently growing and have characteristics 
   we find attractive.  These characteristics include, but are not limited 
   to, industries dominated by local operators where regional and national 
   chain operators can gain market share and dominance through more 
   efficient operations, as well as industries taking advantage of major 
   demographic shifts in the population base.  For example, in the early 
   1970s, Realty Income targeted the fast food industry to take advantage 
   of the country's increasing desire to dine away from home, and in the 
   early 1980s, we targeted the child day care industry, responding to the 
   need for professional child care as more women entered the work force.  
   During 1998, we added eight new industries to our portfolio.  The 
   eight new industries are Business Services, Craft and Novelty, Drug 
   Stores, General Merchandise, Grocery Stores, Health and Fitness,
   Home Improvement, and Private Education, bringing the total number of 
   industries in our portfolio to 21.

- -  Diversification:  Diversification of the portfolio by industry type, 
   tenant and geographic location is key to our objective of providing 
   predictable investment results for our stockholders.  As we expand we 
   will seek to further diversify our portfolio.  During 1998, 20 new 
   retail chains and two new states were added to our portfolio, bringing 
   the total number of retail chains in our portfolio to 65 and the total 
   number of states to 45.



                                                                 Page 11

- -  Management Specialization:  We believe that our management's 
   specialization in single tenant retail properties operated under net
   lease agreements is important to meeting our objectives.  We plan to
   maintain this specialization and will seek to employ and train high 
   quality professionals in this specialized area of real estate ownership, 
   finance and management.

- -  Technology:  We intend to stay at the forefront of technology in our 
   efforts to efficiently and economically carry out our operations.  We 
   maintain a sophisticated information system that allows us to analyze 
   our portfolio's performance and actively manage our investments.  We 
   believe that technology and information based systems will play an 
   increasingly important role in our competitiveness as an investment 
   manager and source of capital to a variety of industries and tenants.


                               PROPERTIES
                               ==========

As of January 1, 1999, we owned a diversified portfolio of 970 properties 
located in 45 states with over 7.8 million square feet of leasable space.  
At January 1, 1999, approximately 99% of the properties were under net 
lease agreements.  Net leases typically require the tenant to be 
responsible for minimum monthly rent and property operating expenses 
including property taxes, insurance and maintenance.

Our net leased retail properties are primarily leased to regional and 
national retail chain store operators.  The average leasable retail space 
of the 970 properties is approximately 8,100 square feet on approximately 
48,000 square feet of land.  Generally, buildings are single-story 
properties with adequate parking on site to accommodate peak retail traffic 
periods.  The properties tend to be on major thoroughfares with relatively 
high traffic counts and adequate access, egress and proximity to a 
sufficient population base to constitute a suitable market or trade area 
for the retailer's business.


















                                                                 Page 12

The following table sets forth certain information regarding our properties 
as of January 1, 1999, classified according to the business of the 
respective tenants:


[FN]
(1)  Annualized rent is calculated by multiplying the monthly contractual 
base rent as of January 1, 1999 for each of the properties by 12 and adding 
the 1998 historical percentage rent, which totaled $1.7 million (i.e., 
additional rent calculated as a percentage of the tenant's gross sales 
above a specified level). For the properties under construction, an 
estimated contractual base rent is used based upon the estimated total 
costs of each property.










                                                                 Page 13

The following table represents Realty Income's rental revenue by industry:


[FN]
(1)  Annualized rent is calculated by multiplying the monthly contractual 
base rent as of January 1, 1999 for each of the properties by 12 and adding 
the 1998 historical percentage rent, which totaled $1.7 million (i.e., 
additional rent calculated as a percentage of the tenant's gross sales 
above a specified level). For the properties under construction, an 
estimated contractual base rent is used based upon the estimated total 
costs of each property. 









                                                                 Page 14

The following table represents Realty Income's rental revenue by industry:


[FN]
(1)  Annualized rent is calculated by multiplying the monthly contractual 
base rent as of January 1, 1999 for each of the properties by 12 and adding 
the 1998 historical percentage rent, which totaled $1.7 million (i.e., 
additional rent calculated as a percentage of the tenant's gross sales 
above a specified level). For the properties under construction, an 
estimated contractual base rent is used based upon the estimated total 
costs of each property. 


Of the 970 properties in the portfolio at January 1, 1999, 963 were single-
tenant properties with the remaining properties being multi-tenant 
properties.  As of January 1, 1999, 958 of the 963 single-tenant 
properties, or 99.5%, were net leased with an average remaining lease term 
(excluding extension options) of approximately 8.6 years.  



                                                                 Page 15

The following table sets forth certain information regarding the timing of 
the initial lease term expirations (excluding extension options) on our 958 
net leased, single-tenant retail properties as of January 1, 1999.


[FN]
(1)  Annualized rent is calculated by multiplying the monthly contractual 
base rent as of January 1, 1999 for each of the properties by 12 and adding 
the 1998 historic percentage rent, which totaled $1.7 million (i.e., 
additional rent calculated as a percentage of the tenant's gross sales 
above a specified level).  For the properties under construction, an 
estimated contractual base rent is used based upon the estimated total 
costs of each property.

(2)  This table does not include seven multi-tenant properties and five 
vacant, unleased single-tenant properties owned by the Company.  The lease 
expirations for properties under construction are based on the estimated 
date of completion of such properties.


The following table sets forth certain state-by-state information regarding 
Realty Income's portfolio at January 1, 1999.


                                                                 Page 16

                                                         Page 17

[FN]
(1)  Annualized rent is calculated by multiplying the monthly contractual 
base rent as of January 1, 1999 for each of the properties by 12 and adding 
the 1998 historic percentage rent, which totaled $1.7 million (i.e., 
additional rent calculated as a percentage of the tenant's gross sales 
above a specified level).  For the properties under construction, an 
estimated contractual base rent is used based upon the estimated total 
costs of each property.


The following table sets forth certain information regarding the properties 
owned by Realty Income as of January 1, 1999, classified according to the 
business of the respective tenants.


[FN]
(1)  Annualized rent is calculated by multiplying the monthly contractual 
base rent as of January 1, 1999 for each of the properties by 12 and adding 
the 1998 historic percentage rent, which totaled $1.7 million (i.e., 
additional rent calculated as a percentage of the tenant's gross sales 
above a specified level).  For the properties under construction, an 
estimated contractual base rent is used based upon the estimated total 
costs of each property.


DESCRIPTION OF LEASING STRUCTURE.  At January 1, 1998, approximately 99% of 
the Company's properties were leased pursuant to net leases.  In most 
cases, the leases:
    -  Were for initial terms of from 10 to 20 years and the tenant has an 
       option to extend the initial term;
    -  In general, the leases require the tenant to pay property taxes, 
       insurance, and expenses of maintaining the property;
    -  Generally provide for a minimum base rent plus future increases 
       (typically subject to ceilings) based on increases in the consumer
       price index, additional rent based upon the tenant's gross sales
       above a specified level (i.e., percentage rent) or fixed increases.
       Where leases provide for rent increases based on increases in the 
       consumer price index, generally such increases permanently become 
       part of the base rent.  Where leases provide for percentage rent,
       this additional rent is typically payable only if the tenant's gross
       sales for a given period (usually one year) exceed a specified
       level, and then is typically calculated as a percentage of only the 
       amount of gross sales in excess of such level.

Matters Pertaining to Certain Properties and Tenants
- ----------------------------------------------------

Five of our properties were vacant as of January 1, 1999 (all of which are 
single-tenant properties) and available for lease.  Two of the vacant 
properties were previously leased to Levitz Furniture (discussed below), 
one to a restaurant operator, one to a convenience store operator, and one 

                                                                 Page 19

to an automotive parts store operator.  One of the vacant Levitz Furniture 
locations was leased in January 1999.  As of January 1, 1999, 32 of our 
properties, which were under lease, were vacant and available for sublease 
by the tenant.  All of these tenants were current with their rent and other 
obligations.  

Our two largest tenants are Children's World Learning Centers and La Petite 
Academy, which accounted for approximately 16.6% and 11.1%, respectively, 
of our rental revenue for the year ended December 31, 1998.  No other 
tenant comprised 10% or more of our rental revenue.  In general, a downturn 
in the industry represented by these tenants, whether nationwide or limited 
to specific sectors of the United States, could adversely affect tenants in 
this industry, which in turn could materially adversely affect our 
financial position and results of operations and our ability to make 
distributions to stockholders and debt service payments.  In addition, a 
substantial number of our properties are leased to middle market retail 
chains which generally have more limited financial and other resources than 
certain upper market retail chains, and therefore are more likely to be 
adversely affected by a downturn in their respective business or in the 
regional or national economy generally.

Our tenants in the child care and restaurant industries accounted for 
approximately 29.2% and 16.2%, respectively, of our rental revenue for the 
year ended December 31, 1998.  A downturn in any of these industries 
generally, whether nationwide or limited to specific sectors of the United 
States, could adversely affect tenants in those industries, which in turn 
could materially adversely affect our financial position and results of 
operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders and debt 
service payments. 

On September 5, 1997, Levitz Furniture filed a voluntary petition for 
reorganization under Chapter 11 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code.  Levitz 
Furniture had occupied four of our properties: two in California, one in 
Texas and one in Florida.  Levitz elected to discontinue operations in the 
regions that include the states of Texas and Florida.  As a result of 
leaving those markets, in November 1998 Levitz returned the Texas and 
Florida properties to us.  In January 1999, two months after we regained 
possession, we signed a 10-year lease agreement with Fujitsu Network 
Communications on the Texas property.  The new lease calls for immediate 
commencement of rent and results in a higher rent per square foot and a 
higher return on our total investment than the prior Levitz lease had 
generated.  We believe that the demand in the market for the Florida 
property will allow us to find a suitable replacement tenant.  The two 
California Levitz stores owned by Realty Income are currently open and 
operating, and Levitz continues to be current on its rental obligations to 
us.  While Levitz Furniture has paid its most recent rental payments, there 
can be no assurance that Levitz Furniture will continue to pay rent for the 
remainder of the lease terms for the two California Levitz properties. 





                                                                 Page 20

Development of Certain Properties
- ---------------------------------

Of the 149 New Properties we acquired in 1998, 133 were occupied as of 
March 1, 1999 and the remaining 16 were pre-leased and under construction 
pursuant to contracts under which tenants or developers have agreed to 
develop the properties (with development costs funded by us) with rent 
commencing when the premises open for business.  In the case of development 
properties, we either enter into an agreement with a tenant pursuant to 
which the tenant retains a contractor to construct the improvements and we 
fund the costs of such development or we fund a developer who constructs 
the improvements.  In either case, there is an executed lease and there is 
a requirement to complete the construction on a timely basis, generally 
within eight months after we purchase the land.  Generally, the tenant or 
developer is required to pay construction cost overruns to the extent they 
exceed the construction budget by more than a predetermined amount.  We 
also enter into a lease with the tenant at the time the Company purchases 
the land, which generally requires that the tenant begin paying base rent, 
calculated as a percentage of our acquisition cost for the property, 
including construction costs and capitalized interest, when the premises 
open for business.  During 1998, the Company acquired 33 development 
properties, 17 of which have been completed, were operating and paying rent 
as of March 1, 1999.  We will continue to seek to acquire land for 
development under similar arrangements.


                       DISTRIBUTION POLICY
                       ===================

Distributions are paid to our stockholders on a monthly basis if, as and 
when declared by our Board of Directors.  The March 1999 distribution of 
$0.17 per share represents a current annualized distribution of $2.04 per 
share, and an annualized distribution yield of approximately 9.0% based on 
the last reported sale price of $22.5625 of our common stock, on the NYSE 
on March 2, 1999.  In order to maintain our tax status as a REIT for 
federal income tax purposes, we are generally required to distribute 
dividends to our stockholders aggregating annually at least 95% of our REIT 
taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction 
and by excluding net capital gains).  In 1998, our distributions totaled 
104.0% of our REIT taxable income.  We intend to continue to make 
distributions to our stockholders that are sufficient to meet this 
requirement.

Future distributions by us will be at the discretion of our Board of 
Directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of 
operations, financial condition and capital requirements, the annual 
distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), our debt service requirements and 
such other factors as the Board of Directors may deem relevant.  In 
addition, the Credit Facility contains financial covenants which could 
limit the amount of distributions payable by the Company in the event of a 
deterioration in the results of operations or financial condition of the 

                                                                 Page 21

Company, and which prohibit the payment of distributions on the common 
stock in the event that the Company fails to pay when due (subject to any 
applicable grace period) any principal or interest on borrowings under the 
Credit Facility.

Distributions by us to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings 
and profits for federal income tax purposes generally will be taxable to 
stockholders as ordinary income.  Distributions in excess of such earnings 
and profits generally will be treated as a non-taxable reduction in the 
stockholders' basis in its stock to the extent of such basis, and 
thereafter as a gain from the sale of such stock.  Approximately 3.8% of 
the distributions made or deemed to have been made in 1998 were classified 
as a return of capital for federal income tax purposes.  We are unable to 
predict the portion of 1999 or future distributions which may be classified 
as a return of capital since such amount depends on our taxable income for 
the entire year.


                              OTHER ITEMS
                              ===========

COMPETITION FOR ACQUISITION OF REAL ESTATE.  We face competition in the 
acquisition, operation and sale of property.  We expect such competition 
from:
    - Businesses;
    - Individuals;
    - Fiduciary accounts and plans; and
    - Other entities engaged in real estate investment.

Some of these competitors are larger than we are and have greater financial 
resources.  This competition may result in a higher cost for properties 
that we wish to purchase.

The tenants leasing our properties generally face significant competition 
from other operators.  This competition may adversely impact:

    -  That portion, if any, of the rental stream to be paid to us based on 
       a tenant's revenues; and
    -  The tenants' results of operations or financial condition.

ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITIES.  Investments in real property can create a 
potential for environmental liability.  An owner of property can face 
liability for environmental contamination created by the presence or 
discharge of hazardous substances on the property.  We face such liability 
regardless of:
    - Our knowledge of the contamination;
    - The timing of the contamination;
    - The cause of the contamination; or
    - The party responsible for the contamination of the property.

We are not aware of any material environmental problems at this time; 
however, there may be environmental problems associated with our properties 

                                                                 Page 22

that we are unaware of.  In that regard, a number of our properties are 
leased to operators of oil change and tune-up facilities, and convenience 
stores that sell petroleum-based fuels.  These facilities, or other of our 
properties, utilize, or may have utilized in the past, underground tanks 
for the storage of petroleum-based or waste products which could create a 
potential for release of hazardous substances.

The presence of hazardous substances on a property may adversely affect our 
ability to sell such property and we may incur substantial remediation 
costs.  Although our leases generally require our tenants to operate in 
compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws, ordinances 
and regulations and to indemnify us against any environmental liabilities 
arising from the tenant's activities on the property, we could nevertheless 
be subject to strict liability by virtue of our ownership interest, and 
there can be no assurance that our tenants would satisfy their 
indemnification obligations under the leases.

We believe that our properties comply in all material respects with all 
federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations regarding 
hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products.

We have not been notified by any governmental authority, and are not 
otherwise aware, of any material noncompliance, liability or claim relating 
to hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products in connection with 
any of our present properties.  Nevertheless, if environmental 
contamination should exist, we could be subject to strict liability by 
virtue of our ownership interest.

Since December 1996, the Company has maintained an environmental insurance 
policy on the property portfolio.  Based upon the 970 properties in the 
portfolio at December 31, 1998, the cost of the insurance is expected to be 
approximately $90,000 during 1999.  The limit of the policy is $10 million 
for each loss and $25 million in the aggregate, with a $100,000 deductible.  
There is a sublimit on properties with underground storage tanks of $1 
million per occurrence and $5 million in the aggregate, with a deductible 
of $25,000.

TAXATION OF THE COMPANY.  We believe that we have operated, and we intend 
to continue to operate, so as to qualify as a REIT under Sections 856 
through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), 
commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 1994.  Although we 
believe that we are in compliance with all REIT qualification rules and we 
are organized and operate as a REIT, we can not completely assure you that 
we will continue to be so organized or that we will be able to operate in a 
manner so as to qualify or remain so qualified.

Qualification as a REIT involves the satisfaction of numerous requirements 
under highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only 
limited judicial and administrative interpretations, and the determination 
of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our 
control.


                                                                 Page 23

We cannot assure you that legislation, new regulations, administrative 
interpretations or court decisions will leave unchanged the tax laws with 
respect to qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences 
of such qualifications.

If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year: 

    -  We would be subject to federal income tax (including any applicable
       alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate
       rates;
    -  We would not be allowed a deduction in computing our taxable income
       for amounts distributed to our stockholders;
    -  We would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four 
       taxable years following the year during which qualification is lost.
       This treatment would substantially reduce our net earnings available 
       for investment or distribution to stockholders because of the 
       additional tax liability for the years involved; and  
    -  We would no longer be required to make distributions to 
       stockholders.

Even if we qualify for and maintain our REIT status, we are subject to 
certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and property.  For 
example, if we have net income from a prohibited transaction, such income 
will be subject to a 100% tax. 

EFFECT OF DISTRIBUTION REQUIREMENTS.  To maintain our status as a REIT for 
federal income tax purposes, we generally are required to distribute to our 
stockholders at least 95% of our taxable income each year.  This taxable 
income is determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by 
excluding net capital gains.

We are also subject to tax at regular corporate rates to the extent that we 
distribute less than 100% of our taxable income (including net capital 
gains) each year.  

In addition, we are subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, 
if any, by which certain distributions paid by us with respect to any 
calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income for such 
calendar year, 95% of our capital gain net income for the calendar year, 
and any amount of such income that was not distributed in prior years.  

We intend to continue to make distributions to our stockholders to comply 
with the distribution requirements of the Code and to reduce exposure to 
federal income taxes and the nondeductible excise tax.  

Differences in timing between the receipt of income and the payment of 
expenses in arriving at taxable income and the effect of required debt 
amortization payments could require us to borrow funds on a short-term 
basis to meet the distribution requirements that are necessary to achieve 
the tax benefits associated with qualifying as a REIT.



                                                                 Page 24

DILUTION OF COMMON STOCK.  Our future growth will depend in large part upon 
our ability to raise additional capital.  If we were to raise additional 
capital through the issuance of equity securities, we could dilute the 
interests of holders of common stock. Likewise, our Board of Directors is 
authorized to cause us to issue preferred stock of any class or series 
(with such dividends and voting and other rights as the Board of Directors 
may determine).  Accordingly, the Board of Directors may authorize the 
issuance of preferred stock with voting, dividend and other similar rights 
that could dilute, or otherwise adversely affect, the interests of holders 
of Common Stock.

REAL ESTATE OWNERSHIP RISKS.  We are subject to all of the general risks 
associated with the ownership of real estate.  In particular we face the 
risk that rental revenue from the properties will be insufficient to cover 
all corporate operating expenses and debt service payments on indebtedness 
we incur.  Additional real estate ownership risks include: 

     -  Adverse changes in general or local economic conditions;
     -  Changes in supply of or demand for similar or competing properties;
     -  Changes in interest rates and operating expenses;
     -  Competition for tenants;
     -  Changes in market rental rates;
     -  Inability to lease properties upon termination of existing leases;
     -  Renewal of leases at lower rental rates;
     -  Inability to collect rents from tenants due to financial hardship,
        including bankruptcy;
     -  Changes in tax, real estate, zoning and environmental laws that may
        have an adverse impact upon the value of real estate;
     -  Uninsured property liability;
     -  Property damage or casualty losses;
     -  Unexpected expenditures for capital improvements or to bring
        properties into compliance with applicable federal, state and local
        laws; and
     -  Acts of God and other factors beyond the control of our management.


DEPENDENCE ON KEY PERSONNEL.  We depend on the efforts of our executive 
officers and key employees.  The loss of the services of our executive 
officers and key employees could have a material adverse effect on our 
operations.


ITEM 2:  PROPERTIES
- -------------------

Information pertaining to our properties can be found under Item 1.







                                                                 Page 25  

ITEM 3:  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
- --------------------------

The Company is subject to certain claims and lawsuits, the outcome of which 
are not determinable at this time.  In the opinion of management, any 
liability that might be incurred by the Company upon the resolution of 
these claims and lawsuits will not, in the aggregate, have a material 
adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial statements taken as 
a whole.


ITEM 4:  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
- ------------------------------------------------------------

No matters were submitted to stockholders during the fourth quarter of the 
fiscal year.





































                                                                 Page 26

PART II
=======

ITEM 5:  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
         STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
- ----------------------------------------------------------

A.  The stock of the Company is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under 
the ticker symbol "O."  The following table shows the high and low sales 
prices per share for the Common Stock as reported by the New York Stock 
Exchange composite tape, and distributions declared per share of common 
stock by Realty Income for the periods indicated.


[FN]
(1)  Distributions currently are declared monthly by the Company based on 
financial results for the prior months.  At December 31, 1998 a 
distribution of $0.17 per share had been declared and was paid on 
January 18, 1999.


B.  There were approximately 14,500 holders of record of Realty Income's 
shares of common stock as of March 1, 1999, however, Realty Income believes 
the total number of beneficial stockholders of Realty Income to be 
approximately 57,000.






                                                                 Page 27   

ITEM 6:  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
- --------------------------------
(not covered by Independent Auditors' Report)


[FN]
(1)  Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges is calculated by dividing earnings 
by fixed charges.  For this purpose, earnings consist of net income before 
interest expense.  Fixed charges are comprised of interest costs (including 
capitalized interest) and the amortization of debt issuance costs. 

(2)  The 1994 amount represents distributions paid or declared, as the case 
may be, after the Consolidation (see Note 1 to the consolidated financial 
statements).

(3)  1996 distributions paid per share and 1995 distributions declared per 
share include a special distribution of $0.23 per share.



ITEM 7:  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
         CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
- ----------------------------------------------------------

GENERAL
- -------

Realty Income Corporation, a Maryland corporation ("Realty Income", the 
"Company", "us", "we" or "our") was organized to operate as an equity real 
estate investment trust ("REIT").  We are a fully integrated self-
administered real estate company with in-house acquisition, leasing, legal, 
retail research, real estate research, portfolio management and capital 
markets expertise.  As of December 31, 1998, we owned a diversified 
portfolio of 970 retail properties located in 45 states with over 7.8 
million square feet of leasable space. 

Our primary business objective is to generate dependable monthly dividends 
from a consistent and predictable level of funds from operations ("FFO") 
per share.  Additionally, we generally will seek to increase distributions 
to stockholders and FFO per share through both active portfolio management 
and the acquisition of additional properties.



                                                                 Page 29

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
===============================

    Cash Reserves

Realty Income is organized for the purpose of operating as an equity REIT 
which acquires and leases properties and distributes to stockholders, in 
the form of monthly cash distributions, a substantial portion of its net 
cash flow generated from leases on its retail properties.  We intend to 
retain an appropriate amount of cash as working capital reserves.  At 
December 31, 1998, Realty Income had cash and cash equivalents totaling 
$2.5 million. 

We believe that our cash and cash equivalents on hand, cash provided from 
operating activities and borrowing capacity are sufficient to meet our 
liquidity needs for the foreseeable future, however, we intend to utilize 
additional sources of capital to fund property acquisitions and to repay 
our acquisition credit facility. 

    Capital Funding

Realty Income has a $170 million, three-year revolving, unsecured 
acquisition credit facility of which $118 million expires in December 2001 
and $52 million expires in December 2000.  The credit facility currently 
bears interest at 0.85% over the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") 
and offers us other interest rate options.  As of March 2, 1999, $90.9 
million of borrowing capacity was available to us under the acquisition 
credit facility.  At that time, the outstanding balance was $79.1 million 
with an effective interest rate of 6.0%.  This credit facility has been and 
is expected to be used to acquire additional retail properties leased to 
national and regional retail chains under long-term lease agreements.  Any 
additional borrowings will increase our exposure to interest rate risk.

We expect to meet our long-term capital needs for the acquisition of 
properties through the issuance of public or private debt or equity.  In 
August 1997, we filed a universal shelf registration statement with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission covering up to $300 million in value of 
common stock, preferred stock and/or debt securities.  Through March 2, 
1999, $221.4 million in value of common stock and debt securities has been 
issued under the universal shelf registration statement. 

In March 1998, we issued 372,093 shares of common stock to a unit 
investment trust at a net price to the Company of $25.531 per share, based 
on the then market price of $26.875 per share.  The net proceeds of $9.5 
million were used to repay borrowings of $7.9 million under our credit 
facility and to acquire additional properties.

In February 1998, we issued 751,174 shares of common stock to a unit 
investment trust at a net price to the Company of $25.295 per share, based 
on a 5% discount to the then market price of $26.625 per share.  The net 
proceeds of $18.9 million were used to repay borrowings under our credit 
facility.

                                                                 Page 30

In January 1999, we issued $20 million of 8.00% senior notes due January 
2009 (the "1999 Notes").  The 1999 Notes are unsecured and were sold at 
98.757% of par to yield 8.10%.  The proceeds from the offering were used to 
pay down credit facility borrowings and for other corporate purposes.  
Currently, there is no formal trading market for the 1999 Notes and we have 
not listed and do not intend to list the 1999 Notes on any securities 
exchange. 

In October 1998, we issued $100 million of 8.25% unsecured senior notes due 
November 2008 (the "1998 Notes").  The 1998 Notes were sold at par 
($25.00).  After taking into effect the results of a Treasury interest rate 
lock agreement, the effective interest rate to us was 9.12%.  The proceeds 
from the offering were used to pay down $96.0 million of our credit 
facility borrowings and will allow us to continue our strategic property 
acquisition activities.  Interest on the 1998 Notes is payable monthly on 
the 15th of each month, commencing in December 1998.  The 1998 Notes 
commenced trading on the New York Stock Exchange on November 3, 1998 under 
the ticker symbol "OUI".  The cusip number of the 1998 Notes is 756109-AA2.

In May 1998, we entered into a treasury interest rate lock agreement to 
protect against the possibility of rising interest rates applicable to the 
1998 Notes.  Under the interest rate lock agreement, we were to receive or 
make a payment based on the differential between a specified interest rate, 
5.726%, and the actual 10-year treasury interest rate on a notional 
principal amount of $100 million, at the end of six months.  Based on the 
10-year treasury interest rate at October 23, 1998 (the interest rate 
pricing date), the Company made a payment of $8.7 million in settlement of 
the agreement in October 1998.  The payment on the agreement is being 
amortized over 10 years (the life of the 1998 Notes) as a yield adjustment 
to interest expense.

We received investment grade corporate credit ratings from Duff & Phelps 
Rating Company, Moody's Investor Service, Inc., and Standard & Poor's 
Rating Group in December 1996.  Currently, Duff & Phelps has assigned a 
rating of BBB, Moody's has assigned a rating of Baa3, and Standard & Poor's 
has assigned a rating of BBB- to our senior debt.  These ratings could 
change based upon, among other things, our results of operations and 
financial condition.

    Property Acquisitions

During 1998, we continued to increase the size of the portfolio through a 
strategic program of real estate acquisitions.  We acquired 149 additional 
properties (the "New Properties"), and selectively sold 5 properties, 
increasing the number of properties in the portfolio by 17.4% to 970 
properties at December 31, 1998 from 826 properties at December 31, 1997.
  
During 1998, we invested $193.4 million in New Properties and properties 
under development (excluding estimated unfunded development costs on 
properties under construction at December 31, 1998 of $19.7 million).  The 
weighted average annual unleveraged return on the $193.4 million invested 


                                                                 Page 31

in 1998 is estimated to be 10.4%, computed as estimated contractual net 
operating income (which in the case of a net leased property is equal to 
the base rent or, in the case of properties under construction, the 
estimated base rent under the lease) for the first year of each lease, 
divided by the estimated total costs.  Since it is possible that a tenant 
could default on the payment of contractual rent, no assurance can be given 
that the actual return on the funds invested will not differ from the 
foregoing percentage. 

The New Properties are located in 38 states, will contain approximately 1.6 
million leasable square feet and are 100% leased under net leases, with an 
average initial lease term of 14.9 years.  During 1998, we also paid 
$168,000 for lease commissions and $95,000 for building improvements on 
existing properties in our portfolio.

Of the New Properties, 133 were occupied as of March 1, 1999 and the 
remaining properties were pre-leased and under construction pursuant to 
contracts under which the tenants or developers have agreed to develop the 
properties (with development costs funded by the Company) and with the 
tenant to begin paying rent when the premises open for business.

During 1997, we invested $142.3 million in 96 properties purchased in 1997 
and properties under development (excluding estimated unfunded development 
costs on properties under construction at December 31, 1997).  The weighted 
average annual unleveraged return on the $142.3 million invested in 1997 is 
estimated to be 10.4%, computed in the same manner as 1998's estimated 
weighted average annual unleveraged return.  These 96 properties purchased 
in 1997 are located in 27 states, contain approximately 1.1 million 
leasable square feet and are 100% leased with an average initial lease term 
of 14.4 years.

    Distributions

Cash distributions paid during 1998, 1997 and 1996 were $52.3 million, 
$44.4 million and $48.1 million, respectively.  The 1996 cash distributions 
include a special distribution of $5.3 million paid in January 1996. 

Realty Income pays distributions monthly.  The following is a summary of 
the monthly cash distributions for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 
and 1996, which totaled $1.965, $1.8925 and $2.0925, respectively.  The 
January 1996 distributions include a special distribution of $0.23 per 
share.

In December 1998, January and February 1999, we declared distributions of 
$0.17 per share, which were paid on January 18, 1999, February 16, 1999 and 
payable on March 15, 1999, respectively.  The monthly distribution of $0.17 
per share represents a current annualized distribution of $2.04 per share, 
and an annualized distribution yield of approximately 9.0% based on the 
last reported sale price of the Company's Common Stock on the NYSE of 
$22.5625 on March 2, 1999.  Although the Company expects to continue its 
policy of paying monthly distributions, there can be no assurance that the 
current level of distributions will be maintained by the Company or as to 
the actual distribution yield for any future period.
                                                                 Page 32

FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS ("FFO")
=============================

FFO for 1998 increased by $10.45 million or 20.0% to $62.80 million versus 
$52.35 million during 1997.  FFO during 1996 was $47.7 million.  
 
We define FFO as net income before gain on sales of properties, plus 
provision for impairment losses, plus depreciation and amortization.  In 
accordance with the recommendations of the National Association of Real 
Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT"), amortization of deferred financing 
costs are not added back to net income to calculate FFO.  Amortization of 
financing costs are included in interest expense in the consolidated 
statements of income. 

The following is a reconciliation of net income to FFO and information 
regarding distributions paid and the diluted weighted average number of 
shares outstanding for 1998, 1997 and 1996 (dollars in thousands): 



We consider FFO to be an appropriate measure of the performance of an 
equity REIT.  FFO is used by financial analysts in evaluating REITs and 
can be one measure of a REIT's ability to make cash distribution payments.  
Presentation of this information provides the reader with an additional 
measure to compare the performance of different REITs, although it should 
be noted that not all REITs calculate FFO the same way so comparisons with 
such REITs may not be meaningful. 
 
FFO is not necessarily indicative of cash flow available to fund cash needs 
and should not be considered as an alternative to net income as an 
indication of Realty Income's performance or to cash flows from operating,

                                                                 Page 33

investing, and financing activities as a measure of liquidity or ability to 
make cash distributions or to pay debt service.


RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
=====================

THE FOLLOWING IS A COMPARISON OF OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEAR 
ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998 TO THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997.

Rental revenue was $84.9 million for 1998 versus $67.6 million for 1997, an 
increase of $17.3 million.  The increase in rental revenue was primarily 
due to the acquisition of 149 properties during 1998 and 96 properties 
during 1997.  These properties generated revenue of $22.3 million in 1998 
compared to $5.3 million in 1997, an increase of $17.0 million.  At 
January 1, 1999, annualized contractual lease payments on the funds 
invested in properties acquired in 1998 and 1997 are approximately $33.1 
million (excluding estimated rent from 19 properties under development and 
any percentage rents). 

Of the 970 properties in the portfolio as of December 31, 1998, 963 are 
single-tenant properties with the remaining properties being multi-tenant 
properties.  Of the 963 single-tenant properties, 958, or 99.5%, were net 
leased with an average remaining lease term (excluding extension options) 
of approximately 8.6 years.  All of our 958 leased single-tenant properties 
were under leases that provide for increases in rents through:

  -  Base rent increases tied to a consumer price index with 
     adjustment ceilings; 
  -  Overage rent based on a percentage of the tenants' gross 
     sales; or 
  -  Fixed increases.
 
Some leases contain more than one of these clauses.  Percentage rent, which 
is included in rental revenue, was $1.7 million during 1998 and $1.8 
million in 1997.  Same store rents generated on 717 properties owned during 
all of both 1998 and 1997 increased by $531,000 or 0.9%, to $61.89 million 
from $61.36 million.

At December 31, 1998, the Company had five properties that were not under 
lease as compared to eight at December 31, 1997 and nine at December 31, 
1996.  At December 31, 1998, 965, or 99.5%, of the 970 properties in the 
portfolio were under lease agreements with third party tenants. 
 
Depreciation and amortization was $21.9 million in 1998 versus $18.6 
million in 1997.  The increase in 1998 was primarily due to depreciation of 
the properties acquired in 1997 and 1998. 

Interest expense in 1998 increased by $5.5 million to $13.7 million, as 
compared to $8.2 million in 1997.  The following is a summary of the five 
components of interest expense for 1998 and 1997 (dollars in thousands): 


                                                                 Page 34



Interest on outstanding loans and notes was $5.6 million higher in 1998 
than in 1997 due to an increase in the average outstanding balances and a 
higher average interest rate.  The higher average interest rate was due to 
interest on the notes issued in October 1998 and the effect of the treasury 
lock settlement paid in October 1998.

General and administrative expenses increased by $1.2 million to $6.68 
million in 1998 versus $5.44 million in 1997.  The increase in general and 
administrative expenses was primarily due to an increase in property 
acquisition expenses and employee costs.  General and administrative 
expenses as a percentage of revenue decreased to 7.8% in 1998 as compared 
to 8.0% in 1997.  During 1997, we increased our number of employees to 47 
from 35.  The majority of the new employees were hired in the third quarter 
of 1997 and work primarily on new property acquisitions.  As of March 1, 
1999, we had 50 employees.

Property expenses are broken down into costs associated with non-net leased 
multi-tenant properties, unleased single-tenant properties and general 
portfolio expenses.  Expenses related to the multi-tenant and unleased 
single-tenant properties include, but are not limited to, property taxes, 
maintenance, insurance, utilities, property inspections, bad debt expense 
and legal fees.  General portfolio costs include, but are not limited to, 
insurance, legal, property inspections and title search fees.  At 
December 31, 1998, five properties were available for lease as compared to 
eight at December 31, 1997.  Property expenses were $1.8 million in 1998 
and 1997.



                                                                 Page 35

We review long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be 
recoverable.  In 1997, a $165,000 charge was taken to reduce the net 
carrying value on three properties because they became held for sale.  All 
of these properties have been sold.  There was no provision for impairment 
taken in 1998. 

During 1998, we sold five properties (two child care centers, two 
restaurants and one multi-tenant location) for $2.8 million and recognized 
a gain of $526,000.  During 1997, we sold ten properties (six restaurants, 
two child care centers, one automotive parts store and a multi-tenant 
location) for a total of $4.4 million and recognized a gain of $1.1 
million. 

We adopted SOP 98-5, "Reporting on the Costs of Start-Up Activities" ("SOP 
98-5") in October 1998.  SOP 98-5 requires that costs incurred during 
start-up activities, including organization costs, be expensed as incurred.  

Prior to October 1998, organization costs were amortized over 60 months.  
In October 1998, the unamortized balance of organization costs of $226,000 
was expensed.  This is reported on the statements of income as a cumulative 
effect of a change in accounting principle.

In 1998, Realty Income had net income of $41.3 million versus $34.8 million 
in 1997.  The $6.5 million increase in net income is primarily due to the 
increase in rental revenue from properties acquired in 1998 and 1997 of 
$17.0 million, which was partially offset by an increase of $10.1 million 
in the following expenses:

  - Depreciation and amortization of $3.34 million;
  - Interest expense of $5.50 million; and
  - General and administrative expense of $1.24 million.

THE FOLLOWING IS A COMPARISON OF OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEAR 
ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997 TO THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996.

Rental revenue was $67.6 million for 1997 versus $56.8 million for 1996, an 
increase of $10.8 million.  The increase in rental revenue was primarily 
due to the acquisition of 96 properties during 1997 and 62 properties 
during 1996.  These properties generated revenue of $11.4 million in 1997 
compared to $915,000 in 1996, an increase of $10.5 million. 
 
Of the 826 properties in the portfolio as of December 31, 1997, 819 are 
single-tenant properties with the remaining properties being multi-tenant 
properties.  Of the 819 single-tenant properties, 812, or 99.1%, were net 
leased with an average remaining lease term (excluding extension options) 
of approximately 8.4 years at December 31, 1997.  Percentage rent, which is 
included in rental revenue, was $1.8 million during 1997 and $1.7 million 
in 1996.
 
Same store rents generated on 667 properties owned during all of both 1997 
and 1996 increased by $767,000 or 1.4%, to $55.74 million from $54.97 
million.
                                                                 Page 36

At December 31, 1997, we had eight properties (one of which is a multi-
tenant property) that were not under lease as compared to nine at 
December 31, 1996.  At December 31, 1997, 818, or 99.0%, of the 826 
properties in the portfolio were under lease agreements with third party 
tenants. 
 
Interest and other revenue during 1997 and 1996 totaled $284,000 and 
$180,000, respectively, an increase of $104,000.  The increase in 1997 was 
primarily due to interest earned on the 1997 Note proceeds in excess of the 
$93.7 million used to payoff the credit facility in May 1997.  These 
proceeds were invested in new properties during May and June 1997. 
 
Depreciation and amortization was $18.6 million in 1997 versus $16.4 
million in 1996.  The increase in 1997 was primarily due to depreciation of 
the properties acquired in 1996 and 1997. 

Interest expense in 1997 increased by $5.9 million to $8.23 million, as 
compared to $2.37 million in 1996.  The following is a summary of the five 
components of interest expense for 1997 and 1996 (dollars in thousands): 



Interest on outstanding loans and notes was $5.9 million higher in 1997 
than in 1996 due to an increase in the average outstanding balances and a 
higher average interest rate.  The higher average interest rate was due to 
interest on the Notes issued in May 1997. 

General and administrative expenses increased by $256,000 to $5.44 million 
in 1997 versus $5.18 million in 1996.  The increase in general and 
administrative expenses was primarily due to an increase in property 

                                                                 Page 37

acquisition expenses and employee costs.  General and administrative 
expenses as a percentage of revenue decreased to 8.0% in 1997 as compared 
to 9.1% in 1996.  During 1997, the Company increased its number of 
employees to 47 from 35.  The majority of the new employees were hired in 
the third quarter of 1997 and work primarily on new property acquisitions.

Property expenses were $1.79 million in 1997 and $1.64 million in 1996, an 
increase of $145,000.  The increase in property expenses was primarily 
attributable to costs of the environmental insurance obtained in December 
1996.  In 1997, environmental insurance expense totaled $85,000. 

We review long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be 
recoverable.  In 1997, a $165,000 charge was taken to reduce the net 
carrying value on three properties because they became held for sale.  In 
1996, a $579,000 charge was taken to reduce the net carrying value on four 
properties because they became held for sale.  All of these properties have 
been sold.

During 1997, we sold ten properties (six restaurants, two child care 
centers, one automotive parts store and one multi-tenant location) for a 
total of $4.4 million and recorded a gain of $1.1 million.  During 1996, we 
sold seven properties (five restaurants and two multi-tenant locations) for 
$4.4 million and recognized a gain of $1.5 million. 

In 1997, we had net income of $34.77 million versus $32.22 million in 1996.  
The $2.55 million increase in net income is primarily due to the increase 
in rental revenue from properties acquired in 1996 and 1997 of $10.5 
million, which was partially offset by an increase of $8.3 million in the 
following expenses:

  -  Depreciation and amortization of $2.17 million;
  -  Interest expense of $5.86 million; and
  -  General and administrative expense of $256,000.


THE YEAR 2000 ISSUE
===================

Some of our existing computer programs identify a year by using only two 
digits instead of four.  This method of identification could cause these 
programs to fail or create erroneous results in the year 2000.  This 
situation has been referred to generally as the Year 2000 issue.

We believe that the cost of remediation associated with our corporate level 
computer systems will be minimal (less than $30,000).  We anticipate that 
we will complete remediation in the second quarter of 1999.  

The second essential component of the Year 2000 issue is to ensure that our 
significant tenants are assessed for Year 2000 compliance.  We have 
initiated discussions with our significant tenants in order to assess 
readiness for the Year 2000 issue.  Through March 2, 1999, tenants 

                                                                 Page 38

representing approximately 74% of our revenue have confirmed that they are 
Year 2000 compliant or anticipate being compliant by the end of the second 
quarter of 1999.  Due to the nature of the tenant's businesses, we do not 
believe the Year 2000 issue will materially impact the tenant's ability to 
pay rent.  However, the failure of one or more tenants as a result of the 
Year 2000 issue could have a material adverse effect on our results of 
operations or financial position.

The third component of our Year 2000 compliance plan is to ensure that our 
significant vendors are assessed for Year 2000 compliance.  We have 
initiated discussions with these significant vendors in order to assess 
their ability to successfully resolve the Year 2000 issue.  Through 
March 2, 1999, 75% of our significant vendors have confirmed that they are 
Year 2000 compliant or anticipate being compliant by the end of the second 
quarter of 1999.  Our transfer agent has advised us it is Year 2000 
compliant.

Upon completion of our assessment program, we will consider the necessity 
of implementing a contingency plan to mitigate any adverse effects 
associated with the Year 2000 issue.  Though we do not expect the Year 2000 
issue to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or 
financial position, there can be no assurances of that position.


IMPACT OF INFLATION
===================

Tenant leases generally provide for limited increases in rent as a result 
of increases in the tenant's sales volumes, increases in the consumer price 
index, and/or fixed increases.  We expect that inflation will cause these 
lease provisions to result in increases in rent over time.  However, during 
times when inflation is greater than increases in rent as provided for in 
the leases, rent increases may not keep up with the rate of inflation. 
 
Approximately 99% of the properties in the portfolio are leased to tenants 
under net leases in which the tenant is responsible for property costs and 
expenses.  These features in the leases reduce our exposure to rising 
property expenses due to inflation. 
 
Inflation and increased costs may have an adverse impact on the tenants if 
increases in the tenant's operating expenses exceed increases in revenue. 

IMPACT OF ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
===================================

In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued 
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, "Accounting 
for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" ("Statement 
No. 133").  Statement No. 133 establishes accounting and 
reporting standards for derivative instruments.  Statement No. 
133 is effective for all fiscal quarters beginning after 
June 15, 1999.

                                                                 Page 39

We anticipate that the adoption of Statement No. 133 will not have a 
material effect on the financial position, results of operations or 
liquidity of the Company.


ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
====================================================================

We are exposed to interest rate changes primarily as a result of our credit 
facility and long-term debt used to maintain liquidity and expand our real 
estate investment portfolio and operations.  Our interest rate risk 
management objective is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on 
earnings and cash flows and to lower our overall borrowing costs.  To 
achieve our objectives we borrow primarily at fixed rates and may enter 
into derivative financial instruments such as interest rate lock 
agreements, interest rate swaps and caps in order to mitigate our interest 
rate risk on a related financial instrument.  We do not enter into any 
transactions for speculative or trading purposes.

Our interest rate risk is monitored using a variety of techniques.  The 
table below presents the principal amounts, weighted average interest 
rates, fair values and other terms required by year of expected maturity to 
evaluate the expected cash flows and sensitivity to interest rate changes 
(dollars in table in millions).  




Schedules not Filed:  All schedules, other than that indicated in the Table 
of Contents, have been omitted as the required information is inapplicable 
or the information is presented in the financial statements or related 
notes.


























                                                                 Page 41

                   Independent Auditors' Report
                   ----------------------------

The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Realty Income Corporation:


We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Realty Income 
Corporation and subsidiaries as listed in the accompanying table of 
contents.  In connection with our audits of the consolidated financial 
statements, we also have audited the financial statement schedule III 
listed in the accompanying table of contents.  These consolidated financial 
statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the 
Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these 
consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule based on 
our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing 
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to 
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free 
of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, 
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial 
statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles 
used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating 
the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits 
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above 
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Realty 
Income Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, and 
the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years 
in the three-year period ended December 31, 1998, in conformity with 
generally accepted accounting principles.  Also in our opinion, the related 
financial statement schedule III, when considered in relation to the basic 
consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all 
material respects, the information set forth therein.


                                 /s/KPMG LLP


San Diego, California
January 22, 1999









                                                                 Page 42

           REALTY INCOME CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   Consolidated Balance Sheets
                   ===========================
                   December 31, 1998 and 1997
          (dollars in thousands, except per share data)










   The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements
            are an integral part of these statements.

                                                                 Page 44

           REALTY INCOME CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                Consolidated Statements Of Income
                =================================
          Years Ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996
          (dollars in thousands, except per share data)














   The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements
            are an integral part of these statements.



                                                                 Page 47

              REALTY INCOME CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 Consolidated Statements Of Cash Flows
                 =====================================
             Years Ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996
                        (dollars in thousands)


For supplemental disclosures, see note 11.




   The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements
            are an integral part of these statements.

                                                                 Page 49

               REALTY INCOME CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
               Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements
               ==========================================
                    December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996

1.  Organization and Operation

Realty Income Corporation ("Realty Income", the "Company", "we" or "our") 
was organized in the State of Delaware in September 1993 to facilitate the 
merger, which was effected on August 15, 1994 (the "Consolidation"), of 10 
private and 15 public real estate limited partnerships with and into the 
Company.  In August 1995, the Company became self-administered and self-
managed after acquiring R.I.C. Advisor, Inc. (the "Advisor").  In May 1997, 
we reincorporated as a Maryland corporation pursuant to a merger of the 
Company into a wholly-owned Maryland subsidiary and the conversion of each 
outstanding share of common stock of the Company into one share of common 
stock of the surviving corporation.  We invest in commercial retail real 
estate and have elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust 
("REIT").  As of December 31, 1998, we owned 970 properties in 45 states 
containing over 7.8 million leasable square feet.

2.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Procedures

Principles of Consolidation - The accompanying consolidated financial 
statements include the accounts of Realty Income and partnerships we 
control (subsidiaries) after elimination of all material intercompany 
balances and transactions.

Cash Equivalents - We consider all short-term, highly liquid investments 
that are readily convertible to cash and have an original maturity of three 
months or less at the time of purchase to be cash equivalents.

Depreciation and Amortization - Depreciation of buildings and improvements, 
and amortization of goodwill are computed using the straight-line method 
over an estimated useful life of 25 years.  Amortization of goodwill for 
the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996 was $924,000, $924,000 and 
$916,000, respectively.

Leases - All leases are accounted for as operating leases.   Under this 
method, lease payments are recognized as revenue over the term of the lease 
on a straight-line basis.

Federal Income Taxes - We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  We believe Realty Income has 
qualified and continues to qualify as a REIT and therefore will be 
permitted to deduct distributions paid to its stockholders, eliminating the 
federal taxation of income represented by such distributions at the 
Company's level.  Accordingly, no provision has been made for federal 
income taxes in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.

Distributions Paid and Payable - Realty Income pays distributions monthly. 
The following is a summary of the regular monthly cash distributions for

                                                                 Page 50

2.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996.  In January 1996, we also 
paid a special distribution of $0.23 per share.  Including this special 
distribution, the 1996 distributions totaled $2.0925 per share.


[FN]
(1)  Excludes a special distribution of $0.23 per share paid in January 
1996.
(2)  Two regular distributions of $0.155 per share applicable to each of 
January and February 1996 were paid in January 1996.


The following presents the federal income tax characterization of 
distributions paid or deemed to be paid to stockholders for the years ended 
December 31:



For federal income tax purposes, a portion of the distributions payable at 
December 31, 1995 and paid in 1996, in the amount of $0.1442 per share, was 
deemed to be paid in 1995.


                                                                 Page 51

2.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Provision for Impairment Losses - We review long-lived assets, including 
goodwill, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.  
Generally, a provision is made for impairment loss if estimated future 
operating cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) over a 
long-term holding period plus estimated disposition proceeds (undiscounted) 
are less than the current book value.  If a property is held for sale, it 
is carried at the lower of cost or estimated fair value, less costs to
sell.  For the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, provisions for 
impairment losses of zero, $165,000 and $579,000, respectively, were 
charged to operations to reduce the net carrying value of three properties 
held for sale in 1997 and four properties held for sale in 1996.  All of 
these properties have been sold.

Net Income Per Share - Basic net income per share is computed by dividing 
net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding 
during each period.  Diluted net income per share is computed by dividing 
the amount of net income for the period by each share that would have been 
outstanding assuming the issuance of common shares for all dilutive 
potential common shares outstanding during the reporting period.

The following is a reconciliation of the denominator of the basic net 
income per share computation to the denominator of the diluted net income 
per share computation (net income was available to common stockholders for 
all periods presented):


In 1998, 25,000 stock options that were anti-dilutive have been excluded in 
calculating the incremental shares from the assumed conversion of stock 
options.  No stock options were anti-dilutive in 1997 and 1996.

Stock Option Plan - We account for our stock option plan in accordance with 
the provisions of Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 25, 



                                                                 Page 52

2.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

"Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees", and related interpretations.  
As such, compensation expense would be recorded on the date of grant only 
if the current market price of the underlying stock exceeded the exercise 
price.  Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, "Accounting 
for Stock-Based Compensation" ("SFAS No. 123"), permits entities to 
recognize as expense over the vesting period the fair value of all stock-
based awards on the date of grant.  Alternatively, SFAS No. 123 allows 
entities to continue to apply the provisions of APB Opinion No. 25 and 
provide pro forma net income and pro forma earnings per share disclosures 
for employee stock option grants made in 1995 and future years as if the 
fair-value based method defined in SFAS No. 123 had been applied.  We have 
elected to continue to apply the provisions of APB Opinion No. 25 and 
provide the pro forma disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 123.

Derivative Financial Instrument - In two instances, we used interest rate 
treasury lock agreements to hedge the effect of interest rate fluctuations.  
These instruments each met the requirement for hedge accounting, including 
a high correlation to a specific transaction.  Accordingly, the amount 
received and paid under the terms of the agreements is recognized in income 
when interest expense related to the hedge item is recognized.

Change in Accounting Principle - In October 1998, we adopted Statement of 
Position 98-5, "Reporting on the Costs of Start-Up Activities" ("SOP 98-
5").  SOP 98-5 requires that costs incurred during start-up activities, 
including organization costs, be expensed as incurred.  Prior to October 
1998, organization costs were amortized over 60 months.  In October 1998, 
the unamortized balances of organization costs were written off. 

Pro forma amounts assuming the adoption of SOP 98-5 is applied as of   
January 1, 1996:


Segment Reporting - During 1998, we adopted the provisions of Statement of 
Financial Accounting Standards No. 131, "Disclosures about Segments of an 
Enterprise and Related Information" ("SFAS No. 131").  This statement 
establishes standards for the way public business enterprises report 
information about operating segments in annual financial statements and 
requires that those enterprises report selected information about operating 
segments in interim financial reports issued to stockholders.  It also 
establishes standards for related disclosures about products and services, 
geographic areas, and major customers.  See note 15 for our segment 
disclosures.
 

                                                                 Page 53

2.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Use of Estimates - The preparation of the consolidated financial statements 
in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires 
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported 
amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and 
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported 
amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.  Actual 
results could differ from those estimates.

3.  Credit Facility Available for Acquisitions

Realty Income has a $170 million, three-year, revolving, unsecured 
acquisition credit facility, of which $52 million expires in December 2000 
and $118 million expires in December 2001.  The credit facility is from The 
Bank of New York, as agent, and several U.S. and non-U.S. banks.  As of 
December 31, 1998 and 1997, the outstanding balances on the credit facility 
and line of credit were $84.8 million and $22.6 million, respectively, with 
an effective interest rate of approximately 6.27% and 6.66%, respectively.
The credit facility currently bears interest at 0.85% over the London 
Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") and offers us other interest rate options.  
A facility fee of 0.15%, per annum, accrues on the total commitment of the 
credit facility.

The credit facility is subject to various leverage and interest coverage 
ratio limitations.  The Company is and has been in compliance with these 
limitations.

In 1998, 1997 and 1996, interest of $660,000, $168,000 and $150,000, 
respectively, was capitalized on properties under development.

4.  Notes Payable

In October 1998, we issued $100 million of 8.25% Monthly Income Senior 
Notes due 2008 (the "1998 Notes").  The 1998 Notes are unsecured and were 
sold at par ($25.00).  After taking into effect the results of a treasury 
interest rate lock agreement (see note 5), the effective rate to us on the 
1998 Notes is 9.12%.  Interest on the 1998 Notes is payable monthly on the 
15th of each month, commencing in December 1998.  Interest incurred on the 
1998 Notes for the year ended December 31, 1998 was $1.4 million. 

In May 1997, we issued $110 million of 7.75% senior notes due 2007 (the 
"1997 Notes").  The 1997 Notes are unsecured and were sold at 99.929% of 
par to yield 7.76%.  After taking into effect results of a treasury 
interest rate lock agreement (see note 5), the effective interest rate to 
us on the 1997 Notes is 7.62%.  Interest on the 1997 Notes is payable 
semiannually each May and November.  Interest incurred on the 1997 Notes 
for the year ended December 31, 1998 and 1997 was $8.5 million and $5.5 
million, respectively. 

On March 29, 1996, we redeemed, at par, the $12.6 million principal amount 
of notes issued at the time of the Consolidation to investors in the

                                                                 Page 54

4.  Notes Payable (continued)

partnerships.  Interest incurred on the notes for the year ended 
December 31, 1996 was $217,000.

5.  Derivative Financial Instruments

In May 1998, we entered into a treasury interest rate lock agreement to 
protect against the possibility of rising interest rates applicable to the 
1998 Notes (see note 4).  Under the interest rate lock agreement, we were 
to receive or make a payment based on the differential between a specified 
interest rate, (5.726%), and the actual 10-year treasury interest rate on a 
notional principal amount of $100 million, at the end of six months.  Based 
on the 10-year treasury interest rate at October 23, 1998 (the interest 
rate pricing date), we made a payment of $8.7 million in settlement of the 
agreement in October 1998.  The payment on the agreement is being amortized 
over 10 years (the life of the 1998 Notes) as a yield adjustment to 
interest expense.

In December 1996, we entered into a treasury interest rate lock agreement 
to hedge against rising interest rates applicable to the 1997 Notes (see 
note 4).  Under the terms of the interest rate lock agreement, we were to 
receive or make a payment based on the differential between a specified 
interest rate (6.537%) and the actual 10-year treasury interest rate on a 
notional principal amount of $90 million, at the end of six months.  Based 
on the 10-year treasury interest rate at May 1, 1997 (the interest rate 
pricing date), we received $1.1 million in settlement of the agreement in 
June 1997. The payment received on the agreement is being amortized over 10 
years (the life of the 1997 Notes) as a yield adjustment to interest 
expense.  

Our only involvement with derivative financial instruments was the two 
aforementioned treasury interest rate lock agreements and we have not used 
derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.

6.  Common Stock Offerings

A.  In March 1998, we issued 372,093 shares of common stock to a unit 
investment trust at a net price to us of $25.531 per share, based on a 5% 
discount to the then market price of $26.875 per share.  The net proceeds 
of $9.5 million were used to repay borrowings of $7.9 million under the 
acquisition credit facility and to acquire additional properties.

B.  In February 1998, we issued 751,174 shares of common stock to a unit 
investment trust at a net price to us of $25.295 per share, based on a 5% 
discount to the then market price of $26.625 per share.  The net proceeds 
of $18.9 million were to be used to repay borrowings under the credit 
facility.

C.  In October 1997, we issued 2.7 million shares of common stock at a 
price of $27.00 per share.  The net proceeds of $68.7 million were used to 
repay borrowings of $62.6 million under the credit facility and to acquire 
properties.
                                                                 Page 55

7.  Operating Leases

A.  General - At December 31, 1998, the Company owned 970 properties in 45 
states.  Of these 970 properties, 963 are single-tenant and the remainder 
are multi-tenant.  At December 31, 1998, five properties were vacant and 
available for lease or sale.

Substantially all leases are net leases whereby the tenant pays property 
taxes and assessments, maintains the interior and exterior of the building, 
and carries insurance coverage for public liability, property damage, fire, 
and extended coverage.  

Percentage rent for 1998, 1997 and 1996 was $1.7 million, $1.8 million and 
$1.7 million, respectively.

At December 31, 1998, minimum annual rents to be received on the operating 
leases are as follows (dollars in thousands):



B.  Major Tenants - The following schedule presents rental revenue, 
including percentage rents, from tenants representing more than 10% of our 
total revenue for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 or 1996 (dollars 
in thousands):


[FN]
(1)  Rental revenue from Golden Corral Corporation represents less than 10% 
of our total revenue for 1998.




                                                                 Page 56

8.  Property Acquisitions

During 1998, we invested $193.4 million in 149 new retail properties and 
properties under development with an initial contractual lease rate of 
10.4%.  These 149 properties are located in 38 states, will contain 
approximately 1.6 million leasable square feet and are 100% leased with an 
average initial lease term of 14.9 years.

During 1997, we invested $142.3 million in 96 new retail properties and 
properties under development with an initial contractual lease rate of 
10.4%.  These 96 properties are located in 27 states, contain approximately 
1.1 million leasable square feet and are 100% leased with an average 
initial lease term of 14.4 years.

9.  Gain on Sales of Properties

In 1998, we sold five properties (two child care centers, two restaurants 
and a multi-tenant location) for $2.8 million and recognized a gain of 
$526,000.  In 1997, we sold ten properties (six restaurants, two child care 
centers, one automotive parts store and a multi-tenant location) for a 
total of $4.4 million and recognized a gain of $1.1 million.  In 1996, we 
sold seven properties (five restaurants and two multi-tenant locations) for 
a total of $4.4 million and recognized a gain of $1.5 million.

10.  Fair Value of Financial Instruments

We believe that the carrying values reflected in the consolidated balance 
sheets at December 31, 1998 and 1997 reasonably approximate the fair values 
for cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, due from affiliates and 
all liabilities except the lines of credit payable and notes payable. In 
making such assessments, we utilized estimates. The fair value of the lines 
of credit payable approximates its carrying value because its terms are 
similar to those available in the market place. The fair value of the notes 
payable at December 31, 1998 is estimated to be $203.9 million based upon 
the closing market price per note (i) at December 31, 1998 for the 1998 
Notes and (ii) December 26, 1998 (date of the last trade made in 1998) for 
the 1997 Notes.  The fair value of the notes payable at December 31, 1997 
approximates their carrying value. 

11.  Supplemental Disclosure of Cash Flow Information

Interest paid during 1998, 1997 and 1996 was $12.5 million, $6.9 million 
and $2.0 million, respectively.










                                                                 Page 57

11.  Supplemental Disclosure of Cash Flow Information (continued)

The following non-cash investing and financing activities are included in 
the accompanying consolidated financial statements:

A.  In 1998 and 1997, the acquisition properties resulted in the following 
non-cash changes (dollars in thousands):


    B.  In 1998, the former shareholders of the Advisor returned 20,279 
shares to the Company.  This fulfilled the Advisor shareholders obligation 
to the Company under an indemnification agreement entered into by both 
parties (see note 12A).  This transaction resulted in the following non-
cash changes (dollars in thousands):



    C.  In 1996, pursuant to the assumption of the defined benefit pension 
plan by the Company (see note 12A), the Company recorded a due from 
affiliate and a liability (included in other liabilities) of $73,000.  This 
represents the amount of the increase in the liability to the plan, of 
which the Company is indemnified by the former shareholders of the Advisor.

12. Employee Benefit Plan

A.  As a result of the merger with the Advisor in 1995 (the "Merger"), the 
Company assumed a defined benefit pension plan (the "Plan") covering 
substantially all of its employees. The Plan was terminated on January 2, 
1996 and final disbursement of the Plan's assets occurred on February 24, 
1997.

In connection with the Merger, Realty Income assumed a benefit obligation 
of $1.9 million.  The Merger agreement provides for indemnification by the 
former shareholders of the Advisor with respect to increases in the benefit 
obligation.   A receivable from the Advisor's former shareholders has been 
recorded as of December 31, 1997 for $348,000 and is included as due from 
affiliates in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets (see note 11B).
                                                                 Page 58

12. Employee Benefit Plan (continued)

B.  In August 1996, the Company initiated a 401(k) plan.  Under the 401(k) 
plan, employees may elect to make contributions to the plan, and the 
Company matches 50% of such contributions up to 6% of each participant's 
compensation.

13. Stock Incentive Plan

In September 1993, our board of directors approved a stock incentive plan 
(the "Stock Plan") designed to attract and retain directors, officers and 
employees of the Company by enabling such individuals to participate in the 
ownership of the Company.  The Stock Plan authorizes the issuance in each 
calendar year of up to 3% of the total shares outstanding at the end of 
such year.  At no time may the total number of shares granted under the 
Stock Plan exceed 1,950,308.  The Stock Plan provides for the award 
(subject to ownership limitations) of a broad variety of stock-based 
compensation alternatives such as nonqualified stock options, incentive 
stock options, restricted stock and performance awards.

Stock options are granted with an exercise price equal to the underlying 
stock's fair market value at the date of grant.  Stock options expire 10 
years from the date they are granted and vest over service periods of one, 
three, four and five years.  Prior to December 31, 1998, 495,113 stock 
options and 28,600 restricted shares of common stock had been granted under 
the Stock Plan.

The following table summarizes our stock option activity for the years 
ended December 31, 1998, 1997, and 1996:



At December 31, 1998, the options exercisable under the Stock Plan had 
exercise prices ranging from $20.00 to $25.44 with a weighted average price 
of $24.03, and expiration dates ranging from August 2004 to December 2007 
with a weighted average remaining term of 8 years.

The fair value of each stock option grant were estimated at the date of 
grant using the binomial option-pricing model with the following 
assumptions:


The Company applies APB Opinion No. 25 in accounting for its Stock Plan 
and, accordingly, no compensation cost has been recognized for its stock 
options in the consolidated financial statements.  Had the Company 
determined compensation cost based on the fair value at the grant date for 
its stock options under SFAS No. 123, the Company's net income and diluted 
net income per share would have been as follows:
                                                                 Page 60

13. Stock Incentive Plan (continued)



14. Stockholder Rights Plan

In June 1998, our board of directors adopted a Stockholder Rights Plan (the 
"Rights Plan") that will expire in July 2008.  The Rights Plan assigns one 
right (a "Right") to purchase one one-hundredth (1/100th) of a share of our 
Class A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share 
(the "Preferred Stock"), for each share of common stock owned on or issued 
after July 1, 1998.  Initially, the Rights will not be exercisable and will 
not trade separately from our common stock.

Under certain circumstances, stockholders will be able to exercise their 
Rights if a person or group initiates an unsolicited takeover of the 
Company by acquiring 15% of our common stock or by making a tender offer to 
acquire 15% or more of our common stock.  If an unsolicited acquirer gains 
control of the Company, stockholders other than the acquirer would be able 
to purchase either our common stock or the acquirer's stock at a 50% 
discount.

The dividend, liquidation, and voting rights, and the non-redemption 
feature of the Preferred Stock are designed so that the value of the one 
one-hundredth interest in a share of the new Preferred Stock that can be 
purchased with each Right will approximate what our board of directors 
believes to be the long-term value of one share of our common stock.

15. Segment Information

We evaluate performance and make resource allocation decisions on a 
property by property basis.  For financial reporting purposes, we have 
grouped our operating segments into seven reportable segments.  Our 
segments combine properties into groups based upon the business of our 
tenants. All of the properties have been acquired separately and are 
incorporated into one of the applicable segments.  Revenue is the only 
component of segment profit and loss we measure.  Since our revenue is 
primarily from net leases, expenditures for additions to long-lived assets 
were to acquire additional properties.  The accounting policies of the 
segments are the same as those described in note 2.  




                                                                 Page 61

15. Segment Information (continued)

The following tables set forth certain information regarding the properties 
owned by us as of December 31, 1998 classified according the business of 
the respective tenants (dollars in thousands):


16. Commitments and Contingencies

In the ordinary course of our business, we are party to various legal 
actions which we believe are routine in nature and incidental to the 
operation of the business of the Company.  We believe that the outcome of 
the proceedings will not have a material adverse effect upon our 
consolidated statements taken as a whole.
                                                                 Page 62

17. Subsequent Event

In January 1999, we issued $20 million of 8.00% unsecured senior notes due 
2009 (the "1999 Notes").  The 1999 Notes were sold at 98.757% of par to 
yield 8.10%.  The proceeds from the offering were used to pay down credit 
facility borrowings and for other corporate purposes. 















































                                                                 Page 63

                      REALTY INCOME CORPORATION
                           AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 CONSOLIDATED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA
             (dollars in thousands, except per share data)
             (not covered by Independent Auditors' Report)



                                                                 Page 64


                REALTY INCOME CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
           SCHEDULE III REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION




























                                                                 Page 151

                 REALTY INCOME CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
           SCHEDULE III REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION


Note 1.  Nine hundred sixty six of the properties are single unit retail 
outlets.  One grocery property located in Sheboygan, WI and three other 
properties located in San Diego, CA are multi-tenant commercial properties.  
All properties were acquired on an all cash basis except one; no 
encumbrances were outstanding for the periods presented.

Note 2.  The aggregate cost for federal income tax purposes is 
$825,315,627.

Note 3.  Reconciliation of total real estate carrying value for the three 
years ended December 31, 1998 are as follows:



Note 5.  In 1997, a provision for impairment loss was made on two vacant 
properties in Riverside, CA and Irving, TX and a restaurant property in 
McMinnville, OR which was sold in 1997.  In 1996, a provision for 
impairment loss was made on a restaurant property in Lexington, SC, and on 
other properties located in Phoenix, AZ; Glendale, AZ and Spring, TX.


ITEM 9:  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
         ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
- ---------------------------------------------------------

The corporation has had no disagreements with its independent auditors' on 
accountancy or financial disclosure.


PART III
========

ITEM 10:  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
- ------------------------------------------------------------

The information set forth under the captions Director Nominees and Officers 
Of The Company and Compliance With Federal Securities Laws in the 
definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders presently 
scheduled to be held on May 5, 1999, to be filed pursuant to Regulation 
14A.


ITEM 11:  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
- --------------------------------

The information set forth under the caption Executive Compensation in the 
definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders presently 

                                                                 Page 153

scheduled to be held on May 5, 1999, to be filed pursuant to Regulation 
14A.


ITEM 12:  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
          MANAGEMENT
- -------------------------------------------------------------

The information set forth under the caption Security Ownership Of Certain 
Beneficial Owners And Management in the definitive proxy statement for the 
Annual Meeting of Stockholders presently scheduled to be held on May 5, 
1999, to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A.


ITEM 13:  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
- --------------------------------------------------------

     Not applicable.


PART IV
=======

ITEM 14:  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON
          FORM 8-K
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

A.  The following documents are filed as part of this report.

    1.  Financial Statements (see Item 8)

        a.   Independent Auditors' Report
        b.   Consolidated Balance Sheets,
             December 31, 1998 and 1997
        c.   Consolidated Statements of Income,
             Years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996
        d.   Consolidated Statements of
             Stockholders' Equity,
             Years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996
        e.   Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows,
             Years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996
        f.   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
        g.   Consolidated Quarterly Financial Data,
               (unaudited) for 1998 and 1997

    2.  Financial Statement Schedule (see Item 8)

        Schedule III - Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

        Schedules not Filed:  All schedules, other than those
        indicated in the Table of Contents, have been omitted as the
        required information is inapplicable or the information is
        presented in the financial statements or related notes.
                                                                 Page 154

    3.  Exhibits

        2.1  Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of May 15, 1997
             between Realty Income Corporation, a Delaware
             corporation, and Realty Income Maryland, Inc., a
             Maryland corporation (incorporated by reference to
             the Company's Form 8-B12B dated July 29, 1997 
             ("Form 8-B") and incorporated herein by reference).

        3.1  Articles of Incorporation of the Company (filed
             as Appendix B to the Company's Proxy Statement
             dated March 28, 1997 ("1997 Proxy Statement") 
             and incorporated herein by reference).

        3.2  Bylaws of the Company (filed as Appendix C to the 
             Company's 1997 Proxy Statement and incorporated
             herein by reference).

        3.3  Articles Supplementary of the Class A Junior 
             Participating Preferred Stock of Realty Income 
             Corporation (filed as an exhibit to Realty Income's 
             registration statement on Form 8-A, dated June 26, 
             1998, and incorporated herein by reference).

        4.1  Pricing Committee Resolutions and Form of 7.75% 
             Notes due 2007 (filed as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company's
             Form 8-K dated May 5, 1997 and incorporated herein by 
             reference).

        4.2  Indenture dated as of May 6, 1997 between the Company
             and The Bank of New York (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the
             Company's Form 8-K dated May 5, 1997 and incorporated
             herein by reference).

        4.3  First Supplemental Indenture dated as of May 28, 1997,
             between the Company and The Bank of New York (filed as
             Exhibit 4.3 to the Company's Form 8-B and incorporated 
             herein by reference).

        4.4  Rights Agreement, dated as of June 25, 1998, between 
             Realty Income Corporation and The Bank of New York 
             (filed as an exhibit to the Company's registration 
             statement on Form 8-A, dated June 26, 1998, and 
             incorporated herein by reference).

        4.5  Pricing Committee Resolutions (filed as an exhibit 
             to Realty Income's Form 8-K, dated October 27, 1998 
             and incorporated herein by reference).

        4.6  Form of 8.25% Notes due 2008 (filed as an exhibit to 
             Realty Income's Form 8-K, dated October 27, 1998 
             and incorporated herein by reference).

                                                                 Page 155

        4.7  Indenture dated as of October 28, 1998 between
             Realty Income and The Bank of New York (filed)
             as an exhibit to Realty Income's Form 8-K, 
             dated October 27, 1998 and incorporated herein by 
             reference).

       10.1  Revolving Credit Agreement (filed as Exhibit
             99.2 to the Company's Form 8-K dated
             December 16, 1994 and incorporated herein by
             reference).

       10.2  First Amendment to the Revolving Credit
             Agreement (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the
             Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
             September 30, 1996 and incorporated herein
             by reference).

       10.3  Second Amendment to the Revolving Credit
             Agreement (filed as Exhibit 99.2 to the
             Company's Form 8-K dated December 19, 1995
             and incorporated herein by reference).

       10.4  Third Amendment to the Revolving Credit
             Agreement(filed as Exhibit 10.4 to the
             Company's Form 10-K dated December 31, 1996
             and incorporated herein by reference).

       10.5  Fourth Amendment to the Revolving Credit
             Agreement(filed as Exhibit 10.5 to the
             Company's Form 10-Q dated March 31, 1997
             and incorporated herein by reference).

       10.6  Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Agreement,
             dated as of November 29, 1994 and restated as of 
             December 30, 1997 (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's
             Form 10-Q dated June 30, 1998 and incorporated herein by 
             Reference).  

       10.7  1994 Stock Option and Incentive Plan (filed as Exhibit 
             4.1 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-8
             (registration number 33-95708) and incorporated herein
             by reference).

       10.8  First Amendment to the 1994 Stock Option and Incentive 
             Plan, dated June 12, 1997 (filed as Exhibit 10.9 to the 
             Company's Form 8-B and incorporated herein by reference).

       10.9  Second Amendment to the 1994 Stock Option and Incentive 
             Plan, dated December 16, 1997, (filed as Exhibit 10.9 to the 
             Company's Form 10-K dated December 31, 1997 and incorporated 
             herein by reference).


                                                                 Page 156

      10.10  Management Incentive Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.10 to the 
             Company's Form 10-K dated December 31, 1997 and incorporated 
             herein by reference).

      10.11  Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement for 
             Independent Directors, (filed as Exhibit 10.11 to the 
             Company's Form 10-K dated December 31, 1997 and incorporated 
             herein by reference).

      10.12  Form of Indemnification Agreement entered into between 
             the Company and the executive officers of the Company 
             (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Form 8-K dated
             November 21, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference).

      10.13  Form of Indemnification Agreement entered into between 
             the Company and each director on the board of directors 
             of the Company (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's 
             Form 8-K dated November 21, 1997 and incorporated herein 
             by reference).

      10.14  Form of Employment Agreement between the Company and its
             Executive Officers (incorporated by reference to the
             Company's Form 8-B12B dated July 29, 1997 and
             incorporated herein by reference).

       12.1  Statement re computation of ratios, filed herein.

       21.1  Subsidiaries of the Company as of January 1, 1998, filed 
             herein. 

       23.1  Consent of KPMG LLP, filed herein.

       27    Financial Data Schedule, filed herein.

B. The Registrant two reports on Form 8-K during the last quarter of the 
   period covered by this report.  

A report on Form 8-K was dated October 27, 1998 and filed on October 28, 
1998 reporting the issuance of $100.0 million, 8.25%, 10-year notes due in 
November 2008.

A report on Form 8-K was dated October 15, 1998 and filed on October 16, 
1998 setting forth risks associated with the Company.










                                                                 Page 157

                            SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the 
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the 
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

REALTY INCOME CORPORATION



By:   /s/THOMAS A. LEWIS
      ------------------------------------
      Thomas A. Lewis
      Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors and
      Chief Executive Officer

Date: March 17, 1999



     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 
this report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the 
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.



By:   /s/WILLIAM E. CLARK
      ------------------------------------
      William E. Clark
      Chairman of the Board of Directors

Date: March 17, 1999



By:   /s/THOMAS A. LEWIS
      ------------------------------------
      Thomas A. Lewis
      Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors and
      Chief Executive Officer
      (Principal Executive Officer)

Date: March 17, 1999



By:   /s/DONALD R. CAMERON
      ------------------------------------
      Donald R. Cameron
      Director
SIGNATURES (continued)

Date: March 19, 1999
                                                                 Page 158

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this 
report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the registrant 
and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.



By:   /s/ROGER P. KUPPINGER
      ------------------------------------
      Roger P. Kuppinger
      Director

Date: March 17, 1999



By:   /s/MICHAEL D. MCKEE
      ------------------------------------
      Michael D. McKee
      Director

Date: March 17, 1999



By:   /s/WILLARD H. SMITH JR
      ------------------------------------
      Willard H. Smith Jr
      Director

Date: March 17, 1999



By:   /s/RICHARD J. VANDERHOFF
      ------------------------------------
      Richard J. VanDerhoff
      Director, President and Chief Operating Officer

Date: March 17, 1999




By:   /s/GARY MALINO
      ------------------------------------
      Gary Malino
      Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer
      (Principal Financial Officer)

Date: March 17, 1999



                                                                 Page 159

SIGNATURES (continued)

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this 
report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the registrant 
and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.



By:   /s/GREGORY J. FAHEY
      ------------------------------------
      Gregory J. Fahey
      Vice President, Controller

Date: March 17, 1999


                          EXHIBIT INDEX
                          =============

Exhibit No.     Description
- -----------     -----------


12.1            Statement re computation of ratios

21.1            Subsidiaries of the Company as of 
                January 1, 1999

23.1            Consent of KPMG LLP

27              Financial Data Schedule 






















                                                                 Page 160








