
10-K405
0001.txt





                             UNITED STATES
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                         Washington, DC  20549

                               FORM 10-K
                               =========

             ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D)
                OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

              For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2000

                    Commission File Number 1-13318

                       REALTY INCOME CORPORATION
                       -------------------------
        (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

              Maryland                             33-0580106
              --------                             ----------
   (State or other jurisdiction of                (IRS Employer
    incorporation or organization)            Identification Number)

          220 West Crest Street, Escondido, California  92025
          ---------------------------------------------------
               (Address of principal executive offices)

   Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (760)741-2111
                                                       -------------

     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (b) of the Act:

                                              Name of Each Exchange
       Title of Each Class                    On Which Registered
   ----------------------------------------  -----------------------
   Common Stock, $1.00 Par Value             New York Stock Exchange
   Preferred Stock Purchase Rights
   Class B Preferred Stock, $1.00 Par Value  New York Stock Exchange
   Class C Preferred Stock, $1.00 Par Value  New York Stock Exchange
   8.25% Monthly Income Senior Notes,
     due 2008                                New York Stock Exchange
   ----------------------------------------  -----------------------

   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (g) of the Act: None
                                                                ----

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  [ X ]   No  [   ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.  [ X ]

At March 1, 2001 the aggregate market value of the Registrant's shares of
common stock, $1.00 par value, held by non-affiliates of the Registrant was
$653,059,000, at the New York Stock Exchange closing price of $25.27.

As of March 1, 2001, the number of common shares outstanding was
26,612,778, the number of Class B preferred shares outstanding was
2,745,700 and the number of Class C preferred shares outstanding was
1,380,000.

Documents incorporated by reference: Part III, Item 10, 11 and 12
incorporate by reference certain specific portions of the definitive proxy
statement for Realty Income Corporation's Annual Meeting to be held on
May 9, 2001, to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A.  Only those portions
of the proxy statement which are specifically incorporated by reference
herein shall constitute a part of this Annual Report.


FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
- --------------------------

This annual report on Form 10-K, including documents incorporated by
reference, contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section
27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act.  When used
in this annual report, the words estimated, anticipated and similar
expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-
looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions
about Realty Income Corporation, including, among other things:

    -  Our anticipated growth strategies;
    -  Our intention to acquire additional properties;
    -  Anticipated trends in our business, including trends in the market
       for long-term net leases of freestanding, single-tenant retail
       properties;
    -  Future expenditures for development projects; and
    -  Profitability of our subsidiary, Crest Net Lease, Inc.

Future events and actual results, financial and otherwise, may differ
materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.
In particular, some of the factors that could cause actual results to
differ materially are:

    -  Our continued qualification as a real estate investment trust;
    -  General business and economic conditions;
    -  Competition;
    -  Interest rates;

                                                             Page 2

    -  Accessibility of debt and equity capital markets; and
    -  Other risks inherent in the real estate business including tenant
       defaults, potential liability relating to environmental matters and
       illiquidity of real estate investments.

Additional factors that may cause risks and uncertainties include those
discussed in the sections entitled "Business" and "Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in this
annual report.

Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking
statements, which speak only as of the date that this annual report was
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  We undertake no
obligation to publicly release the results of any revisions to these
forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect events or
circumstances after the date  of this annual report or to reflect the
occurrence of unanticipated events.  In light of these risks and
uncertainties, the forward-looking events discussed in this annual report
might not occur.

































                                                             Page 3










                                                             Page 4

PART I
======
ITEM 1:  BUSINESS
- -----------------
                              THE COMPANY
                              ===========

Realty Income Corporation, "The Monthly Dividend Company", a Maryland
corporation ("Realty Income", the "Company", "us", "our" or "we") is
organized to operate as an equity real estate investment trust ("REIT").
We are a fully integrated, self-administered real estate company with in-
house acquisition, leasing, legal, retail and real estate research,
portfolio management and capital markets expertise.  As of December 31,
2000, we owned a diversified portfolio of 1,068 retail properties located
in 46 states with over 9.0 million square feet of leasable space leased to
72 different retail chains doing business in 23 separate retail industries.
Of the 1,068 properties in the portfolio, 1,063 are single-tenant retail
properties with the remainder being multi-tenant properties.  As of
December 31, 2000, 1,038, or 97.6%, of the 1,063 single-tenant properties
were leased with an average remaining lease term (excluding extension
options) of approximately 7.8 years.

Our primary business objective is to generate dependable monthly dividends
from a consistent and predictable level of funds from operations ("FFO")
per share.  Additionally, we seek to increase distributions to stockholders
and FFO per share through both active portfolio management and the
acquisition of additional properties.

Our portfolio management focus includes:
     -  Contractual rent increases on existing leases;
     -  Rental increases at the termination of existing leases when market
        conditions permit; and
     -  The active management of our property portfolio, including
        selective sales of properties.

Our acquisition of additional properties adheres to a focused strategy of
acquiring primarily:
     -  Freestanding, single-tenant, retail properties;
     -  Properties leased to regional and national retail chains; and
     -  Properties under long-term, net-lease agreements.

We typically acquire, then lease back, retail store locations from chain
store operators, providing capital to the operators for continued expansion
and other corporate purposes.  Our acquisitions and investment activities
are concentrated in well-defined target markets and focus generally on
middle-market retailers providing goods and services that satisfy basic
consumer needs.

Our net-lease agreements generally:
    -  Are for initial terms of 10 to 20 years;
    -  Require the tenant to pay a minimum monthly rent and property
       operating expenses (taxes, insurance and maintenance); and
                                                             Page 5

    -  Provide for future rent increases (typically subject to ceilings)
       based on increases in the consumer price index, fixed increases, or
       additional rent calculated as a percentage of the tenant's gross
       sales above a specified level.

Realty Income commenced operations as a REIT on August 15, 1994 through the
merger of 25 public and private real estate limited partnerships with and
into the Company.  Each of the partnerships was formed between 1970 and
1989 for the purpose of acquiring and managing long-term, net-leased
properties.

The five senior officers of the Company, who have each managed our
properties and operations for between three and 15 years, owned 0.8% of the
Company's outstanding common stock with a market value of $5.1 million as
of March 1, 2001.  The directors and five senior officers of the Company,
as a group, owned 2.9% of the Company's outstanding common stock with a
market value of $19.2 million as of March 1, 2001.

Realty Income's common stock is listed on The New York Stock Exchange
("NYSE") under the ticker symbol "O".  Our central index key ("CIK") number
is 726728 and cusip number is 756109-104.

Realty Income's Class B cumulative redeemable preferred stock is listed on
the NYSE under the ticker symbol "OprB" and its cusip number is 756109-302.

Realty Income's Class C cumulative redeemable preferred stock is listed on
the NYSE under the ticker symbol "OprC" and its cusip number is 756109-500.

Realty Income's 8.25% Monthly Income Senior Notes due 2008 are listed on
the NYSE under the ticker symbol "OUI".  The cusip number of these notes is
756109-203.

Realty Income has 49 employees as of March 1, 2001.


                          RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
                          ===================

Property Acquisitions

During 2000, we acquired 13 additional properties (the "New Properties")
located in nine states.  During 2000, we invested $70.0 million in the New
Properties and properties under development, excluding estimated unfunded
development costs at December 31, 2000 of $874,000.

The weighted average annual unleveraged return on the $70.0 million
invested in 2000 is estimated to be 10.8%, computed as estimated
contractual net operating income (which in the case of a net leased
property is equal to the base rent or, in the case of properties under
construction, the estimated base rent under the lease) for the first year


                                                             Page 6

of each lease, divided by the estimated total costs.  Since it is possible
that a tenant could default on the payment of contractual rent, we cannot
assure you that the actual return on the funds invested will not differ
from the foregoing percentage.

The New Properties will contain approximately 676,100 leasable square feet
and are 100% leased under net leases, with an average initial lease term of
18.3 years.  As of December 31, 2000, two of the New Properties were pre-
leased and under construction, pursuant to contracts under which the
tenants have agreed to develop the properties (with development costs
funded by Realty Income) and both begin generating rent in March 2001.


Formation of Crest Net Lease

In January 2000, we acquired 95% of the common stock of Crest Net Lease,
Inc., all of which is non-voting.  Certain members of our management and
Crest Net Lease management own 5% of the common stock, all of which is
voting stock.  Crest Net Lease was created to buy, own and sell properties,
primarily to buyers using tax-deferred exchanges under Section 1031 of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code").

During 2000, we invested $8.6 million in Crest Net Lease common stock.  In
February 2000, we entered into a $25 million, revolving credit facility
with Crest Net Lease.  The financial statements of Crest Net Lease have
been consolidated into Realty Income's financial statements.  All material
intercompany transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

During 2000, Crest Net Lease invested $28.6 million in nine retail
properties.  Estimated unfunded development costs on two properties under
construction at December 31, 2000 totaled $1.2 million.  These nine
properties will contain approximately 398,100 leasable square feet and were
100% leased, with an average initial lease term of 19.0 years.

During 2000, Crest Net Lease sold two properties for $6.2 million and we
recognized a gain of $766,000, before income taxes.  The seven properties
held for sale by Crest Net Lease at December 31, 2000 are anticipated to be
sold within six months.


Sales of Investment Properties

During 2000, we sold or exchanged 21 properties for a total of $45.2
million and recognized a gain of $6.7 million.  Included in the 21
properties are two properties leased by one of our tenants that we
exchanged for two other properties owned by that tenant for no gain.

We have an active portfolio management program that incorporates the sale
of assets when we believe the reinvestment of the sales proceeds will
generate higher returns, enhance the credit quality of our real estate
portfolio or extend our average remaining lease term.  As of December 31,

                                                             Page 7

2000, we classified real estate with a carrying amount of $33.1 million as
held for sale.  Additionally, we anticipate selling properties from our
portfolio, which have not yet been specifically identified.  We anticipate
we will receive up to $50 million in proceeds from the sale of properties
during the next 12 months.  We intend to invest these proceeds into new
property acquisitions.


Stock and Senior Debt Repurchase Program

In January 2000, our Board of Directors authorized the purchase of up to
$10 million of our outstanding common and preferred shares and senior debt
securities.  During 2000, we purchased 284,500 shares of our common stock
at an average price of $21.87 per share and 14,300 shares of our Class B
preferred stock at an average price of $19.27 per share, for a total
investment of $6.5 million.  The purchases were funded from excess cash
flow.


Increases in Monthly Distributions to Common Stockholders

In April, July and October 2000, and January 2001, the monthly
distributions to common stockholders were increased $0.00125 to $0.18125,
$0.1825, $0.18375 and $0.185 per common share, respectively.  We are
committed to our policy of paying monthly distributions to common
stockholders.  During 2000, we paid three distributions of $0.18 per common
share, three distributions of $0.18125 per common share, three
distributions of $0.1825 per common share, and three distributions of
$0.18375 per common share.  Common stock distributions for 2000 totaled
$2.1825 per share.  In December 2000, January 2001 and February 2001, we
declared distributions of $0.185 per common share, which were paid on
January 16, 2001, February 15, 2001 and March 15, 2001, respectively.  The
monthly distribution of $0.185 per common share represents a current
annualized distribution of $2.22 per share, and an annualized distribution
yield of approximately 8.8% based on the last reported sale price of our
common stock on the NYSE of $25.27 on March 1, 2001.  Although we expect to
continue our policy of paying monthly distributions, there can be no
assurance that the current level of distributions per share will be
maintained by the Company, that we will continue our pattern of increasing
distributions per share, or as to the actual distribution yield for any
future period.


Unsecured Revolving Credit Facilities

We have a $200 million acquisition credit facility that expires in December
2002.  In February 2000, we entered into a $25 million, three-year,
revolving unsecured credit facility with the Bank of Montreal, which
expires in February 2003.  These credit facilities have been and are
expected to be used for the acquisition of property and for making capital
contributions to subsidiaries for the purpose of acquiring properties.

                                                             Page 8

                 BUSINESS PHILOSOPHY AND STRATEGY
                 ================================

Investment Philosophy

We believe that the long-term ownership of an actively managed, diversified
portfolio of retail properties under long-term, net-lease agreements
produces consistent, predictable income.  Under a net-lease agreement, the
tenant agrees to pay a minimum monthly rent and property operating expenses
(taxes, maintenance, and insurance) plus, typically, future rent increases
(generally subject to ceilings) based on increases in the consumer price
index, fixed increases or additional rent calculated as a percentage of the
tenant's gross sales above a specified level.  We believe that long-term
leases, coupled with the tenant's responsibility for property expenses,
generally produce a more predictable income stream than many other types of
real estate portfolios, while continuing to offer the potential for growth
in rental income.


Investment Strategy

In identifying new properties for acquisition, we focus on providing
expansion capital to retail chains by acquiring, then leasing back, their
retail store locations.  We classify retail tenants into three categories:
venture, middle market, and upper market.  Venture companies are those
which typically offer a new retail concept in one geographic region of the
country and operate between five and 50 retail outlets.  Middle market
retail chains are those that typically have 50 to 500 retail outlets,
operations in more than one geographic region, have been successful through
one or more economic cycles, and have a proven, replicable concept.  The
upper market retail chains typically consist of companies with 500 or more
stores, operating nationally in a proven mature retail concept.  Upper
market retail chains generally have strong operating histories and access
to several sources of capital.

Realty Income primarily focuses on acquiring properties leased to middle
market retail chains which we believe are attractive for investment
because:

    -  They generally have overcome many of the operational and managerial
       obstacles that tend to adversely affect venture retailers;
    -  They typically require capital to fund expansion but have more
       limited financing options;
    -  They generally have provided us with attractive risk-
       adjusted returns over time since their financial strength has, in
       many cases, tended to improve as their businesses have matured;
    -  Their relatively large size allows them to spread corporate expenses
       across a greater number of stores; and
    -  Middle market retailers typically have the critical mass to survive
       if a number of locations have to be closed due to underperformance.


                                                             Page 9

We also focus on and have selectively made investments in properties of
upper market retail chains.  We believe upper market retail chains can be
attractive for investment because:

    -  They typically are of a higher credit quality;
    -  They are usually larger brand name, public and private retailers;
    -  They utilize a larger building ranging in size from 10,000 to 50,000
       square feet; and
    -  They are able to grow because access to capital facilitates
       larger transaction sizes.

While our investment strategy focuses primarily on acquiring properties
leased to middle and upper market retail chains, we also selectively seek
incremental investment opportunities with venture market retail chains.
Periodically, venture market opportunities arise where we feel that the
real estate used by the tenant is of high quality and can be purchased at
prices that are favorable in the marketplace.  To meet our stringent
investment standards, however, venture retail companies must have a well-
defined retailing concept and strong financial prospects.  These
opportunities are examined on a case by case basis, and we are highly
selective in making investments in this area.

The Internet has become an important delivery channel for many retail
businesses, and our investment strategy has positioned us to compete in
such an environment.  Many research analysts and experts in retail trends
believe that bricks and mortar retail businesses will successfully co-exist
with Internet retail businesses.  Many brick and mortar retailers have set
up Internet sale sites to compliment their businesses.  We believe that the
companies most vulnerable, and possibly subject to the greatest impact from
the Internet, are retail chains that sell books, consumer electronics,
music, office supplies, and, possibly, pharmaceuticals.

Our exposure to these types of retail chains is minimal.  We believe retail
chains that provide services rather than goods, such as child care centers
and auto service stores, as well as those that provide a service with their
products, such as restaurants, convenience stores and home improvement
stores, have tended to be less vulnerable to competition from the Internet
than retailers that only sell goods.  Historically, our investment focus
has been on retail industries that have a service component because we
believe the lease revenue from these types of businesses is more stable.
Because of this investment focus, as of January 1, 2001, over 77% of our
annualized revenue is derived from retailers with a service component in
their business.  We believe these service-oriented businesses would be
difficult to duplicate over the Internet and, as a result, our property
portfolio should be fairly well positioned for competition from Internet
businesses.






                                                             Page 10

Credit Strategy

We principally provide sale-leaseback financing primarily to less than
investment grade retail chains.  From 1970 through December 31, 2000, we
have acquired and leased back to regional and national retail chains 1,067
properties (including 51 properties that have been sold) and have collected
approximately 98% of the original contractual rent obligations on those
properties.  We believe that within this market we can achieve an
attractive risk-adjusted return on the financing that we provide to
retailers.

We believe that the primary financial obligations of most retailers
typically include their bank and other debt, payment obligations to
suppliers and real estate lease obligations.  Because we own the land and
buildings on which the tenant conducts its retail business, we believe that
the risk of default on the retailers' lease obligations is less than the
retailers' unsecured general obligations.  It has been our experience that
since retailers must retain their profitable retail locations in order to
survive in the event of reorganization, they are less likely to reject a
lease for a profitable location, which would terminate their right to use
the property.  Thus, as the property owner, we believe we will fare better
than unsecured creditors of the same retailer in the event of
reorganization.  If a property is rejected by the tenant during the
reorganization, we own the property and can either lease it to a new tenant
or sell the property.  In addition, we believe that the risk of default on
the real estate leases can be further mitigated by monitoring the
performance of the retailers' individual unit locations and selling those
units that are weaker performers.

In order to qualify for inclusion in our portfolio, new property
acquisitions must meet stringent investment and credit requirements.  The
properties must generate attractive current yields, and the tenant must
meet our credit standards.  We have established a three-part analysis that
examines each potential investment based on:

    -  Industry, company, market conditions and credit profile;
    -  Location profitability, if profitability data is available; and
    -  Overall real estate characteristics, value, and comparative rental
       rates.

Companies that have been approved for acquisitions are generally those with
fifty or more retail stores which are located in highly visible areas, with
easy access to major thoroughfares and attractive demographics.









                                                           Page 11

Acquisition Strategy

We seek to invest in industries in which several, well-organized, regional
and national chains are capturing market share through service, quality
control, economies of scale, mass media advertising, and the selection of
prime retail locations.  We execute our acquisition strategy by acting as a
source of capital to regional and national retail chain stores in a variety
of industries by acquiring, then leasing back their retail store locations.
We undertake thorough research and analysis to identify appropriate
industries, tenants, and property locations for investment.

Our research expertise is applied to uncover net-lease opportunities in
markets where our real estate financing program adds value.  In selecting
real estate for potential investment, we generally seek to acquire
properties that have the following characteristics:

    -  Freestanding, commercially zoned property with a single tenant;
    -  Properties that are important retail locations for regional and
       national retail chains;
    -  Properties that are located within attractive demographic areas
       relative to the business of their tenants, with high visibility and
       easy access to major thoroughfares; and
    -  Properties that can be purchased with the simultaneous execution or
       assumption of long-term, net-lease agreements, providing the
       opportunity for both current income and future rent increases.


Portfolio Management Strategy

The active management of the property portfolio is an essential component
of our long-term strategy.  We continually monitor our portfolio for
changes that could affect the performance of the industries, tenants, and
locations in which we have invested.  The portfolio is analyzed on an
ongoing basis with a view towards optimizing returns and enhancing the
credit quality of the portfolio.  Realty Income's investment committee
meets frequently and is made up of our Chief Executive Officer and two
Executive Vice Presidents.  Our investment committee reviews industry
research, tenant research, property due diligence, and significant
portfolio management activities.  This monitoring typically includes
ongoing review and analysis of:

    -  The performance of various retail industries;
    -  The operation, management, business planning, and financial
       condition of the tenants; and
    -  The health of the individual markets in which we own properties,
       from both an economic and real estate standpoint.

We have an active portfolio management program that incorporates the sale
of assets when we believe the reinvestment of the sales proceeds will
generate higher returns, enhance the credit quality of our real estate
portfolio or extend our average remaining lease terms.  As of December 31,

                                                             Page 12

2000, we classified real estate with a carrying amount of $33.1 million as
held for sale.  Additionally, we anticipate selling properties from our
portfolio, which have not yet been specifically identified.  We anticipate
we will receive up to $50 million in proceeds from the sale of properties
during the next 12 months.  We intend to invest these proceeds into new
property acquisitions.


Capital Markets Strategy

We believe that we are best served by a conservative capital structure,
with a majority of our capital consisting of equity.  As of March 1, 2001,
our total outstanding credit facility borrowings and outstanding notes were
$387.3 million or approximately 33.3% of our total capitalization of $1.2
billion (defined as shares of our common stock outstanding multiplied by
the last reported sales price of the common stock on the NYSE on March 1,
2001 of $25.27 per share plus the issuance value of the Class B Preferred
Stock, the Class C Preferred Stock, the outstanding borrowings on the
credit facilities and outstanding notes at March 1, 2001).

We have a $200 million revolving, unsecured acquisition credit facility
that expires in December 2002 and a $25 million revolving, unsecured credit
facility that expires in February 2003.  As of March 1, 2001, the
outstanding balance on the $200 million credit facility was $142.9 million
with an effective interest rate of approximately 7.4%.  At March 1, 2001,
the outstanding balance on the $25 million credit facility was $14.4
million with an effective interest rate of approximately 7.6%.  A
commitment fee of 0.225% per annum accrues on the total credit commitment
of each credit facility.  The credit facilities have been and are expected
to be used to acquire additional retail properties leased to regional and
national retail chains under long term net lease agreements.  The credit
facilities have also been used to make capital contributions to
subsidiaries for the purpose of funding the acquisition of properties.

We use our credit facilities as a vehicle for the short-term financing of
the acquisition of new properties.  When outstanding borrowings under the
$200 million credit facility reach a certain level (generally in the range
of $75 to $175 million) and capital is available on acceptable terms, we
generally seek to refinance those borrowings with the net proceeds of long-
term or permanent financing, which may include the issuance of common
stock, preferred stock, convertible preferred stock, debt securities or
convertible debt securities.  We cannot assure you, however, that we will
be able to obtain any such refinancing or that market conditions prevailing
at the time of refinancing will enable us to issue equity or debt
securities upon acceptable terms.  We intend to pay off borrowings on our
$25 million credit facility with proceeds from the sale of properties
acquired by us or our subsidiaries.





                                                           Page 13

We received investment grade credit ratings from Fitch IBCA Duff & Phelps;
Moody's Investor Service, Inc.; and Standard & Poor's Rating Group in
December 1996.  Currently, Fitch IBCA Duff & Phelps has assigned a rating
of BBB, Moody's has assigned a rating of Baa3, and Standard & Poor's has
assigned a rating of BBB- to our senior unsecured debt.  These ratings
could change based upon, among other things, our results of operations and
financial condition.

We have also received credit ratings from the same rating agencies on our
preferred stock.  Fitch IBCA Duff & Phelps has assigned a rating of BBB-,
Moody's Investor Service, Inc. has assigned a rating of Ba1, and Standard &
Poor's Rating Group has assigned a rating of BB+.  These ratings could
change based upon, among other things, our results of operations and
financial condition.

Historically, we have met our long-term capital needs through the issuance
of common stock, preferred stock and investment grade long-term unsecured
debt.  We believe the majority of our future securities issuances should be
in the form of common stock.  We will issue common stock when we believe
that the share price of our common stock is at a level that allows for the
proceeds of any offering to be invested on an accretive basis into
additional properties or to pay down any short-term borrowings on our
credit facilities.  In addition, we seek to maintain a conservative debt
level on our balance sheet, which should result in conservative interest
and fixed charge coverage ratios.  We do not anticipate issuing significant
amounts of additional debt until additional equity can also be issued to
offset the increase in debt.  If the share price levels do not increase and
we do not issue additional equity or debt, we will reduce our level of
property acquisitions.  Under these circumstances, we intend to achieve our
growth objectives by investing excess cash flow in additional retail
properties or purchases of our outstanding securities.  In addition, we
intend to strategically sell properties when we believe the investment of
the sale proceeds will generate higher returns or enhance the credit
quality of our property portfolio.


Competitive Strategy

We believe that, to utilize our investment philosophy and strategy most
successfully, we must seek to maintain the following competitive
advantages:

- -  Size and Type of Investment Properties:  We believe that smaller
   ($500,000 to $10,000,000) retail net-leased properties represent an
   attractive investment opportunity in today's real estate environment.
   Due to the complexities of acquiring and managing a large portfolio of
   relatively small assets, we believe that these types of properties have
   not experienced significant institutional participation or the
   corresponding yield reduction experienced by larger income producing
   properties.  We believe the less intensive day to day property
   management required by net-lease agreements, coupled with the active

                                                           Page 14

   management of a large portfolio of smaller properties, is an
   effective investment strategy. The tenants of our freestanding retail
   properties generally provide goods and services which satisfy basic
   consumer needs.  In order to grow and expand, they generally need
   capital.  Since the acquisition of real estate is typically the single
   largest capital expenditure of many of these retailers, our method of
   purchasing the property and then leasing it back under a net-lease
   arrangement allows the retail chain to free up capital.

- -  Investment in New Retail Industries:  Though we specialize in single-
   tenant  properties, we will seek to further diversify our portfolio
   among a variety of retail industries.  We believe that diversification
   will allow us to invest in retail industries that are currently growing
   and have characteristics we find attractive.  These characteristics
   include, but are not limited to, retail industries dominated by local
   operators where regional and national chain operators can gain market
   share and dominance through more efficient operations, as well as
   industries taking advantage of major demographic shifts in the
   population base.  As of December 31, 2000, the properties in our
   portfolio were leased to retail tenants operating in 23 industries.

- -  Diversification:  Diversification of the portfolio by retail industry
   type, tenant and geographic location is key to our objective of
   providing predictable investment results for our stockholders.  We
   continuously seek to further diversify our portfolio.  As of
   December 31, 2000, the properties in our portfolio were leased to 72
   retail chains.  These retail chains operate 957 of our properties
   located in 46 states.

- -  Management Specialization:  We believe that our management's
   specialization in single-tenant retail properties operated under net-
   lease agreements is important to meeting our objectives.  We plan to
   maintain this specialization and will seek to employ and train high-
   quality professionals in this specialized area of real estate ownership,
   finance and management.

- -  Technology:  We intend to stay at the forefront of technology in our
   efforts to efficiently and economically carry out our operations.  We
   maintain a sophisticated information system that allows us to analyze
   our portfolio's performance and actively manage our investments.  We
   believe that technology and information-based systems will play an
   increasingly important role in our competitiveness as an investment
   manager and source of capital to a variety of industries and tenants.









                                                           Page 15

                               PROPERTIES
                               ==========

As of December 31, 2000, we owned a diversified portfolio of 1,068
properties located in 46 states with over 9.0 million square feet of
leasable space.  In addition to our real estate portfolio, our subsidiary
Crest Net Lease owned seven properties.  Our property portfolio is leased
to 72 retail chains doing business in 23 retail industries.  At December
31, 2000, 1,038 or 97.2% of the 1,068 properties were under net-lease
agreements.  Net leases typically require the tenant to be responsible for
minimum monthly rent and property operating expenses including property
taxes, insurance and maintenance plus, typically, future rent increases
(generally subject to ceilings) based on increases in the consumer price
index, fixed increases or additional rent calculated as a percentage of the
tenant's gross sales above a specified level.

Our net-leased retail properties are primarily leased to regional and
national retail chain store operators.  The average leasable retail space
of the 1,068 properties is approximately 8,400 square feet on approximately
60,200 square feet of land.  Generally, buildings are single-story
properties with adequate parking on site to accommodate peak retail traffic
periods.  The properties tend to be on major thoroughfares with relatively
high traffic counts and adequate access, egress and proximity to a
sufficient population base to constitute a suitable market or trade area
for the retailer's business.



























                                                           Page 16

The following table sets forth-certain information regarding our properties
classified according to the business of the respective tenants:


* Less than 0.1%

[FN]
(1)  Does not include properties owned by Crest Net Lease which are held
for sale.  Crest Net Lease is a subsidiary of Realty Income.

Of the 1,068 properties in the portfolio at January 1, 2001, 1,063 were
single-tenant properties with the remaining properties being multi-tenant
properties.  As of January 1, 2001, 1,038 of the 1,063 single-tenant
properties, or 97.6%, were leased with an average remaining lease term
(excluding extension options) of approximately 7.8 years.

                                                           Page 17

The following table sets forth certain information regarding the timing of
the initial lease term expirations (excluding extension options) on our
1,038 net leased, single-tenant retail properties as of January 1, 2001
(dollars in thousands).

[FN]
(1)  This table does not include five multi-tenant properties and 25
vacant, unleased single-tenant properties owned by the Company and seven
properties owned by Crest Net Lease.  The lease expirations for properties
under construction are based on the estimated date of completion of such
properties.

(2)  Annualized Rent is calculated by multiplying the monthly contractual
base rent as of January 1, 2001 for each of the properties by 12 and adding
the previous 12 month's historic percentage rent, which totaled $2.0
million (i.e., additional rent calculated as a percentage of the tenant's
gross sales above a specified level.)  For properties under construction,
an estimated contractual base rent based upon the estimated total costs of
each property is used.


                                                             Page 18

The following table sets forth certain state-by-state information regarding
Realty Income's portfolio at January 1, 2001 (dollars in thousands).


[FN]
(1)  Does not include seven properties owned by Crest Net Lease which are
held for sale.  Crest Net Lease is a subsidiary of Realty Income
Corporation.

(2)  Annualized rent is calculated by multiplying the monthly contractual
base rent as of January 1, 2001 for each of the properties by 12 and adding
the previous 12 month's historic percentage rent, which totaled $2.0
million (i.e., additional rent calculated as a percentage of the tenant's
gross sales above a specified level).  For the properties under
construction, an estimated contractual base rent based upon the estimated
total costs of each property is used.

























                                                             Page 20

The following table sets forth certain information regarding the properties
owned by Realty Income as of January 1, 2001, classified according to the
business of the respective tenants (dollars in thousands).
                                                     Page 21

[FN]
(1)  Does not include seven properties owned by Crest Net Lease which are
held for sale.  Crest Net Lease is a subsidiary of Realty Income
Corporation.

(2)  Annualized rent is calculated by multiplying the monthly contractual
base rent as of January 1, 2001 for each of the properties by 12 and adding
the previous 12 month's historic percentage rent, which totaled $2.0
million (i.e., additional rent calculated as a percentage of the tenant's
gross sales above a specified level).  For the properties under
construction, an estimated contractual base rent based upon the estimated
total costs of each property is used.



Description of Leasing Structure

At December 31, 2000, 1,038 or 97.2% of the Company's 1,068 properties were
leased pursuant to net leases.  In most cases, the leases:

1.  Were for initial terms of from 10 to 20 years with the tenant having an
option to extend the initial term;

2.  Require the tenant to pay property taxes, insurance, and expenses of
maintaining the property;

3.  Provide for a minimum base rent plus future increases (typically
subject to ceilings) based on increases in the consumer price index,
additional rent based upon the tenant's gross sales above a specified level
(i.e., percentage rent) or fixed increases.  Where leases provide for rent
increases based on increases in the consumer price index, generally these
increases permanently become part of the base rent.  Where leases provide
for percentage rent, this additional rent is typically payable only if the
tenant's gross sales for a given period (usually one year) exceed a
specified level, and then is typically calculated as a percentage of only
the amount of gross sales in excess of that level.


Matters Pertaining to Certain Properties and Tenants
- ----------------------------------------------------

Twenty-five of our properties were available for lease as of January 1,
2001, all of which are single-tenant properties.  Two of the properties had
been previously leased to an automotive service facility operator, four to
a child care operator, one to an entertainment facility operator, one to a
home furnishings store operator, 13 to home improvement operators, three to
restaurant operators and one to a shoe store operator.  As of January 1,
2001, 17 of our properties under lease were available for sublease by the
tenants, all of which were current with their rent and other obligations.



                                                           Page 22

Our two largest tenants are Children's World Learning Centers and La Petite
Academy, which accounted for approximately 12.7% and 10.6%, respectively,
of our rental revenue for the year ended December 31, 2000.  No other
tenant comprised 10% or more of our rental revenue.  In general, a downturn
in the industry represented by these tenants, whether nationwide or limited
to specific sectors of the United States, could adversely affect tenants in
this industry, which in turn could materially adversely affect our
financial position and results of operations and our ability to make
distributions to stockholders and debt service payments.  In addition, a
substantial number of our properties are leased to middle market retail
chains which generally have more limited financial and other resources than
certain upper market retail chains, and therefore are more likely to be
adversely affected by a downturn in their respective business or in the
regional or national economy generally.

Our tenants in the child care and restaurant industries accounted for
approximately 24.7% and 12.0%, respectively, of our rental revenue for the
year ended December 31, 2000.  A downturn in any of these industries
generally, whether nationwide or limited to specific sectors of the United
States, could adversely affect tenants in those industries, which in turn
could materially adversely affect our financial position and results of
operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders and debt
service payments.

During the first half of 2000 we successfully resolved a situation involving
the vacancy of 11 of our 34 properties leased to Econo Lube 'N Tune.  This
situation had nominal impact on our operating results during 2000.  We
believe we will complete the re-leasing of the remaining two properties
during the first half of 2001 and will ultimately obtain 90% or more of the
lease revenue previously derived from Econo Lube 'N Tune.

During the last six months, we made progress in the re-lease of the 21
properties formerly occupied by Flooring America that became vacant during
the third quarter of 2000.  As of March 1, 2001, transactions were underway
or completed on 11 of the 21 properties, which leaves us with just 10
properties to be re-leased or sold.  The Flooring America stores are
generally in excellent retail locations that lend themselves to a wide
variety of retail uses.  In addition, the rents previously received on these
properties were mainly at prevailing market rents.  We believe we will
complete the re-leasing of the remaining 10 properties during the first half
of 2001 and will ultimately obtain 90% or more of the lease revenue
previously derived from Flooring America.


Development of Certain Properties

Of the 13 properties we acquired in 2000 and nine properties acquired by
Crest Net Lease in 2000, all but one were occupied as of March 1, 2001.
The remaining property was pre-leased and under construction pursuant to a
contract under which the tenant has agreed to develop the properties (with
development costs funded by Crest Net Lease) with rent commencing when the
premises open for business.  In the case of development properties, we
                                                             Page 23

either enter into an agreement with a retail chain where the retailer
retains a contractor to construct the improvements and we fund the costs of
that development, or we fund a developer who constructs the improvements.
In either case, there is an executed lease and there is a requirement to
complete the construction on a timely basis, generally within eight months
after we purchase the land.  Generally, the tenant or developer is required
to pay construction cost overruns to the extent they exceed the
construction budget by more than a predetermined amount.  We also enter
into a lease with the tenant at the time we purchase the land, which
generally requires that the tenant begin paying base rent, calculated as a
percentage of our acquisition cost for the property, including construction
costs and capitalized interest, when the premises open for business.
During 2000, we acquired two development properties, and Crest Net Lease
acquired two development properties, three of which have been completed,
were operating and generating rent as of March 1, 2001.  Both Realty Income
and Crest Net Lease will continue to seek to acquire land for development
under similar arrangements.


                       DISTRIBUTION POLICY
                       ===================

Distributions are paid to our common stockholders and Class C Preferred
stockholders on a monthly basis and paid to our Class B Preferred
stockholders on a quarterly basis if, as and when declared by our Board of
Directors.  The Class B Preferred stockholders receive cumulative
distributions at a rate of 9.375% per annum on the $25 per share
liquidation preference (equivalent to $2.3436 per annum per share).  The
Class C Preferred stockholders receive cumulative distributions at a rate
of 9.5% per annum on the $25 per share liquidation preference (equivalent
to $2.3748 per annum per share).

The March 2001 distribution of $0.185 per common share represents a current
annualized distribution of $2.22 per share, and an annualized distribution
yield of approximately 8.8% based on the last reported sale price of $25.27
of our common stock, on the NYSE on March 1, 2001.  In order to maintain
our tax status as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we are generally
required to distribute dividends to our stockholders aggregating annually
at least 95% (90% beginning in 2001) of our REIT taxable income (determined
without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding net capital
gains).  In 2000, our distributions totaled approximately 119.0% of our
REIT taxable income.  We intend to continue to make distributions to our
stockholders that are sufficient to meet this requirement.

Future distributions by us will be at the discretion of our Board of
Directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of
operations, financial condition and capital requirements, the annual
distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Code, our debt
service requirements and other factors as the Board of Directors may deem
relevant.  In addition, our credit facilities contain financial covenants
which could limit the amount of distributions payable by us in the event of

                                                             Page 24

a deterioration in the results of operations or financial condition of the
Company, and which prohibit the payment of distributions on the common or
preferred stock in the event that we fail to pay when due (subject to any
applicable grace period) any principal or interest on borrowings under our
credit facilities.

Distributions by us to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings
and profits for federal income tax purposes generally will be taxable to
stockholders as ordinary income.  Distributions in excess of earnings and
profits generally will be treated as a non-taxable reduction in the
stockholders' basis in its stock to the extent of that basis, and
thereafter as a capital gain.  Approximately 19.0% of the distributions
made or deemed to have been made in 2000 were classified as a return of
capital for federal income tax purposes.  We are unable to predict the
portion of 2001 or future distributions that may be classified as a return
of capital since the amount depends on our taxable income for the entire
year.


                              OTHER ITEMS
                              ===========

Competition for Acquisition of Real Estate

We face competition in the acquisition, operation and sale of property.  We
expect competition from:

    - Businesses;
    - Individuals;
    - Fiduciary accounts and plans; and
    - Other entities engaged in real estate investment.

Some of these competitors are larger than we are and have greater financial
resources.  This competition may result in a higher cost for properties
that we wish to purchase.

The tenants leasing our properties generally face significant competition
from other operators.  This competition may adversely impact:

    -  That portion, if any, of the rental stream to be paid to us based on
       a tenant's revenues; and
    -  The tenants' results of operations or financial condition.

Environmental Liabilities

Investments in real property can create a potential for environmental
liability.  An owner of property can face liability for environmental
contamination created by the presence or discharge of hazardous substances
on the property.  We face such liability regardless of:

    - Our knowledge of the contamination;
    - The timing of the contamination;
                                                             Page 25

    - The cause of the contamination; or
    - The party responsible for the contamination of the property.

We are not aware of any material environmental problems at this time;
however, there may be environmental problems associated with our properties
of which we are unaware.  In that regard, a number of our properties are
leased to operators of oil change and tune-up facilities, and convenience
stores that sell petroleum-based fuels.  These facilities, or other of our
properties, use, or may have used in the past, underground tanks for the
storage of petroleum-based or waste products which could create a potential
for release of hazardous substances.

The presence of hazardous substances on a property may adversely affect our
ability to sell that property, and we may incur substantial remediation
costs.  Although our leases generally require our tenants to operate in
compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws, ordinances
and regulations and to indemnify us against any environmental liabilities
arising from the tenants' activities on the property, we could nevertheless
be subject to strict liability by virtue of our ownership interest, and
there can be no assurance that our tenants would satisfy their
indemnification obligations under the leases.

We believe that our properties comply in all material respects with all
federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations regarding
hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products.

We have not been notified by any governmental authority, and are not
otherwise aware, of any material noncompliance, liability or claim relating
to hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products in connection with
any of our present properties.  Nevertheless, if environmental
contamination should exist, we could be subject to strict liability by
virtue of our ownership interest.

Since December 1996, the Company has maintained an environmental insurance
policy on the property portfolio.  The limit of the policy is $5 million
per occurrence and $25 million in the aggregate, subject to a $100,000 self
insured retention per occurrence.  There is a sublimit on properties with
underground storage tanks of $1 million per occurrence and $5 million in
the aggregate, subject to a $25,000 self insured retention per occurrance.


Taxation of the Company

We believe that we have operated, and we intend to continue to operate, so
as to qualify as a REIT under Sections 856 through 860 of the Code,
commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 1994.  Although we
believe that we are in compliance with all REIT qualification rules and we
are organized and operate as a REIT, we can not completely assure you that
we will continue to be so organized or that we will be able to operate in a
manner so as to qualify or remain so qualified.


                                                             Page 26

Qualification as a REIT involves the satisfaction of numerous requirements
under highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only
limited judicial and administrative interpretations, and the determination
of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our
control.

We cannot assure you that legislation, new regulations, administrative
interpretations or court decisions will leave unchanged the tax laws with
respect to qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences
of that qualification.

If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year:

    -  We would be subject to federal income tax (including any applicable
       alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate
       rates;
    -  We would not be allowed a deduction in computing our taxable income
       for amounts distributed to our stockholders;
    -  We would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four
       taxable years following the year during which qualification is lost.
       This treatment would substantially reduce our net earnings available
       for investment or distribution to stockholders because of the
       additional tax liability for the years involved; and
    -  We would no longer be required to make distributions to
       stockholders.

Even if we qualify for and maintain our REIT status, we are subject to
certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and property.  For
example, if we have net income from a prohibited transaction, that income
will be subject to a 100% tax.  Our subsidiary Crest Net Lease is subject
to federal and states taxes at the applicable tax rates on its income and
property.


Effect of Distribution Requirements

To maintain our status as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we
generally are required to distribute to our stockholders at least 95% (90%
beginning in 2001) of our taxable income each year.  This taxable income is
determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding
net capital gains.

We are also subject to tax at regular corporate rates to the extent that we
distribute less than 100% of our taxable income (including net capital
gains) each year.

In addition, we are subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount,
if any, by which certain distributions paid by us with respect to any
calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income for that
calendar year, 95% of our capital gain net income for the calendar year,
and any amount of that income that was not distributed in prior years.

                                                             Page 27

We intend to continue to make distributions to our stockholders to comply
with the distribution requirements of the Code and to reduce exposure to
federal income taxes and the nondeductible excise tax.

Differences in timing between the receipt of income and the payment of
expenses in arriving at taxable income and the effect of required debt
amortization payments could require us to borrow funds on a short-term
basis to meet the distribution requirements that are necessary to achieve
the tax benefits associated with qualifying as a REIT.


Dilution of Common Stock

Our future growth will depend in large part upon our ability to raise
additional capital.  If we were to raise additional capital through the
issuance of equity securities, we could dilute the interests of holders of
common stock. Likewise, our Board of Directors is authorized to cause us to
issue preferred stock of any class or series (with dividend, voting and
other rights as determined by the Board of Directors).  Accordingly, the
Board of Directors may authorize the issuance of preferred stock with
voting, dividend and other similar rights that could dilute, or otherwise
adversely affect, the interests of holders of Common Stock.


Real Estate Ownership Risks

We are subject to all of the general risks associated with the ownership of
real estate.  In particular, we face the risk that rental revenue from the
properties will be insufficient to cover all corporate operating expenses
and debt service payments on indebtedness we incur.  Additional real estate
ownership risks include:

     -  Adverse changes in general or local economic conditions;
     -  Changes in supply of or demand for similar or competing properties;
     -  Changes in interest rates and operating expenses;
     -  Competition for tenants;
     -  Changes in market rental rates;
     -  Inability to lease properties upon termination of existing leases;
     -  Renewal of leases at lower rental rates;
     -  Inability to collect rents from tenants due to financial hardship,
        including bankruptcy, and sales declines due to the impact from
        Internet commerce;
     -  Changes in tax, real estate, zoning and environmental laws that may
        have an adverse impact upon the value of real estate;
     -  Uninsured property liability;
     -  Property damage or casualty losses;
     -  Unexpected expenditures for capital improvements or to bring
        properties into compliance with applicable federal, state and local
        laws; and
     -  Acts of God and other factors beyond the control of our management.


                                                             Page 28

Dependence On Key Personnel

We depend on the efforts of our executive officers and key employees.  The
loss of the services of our executive officers and key employees could have
a material adverse effect on our operations.


ITEM 2:  PROPERTIES
- -------------------

Information pertaining to our properties can be found under Item 1.


ITEM 3:  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
- --------------------------

The Company is subject to certain claims and lawsuits, the outcome of which
are not determinable at this time.  In the opinion of management, any
liability that might be incurred by the Company upon the resolution of
these claims and lawsuits will not, in the aggregate, have a material
adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial statements taken as
a whole.


ITEM 4:  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
- ------------------------------------------------------------

No matters were submitted to stockholders during the fourth quarter of the
fiscal year.























                                                             Page 29

PART II
=======

ITEM 5:  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
         STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
- ----------------------------------------------------------

A.  The common stock of the Company is traded on the New York Stock
Exchange under the ticker symbol "O."  The following table shows the high
and low sales prices per share for our common stock as reported by the New
York Stock Exchange composite tape, and distributions declared per share of
common stock by us for the periods indicated.


[FN]
(1)  Common stock distributions currently are declared monthly by us based
on financial results for the prior months.  At December 31, 2000 a
distribution of $0.185 per common share had been declared and was paid on
January 16, 2001.



B.  There were approximately 12,800 holders of record of Realty Income's
shares of common stock as of March 1, 2001.


                                                               Page 30

ITEM 6:  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
- --------------------------------
(not covered by Independent Auditors' Report)


[FN]
(1)  Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges is calculated by dividing earnings
by fixed charges.  For this purpose, earnings consist of net income before
interest expense.  Fixed charges are comprised of interest costs (including
capitalized interest) and the amortization of debt issuance costs.

(2)  1996 distributions paid per common share includes a special
distribution of $0.23 per share.












                                                               Page 32

ITEM 7:  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
         CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
- ----------------------------------------------------------

GENERAL
- -------

Realty Income Corporation, "The Monthly Dividend Company", a Maryland
corporation ("Realty Income", the "Company", "us", "we" or "our") is
organized to operate as an equity real estate investment trust ("REIT").
We are a fully integrated self-administered real estate company with in-
house acquisition, leasing, legal, retail research, real estate research,
portfolio management and capital markets expertise.  As of December 31,
2000, we owned a diversified portfolio of 1,068 retail properties located
in 46 states with over 9.0 million square feet of leasable space.

Our primary business objective is to generate dependable monthly dividends
from a consistent and predictable level of funds from operations ("FFO")
per share.  Additionally, we generally will seek to increase distributions
to stockholders and FFO per share through both active portfolio management
and the acquisition of additional properties.


LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
- -------------------------------

Cash Reserves

Realty Income is organized for the purpose of operating as an equity REIT
which acquires and leases properties and distributes to stockholders, in
the form of monthly cash distributions, a substantial portion of its net
cash flow generated from leases on its retail properties.  We intend to
retain an appropriate amount of cash as working capital.  At December 31,
2000, we had cash and cash equivalents totaling $3.8 million.

We believe that our cash and cash equivalents on hand, cash provided from
operating activities and borrowing capacity are sufficient to meet our
liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. We intend, however, to use
additional sources of capital to fund property acquisitions and to repay
our credit facilities.


Capital Funding

We have a $200 million, three-year revolving, unsecured acquisition credit
facility that expires in December 2002 and a $25 million, three-year
revolving, unsecured credit facility that expires in February 2003.  The
credit facilities currently bear interest at 1.225% over the London
Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR, and offer us other interest rate options.
As of March 1, 2001, borrowing capacity of $67.7 million was available on
our credit facilities.  At that time, the outstanding balance on the credit
facilities was $157.3 million with an effective interest rate of 7.4%.
                                                             Page 33

These credit facilities have been and are expected to be used to acquire
additional retail properties leased to national and regional retail chains
under long-term lease agreements.  Any additional borrowings will increase
our exposure to interest rate risk.

In June 1999, we filed a universal shelf registration statement with the
Securities and Exchange Commission covering up to $400 million in value of
common stock, preferred stock and debt securities.  Through March 1, 2001,
we have issued $34.5 million of common stock, preferred stock and debt
securities under the universal shelf registration statement.

We believe that our shareholders are best served by a conservative capital
structure.  As of March 1, 2001, our total outstanding credit facility
borrowings and outstanding notes were $387.3 million or approximately 33.3%
of our total capitalization of $1.2 billion (defined as shares of our
common stock outstanding multiplied by the last reported sales price of the
common stock on the NYSE on March 1, 2001 of $25.27 per share plus the
liquidation value of the Class B Preferred Stock, the Class C Preferred
Stock, the outstanding borrowings on the credit facilities and outstanding
notes at March 1, 2001).

Historically, we have met our long-term capital needs through the issuance
of common stock, preferred stock and investment grade long-term unsecured
debt.  We believe that the Company should have the majority of its future
issuances of securities be in the form of common stock.  We will issue
common stock when we believe that the share price of our common stock is at
a level that allows for the proceeds of any offering to be invested on an
accretive basis into additional properties or to pay down any short-term
borrowings on our credit facilities.  In addition, we seek to maintain a
conservative debt level on our balance sheet, which should result in solid
interest and fixed charge coverage ratios.  We do not anticipate issuing
significant amounts of additional debt until additional equity can also be
issued to offset the increase in debt.  If the share price levels do not
increase and we do not issue additional equity or debt, we will reduce our
level of property acquisitions.  Under these circumstances, we intend to
achieve our growth objectives by investing excess cash flow in additional
retail properties and repurchases of our outstanding securities.  In
addition, we intend to strategically sell properties when we believe the
investment of the sale proceeds will generate higher returns or enhance the
credit quality of our property portfolio.

We received investment grade corporate credit ratings on our senior
unsecured debt from Fitch IBCA Duff & Phelps; Moody's Investor Service,
Inc.; and Standard & Poor's Rating Group in December 1996.  Currently,
Fitch IBCA Duff & Phelps has assigned a rating of BBB, Moody's has assigned
a rating of Baa3, and Standard & Poor's has assigned a rating of BBB- to
our senior debt.  These ratings could change based upon, among other
things, our results of operations and financial condition.

We have also received credit ratings from the same rating agencies on our
preferred stock.  Fitch IBCA Duff & Phelps has assigned a rating of BBB-,
Moody's Investor Service, Inc. has assigned a rating of Ba1, and Standard &
                                                             Page 34

Poor's Rating Group has assigned a rating of BB+.  These ratings could
change based upon, among other things, our results of operations and
financial condition.


Stock and Senior Debt Repurchase Program

In January 2000, our Board of Directors authorized the purchase of up to
$10 million of our outstanding common and preferred shares and senior debt
securities.  During 2000, we purchased 284,500 shares of our common stock
at an average price of $21.87 and 14,300 shares of our Class B preferred
stock at an average price of $19.27, for a total investment of $6.5
million.  The purchases were funded from excess cash flow.


Property Acquisitions

During 2000, we acquired 13 additional properties (the "New Properties")
located in nine states.  During 2000, we invested $70.0 million in the New
Properties, which includes investments of $16.8 million for properties
under development during 2000.  Estimated unfunded development costs on
properties under construction at December 31, 2000 totaled $874,000.
During 2000, we capitalized $308,000 for re-leasing costs and $90,000 for
building improvements on existing properties in our portfolio.

The weighted average annual unleveraged return on the $70.1 million
invested in 2000 is estimated to be 10.8%, computed as estimated
contractual net operating income (which in the case of a net leased
property is equal to the base rent or, in the case of properties under
construction, the estimated base rent under the lease) for the first year
of each lease, divided by the estimated total costs.  Since it is possible
that a tenant could default on the payment of contractual rent, we cannot
assure you that the actual return on the funds invested will not differ
from the foregoing percentage.

The New Properties will contain approximately 676,100 leasable square feet
and are 100% leased under net leases, with an average initial lease term of
18.3 years.  As of December 31, 2000, two of the New Properties are pre-
leased and under construction, pursuant to contracts under which the
tenants have agreed to develop the properties (with development costs
funded by Realty Income) and both began paying rent in March 2001.

During 1999, we acquired 110 additional properties (the "1999 Properties")
and invested $181.4 million in the 1999 Properties and properties under
development.  During 1999, we also paid $242,000 for lease commissions and
$148,000 for building improvements on existing properties in our portfolio.
The weighted average annual unleveraged return on the $181.4 million
invested in 1999 is estimated to be 10.5%, computed in the same manner as
2000's estimated weighted average annual unleveraged return. These 110
properties contain approximately 948,000 leasable square feet and are 100%
leased under net leases, with an average initial lease term of 17.4 years.

                                                             Page 35

Formation of Crest Net Lease

In January 2000, we acquired 95% of the common stock of Crest Net Lease,
Inc., all of which is non-voting.  Certain members of our management and
Crest Net Lease management own 5% of the common stock, all of which is
voting stock.  Crest Net Lease was created to buy, own and sell properties,
primarily to buyers using tax-deferred exchanges, under Section 1031 of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

During 2000, we invested $8.6 million in Crest Net Lease common stock.  In
February 2000, we entered into a $25 million, revolving credit facility
with Crest Net Lease.  The financial statements of Crest Net Lease have
been consolidated into Realty Income's financial statements.  All material
intercompany transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

During 2000, Crest Net Lease invested $28.6 million in nine retail
properties.  Estimated unfunded development costs on two properties under
construction at December 31, 2000 totaled $1.2 million.  These nine
properties will contain approximately 398,100 leasable square feet and were
100% leased, with an average initial lease term of 19.0 years.

During 2000, Crest Net Lease sold two properties for $6.2 million and we
recognized a gain of $766,000, before income taxes.  The seven properties
held for sale by Crest Net Lease at December 31, 2000 are anticipated to be
sold within six months.

The following is a summary of Crest Net Lease's balance sheet as of
December 31, 2000 (dollars in thousands):










                                                           Page 36

The following is a summary of Crest Net Lease's statement of net income for
the year ended December 31, 2000 (dollars in thousands):




Distributions

We pay monthly distributions to our common stockholders.  We paid cash
distributions to our common stockholders of $58.3 million in 2000, $55.9
million in 1999 and $52.3 million in 1998.

We pay quarterly distributions to our Class B preferred stockholders.  We
paid cash distributions to our Class B preferred stockholders of $6.4
million in 2000 and $3.9 million in 1999.  Our Class B preferred stock was
issued in May 1999.

We pay monthly distributions to our Class C preferred stockholders.  We
paid cash distributions to our Class C preferred stockholders of $3.3
million in 2000 and $1.4 million in 1999.  Our Class C preferred stock was
issued in July 1999.


FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS ("FFO")
- -----------------------------

FFO for 2000 increased by $1.3 million or 2.0% to $67.2 million versus
$65.9 million during 1999.  FFO during 1998 was $62.8 million.  The
following is a reconciliation of net income available to common
stockholders to FFO and information regarding distributions paid and the
diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding for 2000, 1999 and
1998 (dollars in thousands):








                                                           Page 37



We consider FFO to be an appropriate measure of the performance of an
equity REIT.  Financial analysts use FFO in evaluating REITs and FFO can be
one measure of a REIT's ability to make cash distribution payments.
Presentation of this information provides the reader with an additional
measure to compare the performance of different REITs, although it should
be noted that not all REITs calculate FFO the same way so comparisons with
other REITs may not be meaningful.

We define FFO as net income available to common stockholders, plus
depreciation and amortization of assets uniquely significant to the real
estate industry, reduced by gains and increased by losses on (i) sales of
investment property and (ii) extraordinary and "unusual" items.

FFO is not necessarily indicative of cash flow available to fund cash needs
and should not be considered as an alternative to net income as an
indication of Realty Income's performance.  In addition, FFO should not be
considered as an alternative to reviewing our cash flows from operating,
investing, and financing activities as a measure of liquidity, of our
ability to make cash distributions or our ability to pay interest payments.





                                                           Page 38

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
- ---------------------

The Following is a Comparison of Our Results of Operations for the Year
Ended December 31, 2000 to the Year Ended December 31, 1999.

Revenue

Rental revenue was $117.2 million for 2000 versus $104.3 million for 1999,
an increase of $12.9 million, or 12.4%.  The increase in rental revenue was
primarily due to the acquisition of 110 properties during 1999.  These
properties generated revenue of $15.4 million in 2000 compared to $6.9
million in 1999, an increase of $8.5 million. Included in rental revenue
for 2000 is $1.2 million from properties owned by Crest Net Lease, which
are held for sale.

Of the 1,068 properties in the portfolio as of December 31, 2000, 1,063 are
single-tenant properties with the remaining properties being multi-tenant
properties.  Of the 1,063 single-tenant properties, 1,038, or 97.6%, were
net leased with an average remaining lease term (excluding extension
options) of approximately 7.8 years.  Of our 1,038 leased single-tenant
properties, 1,027 or 98.9% were under leases that provide for increases in
rents through:

  -  Base rent increases tied to a consumer price index with adjustment
     ceilings;
  -  Overage rent based on a percentage of the tenants' gross sales; or
  -  Fixed increases.

Some leases contain more than one of these clauses.  Percentage rent, which
is included in rental revenue, was $2.0 million during 2000 and $1.7
million during 1999. Same store rents generated on 894 leased properties
owned during all of both 2000 and 1999 increased by $1.5 million or 1.7%,
to $91.0 million from $89.5 million.

Many of our leases call for rent increases every five years.  Over the past
four years we have acquired approximately $587 million in new properties
that now represent approximately 54% of our portfolio, excluding Crest Net
Lease properties.  Many of these properties are due to generate their
initial rent increases from 2002 to 2004.  As such, we believe our same
store rent growth is likely to accelerate with the onset of rent increases
from the newer properties over the next few years.

Our portfolio of quality retail real estate owned under 10-20 year net
leases continues to perform well and provide dependable lease revenue
supporting the payment of monthly dividends. At December 31, 2000, our
property portfolio of 1,068 properties was 97.7% leased with only 25
properties available for lease.

Of the 25 properties not leased at December 31, 2000, transactions to lease
or sell 10 properties were underway or completed.  We anticipate these
transactions to be completed during the first half of 2001; although we
                                                           Page 39

cannot assure you that all of these properties can be sold or leased within
this period.

During the first half of 2000 we successfully resolved a situation involving
the vacancy of 11 of our 34 properties leased to Econo Lube 'N Tune.  This
situation had nominal impact on our operating results during 2000.  We
believe we will complete the re-leasing of the remaining two properties
during the first half of 2001 and will ultimately obtain 90% or more of the
lease revenue previously derived from Econo Lube 'N Tune.

During the last six months, we made progress in the re-lease of 21
properties formerly occupied by Flooring America that became vacant during
the third quarter.  As of March 1, 2001, transactions were underway or
completed on 11 of the 21 properties, which leaves us with just 10
properties to be re-leased or sold.  The Flooring America stores are
generally in excellent retail locations that lend themselves to a wide
variety of retail uses.  In addition, the rents previously received on these
properties were mainly at prevailing market rents.  We believe we will
complete the re-tenanting of the remaining 10 properties during the first
half of 2001 and will ultimately obtain 90% or more of the lease revenue
previously derived from Flooring America.

During 2000, Crest Net Lease sold two properties for $6.2 million and we
recognized a gain on the sales of $766,000, before income taxes.  As of
December 31, 2000, Crest Net Lease has $23.6 million invested in seven
properties held for sale.  It is Crest Net Lease's intent to carry an
average inventory of between $20.0 to $25.0 million in real estate on an
ongoing basis.  Crest generates an earnings spread on the differential
between the lease payments it receives and the cost of capital used to
acquire the properties.  It is our belief that at this level of inventory,
these earnings will more than cover the ongoing operating expenses of Crest
Net Lease.

Expenses

The following is a summary of the five components of interest expense for
2000 and 1999 (dollars in thousands):


Interest on outstanding loans and notes was $6.0 million higher in 2000
than in 1999 primarily due to an increase of $59.4 million in the average
outstanding balances and an increase of 41 basis points in our average
interest rate.  The average borrowing rate on our credit facilities during
2000 was 7.67%, or 150 basis points higher than our average borrowing rate
during 1999.  During 2000, LIBOR increased, which increased the average
borrowing rate on our credit facilities.  During January 2001, the Federal
Reserve decreased the federal funds rate twice by a total of 100 basis
points. Correspondingly, LIBOR has declined which is anticipated to have a
positive impact on our 2001 average borrowing rate and FFO.

Our debt service coverage ratio for the year ended December 31, 2000 and
1999 was 3.5 times and 3.9 times, respectively. Debt service coverage ratio
is calculated as follows: earnings (income from operations) before
interest, taxes and depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) divided by
interest expense.  Our EBITDA for the year ended December 31, 2000 and 1999
was $109.4 million and $96.2 million, respectively.  This information
should not be considered as an alternative to any measure of performance as
promulgated under GAAP.  Our calculation of EBITDA may be different from
the calculation used by other companies and, therefore, comparability may
be limited.

Depreciation and amortization was $29.0 million in 2000 versus $26.0
million in 1999.  The increase in 2000 was primarily due to depreciation of
the properties acquired in 1999.

General and administrative expenses increased by $301,000 to $6.8 million
in 2000 versus $6.5 million in 1999. General and administrative expenses as
a percentage of revenue decreased to 5.8% in 2000 as compared to 6.3% in
1999.  Included in general and administrative expenses for 2000 are
$305,000 of expenses attributable to Crest Net Lease.

Property expenses are broken down into costs associated with non-net leased
multi-tenant properties, unleased single-tenant properties and general
portfolio expenses.  Expenses related to the multi-tenant and unleased
single-tenant properties include, but are not limited to, property taxes,
maintenance, insurance, utilities, property inspections, bad debt expense
and legal fees.  General portfolio costs include, but are not limited to,
insurance, legal, property inspections and title search fees.  At
December 31, 2000, 25 properties were available for lease, as compared to
17 at December 31, 1999.


                                                           Page 41

Property expenses were $2.0 million in 2000 and $1.8 million in 1999.  The
$210,000 increase in property expenses is primarily attributable to costs
associated with properties available for lease.

Other expenses were $813,000 in 2000 and $430,000 in 1999.  Other expenses
are Crest Net Lease income taxes and Realty Income state and local income
taxes.  The increase in 2000 is primarily attributable to Crest Net Lease
state and federal income taxes of $332,000.

We review long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be
recoverable.  We did not take a provision for impairment in 2000, 1999 or
1998.

During 2000, we sold 21 properties for a total of $45.2 million and
recognized a gain of $6.7 million.  Included in the 21 properties sold
during 2000, are two properties leased by one of our tenants that we
exchanged, valued at $22.7 million, for two other properties owned by that
tenant.  During 1999, we sold three properties for $9.4 million and
recognized a gain of $1.3 million.

We have an active portfolio management program that incorporates the sale
of assets when we believe the reinvestment of the sales proceeds will
generate higher returns, enhance the credit quality of our real estate
portfolio or extend our average remaining lease terms.  As of December 31,
2000, we classified real estate with a carrying amount of $33.1 million as
held for sale.  Additionally, we anticipate selling properties from our
portfolio, which have not yet been specifically identified.  We anticipate
we will receive up to $50 million in proceeds from the sale of properties
during the next 12 months.  We intend to invest these proceeds into new
property acquisitions.

In December 1999, our $170 million credit facility was canceled
simultaneously with the execution of our $200 million credit facility.
Unamortized fees of $355,000 relating to the $170 million credit facility
were charged in 1999 as extraordinary loss on early extinguishment of the
credit facility.

We paid preferred stock dividends of $9.7 million in 2000 and $5.2 million
in 1999.  Our outstanding preferred stock was issued during the second and
third quarters of 1999.


Net Income Available to Common Stockholders

In 2000, our net income available to common stockholders increased 10.0%,
to $45.1 million versus $41.0 million in 1999.

The calculation to determine net income available to common stockholders
includes gains and losses from the sale of investment properties.  The


                                                           Page 42

amount of gain and losses varies from year to year based on the timing of
property sales and can significantly impact net income available to common
stockholders.  The gain recognized from property sales during 2000 was $5.4
million greater than the gain recognized from property sales during 1999.

The Following is a Comparison of Our Results of Operations for the Year
Ended December 31, 1999 to the Year Ended December 31, 1998.


Revenue

Rental revenue was $104.3 million for 1999 versus $84.9 million for 1998,
an increase of $19.4 million, or 22.9%.  The increase in rental revenue was
primarily due to the acquisition of 110 properties during 1999 and 149
properties during 1998.  These properties generated revenue of $26.87
million in 1999 compared to $7.53 million in 1998, an increase of $19.34
million.

Of the 1,076 properties in the portfolio as of December 31, 1999, 1,069
were single-tenant properties with the remaining properties being multi-
tenant properties.  Of the 1,069 single-tenant properties, 1,052, or 98.4%,
were net leased with an average remaining lease term (excluding extension
options) of approximately 8.7 years.

Percentage rent, which is included in rental revenue, was $1.7 million
during both 1999 and 1998. Same store rents generated on 789 leased
properties owned during all of both 1999 and 1998 increased by $618,000 or
0.8%, to $74.34 million from $73.72 million.


Expenses

The following is a summary of the five components of interest expense for
1999 and 1998 (dollars in thousands):



Interest on outstanding loans and notes was $10.6 million higher in 1999
than in 1998 primarily due to an increase of $140.8 million in the average
outstanding balances and a higher average interest rate.  The higher
average interest rate was due to the notes issued in October 1998 and
January 1999.

Our debt service coverage ratio for the year ended December 31, 1999 and
1998 was 3.9 times and 5.6 times, respectively. Our EBITDA for the year
ended December 31, 2000 was $96.2 million and $77.0 million, respectively.

Depreciation and amortization was $26.0 million in 1999 versus $21.9
million in 1998.  The increase in 2000 was primarily due to depreciation of
the properties acquired in 1998 and 1999.

General and administrative expenses increased by $147,000 to $6.5 million
in 1999 versus $6.4 million in 1998. The increase in general and
administrative expenses was primarily due to a one-time charge taken during
1999 that was associated with the retirement of our former President.
General and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue decreased to
6.3% in 1999 as compared to 7.5% in 1998.

Property expenses were $1.8 million in 1999 and 1998.  Savings on our
general portfolio insurance offset increases in vacant property costs in
1999.

Other expenses were $430,000 in 1999 and $289,000 in 1998.  Other expenses
are Realty Income state and local income taxes.

During 1999, we sold three properties for $9.4 million and recognized a
gain of $1.3 million.  During 1998, we sold five properties for $2.8
million and recognized a gain of $526,000.

In October 1998, we adopted SOP 98-5, "Reporting on the Costs of Start-Up
Activities" ("SOP 98-5").  SOP 98-5 requires that costs incurred during
start-up activities, including organization costs, be expensed as incurred.
Prior to October 1998, we amortized organization costs over 60 months.  In
October 1998, the unamortized balance of organization costs of $226,000 was
expensed.  This is reported on the statements of income as a cumulative
effect of a change in accounting principle.

In 1999, we paid preferred stock dividends of $5.2 million.  No preferred
stock was outstanding prior to 1999.

                                                             Page 44

Net Income Available to Common Stockholders

In 1999, our net income available to common stockholders decreased 0.7%, to
$41.0 million versus $41.3 million in 1998.


IMPACT OF INFLATION
- -------------------

Tenant leases generally provide for limited increases in rent as a result
of increases in the tenant's sales volumes, increases in the consumer price
index, and/or fixed increases.  We expect that inflation will cause these
lease provisions to result in increases in rent over time.  During times
when inflation is greater than increases in rent as provided for in the
leases, however, rent increases may not keep up with the rate of inflation.

Approximately 97.2% or 1,038 of the properties in the portfolio are leased
to tenants under net leases in which the tenant is responsible for property
costs and expenses.  These features in the leases reduce our exposure to
rising property expenses due to inflation.  Inflation and increased costs
may have an adverse impact on our tenants if increases in our tenant's
operating expenses exceed increases in revenue.


IMPACT OF ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
- -----------------------------------

In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities" ("Statement No. 133").  Statement No.
133 establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative
instruments.  Statement No. 133, as amended, is effective for all fiscal
quarters of all fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2000.  We anticipate
that the adoption of Statement No. 133 will not have a material effect on
our financial position, result of operations or liquidity.


ITEM 7a:  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
====================================================================

We are exposed to interest rate changes primarily as a result of our credit
facilities and long-term debt used to maintain liquidity and expand our
real estate investment portfolio and operations.  Our interest rate risk
management objective is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on
earnings and cash flows and to lower our overall borrowing costs.  To
achieve our objectives we borrow our long term debt primarily at fixed
rates and may selectively enter into derivative financial instruments such
as interest rate lock agreements, interest rate swaps and caps in order to
mitigate our interest rate risk on a related financial instrument.  We are
not a party to any derivative financial instruments at December 31, 2000.
We do not enter into any transactions for speculative or trading purposes.

                                                             Page 45

Our interest rate risk is monitored using a variety of techniques.  The
table below presents the principal amounts, weighted average interest
rates, fair values and other terms required by year of expected maturity to
evaluate the expected cash flows and sensitivity to interest rate changes
(dollars in table in millions).


[FN]
(1) $110 million matures in 2007, $100 million matures in 2008 and $20
million matures in 2009.
(2)  We base the fair value of the fixed rate debt at December 31, 2000 on
the closing market price or indicative price per each note.  The fair value
of the variable rate debt approximates its carrying value because its terms
are similar to those available in the market place.


The table incorporates only those exposures that exist as of
December 31, 2000, it does not consider those exposures or positions that
could arise after that date.  As a result, our ultimate realized gain or
loss with respect to interest rate fluctuations would depend on the
exposures that arise during the period, our hedging strategies at the time,
and interest rates.















                                                             Page 46

ITEM 8:  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
- ----------------------------------------------------



Schedules not filed:  All schedules, other than that indicated in the Table
of Contents, have been omitted as the required information is inapplicable
or the information is presented in the financial statements or related
notes.
























                                                             Page 47

                   Independent Auditors' Report
                   ----------------------------

The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Realty Income Corporation:


We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Realty Income
Corporation and subsidiaries as listed in the accompanying table of
contents.  In connection with our audits of the consolidated financial
statements, we also have audited the financial statement schedule III
listed in the accompanying table of contents.  These consolidated financial
statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the
Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule based on
our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America.  Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures
in the financial statements.  An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as
well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  We
believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Realty
Income Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2000 and 1999, and
the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years
in the three-year period ended December 31, 2000, in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
Also in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule III, when
considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken
as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set
forth therein.


                                 /s/KPMG LLP


San Diego, California
January 24, 2001








                                                             Page 48

           REALTY INCOME CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   Consolidated Balance Sheets
                   ===========================
                   December 31, 2000 and 1999
          (dollars in thousands, except per share data)








   The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements
            are an integral part of these statements.

                                                             Page 50

           REALTY INCOME CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                Consolidated Statements of Income
                =================================
          Years Ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
          (dollars in thousands, except per share data)


















   The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements
            are an integral part of these statements.


                                                             Page 54

              REALTY INCOME CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
                 =====================================
             Years Ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
                        (dollars in thousands)


For supplemental disclosures, see note 15.



   The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements
            are an integral part of these statements.

                                                             Page 56

               REALTY INCOME CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
               Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
               ==========================================
                    December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998

1.  Organization and Operation

Realty Income Corporation ("Realty Income", the "Company", "we" or "our")
is organized as a Maryland corporation.  We invest in commercial retail
real estate and have elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust
("REIT").  As of December 31, 2000, we owned 1,068 properties in 46 states
containing over 9.0 million leasable square feet, excluding seven
properties owned by our subsidiary, Crest Net Lease, Inc.

2.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Procedures

Principles of Consolidation - The accompanying consolidated financial
statements include the accounts of Realty Income, Crest Net Lease, Inc. and
entities we control (subsidiaries) after elimination of all material
intercompany balances and transactions.

Cash Equivalents - We consider all short-term, highly liquid investments
that are readily convertible to cash and have an original maturity of three
months or less at the time of purchase to be cash equivalents.

Depreciation and Amortization - Depreciation of buildings and improvements,
and amortization of goodwill are computed using the straight-line method
over an estimated useful life of 25 years.  Amortization of goodwill for
each of the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998 was $924,000.

Leases - All leases are accounted for as operating leases.   Under this
method, lease payments are recognized as revenue over the term of the
lease.

Federal Income Taxes - We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ("IRS Code").  We believe Realty
Income has qualified and continues to qualify as a REIT and therefore will
be permitted to deduct distributions paid to its stockholders, eliminating
the federal taxation of income represented by those distributions at the
Company's level.  Accordingly, no provision has been made for federal
income taxes in the accompanying consolidated financial statements, except
for federal income taxes of $264,000 on Crest Net Lease's 2000 taxable net
income, which are included in other expenses.

Distributions Paid and Payable - Realty Income pays distributions monthly
to our common stockholders.  The following is a summary of monthly cash
distributions paid per common share for the years ended December 31, 2000,
1999 and 1998.




                                                             Page 57

2.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)



The following presents the federal income tax characterization of
distributions paid or deemed to be paid to common stockholders for the
years ended December 31:



In May 1999, we issued 2,760,000 shares of 9 3/8% Class B cumulative
redeemable preferred stock (the "Class B Preferred").  Dividends on the
Class B Preferred are paid quarterly in arrears.  For the years ended
December 31, 2000 and 1999, dividends of $6.4 million and $3.9 million,
respectively, were paid on the Class B Preferred.

In July 1999, we issued 1,380,000 shares of 9 1/2% Class C cumulative
redeemable preferred stock (the "Class C Preferred").  Dividends on the
Class C Preferred are paid monthly in arrears.  For the years ended
December 31, 2000 and 1999, dividends of $3.3 million and $1.4 million,
respectively, were paid on the Class C Preferred.


                                                             Page 58

2.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

The following presents the federal income tax characterization of dividends
paid or deemed to be paid to Class B Preferred and Class C Preferred
stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2000 and 1999:



Provision for Impairment Losses - We review long-lived assets, including
goodwill, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.
Generally, a provision is made for impairment loss if estimated future
operating cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) plus
estimated disposition proceeds (undiscounted) are less than the current
book value.  If a property is held for sale, it is carried at the lower of
cost or estimated fair value, less costs to sell.  No provision for
impairment loss was charged in 2000, 1999 or 1998.

Net Income Per Common Share - Basic net income per common share is computed
by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted
average number of common shares outstanding during each period.  Diluted
net income per common share is computed by dividing the amount of net
income available to common stockholders for the period by the number of
common shares that would have been outstanding assuming the issuance of
common shares for all potentially dilutive common shares outstanding during
the reporting period.














                                                             Page 59

2.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

The following is a reconciliation of the denominator of the basic net
income per common share computation to the denominator of the diluted net
income per common share computation, for the years ended
December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998:



In 2000, 1999 and 1998, 296,653, 186,181 and 25,000 stock options,
respectively, that were anti-dilutive have been excluded from the
incremental shares from the assumed exercise of stock options.

Stock Option Plan - We account for our stock option plan in accordance with
the provisions of Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 25,
"Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees", and related interpretations.
As such, compensation expense would be recorded on the date of grant only
if the current market price of the underlying stock exceeded the exercise
price.  Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, "Accounting
for Stock-Based Compensation" ("SFAS No. 123"), permits entities to
recognize as expense over the vesting period, the fair value of all stock-
based awards on the date of grant.  Alternatively, SFAS No. 123 allows
entities to continue to apply the provisions of APB Opinion No. 25 and
provide pro forma net income and pro forma earnings per share disclosures
for employee stock option grants made after 1994, as if the fair-value
based method defined in SFAS No. 123 had been applied.  We have elected to
continue to apply the provisions of APB Opinion No. 25 and provide the pro
forma disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 123.

Derivative Financial Instruments - In two instances, we used interest rate
treasury lock agreements to protect against the possibility of rising
interest rates.  These instruments each met the requirement for hedge
accounting, including a high correlation to a specific transaction.
Accordingly, the amount received and paid under the terms of the agreements
is recognized in income when interest expense related to the hedge item is
recognized.

                                                             Page 60

2.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Change in Accounting Principle - In October 1998, we adopted Statement of
Position 98-5, "Reporting on the Costs of Start-Up Activities" ("SOP 98-
5").  SOP 98-5 requires that costs incurred during start-up activities,
including organization costs, be expensed as incurred.  Prior to October
1998, we amortized organization costs over 60 months.  In October 1998, the
unamortized balances of organization costs were written off as a cumulative
effect of a change in accounting principle.

Use of Estimates - The preparation of the consolidated financial statements
in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported
amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.  Actual
results could differ from those estimates.

Reclassifications - Certain of the 1999 and 1998 balances have been
reclassified to conform to the 2000 presentation.

3.  Investment in Subsidiary

In January 2000, we formed Crest Net Lease, Inc., of which we own 95% of
the common stock, all of which is non-voting, and certain members of our
management and Crest Net Lease management own 5% of the common stock, all
of which is voting stock.  Crest Net Lease was created to actively acquire
and resell properties, primarily to buyers using tax-deferred exchanges,
under Section 1031 of the IRS Code.

The financial statements of Crest Net Lease have been consolidated.  All
intercompany transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

4.  Credit Facilities Available for Acquisitions

A.  In December 1999, we entered into a $200 million, three-year,
revolving, unsecured acquisition credit facility, which expires in December
2002.  The $200 million credit facility is from The Bank of New York, as
administrative agent, and several U.S. and non-U.S. banks.  As of
December 31, 2000 and 1999, the outstanding balances on the credit facility
were $149.9 million and $119.2 million, respectively, with an effective
interest rate of approximately 7.82% and 7.35%, respectively.  Our $170
million credit facility was canceled simultaneously with the execution of
the $200 million credit facility in December 1999.  Unamortized fees of
$355,000 relating to our $170 million credit facility were charged in 1999
as an extraordinary loss on early extinguishment of the credit facility.

The $200 million credit facility currently bears interest at 1.225% over
the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") and offers us other interest
rate options.  A facility fee of 0.225%, per annum, accrues on the total
commitment of the credit facility.

                                                             Page 61

4.  Credit Facilities Available for Acquisitions (continued)

B.  In February 2000, we entered into a $25 million, three-year, revolving,
unsecured credit agreement with the Bank of Montreal, which expires in
February 2003.  As of December 31, 2000, the outstanding balance on the
credit facility was $24.1 million with an effective interest rate of
approximately 7.87%.  The $25 million credit facility bears interest at
1.225% over LIBOR.  A facility fee of 0.225%, per annum, accrues on the
total commitment of the credit facility.

C.  The average borrowing rate on our credit facilities during 2000 was
7.67%, or 150 basis points higher than our average borrowing rate during
1999 of 6.17%.  Our credit facilities are subject to various leverage and
interest coverage ratio limitations.  The Company is and has been in
compliance with these limitations.

In 2000, 1999 and 1998, interest of $1.0 million, $1.6 million and
$660,000, respectively, was capitalized with respect to properties under
development.


5.  Notes Payable

In January 1999, we issued $20 million of 8.0% senior notes due 2009 (the
"1999 Notes").  The 1999 Notes are unsecured and were sold at 98.757% of
par to yield 8.1%.  Interest on the 1999 Notes is payable semiannually.

In October 1998, we issued $100 million of 8.25% Monthly Income Senior
Notes due 2008 (the "1998 Notes").  The 1998 Notes are unsecured and were
sold at par ($25.00).  After taking into effect the results of a treasury
interest rate lock agreement (see note 6), the effective rate to us on the
1998 Notes is 9.12%.  Interest on the 1998 Notes is payable monthly.

In May 1997, we issued $110 million of 7.75% senior notes due 2007 (the
"1997 Notes").  The 1997 Notes are unsecured and were sold at 99.929% of
par to yield 7.76%.  After taking into effect results of a treasury
interest rate lock agreement (see note 6), the effective interest rate to
us on the 1997 Notes is 7.62%.  Interest on the 1997 Notes is payable
semiannually.

Interest incurred on the 1999 Notes, 1998 Notes and 1997 Notes collectively
for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998 was $18.4 million,
$18.3 million and $10.0 million, respectively.


6.  Derivative Financial Instruments

In May 1998, we entered into a treasury interest rate lock agreement
associated with the 1998 Notes (see note 5).  In settlement of the
agreement, we made a payment of $8.7 million in October 1998.  The payment
on the agreement is being amortized over 10 years (the life of the 1998
Notes) as a yield adjustment to interest expense.
                                                             Page 62

6.  Derivative Financial Instruments (continued)

In December 1996, we entered into a treasury interest rate lock agreement
associated with the 1997 Notes (see note 5).  In settlement of the
agreement, we received $1.1 million in June 1997. The payment received on
the agreement is being amortized over 10 years (the life of the 1997 Notes)
as a yield adjustment to interest expense.

Our only involvement with derivative financial instruments was the two
aforementioned treasury interest rate lock agreements and we have not used
derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.


7.  Property Acquisitions

A.  During 2000 we invested $70.0 million in 13 new retail properties and
properties under development with an average initial contractual lease rate
of 10.8%.  During 1999 we invested $181.4 million in 110 new retail
properties and properties under development with an average initial
contractual lease rate of 10.5%.

B.  During 2000, Crest Net Lease invested $28.6 million in nine new retail
properties.  Two of these properties were sold and seven properties are
held for sale.


8.  Repurchases of Realty Income Securities

In January 2000, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to
$10 million of our outstanding common stock, preferred stock and senior
debt securities.  During 2000, we repurchased 284,500 shares of common
stock at an average price of $21.87 per share and 14,300 shares of our
Class B preferred stock at an average price of $19.27 per share, for a
total investment of $6.5 million.


9.  Common Stock Offerings

A.  In March 1998, we issued 372,093 shares of common stock to a unit
investment trust at a net price to us of $25.531 per share, based on a 5%
discount to the market price at the time of issuance of $26.875 per share.
The net proceeds of $9.5 million were used to repay bank borrowings of $7.9
million and to acquire additional properties.

B.  In February 1998, we issued 751,174 shares of common stock to a unit
investment trust at a net price to us of $25.295 per share, based on a 5%
discount to the market price at time of issuance of $26.625 per share.  The
net proceeds of $18.9 million were to be used to repay bank borrowings.




                                                             Page 63

10.  Preferred Stock Offerings

A.  In May 1999, we issued 2,760,000 shares of Class B Preferred stock at a
price of $25.00 per share.  The net proceeds of $66.5 million were used to
repay bank borrowings.

B.  In July 1999, we issued 1,380,000 shares of Class C Preferred stock at
a price of $25.00 per share.  The net proceeds of $33.2 million were used
to repay bank borrowings.


11.  Operating Leases

A.  General - At December 31, 2000, we owned 1,068 properties in 46 states,
excluding properties owned by Crest Net Lease.  Of these 1,068 properties,
1,063 are single-tenant and the remainder are multi-tenant.  At December
31, 2000, 25 properties were vacant and available for lease or sale.

Substantially all leases are net leases whereby the tenant pays property
taxes and assessments, maintains the interior and exterior of the building,
and carries insurance coverage for public liability, property damage, fire,
and extended coverage.

Percentage rent for 2000, 1999 and 1998 was $2.0 million, $1.7 million and
$1.7 million, respectively.

At December 31, 2000, minimum annual rents to be received on the operating
leases are as follows (dollars in thousands):



B.  Major Tenants - The following schedule presents rental revenue,
including percentage rents, from tenants representing more than 10% of our
total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 or 1998 (dollars
in thousands):




                                                             Page 64

11.  Operating Leases (continued)




12.  Gain on Sales of Real Estate Acquired for Resale

During 2000, Crest Net Lease sold two properties for $6.2 million and we
recognized a gain on sale of real estate acquired for resale of $766,000.


13.  Gain on Sales of Investment Properties

In 2000, we sold or exchanged 21 properties for $45.2 million and
recognized a gain of $6.7 million.  Included in the 21 properties are two
properties leased by one of our tenants that we exchanged for two other
properties owned by that tenant for no gain (see note 15A).  In 1999, we
sold three properties for $9.4 million and recognized a gain of $1.3
million.  In 1998, we sold five properties for a total of $2.8 million and
recognized a gain of $526,000.

In November 1999, we approved a plan to sell three of our multi-tenant
locations.  The carrying value of the three properties at December 31, 1999
was $29.3 million.  In December 2000, we canceled our plan to sell the
three locations and the properties were no longer classified as held for
sale. These properties are included in the other non-reportable segment in
note 19.


14.  Fair Value of Financial Instruments

We believe that the carrying values reflected in the consolidated balance
sheets at December 31, 2000 and 1999 reasonably approximate the fair values
for cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, and all liabilities
except the lines of credit payable and notes payable. In making these
assessments, we used estimates. The fair value of the lines of credit
payable approximates its carrying value because its terms are similar to
those available in the market place. The fair value of the notes payable at
December 31, 2000 and 1999 is estimated to be $212.2 million and $199.4
million, respectively, based upon the closing market price per note or
indicative price per each note at December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively.




                                                             Page 65

15.  Supplemental Disclosures of Cash Flow Information

Interest paid during 2000, 1999 and 1998 was $29.8 million, $22.4 million
and $12.5 million, respectively.

The following non-cash investing and financing activities are included in
the accompanying consolidated financial statements:

A.  In 2000, we exchanged two properties leased by one of our tenants for
two other properties owned by that tenant.  The properties relinquished
resulted in the following non-cash changes (in thousands):

         Land                       $( 5,964)
         Building                   $(17,336)
         Accumulated depreciation   $    645

The properties received in the exchange resulted in the following non-cash
changes (in thousands):

         Land                       $  3,933
         Building                   $ 18,722

B.  In 1999 and 1998, the acquisition of properties resulted in the
following non-cash changes (dollars in thousands):



C.  In 1998, the former shareholders of the R.I.C. Advisor, Inc., or the
Advisor, returned 20,279 shares to the Company.  This fulfilled the
obligation of the Advisor's shareholders to the Company under an
indemnification agreement entered into by these parties.  This transaction
resulted in the following non-cash changes in 1998 (dollars in thousands):





                                                             Page 66

16. Employee Benefit Plan

We have a 401(k) plan covering substantially all of our employees.  Under
our 401(k) plan, employees may elect to make contributions to the plan up
to a maximum of 15% of their compensation, subject to limits established by
the IRS Code.  We match 50% of the participants' contributions up to a
maximum of six percent of a participant's annual compensation.  Our
aggregate matching contributions each year have been immaterial to our
results of operations.


17. Stock Incentive Plan

In 1993, our board of directors approved a stock incentive plan (the "Stock
Plan") designed to attract and retain directors, officers and employees of
the Company by enabling those individuals to participate in the ownership
of the Company.  The Stock Plan authorizes the issuance in each calendar
year of up to 3% of the total shares outstanding at the end of such year.
The Stock Plan provides for grants of up to 1,950,308 shares.  The Stock
Plan provides for the award (subject to ownership limitations) of a broad
variety of stock-based compensation alternatives such as nonqualified stock
options, incentive stock options, restricted stock and performance awards.

Stock options are granted with an exercise price equal to the underlying
stock's fair market value at the date of grant.  Stock options expire 10
years from the date they are granted and vest over service periods of one,
three, four and five years.  Prior to December 31, 2000, 618,186 stock
options and 45,372 restricted shares of common stock had been granted and
are outstanding under the Stock Plan.

The following table summarizes our stock option activity for the years
ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998:




At December 31, 2000, the options exercisable under the Stock Plan had
exercise prices ranging from $20.00 to $26.06 with a weighted average price
of $24.21, and expiration dates ranging from August 2004 to February 2010
with a weighted average remaining term of 7.2 years.

The fair value of each stock option grant was estimated at the date of
grant using the binomial option-pricing model with the following
assumptions:


                                                             Page 68

17. Stock Incentive Plan (continued)

We apply APB Opinion No. 25 in accounting for our Stock Plan and,
accordingly, no compensation cost has been recognized for our stock options
in the consolidated financial statements.  Had we determined compensation
cost based on the fair value at the grant date for its stock options under
SFAS No. 123, our net income and diluted net income per common share would
have been as follows:



18. Stockholder Rights Plan

In 1998, our board of directors adopted a Stockholder Rights Plan (the
"Rights Plan") that will expire in July 2008.  The Rights Plan assigns one
right (a "Right") to purchase one one-hundredth (1/100th) of a share of our
Class A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share
(the "Preferred Stock"), for each share of common stock owned on or issued
after July 1, 1998.  Currently, the Rights are not exercisable and do not
trade separately from our common stock.

Under specified circumstances, stockholders will be able to exercise their
Rights if a person or group acquires 15% of our common stock or makes a
tender offer to acquire 15% or more of our common stock.  In these
circumstances, stockholders other than the acquirer would be able to
exercise the Rights to purchase our common stock or, in some situations,
the acquirer's stock at a 50% discount.


19. Segment Information

We evaluate performance and make resource allocation decisions on a
property by property basis.  For financial reporting purposes, we have
grouped our tenants into 11 reportable segments based upon the business the
tenants are in, except for properties owned by Crest Net Lease that are
grouped in a separate segment.  The Crest Net Lease segment is included in
"other non-reportable segments".  All of the properties have been acquired
separately and are incorporated into one of the applicable segments.
Revenue is the only component of segment profit and loss we measure.  The
accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in note
2.
                                                             Page 69

19. Segment Information (continued)

The following tables set forth certain information regarding the properties
owned by us, classified according to the business of the respective tenants
as of December 31, 2000 (dollars in thousands):



20. Commitments and Contingencies

In the ordinary course of our business, we are party to various legal
actions which we believe are routine in nature and incidental to the
operation of our business.  We believe that the outcome of the proceedings
will not have a material adverse effect upon our consolidated statements
taken as a whole.


















                                                             Page 71

                      REALTY INCOME CORPORATION
                           AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 CONSOLIDATED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA
             (dollars in thousands, except per share data)
             (not covered by Independent Auditors' Report)
                                                    Page 72

ITEM 9:  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
         ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
- ---------------------------------------------------------

We have had no disagreements with our independent auditors' on accountancy
or financial disclosure.


PART III
========

ITEM 10:  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
- ------------------------------------------------------------

The information set forth under the captions "Director Nominees" and
"Officers Of The Company" and "Compliance With Federal Securities Laws" in
the definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders
presently scheduled to be held on May 9, 2001, to be filed pursuant to
Regulation 14A.


ITEM 11:  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
- --------------------------------

The information set forth under the caption "Executive Compensation" in the
definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders presently
scheduled to be held on May 9, 2001, to be filed pursuant to Regulation
14A.


ITEM 12:  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
          MANAGEMENT
- -------------------------------------------------------------

The information set forth under the caption "Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners And Management" in the definitive proxy statement for the
Annual Meeting of Stockholders presently scheduled to be held on May 9,
2001, to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A.


ITEM 13:  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
- --------------------------------------------------------

The information set forth under the caption "Certain Transactions" in the
definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders presently
scheduled to be held on May 9, 2001, to be filed pursuant to Regulation
14A.





                                                             Page 73

PART IV
=======

ITEM 14:  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON
          FORM 8-K
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

A.  The following documents are filed as part of this report.

    1.  Financial Statements (see Item 8)

        a.   Independent Auditors' Report
        b.   Consolidated Balance Sheets,
             December 31, 2000 and 1999
        c.   Consolidated Statements of Income,
             Years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
        d.   Consolidated Statements of
             Stockholders' Equity,
             Years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
        e.   Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows,
             Years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
        f.   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
        g.   Consolidated Quarterly Financial Data,
               (unaudited) for 2000 and 1999

    2.  Financial Statement Schedule is attached to this report.  Reference
        is made to page F-1 of this report for Schedule III Real Estate and
        Accumulated Depreciation.

        Schedules not Filed:  All schedules, other than those indicated in
        the Table of Contents, have been omitted as the required
        information is inapplicable or the information is presented in the
        financial statements or related notes.

    3.  Exhibits

        2.1  Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of May 15, 1997 between
             Realty Income Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and Realty
             Income Maryland, Inc., a Maryland corporation (incorporated by
             reference to the Company's Form 8-B12B dated July 29, 1997
             ("Form 8-B") and incorporated herein by reference).

        3.1  Articles of Incorporation of the Company (filed as Appendix B
             to the Company's Proxy Statement dated March 28, 1997 ("1997
             Proxy Statement") and incorporated herein by reference).

        3.2  Bylaws of the Company (filed as Appendix C to the Company's
             1997 Proxy Statement and incorporated herein by reference).




                                                             Page 74

        3.3  Articles Supplementary of the Class A Junior Participating
             Preferred Stock of Realty Income Corporation (filed as an
             exhibit to Realty Income's registration statement on Form 8-A,
             dated June 26, 1998, and incorporated herein by reference).

        3.4  Articles Supplementary to the Articles of Incorporation
             of Realty Income Corporation classifying and designating
             the Class B Preferred Stock (filed as exhibit 4.1 to the
             Company's Form 8-K dated May 24, 1999 and incorporated
             herein by reference).

        3.5  Articles Supplementary to the Articles of Incorporation
             of Realty Income Corporation classifying and designating
             the Class C Preferred Stock (filed as exhibit 4.1 to the
             Company's Form 8-K dated July 29, 1999 and incorporated
             herein by reference).

        4.1  Pricing Committee Resolutions and Form of 7.75% Notes due 2007
             (filed as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company's Form 8-K dated May 5,
             1997 and incorporated herein by reference).

        4.2  Indenture dated as of May 6, 1997 between the Company and The
             Bank of New York (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Form
             8-K dated May 5, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference).

        4.3  First Supplemental Indenture dated as of May 28, 1997, between
             the Company and The Bank of New York (filed as Exhibit 4.3 to
             the Company's Form 8-B and incorporated herein by reference).

        4.4  Rights Agreement, dated as of June 25, 1998, between Realty
             Income Corporation and The Bank of New York (filed as an
             exhibit to the Company's registration statement on Form 8-A,
             dated June 26, 1998, and incorporated herein by reference).

        4.5  Pricing Committee Resolutions (filed as an exhibit
             to Realty Income's Form 8-K, dated October 27, 1998
             and incorporated herein by reference).

        4.6  Form of 8.25% Notes due 2008 (filed as an exhibit to
             Realty Income's Form 8-K, dated October 27, 1998 and
             incorporated herein by reference).

        4.7  Indenture dated as of October 28, 1998 between Realty Income
             and The Bank of New York (filed) as an exhibit to Realty
             Income's Form 8-K, dated October 27, 1998 and incorporated
             herein by reference).

        4.8  Pricing Committee Resolutions and Form of 8% Notes due 2009
             (filed as exhibit 4.2 to Realty Income's Form 8-K, dated
             January 21, 1999 and incorporated herein by reference).


                                                             Page 75

       10.1  $200 million Revolving Credit Agreement dated December 14,
             1999 (filed as exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Form 10-K dated
             December 31, 1999 and incorporated herein by reference).

       10.2  First Amendment dated January 21, 2000 to the $200 million
             Revolving Credit Agreement dated December 14, 1999 (filed as
             exhibit 10.2 to the Company's Form 10-K dated December 31,
             1999 and incorporated herein by reference).

       10.3  $25 million Revolving Credit Agreement dated February 1, 2000
             (filed as exhibit 10.3 to the Company's Form 10-K dated
             December 31, 1999 and incorporated herein by reference).

       10.4  First Amendment dated March 24, 2000 to the $25 million
             Revolving Credit Agreement dated February 1, 2000
             (filed as exhibit 10.3 to the Company's Form 10-Q dated
             March 31, 2000 and incorporated herein by reference).

       10.5  1994 Stock Option and Incentive Plan (filed as Exhibit
             4.1 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-8
             (registration number 33-95708) and incorporated herein
             by reference).

       10.6  First Amendment to the 1994 Stock Option and Incentive
             Plan, dated June 12, 1997 (filed as Exhibit 10.9 to the
             Company's Form 8-B and incorporated herein by reference).

       10.7  Second Amendment to the 1994 Stock Option and Incentive
             Plan, dated December 16, 1997, (filed as Exhibit 10.9 to the
             Company's Form 10-K dated December 31, 1997 and incorporated
             herein by reference).

       10.8  Management Incentive Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.10 to the
             Company's Form 10-K dated December 31, 1997 and incorporated
             herein by reference).

       10.9  Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement for Independent
             Directors, (filed as Exhibit 10.11 to the Company's Form 10-K
             dated December 31, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference).

       10.10 Form of Indemnification Agreement entered into between
             the Company and the executive officers of the Company
             (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Form 8-K dated
             November 21, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference).

       10.11 Form of Indemnification Agreement entered into between
             the Company and each director on the board of directors
             of the Company (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's
             Form 8-K dated November 21, 1997 and incorporated herein
             by reference).


                                                             Page 76


       10.12 Form of Employment Agreement between the Company and its
             Executive Officers (incorporated by reference to the
             Company's Form 8-B12B dated July 29, 1997 and incorporated
             herein by reference).

       10.13 $25 million Demand Promissory Note dated February 1, 2000
             between Realty Income Corporation and Crest Net Lease, Inc.
             (filed as exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Form 10-Q dated
             March 31, 2000 and incorporated herein by reference).

       10.14 Master Management Agreement dated January 1, 2000 between
             Realty Income Corporation and Crest Net Lease, Inc.
             (filed as exhibit 10.2 to the Company's Form 10-Q dated
             March 31, 2000 and incorporated herein by reference).

       12.1  Statement re computation of ratios, filed herein.

       21.1  Subsidiaries of the Company as of January 1, 2001, filed
             herein.

       23.1  Consent of KPMG LLP, filed herein.


B. The Registrant filed no reports on Form 8-K during the last quarter of
the period covered by this report.


























                                                             Page 77

                            SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

REALTY INCOME CORPORATION



By:   /s/THOMAS A. LEWIS
      ------------------------------------
      Thomas A. Lewis
      Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors,
      Chief Executive Officer and President

Date: March 28, 2001



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the registrant
and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.



By:   /s/WILLIAM E. CLARK
      ------------------------------------
      William E. Clark
      Chairman of the Board of Directors

Date: March 28, 2001



By:   /s/THOMAS A. LEWIS
      ------------------------------------
      Thomas A. Lewis
      Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors,
      Chief Executive Officer and President
      (Principal Executive Officer)

Date: March 28, 2001



By:   /s/DONALD R. CAMERON
      ------------------------------------
      Donald R. Cameron
      Director

Date: March 28, 2001
                                                             Page 78

SIGNATURES (continued)

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the registrant
and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.



By:   /s/ROGER P. KUPPINGER
      ------------------------------------
      Roger P. Kuppinger
      Director

Date: March 28, 2001



By:   /s/MICHAEL D. MCKEE
      ------------------------------------
      Michael D. McKee
      Director

Date: March 28, 2001



By:   /s/WILLARD H. SMITH JR
      ------------------------------------
      Willard H. Smith Jr
      Director

Date: March 28, 2001



By:   /s/Kathleen R. Allen, Ph.D.
      ------------------------------------
      Kathleen R. Allen, Ph.D.
      Director

Date: March 28, 2001



By:   /s/GARY MALINO
      ------------------------------------
      Gary Malino
      Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer
      (Principal Financial Officer)

Date: March 28, 2001

                                                             Page 79

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the registrant
and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


By:   /s/GREGORY J. FAHEY
      ------------------------------------
      Gregory J. Fahey
      Vice President, Controller
      (Principal Accounting Officer)

Date: March 28, 2001



                          EXHIBIT INDEX
                          =============

Exhibit No.     Description
- -----------     -----------


12.1            Statement re computation of ratios

21.1            Subsidiaries of the Company as of January 1, 2001

23.1            Consent of KPMG LLP

























                                                             Page 80

                 REALTY INCOME CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
           SCHEDULE III REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION































                                                             Page F-96

                 REALTY INCOME CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
           SCHEDULE III REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION


Note 1.  One thousand sixty-four of the properties are single unit retail
outlets.  One grocery property located in Sheboygan, WI and three other
properties located in San Diego, CA are multi-tenant commercial properties.
All properties were acquired on an all cash basis except one; no
encumbrances were outstanding for the periods presented.

Note 2.  The aggregate cost for federal income tax purposes is
$1,022,515,010.

Note 3.  Reconciliation of total real estate carrying value for the three
years ended December 31, 2000 are as follows:



Note 5.  No provision for impairment loss was made in 2000, 1999 or 1998.




























                                                             Page F-98








