
10-K405





                             UNITED STATES
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                         Washington, DC  20549

                               FORM 10-K
                               =========

             ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D)
                OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

              For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 1999

                    Commission File Number 1-13318

                       REALTY INCOME CORPORATION
                       -------------------------
        (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

              Maryland                             33-0580106
              --------                             ----------
   (State or other jurisdiction of                (IRS Employer
    incorporation or organization)            Identification Number)

          220 West Crest Street, Escondido, California  92025
          ---------------------------------------------------
               (Address of principal executive offices)

   Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (760)741-2111
                                                       -------------

     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (b) of the Act:

                                              Name of Each Exchange
       Title of Each Class                    On Which Registered
   ----------------------------------------  -----------------------
   Common Stock, $1.00 Par Value             New York Stock Exchange
   Preferred Stock Purchase Rights           New York Stock Exchange
   8.25% Monthly Income Senior Notes,
     due 2008                                New York Stock Exchange
   Class B Preferred Stock, $1.00 Par Value  New York Stock Exchange
   Class C Preferred Stock, $1.00 Par Value  New York Stock Exchange
   ----------------------------------------  -----------------------

   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (g) of the Act: None
                                                                ----

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  [ X ]   No  [   ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.  [ X ]

At March 1, 2000 the aggregate market value of the Registrant's shares of
common stock, $1.00 par value, held by non-affiliates of the Registrant was
$541,780,000, at the New York Stock Exchange closing price of $20.75.

As of March 1, 2000, the number of common shares outstanding was
26,808,370, the number of Class B preferred shares outstanding was
2,745,700 and the number of Class C preferred shares outstanding was
1,380,000.

Documents incorporated by reference: Part III, Item 10, 11 and 12
incorporate by reference certain specific portions of the definitive proxy
statement for Realty Income Corporation's Annual Meeting to be held on
May 3, 2000, to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A.  Only those portions
of the proxy statement which are specifically incorporated by reference
herein shall constitute a part of this Annual Report.


FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
- --------------------------

This annual report on Form 10-K, including documents incorporated by
reference, contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section
27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act.  When used
in this annual report, the words estimated, anticipated and similar
expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-
looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions
about Realty Income Corporation, including, among other things:

    -  Our anticipated growth strategies;
    -  Our intention to acquire additional properties;
    -  Anticipated trends in our business, including trends in the market
       for long-term net leases of freestanding, single-tenant retail
       properties;
    -  Future expenditures for development projects; and
    -  Availability of capital to finance our business.

Future events and actual results, financial and otherwise, may differ
materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.
In particular, some of the factors that could cause actual results to
differ materially are:

    -  Our continued qualification as a real estate investment trust;
    -  General business and economic conditions;
    -  Competition;
    -  Interest rates;

                                                             Page 2


    -  Accessibility of debt and equity capital markets; and
    -  Other risks inherent in the real estate business including tenant
       defaults, potential liability relating to environmental matters and
       illiquidity of real estate investments.

Additional factors that may cause risks and uncertainties include those
discussed in the sections entitled "Business" and "Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in this
annual report.

Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking
statements, which speak only as of the date that this annual report was
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  We undertake no
obligation to publicly release the results of any revisions to these
forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect events or
circumstances after the date  of this annual report or to reflect the
occurrence of unanticipated events.  In light of these risks and
uncertainties, the forward-looking events discussed in this annual report
might not occur.


































                                                             Page 3












                                                             Page 4


PART I
======

ITEM 1:  BUSINESS
- -----------------
                              THE COMPANY
                              ===========

Realty Income Corporation, "The Monthly Dividend Company", a Maryland
corporation ("Realty Income", the "Company", "us", "our" or "we") is
organized to operate as an equity real estate investment trust ("REIT").
We are a fully integrated, self-administered real estate company with in-
house acquisition, leasing, legal, retail and real estate research,
portfolio management and capital markets expertise.  As of December 31,
1999, we owned a diversified portfolio of 1,076 retail properties located
in 45 states with over 8.6 million square feet of leasable space leased to
72 separate retail chains doing business in 23 separate retail industries.
Of the 1,076 properties in the portfolio, 1,069 are single-tenant retail
properties with the remainder being multi-tenant properties.  As of
December 31, 1999, 1,052, or 98.4%, of the 1,069 single-tenant properties
were leased with an average remaining lease term (excluding extension
options) of approximately 8.7 years.

Our primary business objective is to generate dependable monthly dividends
from a consistent and predictable level of funds from operations ("FFO")
per share.  Additionally, we seek to increase distributions to stockholders
and FFO per share through both active portfolio management and the
acquisition of additional properties.

Our portfolio management focus includes:
     -  Contractual rent increases on existing leases;
     -  Rental increases at the termination of existing leases when market
        conditions permit; and
     -  The active management of our property portfolio, including
        selective sales of properties.

Our acquisition of additional properties adheres to a focused strategy of
acquiring primarily:
     -  Freestanding, single-tenant, retail properties;
     -  Properties leased to regional and national retail chains; and
     -  Properties under long-term, net-lease agreements.

We typically acquire, then lease back, retail store locations from chain
store operators, providing capital to the operators for continued expansion
and other corporate purposes.  Our acquisitions and investment activities
are concentrated in well-defined target markets and focus generally on
middle-market retailers providing goods and services that satisfy basic
consumer needs.

Our net-lease agreements generally:
    -  Are for initial terms of 10 to 20 years;
    -  Require the tenant to pay a minimum monthly rent and property
       operating expenses (taxes, insurance and maintenance); and
                                                             Page 5

    -  Provide for future rent increases (typically subject to ceilings)
       based on increases in the consumer price index, fixed increases, or
       additional rent calculated as a percentage of the tenant's gross
       sales above a specified level.

Realty Income was formed on September 9, 1993 in the State of Delaware and
reincorporated in Maryland in May 1997.  Realty Income commenced operations
as a REIT on August 15, 1994 through the merger of 25 public and private
real estate limited partnerships with and into the Company.  Each of the
partnerships was formed between 1970 and 1989 for the purpose of acquiring
and managing long-term, net-leased properties.

The five senior officers of the Company, who have each managed our
properties and operations for between 2 and 14 years, owned 0.6% of the
Company's outstanding common stock with a market value of $3.3 million as
of March 1, 2000.  The directors and five senior officers of the Company,
as a group, owned 2.6% of the Company's outstanding common stock with a
market value of $14.4 million as of March 1, 2000.

Realty Income's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange
("NYSE") under the ticker symbol "O", our central index key ("CIK") number
is 726728 and cusip number is 756109-104.

Realty Income's 8.25% Monthly Income Senior Notes due 2008, are listed on
the NYSE under the ticker symbol "OUI".  The cusip number of these notes is
756109-203.

Realty Income has 44 employees as of March 1, 2000.


                          RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
                          ===================

ACQUISITION OF 110 PROPERTIES DURING 1999.  During 1999, we acquired 110
additional properties (the "New Properties"), and selectively sold three
properties, increasing the number of properties in the portfolio by 10.9%
to 1,076 properties at December 31, 1999 from 970 properties at
December 31, 1998.  During 1999, we diversified our portfolio with the
addition of two new retail industries, Entertainment and Theaters, and
eight new retail chains.

During 1999, we invested $181.4 million in New Properties and properties
under development (excluding estimated unfunded development costs on
properties under construction at December 31, 1999 of $15.4 million).  The
weighted average annual unleveraged return on the $181.4 million invested
in 1999 is estimated to be 10.5%, computed as estimated contractual net
operating income (which in the case of a net-leased property is equal to
the base rent or, in the case of properties under construction, the
estimated base rent under the lease) for the first year of each lease,
divided by the estimated total costs of each property.  Since it is


                                                             Page 6


possible that a tenant could default on the payment of contractual rent, no
assurance can be given that the actual return on the funds invested will
not differ from the foregoing percentage.

The New Properties are leased to 21 separate retail chains operating in 16
different retail industries, are located in 26 states, will contain
approximately 948,000 leasable square feet and are 100% leased under net
leases, with an average initial lease term of 17.4 years.  Of the New
Properties, 102 were occupied as of March 1, 2000 and the remaining
properties were pre-leased and under construction pursuant to contracts
under which the tenants have agreed to develop the properties (with
development costs funded by the Company) and to begin paying rent when the
premises open for business.

INCREASES IN MONTHLY DISTRIBUTIONS TO COMMON STOCKHOLDERS.  In April, July
and October 1999, and January 2000, the monthly distributions to common
stockholders were increased $0.0025 to $0.1725, $0.1750, $0.1775 and
$0.1800 per share, respectively.  We are committed to our policy of paying
monthly distributions to common stockholders.  During 1999, we paid three
distributions of $0.1700 per common share, three distributions of $0.1725
per common share, three distributions of $0.1750 per common share, and
three distributions of $0.1775 per common share.  Common stock
distributions for 1999 totaled $2.085 per share.  In December 1999, January
2000 and February 2000, we declared distributions of $0.18 per common
share, which were paid on January 18, 2000, February 15, 2000 and
March 15, 2000, respectively.  The monthly distribution of $0.18 per common
share represents a current annualized distribution of $2.16 per share, and
an annualized distribution yield of approximately 10.4% based on the last
reported sale price of our common stock on the NYSE of $20.75 on March 1,
2000.  Although we expect to continue our policy of paying monthly
distributions, there can be no assurance that the current level of
distributions per share will be maintained by the Company, that we will
continue our pattern of increasing distributions per share, or as to the
actual distribution yield for any future period.

UNSECURED REVOLVING CREDIT FACILITIES.  In December 1999, we entered into a
$200 million, three-year, revolving unsecured acquisition credit facility,
which expires in December 2002. Simultaneously with the execution of the
$200 million credit facility our $170 million credit facility was
cancelled. As of March 1, 2000, we had $70.7 million available for
borrowing under the $200 million credit facility.  At that time, the
outstanding balance was $129.3 million with an effective interest rate of
7.3%.

In February 2000, we entered into a $25 million, three-year, revolving
credit facility, which expires in February 2003.  This credit facility can
be used for the acquisition of property and for making capital
contributions to subsidiaries for the purpose of acquiring properties.





                                                             Page 7


STOCK AND SENIOR DEBT REPURCHASE PROGRAM.  In January 2000, our Board of
Directors authorized the purchase of up to $10 million of our outstanding
common and preferred shares and senior debt securities during the next 12
months.  We may make periodic purchases on the open market at prevailing
prices or in privately negotiated transactions.  The purchases will be
funded using available working capital which consists primarily of cash
flow from operations.

FORMATION OF SUBSIDIARY.  In January 2000, we formed Crest Net Lease, Inc.,
of which we own 95% of the common stock, all of which is non-voting, and
certain members of management own 5% of the common stock, all of which is
voting stock.  Crest Net Lease was created to actively buy and sell certain
select properties, primarily to buyers using tax-deferred exchanges, under
Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Service Code.

PREFERRED STOCK OFFERINGS.  In May 1999, we issued 2,760,000 shares of
9 3/8% Class B cumulative redeemable preferred stock (the "Class B
Preferred") at a price of $25.00 per share.  The Class B Preferred trades
on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") under the symbol "OprB" and its
cusip number is 756109-302.  Dividends on the Class B Preferred are payable
quarterly.  The net proceeds of $66.5 million were used to pay down bank
borrowings.

In July 1999, we issued 1,380,000 shares of 9 1/2% Class C cumulative
redeemable preferred stock (the "Class C Preferred") at a price of $25.00
per share.  The Class C Preferred trades on the NYSE under the symbol
"OprC" and its cusip number is 756109-500.  Dividends on the Class C
Preferred are payable monthly.  The net proceeds of $33.2 million were used
to pay down bank borrowings.

NOTES OFFERING.  In January 1999, we issued $20 million of 8.0% unsecured
senior notes due 2009 (the "1999 Notes").  The 1999 Notes were sold at
98.757% of par to yield 8.1%.  The proceeds from the offering were used to
pay down bank borrowings and for other corporate purposes.  Currently,
there is no formal trading market for the 1999 Notes and we have not listed
and do not intend to list the 1999 Notes on any securities exchange.


                 BUSINESS PHILOSOPHY AND STRATEGY
                 ================================

INVESTMENT PHILOSOPHY.  We believe that the long-term ownership of an
actively managed, diversified portfolio of retail properties under long-
term, net-lease agreements produces consistent, predictable income.  Under
a net-lease agreement, the tenant agrees to pay a minimum monthly rent and
property operating expenses (taxes, maintenance, and insurance) plus,
typically, future rent increases (generally subject to ceilings) based on
increases in the consumer price index, fixed increases or additional rent
calculated as a percentage of the tenant's gross sales above a specified
level.  We believe that long-term leases, coupled with the tenant's



                                                             Page 8


responsibility for property expenses, generally produce a more predictable
income stream than many other types of real estate portfolios, while
continuing to offer the potential for growth in rental income.

INVESTMENT STRATEGY.  In identifying new properties for acquisition, we
focus on providing expansion capital to retail chains by acquiring, then
leasing back, their retail store locations.  We classify retail tenants
into three categories: venture, middle market, and upper market.  Venture
companies are those which typically offer a new retail concept in one
geographic region of the country and operate between five and 50 retail
outlets.  Middle market retail chains are those which typically have 50 to
500 retail outlets, operations in more than one geographic region, have
been successful through one or more economic cycles, and have a proven,
replicable concept.  The upper market retail chains typically consist of
companies with 500 or more stores, operating nationally in a proven mature
retail concept.  Upper market retail chains generally have strong operating
histories and access to several sources of capital.

Realty Income primarily focuses on acquiring properties leased to middle
market retail chains which we believe are attractive for investment
because:

    -  They generally have overcome many of the operational and managerial
       obstacles that tend to adversely affect venture retailers;
    -  They typically require capital to fund expansion but have more
       limited financing options;
    -  They generally have provided us with attractive risk-
       adjusted returns over time since their financial strength has in
       many cases tended to improve as their businesses have matured;
    -  Their relatively large size allows them to spread corporate expenses
       across a greater number of stores; and
    -  Middle market retailers typically have the critical mass to survive
       if a number of locations have to be closed due to underperformance.

In 1998, we expanded our investment focus to include upper market retail
chains and have made some acquisitions on a selective basis.  We believe
upper market retail chains can be attractive for investment because:

    -  They typically are of a higher credit quality;
    -  They are usually larger brand name, public and private retailers;
    -  They utilize a larger building ranging in size from 10,000 to 50,000
       square feet; and
    -  Their ability to grow because of access to capital facilitates
       larger transaction sizes.

While our investment strategy focuses primarily on acquiring properties
leased to middle and upper market retail chains, we also selectively seek
incremental investment opportunities with venture market retail chains.
Periodically, venture market opportunities arise where we feel that the
real estate used by the tenant is of high quality and can be purchased at
prices that are favorable in the marketplace.  To meet our stringent


                                                             Page 9


investment standards, however, venture retail companies must have a well-
defined retailing concept and strong financial prospects.  These
opportunities are examined on a case by case basis and we are highly
selective in making investments in this area.

The Internet has become an important delivery channel for many retail
businesses and our investment strategy has positioned us to compete in such
an environment.  Many research analysts and experts in retail trends
believe that bricks and mortar retail businesses will successfully co-exist
with Internet retail businesses.  We believe that the companies most
vulnerable, and possibly subject to the greatest impact from the Internet,
are retail chains that sell books, consumer electronics, music, office
supplies, and, possibly, pharmaceuticals.

Our exposure to these types of retail chains is minimal.  We believe retail
chains that provide services rather than goods, such as child care centers
and auto service stores, as well as those that provide a service with their
products, such as restaurants, convenience stores and home improvement
stores, have tended to be more stable operators than retailers that only
sell goods.  Historically, our investment focus has been on retail
industries that have a service component because we believe the lease
revenue from these types of businesses is more stable.  Because of this
investment focus, as of January 1, 2000, over 76% of our annualized revenue
is derived from retailers with a service component in their business.  We
believe these service-oriented businesses would be difficult to duplicate
over the Internet and, as a result, our property portfolio should be fairly
well positioned for competition from Internet businesses.

CREDIT STRATEGY.  Realty Income principally provides sale leaseback
financing primarily to less than investment grade retail chains.  Since
1970 and through December 31, 1999, Realty Income has acquired and leased
back to regional and national retail chains 1,054 properties (including 36
properties that have been sold) and has collected in excess of 98% of the
original contractual rent obligations on those properties.  We believe that
within this market we can achieve an attractive risk-adjusted return on the
financing that we provide to retailers.

We believe that the primary financial obligations of most retailers
typically include their bank and other debt, payment obligations to
suppliers and real estate lease obligations.  Because we own the land and
buildings on which the tenant conducts its retail business, we believe that
the risk of default on the retailers' lease obligations is less than the
retailers' unsecured general obligations.  It has been our experience that
since retailers must retain their profitable retail locations in order to
survive in the event of reorganization they are less likely to reject a
lease for a profitable location, which would terminate their right to use
the property.  Thus, as the property owner, we believe we will fare better
than unsecured creditors of the same retailer in the event of reorgani-
zation.  If a property is rejected by the tenant during the reorganization,
we still own the property and can either lease it to a new tenant or sell
the property.  In addition, we believe that the risk of default on the real


                                                             Page 10


estate leases can be further mitigated by monitoring the performance of the
retailers' individual unit locations and selling those units that are
weaker performers.

In order to qualify for inclusion in our portfolio, new property
acquisitions must meet stringent investment and credit requirements.  The
properties must generate attractive current yields, and the tenant must
meet our credit standards.  We have established a three-part analysis that
examines each potential investment based on:

    -  Industry, company, market conditions and credit profile;
    -  Location profitability, if profitability data is available; and
    -  Overall real estate characteristics, value, and comparative rental
       rates.

Companies that have been approved for acquisitions are generally those with
fifty or more retail stores which are located in highly visible areas, with
easy access to major thoroughfares and attractive demographics.

ACQUISITION STRATEGY.  We seek to invest in industries in which several,
well-organized, regional and national chains are capturing market share
through service, quality control, economies of scale, mass media
advertising, and the selection of prime retail locations.  We execute our
acquisition strategy by acting as a source of capital to regional and
national retail chain stores in a variety of industries by acquiring, then
leasing back, their retail store locations.  We undertake thorough research
and analysis to identify appropriate industries, tenants, and property
locations for investment.  The abundance of information on the Internet
adds to our research capabilities and allows us to uncover net-lease
opportunities in markets where our real estate financing program adds
value.  In selecting real estate for potential investment, we generally
seek to acquire properties that have the following characteristics:

    -  Freestanding, commercially zoned property with a single tenant;
    -  Properties that are important retail locations for regional and
       national retail chains;
    -  Properties that are located within attractive demographic areas
       relative to the business of their tenants, with high visibility and
       easy access to major thoroughfares; and
    -  Properties that can be purchased with the simultaneous execution or
       assumption of long-term, net-lease agreements, providing the
       opportunity for both current income and future rent increases.

PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT STRATEGY.  The active management of the property
portfolio is an essential component of our long-term strategy.  We
continually monitor our portfolio for changes that could affect the
performance of the industries, tenants, and locations in which we have
invested.  The portfolio is analyzed on an ongoing basis with a view
towards optimizing performance and returns.  Realty Income's investment
committee meets frequently and is made up of our Chief Executive Officer
and two Executive Vice Presidents.  Our investment committee reviews


                                                             Page 11


industry research, tenant research, property due diligence, and significant
portfolio management activities.  This monitoring typically includes
ongoing review and analysis of:

    -  The performance of various retail industries;
    -  The operation, management, business planning, and financial
       condition of the tenants; and
    -  The health of the individual markets in which we own properties,
       from both an economic and real estate standpoint.

In November 1999, we implemented a plan to sell three of our multi-tenant
locations.  We anticipate these properties will be sold in 2000.  At
December 31, 1999, they had a combined carrying value of $29 million.

CAPITAL MARKETS STRATEGY.  We have a $200 million revolving, unsecured
acquisition credit facility that expires in December 2002 and a $25 million
revolving, unsecured credit facility that expires in February 2003.  As of
March 1, 2000, the outstanding balance on the $200 million credit facility
was $129.3 million with an effective interest rate of approximately 7.3%.
At March 1, 2000, no balance was outstanding on the $25 million credit
facility.  A commitment fee of 0.225% per annum accrues on the total credit
commitment of each credit facility.  The $200 million credit facility has
been and is expected to be used to acquire additional retail properties
leased to regional and national retail chains under long term net lease
agreements.  The $25 million credit facility can be used for the
acquisition of property and for making capital contributions to
subsidiaries for the purpose of funding the acquisition of properties.

We use our credit facilities as a vehicle for the short-term financing of
the acquisition of new properties.  When outstanding borrowings under the
$200 million credit facility reach a certain level (generally in the range
of $75 to $175 million) and capital is available on acceptable terms, we
generally seek to refinance those borrowings with the net proceeds of long-
term or permanent financing, which may include the issuance of common
stock, preferred stock, convertible preferred stock, debt securities or
convertible debt securities.  We cannot assure you, however, that we will
be able to obtain any such refinancing or that market conditions prevailing
at the time of refinancing will enable us to issue equity or debt
securities upon acceptable terms.  We intend to pay off borrowings on our
$25 million credit facility with proceeds from the sale of properties
acquired by us or our subsidiaries.  We believe that we are best served by
a conservative capital structure, with a majority of our capital consisting
of equity.  As of March 1, 2000, our total outstanding credit facility
borrowings and outstanding notes were $359.3 million or approximately 35.3%
of our total capitalization of $1.0 billion (defined as shares of our
common stock outstanding multiplied by the last reported sales price of the
common stock on the NYSE on March 1, 2000 of $20.75 per share plus the
liquidation value of the Class B Preferred Stock, the Class C Preferred
Stock, the outstanding borrowings on the credit facilities and outstanding
notes at March 1, 2000).



                                                             Page 12


We received investment grade credit ratings from Duff & Phelps Credit
Rating Company, Moody's Investor Service, Inc., and Standard & Poor's
Rating Group in December 1996.  Currently, Duff & Phelps has assigned a
rating of BBB, Moody's has assigned a rating of Baa3, and Standard & Poor's
has assigned a rating of BBB- to our senior debt.  These ratings could
change based upon, among other things, our results of operations and
financial condition.

We have also received credit ratings from the same rating agencies on our
preferred stock.  Duff & Phelps Rating Company has assigned a rating of
BBB-, Moody's Investor Service, Inc. has assigned a rating of Ba1, and
Standard & Poor's Rating Group has assigned a rating of BB+.  These ratings
could change based upon, among other things, our results of operations and
financial condition.

Historically, we have met our long-term capital needs through the issuance
of common stock, preferred stock and investment grade long-term unsecured
debt. We believe that the Company is best served by having the majority of
our future issuances of securities be in the form of common stock.  The
Company will issue common stock when we believe that the share price of our
common stock is at a level that allows for the proceeds of any offering to
be invested on an accretive basis into additional properties or to pay down
any short-term borrowings on our credit facilities.  We do not presently
view our price per common share as attractive for additional issuances of
common stock.  We do not anticipate issuing additional shares of common
stock until we determine the common stock price has risen to acceptable
levels.  In addition, we seek to maintain a conservative debt level on our
balance sheet, which should result in conservative interest and fixed
charge coverage ratios.  We do not anticipate issuing significant amounts
of additional debt until additional equity can be issued to offset the
increase in debt.  If the share price levels do not increase and we do not
issue additional equity or debt, we will reduce our level of property
acquisitions.  In these circumstances, we intend to achieve our growth
objectives by investing cash flow in excess of distributions and stock
repurchases, and by strategically selling properties that have appreciated
in value and investing the proceeds in new properties that will generate
rental revenue in excess of those generated by the properties that were
sold.

COMPETITIVE STRATEGY.  We believe that, to utilize our investment
philosophy and strategy most successfully, we must seek to maintain the
following competitive advantages:

- -  Size and Type of Investment Properties:  We believe that smaller
   ($500,000 to $10,000,000) retail net-leased properties represent an
   attractive investment opportunity in today's real estate environment.
   Due to the complexities of acquiring and managing a large portfolio of
   relatively small assets, we believe that these types of properties have
   not experienced significant institutional participation or the
   corresponding yield reduction experienced by larger income producing
   properties.  We believe the less intensive day to day property
   management required by net-lease agreements, coupled with the active

                                                             Page 13


   management of a large portfolio of smaller properties by us, is an
   effective investment strategy. The tenants of our freestanding retail
   properties generally provide goods and services which satisfy basic
   consumer needs.  In order to grow and expand, they generally need
   capital.  Since the acquisition of real estate is typically the single
   largest capital expenditure of many of these retailers, our method of
   purchasing the property and then leasing it back under a net-lease
   arrangement allows the retail chain to free up capital.

- -  Investment in New Retail Industries:  Though we specialize in single-
   tenant  properties, we will seek to further diversify our portfolio
   among a variety of retail industries.  We believe that diversification
   will allow us to invest in retail industries that are currently growing
   and have characteristics we find attractive.  These characteristics
   include, but are not limited to, retail industries dominated by local
   operators where regional and national chain operators can gain market
   share and dominance through more efficient operations, as well as
   industries taking advantage of major demographic shifts in the
   population base.  During 1999, we added two new retail industries to our
   portfolio, Entertainment and Theaters, bringing the total number of
   retail industries in our portfolio to 23.

- -  Diversification:  Diversification of the portfolio by retail industry
   type, tenant and geographic location is key to our objective of
   providing predictable investment results for our stockholders.  As we
   expand we will seek to further diversify our portfolio.  During 1999,
   eight new retail chains were added to our portfolio, bringing the total
   number of retail chains in our portfolio to 72.  These retail chains
   operate 1,015 of our properties located in 45 states.

- -  Management Specialization:  We believe that our management's
   specialization in single-tenant retail properties operated under net-
   lease agreements is important to meeting our objectives.  We plan to
   maintain this specialization and will seek to employ and train high
   quality professionals in this specialized area of real estate ownership,
   finance and management.

- -  Technology:  We intend to stay at the forefront of technology in our
   efforts to efficiently and economically carry out our operations.  We
   maintain a sophisticated information system that allows us to analyze
   our portfolio's performance and actively manage our investments.  We
   believe that technology and information based systems will play an
   increasingly important role in our competitiveness as an investment
   manager and source of capital to a variety of industries and tenants.









                                                             Page 14

                               PROPERTIES
                               ==========

As of December 31, 1999, we owned a diversified portfolio of 1,076
properties located in 45 states with over 8.6 million square feet of
leasable space.  At December 31, 1999, 1,052 or 97.8% of the 1,076
properties were under net-lease agreements.  Net leases typically require
the tenant to be responsible for minimum monthly rent and property
operating expenses including property taxes, insurance and maintenance.

Our net-leased retail properties are primarily leased to regional and
national retail chain store operators.  The average leasable retail space
of the 1,076 properties is approximately 8,000 square feet on approximately
56,000 square feet of land.  Generally, buildings are single-story
properties with adequate parking on site to accommodate peak retail traffic
periods.  The properties tend to be on major thoroughfares with relatively
high traffic counts and adequate access, egress and proximity to a
sufficient population base to constitute a suitable market or trade area
for the retailer's business.

The table on the next page sets forth certain information regarding our
1,076 properties classified according to the business of the respective
tenants (dollars in thousands):





























                                                             Page 15



* Less than 0.1%
[FN]
(1)  Annualized rent is calculated by multiplying the monthly contractual
base rent as of January 1, 2000 for each of the properties by 12 and adding
the previous twelve month's historic percentage rent, which totaled $1.7
million (i.e., additional rent calculated as a percentage of the tenant's
gross sales above a specified level).  For the properties under
construction, an estimated contractual base rent is used based upon the
estimated total costs of each property.






                                                                 Page 16


Of the 1,076 properties in the portfolio at January 1, 2000, 1,069 were
single-tenant properties with the remaining properties being multi-tenant
properties.  As of January 1, 2000, 1,052 of the 1,069 single-tenant
properties, or 98.4%, were leased with an average remaining lease term
(excluding extension options) of approximately 8.7 years.

During 1999, 31 of our leases expired.  Of these leases, 26 were released
to the same tenant, four were leased to different tenants in the same
industry and one location is being marketed for lease or sale.

The following table sets forth certain information regarding the timing of
the initial lease term expirations (excluding extension options) on our
1,052 net leased, single-tenant retail properties as of January 1, 2000
(dollars in thousands).

[FN]
(1)  Annualized Rent is calculated by multiplying the monthly contractual
base rent as of January 1, 2000 for each of the properties by 12 and adding
the previous twelve month's historic percentage rent, which totaled $1.7
million (i.e., additional rent calculated as a percentage of the tenant's

                                                             Page 17


gross sales above a specified level.)  For properties under construction,
an estimated contractual base rent is used based upon the estimated total
costs of each property.

(2)  This table does not include seven multi-tenant properties and 17
vacant unleased single-tenant properties owned by the Company.  The lease
expirations for properties under construction are based on the estimated
date of completion of these properties.


The following table sets forth certain state-by-state information regarding
Realty Income's portfolio at January 1, 2000 (dollars in thousands).


[FN]
(1)  Annualized rent is calculated by multiplying the monthly contractual
base rent as of January 1, 2000 for each of the properties by 12 and adding
the previous twelve month's historic percentage rent, which totaled $1.7
million (i.e., additional rent calculated as a percentage of the tenant's
gross sales above a specified level).  For the properties under
construction, an estimated contractual base rent is used based upon the
estimated total costs of each property.





















                                                             Page 19


The following table sets forth certain information regarding the properties
owned by Realty Income as of January 1, 2000, classified according to the
business of the respective tenants (dollars in thousands).
                                                     Page 20

[FN]
(1)  Annualized rent is calculated by multiplying the monthly contractual
base rent as of January 1, 2000 for each of the properties by 12 and adding
the previous twelve month's historic percentage rent, which totaled $1.7
million (i.e., additional rent calculated as a percentage of the tenant's
gross sales above a specified level).  For the properties under
construction, an estimated contractual base rent is used based upon the
estimated total costs of each property.


DESCRIPTION OF LEASING STRUCTURE.  At December 31, 1999, 1,052 or 97.8% of
the Company's 1,076 properties were leased pursuant to net leases.  In most
cases, the leases:

    -  Were for initial terms of from 10 to 20 years and the tenant has an
       option to extend the initial term;
    -  In general, the leases require the tenant to pay property taxes,
       insurance, and expenses of maintaining the property;
    -  Generally provide for a minimum base rent plus future increases
       (typically subject to ceilings) based on increases in the consumer
       price index, additional rent based upon the tenant's gross sales
       above a specified level (i.e., percentage rent) or fixed increases.
       Where leases provide for rent increases based on increases in the
       consumer price index, generally these increases permanently become
       part of the base rent.  Where leases provide for percentage rent,
       this additional rent is typically payable only if the tenant's gross
       sales for a given period (usually one year) exceed a specified
       level, and then is typically calculated as a percentage of only the
       amount of gross sales in excess of that level.

Matters Pertaining to Certain Properties and Tenants
- ----------------------------------------------------

Seventeen of our properties were vacant as of January 1, 2000 (all of which
are single-tenant properties) and available for lease. Eight of the vacant
properties were previously leased to automotive service facility operators,
three to restaurant operators, two to automotive parts store operators, two
to child care operators, one to a home furnishings store operator and one
to a convenience store operator.  As of January 1, 2000, 19 of our
properties under lease were vacant and available for sublease by the
tenants, all of which were current with their rent and other obligations.

Our two largest tenants are Children's World Learning Centers and La Petite
Academy, which accounted for approximately 13.8% and 10.3%, respectively,
of our rental revenue for the year ended December 31, 1999.  No other
tenant comprised 10% or more of our rental revenue.  In general, a downturn
in the industry represented by these tenants, whether nationwide or limited
to specific sectors of the United States, could adversely affect tenants in
this industry, which in turn could materially adversely affect our
financial position and results of operations and our ability to make
distributions to stockholders and debt service payments.  In addition, a

                                                             Page 21


substantial number of our properties are leased to middle market retail
chains which generally have more limited financial and other resources than
certain upper market retail chains, and therefore are more likely to be
adversely affected by a downturn in their respective business or in the
regional or national economy generally.

Our tenants in the child care and restaurant industries accounted for
approximately 25.3% and 13.3%, respectively, of our rental revenue for the
year ended December 31, 1999.  A downturn in any of these industries
generally, whether nationwide or limited to specific sectors of the United
States, could adversely affect tenants in those industries, which in turn
could materially adversely affect our financial position and results of
operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders and debt
service payments.

In November 1999, Econo Lube N' Tune filed for reorganization under Chapter
11 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code, and rejected nine of our 34 leases with
them.  One of the rejected locations was leased to another tenant in
December 1999, and we anticipate the remaining eight locations to be leased
or sold during the second or third quarter of 2000.  Econo Lube N' Tune is
currently operating the remaining 25 locations, and we anticipate that they
will accept these locations, although we cannot assure you that they will
continue to pay rent for the remaining terms of the leases.

Development of Certain Properties
- ---------------------------------

Of the 110 New Properties we acquired in 1999, 102 were occupied as of
March 1, 2000 and the remaining 8 were pre-leased and under construction
pursuant to contracts under which tenants or developers have agreed to
develop the properties (with development costs funded by us) with rent
commencing when the premises open for business.  In the case of development
properties, we either enter into an agreement with a tenant where the
tenant retains a contractor to construct the improvements and we fund the
costs of that development, or we fund a developer who constructs the
improvements.  In either case, there is an executed lease and there is a
requirement to complete the construction on a timely basis, generally
within eight months after we purchase the land.  Generally, the tenant or
developer is required to pay construction cost overruns to the extent they
exceed the construction budget by more than a predetermined amount.  We
also enter into a lease with the tenant at the time we purchase the land,
which generally requires that the tenant begin paying base rent, calculated
as a percentage of our acquisition cost for the property, including
construction costs and capitalized interest, when the premises open for
business.  During 1999, we acquired 37 development properties, 29 of which
have been completed, were operating and paying rent as of March 1, 2000.
We will continue to seek to acquire land for development under similar
arrangements.





                                                             Page 22


                       DISTRIBUTION POLICY
                       ===================

Distributions are paid to our common stockholders and Class C Preferred
stockholders on a monthly basis and paid to our Class B Preferred
stockholders on a quarterly basis if, as and when declared by our Board of
Directors.  The Class B Preferred receive cumulative distributions at a
rate of 9.375% per annum of the $25 per share liquidation preference
(equivalent to $2.344 per annum per share).  The Class C Preferred receive
cumulative distributions at a rate of 9.5% per annum of the $25 per share
liquidation preference (equivalent to $2.375 per annum per share).

The March 2000 distribution of $0.18 per common share represents a current
annualized distribution of $2.16 per share, and an annualized distribution
yield of approximately 10.4% based on the last reported sale price of
$20.75 of our common stock, on the NYSE on March 1, 2000.  In order to
maintain our tax status as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we are
generally required to distribute dividends to our stockholders aggregating
annually at least 95% of our REIT taxable income (determined without regard
to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding net capital gains).  In
1999, our distributions totaled approximately 109.5% of our REIT taxable
income.  We intend to continue to make distributions to our stockholders
that are sufficient to meet this requirement.

Future distributions by us will be at the discretion of our Board of
Directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of
operations, financial condition and capital requirements, the annual
distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), our debt service requirements and
other factors as the Board of Directors may deem relevant.  In addition,
our credit facilities contain financial covenants which could limit the
amount of distributions payable by us in the event of a deterioration in
the results of operations or financial condition of the Company, and which
prohibit the payment of distributions on the common or preferred stock in
the event that we fail to pay when due (subject to any applicable grace
period) any principal or interest on borrowings under our credit
facilities.

Distributions by us to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings
and profits for federal income tax purposes generally will be taxable to
stockholders as ordinary income.  Distributions in excess of earnings and
profits generally will be treated as a non-taxable reduction in the
stockholders' basis in its stock to the extent of that basis, and
thereafter as a gain from the sale of the stock.  Approximately 9.5% of the
distributions made or deemed to have been made in 1999 were classified as a
return of capital for federal income tax purposes.  We are unable to
predict the portion of 2000 or future distributions which may be classified
as a return of capital since the amount depends on our taxable income for
the entire year.




                                                             Page 23


                              OTHER ITEMS
                              ===========

COMPETITION FOR ACQUISITION OF REAL ESTATE.  We face competition in the
acquisition, operation and sale of property.  We expect competition from:

    - Businesses;
    - Individuals;
    - Fiduciary accounts and plans; and
    - Other entities engaged in real estate investment.

Some of these competitors are larger than we are and have greater financial
resources.  This competition may result in a higher cost for properties
that we wish to purchase.

The tenants leasing our properties generally face significant competition
from other operators.  This competition may adversely impact:

    -  That portion, if any, of the rental stream to be paid to us based on
       a tenant's revenues; and
    -  The tenants' results of operations or financial condition.

ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITIES.  Investments in real property can create a
potential for environmental liability.  An owner of property can face
liability for environmental contamination created by the presence or
discharge of hazardous substances on the property.  We face such liability
regardless of:

    - Our knowledge of the contamination;
    - The timing of the contamination;
    - The cause of the contamination; or
    - The party responsible for the contamination of the property.

We are not aware of any material environmental problems at this time;
however, there may be environmental problems associated with our properties
that we are unaware of.  In that regard, a number of our properties are
leased to operators of oil change and tune-up facilities, and convenience
stores that sell petroleum-based fuels.  These facilities, or other of our
properties, use, or may have used in the past, underground tanks for the
storage of petroleum-based or waste products which could create a potential
for release of hazardous substances.

The presence of hazardous substances on a property may adversely affect our
ability to sell that property and we may incur substantial remediation
costs.  Although our leases generally require our tenants to operate in
compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws, ordinances
and regulations and to indemnify us against any environmental liabilities
arising from the tenant's activities on the property, we could nevertheless
be subject to strict liability by virtue of our ownership interest, and
there can be no assurance that our tenants would satisfy their
indemnification obligations under the leases.


                                                             Page 24


We believe that our properties comply in all material respects with all
federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations regarding
hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products.

We have not been notified by any governmental authority, and are not
otherwise aware, of any material noncompliance, liability or claim relating
to hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products in connection with
any of our present properties.  Nevertheless, if environmental
contamination should exist, we could be subject to strict liability by
virtue of our ownership interest.

Since December 1996, the Company has maintained an environmental insurance
policy on the property portfolio.  The limit of the policy is $10 million
for each loss and $25 million in the aggregate, with a $100,000 deductible.
There is a sublimit on properties with underground storage tanks of $1
million per occurrence and $5 million in the aggregate, with a deductible
of $25,000.

TAXATION OF THE COMPANY.  We believe that we have operated, and we intend
to continue to operate, so as to qualify as a REIT under Sections 856
through 860 of the Code, commencing with our taxable year ended December
31, 1994.  Although we believe that we are in compliance with all REIT
qualification rules and we are organized and operate as a REIT, we can not
completely assure you that we will continue to be so organized or that we
will be able to operate in a manner so as to qualify or remain so
qualified.

Qualification as a REIT involves the satisfaction of numerous requirements
under highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only
limited judicial and administrative interpretations, and the determination
of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our
control.

We cannot assure you that legislation, new regulations, administrative
interpretations or court decisions will leave unchanged the tax laws with
respect to qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences
of those qualifications.

If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year:

    -  We would be subject to federal income tax (including any applicable
       alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate
       rates;
    -  We would not be allowed a deduction in computing our taxable income
       for amounts distributed to our stockholders;
    -  We would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four
       taxable years following the year during which qualification is lost.
       This treatment would substantially reduce our net earnings available
       for investment or distribution to stockholders because of the
       additional tax liability for the years involved; and
    -  We would no longer be required to make distributions to
       stockholders.
                                                             Page 25


Even if we qualify for and maintain our REIT status, we are subject to
certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and property.  For
example, if we have net income from a prohibited transaction, that income
will be subject to a 100% tax.

EFFECT OF DISTRIBUTION REQUIREMENTS.  To maintain our status as a REIT for
federal income tax purposes, we generally are required to distribute to our
stockholders at least 95% of our taxable income each year.  This taxable
income is determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by
excluding net capital gains.

We are also subject to tax at regular corporate rates to the extent that we
distribute less than 100% of our taxable income (including net capital
gains) each year.

In addition, we are subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount,
if any, by which certain distributions paid by us with respect to any
calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income for that
calendar year, 95% of our capital gain net income for the calendar year,
and any amount of that income that was not distributed in prior years.

We intend to continue to make distributions to our stockholders to comply
with the distribution requirements of the Code and to reduce exposure to
federal income taxes and the nondeductible excise tax.

Differences in timing between the receipt of income and the payment of
expenses in arriving at taxable income and the effect of required debt
amortization payments could require us to borrow funds on a short-term
basis to meet the distribution requirements that are necessary to achieve
the tax benefits associated with qualifying as a REIT.

DILUTION OF COMMON STOCK.  Our future growth will depend in large part upon
our ability to raise additional capital.  If we were to raise additional
capital through the issuance of equity securities, we could dilute the
interests of holders of common stock. Likewise, our Board of Directors is
authorized to cause us to issue preferred stock of any class or series
(with dividend, voting and other rights as determined by the Board of
Directors).  Accordingly, the Board of Directors may authorize the issuance
of preferred stock with voting, dividend and other similar rights that
could dilute, or otherwise adversely affect, the interests of holders of
Common Stock.

REAL ESTATE OWNERSHIP RISKS.  We are subject to all of the general risks
associated with the ownership of real estate.  In particular we face the
risk that rental revenue from the properties will be insufficient to cover
all corporate operating expenses and debt service payments on indebtedness
we incur.  Additional real estate ownership risks include:

     -  Adverse changes in general or local economic conditions;
     -  Changes in supply of or demand for similar or competing properties;
     -  Changes in interest rates and operating expenses;
     -  Competition for tenants;

                                                             Page 26


     -  Changes in market rental rates;
     -  Inability to lease properties upon termination of existing leases;
     -  Renewal of leases at lower rental rates;
     -  Inability to collect rents from tenants due to financial hardship,
        including bankruptcy, and sales declines due to the impact from
        Internet commerce;
     -  Changes in tax, real estate, zoning and environmental laws that may
        have an adverse impact upon the value of real estate;
     -  Uninsured property liability;
     -  Property damage or casualty losses;
     -  Unexpected expenditures for capital improvements or to bring
        properties into compliance with applicable federal, state and local
        laws; and
     -  Acts of God and other factors beyond the control of our management.

DEPENDENCE ON KEY PERSONNEL.  We depend on the efforts of our executive
officers and key employees.  The loss of the services of our executive
officers and key employees could have a material adverse effect on our
operations.


ITEM 2:  PROPERTIES
- -------------------

Information pertaining to our properties can be found under Item 1.


ITEM 3:  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
- --------------------------

The Company is subject to certain claims and lawsuits, the outcome of which
are not determinable at this time.  In the opinion of management, any
liability that might be incurred by the Company upon the resolution of
these claims and lawsuits will not, in the aggregate, have a material
adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial statements taken as
a whole.


ITEM 4:  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
- ------------------------------------------------------------

No matters were submitted to stockholders during the fourth quarter of the
fiscal year.










                                                             Page 27


PART II
=======

ITEM 5:  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
         STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
- ----------------------------------------------------------

A.  The common stock of the Company is traded on the New York Stock
Exchange under the ticker symbol "O."  The following table shows the high
and low sales prices per share for our common stock as reported by the New
York Stock Exchange composite tape, and distributions declared per share of
common stock by us for the periods indicated.


[FN]
(1)  Common stock distributions currently are declared monthly by us based
on financial results for the prior months.  At December 31, 1999 a
distribution of $0.18 per common share had been declared and was paid on
January 18, 2000.




[FN]
(1)  Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges is calculated by dividing earnings
by fixed charges.  For this purpose, earnings consist of net income before
interest expense.  Fixed charges are comprised of interest costs (including
capitalized interest) and the amortization of debt issuance costs.

(2)  1996 distributions paid per common share and 1995 distributions
declared per common share include a special distribution of $0.23 per
share.











                                                               Page 30


ITEM 7:  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
         CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
- ----------------------------------------------------------

GENERAL
- -------

Realty Income Corporation, "The Monthly Dividend Company", a Maryland
corporation ("Realty Income", the "Company", "us", "we" or "our") is
organized to operate as an equity real estate investment trust ("REIT").
We are a fully integrated self-administered real estate company with in-
house acquisition, leasing, legal, retail research, real estate research,
portfolio management and capital markets expertise.  As of December 31,
1999, we owned a diversified portfolio of 1,076 retail properties located
in 45 states with over 8.6 million square feet of leasable space.

Our primary business objective is to generate dependable monthly dividends
from a consistent and predictable level of funds from operations ("FFO")
per share.  Additionally, we generally will seek to increase distributions
to stockholders and FFO per share through both active portfolio management
and the acquisition of additional properties.


LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
===============================

    Cash Reserves

Realty Income is organized for the purpose of operating as an equity REIT
which acquires and leases properties and distributes to stockholders, in
the form of monthly cash distributions, a substantial portion of its net
cash flow generated from leases on its retail properties.  We intend to
retain an appropriate amount of cash as a working capital reserve.  At
December 31, 1999, Realty Income had cash and cash equivalents totaling
$773,000.

We believe that our cash and cash equivalents on hand, cash provided from
operating activities and borrowing capacity are sufficient to meet our
liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. We intend, however, to use
additional sources of capital to fund property acquisitions and to repay
our acquisition credit facility.

    Capital Funding

We have a $200 million, three-year revolving, unsecured acquisition credit
facility that expires in December 2002 and a $25 million, three-year
revolving, unsecured credit facility that expires in 2003.  The credit
facilities currently bear interest at 1.225% over the London Interbank
Offered Rate, or LIBOR, and offers us other interest rate options.  As of
March 1, 2000, borrowing capacity of $70.7 million was available to us
under the $200 million credit facility and $25 million was available under
the $25 million credit facility.  At that time, the outstanding

                                                             Page 31


balances on the $200 million credit facility was $129.3 million with an
effective interest rate of 7.33%.  These credit facilities have been and
are expected to be used to acquire additional retail properties leased to
national and regional retail chains under long-term lease agreements.  The
$25 million credit facility can also be used for making capital
contributions to subsidiaries for the purpose of acquiring properties.  Any
additional borrowings will increase our exposure to interest rate risk.

We expect to meet our long-term capital needs for the acquisition of
properties through the issuance of public or private debt or equity.  In
June 1999, we filed a universal shelf registration statement with the
Securities and Exchange Commission covering up to $400 million in value of
common stock, preferred stock and debt securities.  Through March 1, 2000,
$34.5 million in value of common stock, preferred stock and debt securities
has been issued under the universal shelf registration statement.

Historically, we have met our long-term capital needs through the issuance
of common stock, preferred stock and investment grade long-term unsecured
debt.  We believe that the Company is best served by having the majority of
our future issuances of securities be in the form of common stock.  We will
issue common stock when we believe that the share price of our common stock
is at a level that allows for the proceeds of any offering to be invested
on an accretive basis into additional properties or to pay down any short-
term borrowings on our credit facilities.  We do not presently view our
price per share as attractive for additional issuances of common stock.
We do not anticipate issuing additional shares of common stock until we
determine the common stock price has risen to acceptable levels.  In
addition, we seek to maintain a conservative debt level on our balance
sheet, which should result in conservative interest and fixed charge
coverage ratios.  We do not anticipate issuing significant amounts of
additional debt until additional equity can also be issued to offset the
increase in debt.  If the share price levels do not increase and we do not
issue additional equity or debt, we will reduce our level of property
acquisitions.  In these circumstances, we intend to achieve our growth
objectives by investing cash flow in excess of distributions in additional
retail properties and purchases of our outstanding securities, and by
strategically selling properties that have appreciated in value and
investing the proceeds in new properties that will generate rental revenue
in excess of those generated by the properties that were sold.

In January 1999, we issued $20 million of 8.0% unsecured senior notes due
2009.  The 1999 notes were sold at 98.757% of par to yield 8.1%.  The
proceeds from the offering were used to pay down bank borrowings.
Currently, there is no formal trading market for the 1999 notes and we have
not listed and do not intend to list the 1999 notes on any securities
exchange.

In May 1999, we issued 2,760,000 shares of 9 3/8% Class B cumulative
redeemable preferred stock (the "Class B Preferred") at a price of $25.00
per share.  The Class B Preferred trades on the New York Stock Exchange, or
NYSE, under the symbol "OprB" and its cusip number is 756109-302.


                                                             Page 32


Dividends on the Class B Preferred are payable quarterly.  The net proceeds
of $66.5 million were used to repay bank borrowings.

In July 1999, we issued 1,380,000 shares of 9 1/2% Class C cumulative
redeemable preferred stock (the "Class C Preferred") at a price of $25.00
per share.  The Class C Preferred trades on the NYSE under the symbol
"OprC" and its cusip number is 756109-500.  Dividends on the Class C
Preferred are payable monthly.  The net proceeds of $33.2 million were used
to repay bank borrowings.

We received investment grade corporate credit ratings on our senior
unsecured debt from Duff & Phelps Rating Company, Moody's Investor Service,
Inc., and Standard & Poor's Rating Group in December 1996.  Currently, Duff
& Phelps has assigned a rating of BBB, Moody's has assigned a rating of
Baa3, and Standard & Poor's has assigned a rating of BBB- to our senior
debt.  These ratings could change based upon, among other things, our
results of operations and financial condition.

We have also received credit ratings from the same rating agencies on our
preferred stock.  Duff & Phelps Rating Company has assigned a rating of
BBB-, Moody's Investor Service, Inc. has assigned a rating of Ba1, and
Standard & Poor's Rating Group has assigned a rating of BB+.  These ratings
could change based upon, among other things, our results of operations and
financial condition.

    Property Acquisitions

During 1999, we acquired 110 additional properties (the "New Properties"),
and selectively sold three properties, increasing the number of properties
in the portfolio by 10.9% to 1,076 properties at December 31, 1999 from 970
properties at December 31, 1998.  During 1999, we diversified our portfolio
with the addition of two new industry segments, Entertainment and Theaters,
and eight new retail chains.  As of December 31, 1999, our portfolio of
1,076 properties consists of 72 separate retail chains doing business in 23
separate retail segments.

During 1999, we invested $181.4 million in New Properties and properties
under development (including accrued development costs of $9.1 million and
excluding estimated unfunded development costs on properties under
construction at December 31, 1999 of $15.4 million).  During 1999, we also
paid $242,000 for lease commissions and $148,000 for building improvements
on existing properties in our portfolio.  The weighted average annual
unleveraged return on the $181.4 million invested in 1999 is estimated to
be 10.5%, computed as estimated contractual net operating income (which in
the case of a net leased property is equal to the base rent or, in the case
of properties under construction, the estimated base rent under the lease)
for the first year of each lease, divided by the estimated total costs.
Since it is possible that a tenant could default on the payment of
contractual rent, we cannot assure you that the actual return on the funds
invested will not differ from the foregoing percentage.



                                                               Page 33


The New Properties are leased to 21 separate tenants operating in 16
different retail industries, are located in 26 states, will contain
approximately 948,000 leasable square feet and are 100% leased under net
leases, with an average initial lease term of 17.4 years.  Of the New
Properties, 102 were occupied as of March 1, 2000 and the remaining
properties were pre-leased and under construction pursuant to contracts
under which the tenants or developers have agreed to develop the properties
(with development costs funded by the Company) and with the tenant to begin
paying rent when the premises open for business.

During 1998, we invested $193.4 million in 149 properties and properties
under development (including accrued development costs of $1.3 million and
excluding estimated unfunded development costs on properties under
construction at December 31, 1998 of $19.7 million).  The weighted average
annual unleveraged return on the $193.4 million invested in 1998 is
estimated to be 10.4%, computed in the same manner as 1999's estimated
weighted average annual unleveraged return.  These 149 properties are
located in 38 states, contain approximately 1.6 million leasable square
feet and are 100% leased with an average initial lease term of 14.9 years.

    Distributions

We pay monthly distributions to our common stockholders.  We paid cash
distributions to our common stockholders of $55.9 million in 1999, $52.3
million in 1998 and $44.4 million in 1997.  During 1999, we paid cash
distributions of $3.9 million to our Class B Preferred stockholders and
$1.4 million to our Class C Preferred stockholders. We pay distributions
quarterly on our Class B Preferred and monthly on our Class C Preferred.

We paid distributions to our common stockholders of $2.085 in 1999, $1.965
in 1998 and $1.893 in 1997.  In 1999, we paid dividends per share of $1.40
to our Class B Preferred stockholders and $0.99 to our Class C Preferred
stockholders.

In December 1999, January and February 2000, we declared distributions of
$0.18 per common share, which were paid on January 18, 2000, February 15,
2000 and March 15, 2000, respectively.  The monthly distribution of $0.18
per share represents a current annualized distribution of $2.16 per share,
and an annualized distribution yield of approximately 10.4% based on the
last reported sale price of the Company's Common Stock on the NYSE of
$20.75 on March 1, 2000.  Although the Company expects to continue its
policy of paying monthly distributions, we cannot assure you that we will
maintain the current level of distributions per share, that we will
continue our pattern of increasing distributions per share, or as to the
actual distribution yield for any future period.

    Stock and Senior Debt Repurchase Program

In January 2000, our Board of Directors authorized the purchase of up to
$10 million of our common and preferred shares and senior debt securities
during the next 12 months.  We may make periodic purchases on the open


                                                             Page 34


market at prevailing prices or in privately negotiated transactions.  The
purchases will be funded using available working capital which consists
primarily of cash flow from operations.

    Formation of Subsidiary

In January 2000, we formed Crest Net Lease, Inc., of which we own 95% of
the common stock, all of which is non-voting, and certain members of
management own 5% of the common stock, all of which is voting stock.  Crest
Net Lease was created to actively buy and sell certain select properties,
primarily to buyers using tax-deferred exchanges, under Section 1031 of the
Internal Revenue Service Code.


FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS ("FFO")
=============================

FFO for 1999 increased by $3.12 million or 5% to $65.92 million versus
$62.80 million during 1998.  FFO during 1997 was $52.35 million.

We define FFO as net income available to common stockholders, plus
depreciation and amortization, plus provision for impairment losses, plus
extraordinary items, less gain on sales of properties.  In accordance with
the recommendations of the National Association of Real Estate Investment
Trusts, or NAREIT, we do not add back amortization of deferred financing
costs to net income to calculate FFO.  We include amortization of financing
costs in interest expense in the consolidated statements of income.

The following is a reconciliation of net income to FFO and information
regarding distributions paid and the diluted weighted average number of
shares outstanding for 1999, 1998 and 1997 (dollars in thousands):



We consider FFO to be an appropriate measure of the performance of an
equity REIT. Financial analysts use FFO in evaluating REITs and FFO can be
one measure of a REIT's ability to make cash distribution payments.
Presentation of this information provides the reader with an additional
measure to compare the performance of different REITs, although it should
be noted that not all REITs calculate FFO the same way so comparisons with
other REITs may not be meaningful.

FFO is not necessarily indicative of cash flow available to fund cash needs
and should not be considered as an alternative to net income as an
indication of Realty Income's performance or to cash flows from operating,
investing, and financing activities as a measure of our liquidity or
ability to make cash distributions or to pay debt service.


RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
=====================

THE FOLLOWING IS A COMPARISON OF OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEAR
ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999 TO THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998.

Rental revenue was $104.3 million for 1999 versus $84.9 million for 1998,
an increase of $19.4 million, or 18.6%.  The increase in rental revenue was
primarily due to the acquisition of 110 properties during 1999 and 149
properties during 1998.  These properties generated revenue of $26.87
million in 1999 compared to $7.53 million in 1998, an increase of $19.3
million.  At January 1, 2000, annualized contractual lease payments on the
funds invested in properties acquired in 1999 and 1998 are approximately
$37.2 million (excluding estimated rent from eight properties under
development and any percentage rents).

Of the 1,076 properties in the portfolio as of December 31, 1999, 1,069 are
single-tenant properties with the remaining properties being multi-tenant
properties.  Of the 1,069 single-tenant properties, 1,052, or 98.4%, were
net leased with an average remaining lease term (excluding extension
options) of approximately 8.7 years.  All of our 1,052 leased single-tenant
properties were under leases that provide for increases in rents through:

  -  Base rent increases tied to a consumer price index with adjustment
     ceilings;
  -  Overage rent based on a percentage of the tenants' gross sales; or
  -  Fixed increases.
                                                             Page 36

Some leases contain more than one of these clauses.  Percentage rent, which
is included in rental revenue, was $1.7 million during both 1999 and 1998.
Same store rents generated on 789 leased properties owned during all of
both 1999 and 1998 increased by $618,000 or 0.8%, to $74.34 million from
$73.72 million.

At December 31, 1999, the Company had 17 properties that were not under
lease as compared to five at December 31, 1998 and eight at December 31,
1997.  At December 31, 1999, 1,059, or 98.4%, of the 1,076 properties in
the portfolio were under lease agreements with third party tenants.  In
February 2000, we issued letters of intent to lease five vacant locations
and letters of intent to sell five other vacant locations.  We anticipate
these ten locations to be leased or sold during the second or third quarter
of 2000.

Depreciation and amortization was $26.0 million in 1999 versus $21.9
million in 1998.  The increase in 1999 was primarily due to depreciation of
the properties acquired in 1998 and 1999.

Interest expense in 1999 increased by $10.8 million to $24.5 million, as
compared to $13.7 million in 1998.  The following is a summary of the five
components of interest expense for 1999 and 1998 (dollars in thousands):



Interest on outstanding loans and notes was $10.6 million higher in 1999
than in 1998 primarily due to an increase of $140.8 million in the average

                                                             Page 37


outstanding balances and a higher average interest rate.  The higher
average interest rate was due to the notes issued in October 1998 and
January 1999.

General and administrative expenses increased by $288,000 to $7.0 million
in 1999 versus $6.7 million in 1998.  The increase in general and
administrative expenses was primarily due to a one-time charge taken during
the fourth quarter that was associated with the retirement of our former
President.  General and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue
decreased to 6.7% in 1999 as compared to 7.8% in 1998.

Property expenses are broken down into costs associated with non-net leased
multi-tenant properties, unleased single-tenant properties and general
portfolio expenses.  Expenses related to the multi-tenant and unleased
single-tenant properties include, but are not limited to, property taxes,
maintenance, insurance, utilities, property inspections, bad debt expense
and legal fees.  General portfolio costs include, but are not limited to,
insurance, legal, property inspections and title search fees.

At December 31, 1999, 17 properties were available for lease as compared to
five at December 31, 1998.  Property expenses were $1.8 million in 1999 and
1998.  Increases in vacant property costs in 1999 were offset by savings on
our general portfolio insurance.

We review long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be
recoverable.  We did not take a provision for impairment in 1999 or 1998.

During 1999, we sold three properties (a home furnishings store, a home
improvement store and a restaurant) for $9.4 million and recognized a gain
of $1.3 million.  During 1998, we sold five properties (two child care
centers, two restaurants and one multi-tenant location) for $2.8 million
and recognized a gain of $526,000.

In December 1999, our $170 million credit facility was cancelled
simultaneously with the execution of our $200 million credit facility.
Unamortized fees of $355,000 relating to the $170 million credit facility
were charged in 1999 as extraordinary loss on early extinguishment of
credit facility.

In October 1998, we adopted SOP 98-5, "Reporting on the Costs of Start-Up
Activities" ("SOP 98-5").  SOP 98-5 requires that costs incurred during
start-up activities, including organization costs, be expensed as incurred.
Prior to October 1998, organization costs were amortized over 60 months.
In October 1998, the unamortized balance of organization costs of $226,000
was expensed.  This is reported on the statements of income as a cumulative
effect of a change in accounting principle.

In 1999, our net income increased 11.9%, to $46.2 million versus $41.3
million in 1998.  Rental revenue represented $19.4 million of the increase
and gain on sale of properties represented $775,000.  The increase in
rental revenue was due to an increase in rental revenue from properties

                                                             Page 38

acquired in 1999 and 1998 of $19.3 million.  These increases were
substantially offset by an increase of $14.8 million in the following
expenses:

  - Depreciation and amortization of $4.0 million; and
  - Interest expense of $10.8 million.

In 1999, we paid preferred stock dividends of $5.2 million.  No preferred
stock was outstanding prior to 1999.

THE FOLLOWING IS A COMPARISON OF OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEAR
ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998 TO THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997.

Rental revenue was $84.9 million for 1998 versus $67.6 million for 1997, an
increase of $17.3 million, or 25.6%.  The increase in rental revenue was
primarily due to the acquisition of 149 properties during 1998 and 96
properties during 1997.  These properties generated revenue of $22.3
million in 1998 compared to $5.3 million in 1997, an increase of $17.0
million.  At  January 1, 1999, annualized contractual lease payments on the
funds invested in properties acquired in 1998 and 1997 were approximately
$33.1 million (excluding estimated rent from 19 properties under
development and any percentage rents).

Of the 970 properties in the portfolio as of December 31, 1998, 963 were
single-tenant properties with the remaining properties being multi-tenant
properties.  Of the 963 single-tenant properties, 958, or 99.5%, were net
leased with an average remaining lease term (excluding extension options)
of approximately 8.6 years at December 31, 1998.

Percentage rent, which is included in rental revenue, was $1.7 million
during 1998 and $1.8 million in 1997.  Same store rents generated on 707
leased properties owned during all of both 1998 and 1997 increased by
$672,000 or 1.1%, to $60.48 million from $59.81 million.

At December 31, 1998, the Company had five properties that were not under
lease as compared to eight at December 31, 1997.  At December 31, 1998,
965, or 99.5%, of the 970 properties in the portfolio were under lease
agreements with third party tenants.

Depreciation and amortization was $21.9 million in 1998 versus $18.6
million in 1997.  The increase in 1998 was due to depreciation of the
properties acquired in 1998 and 1997.

Interest expense in 1998 increased by $5.5 million to $13.7 million, as
compared to $8.2 million in 1997.  The following is a summary of the five
components of interest expense for 1998 and 1997 (dollars in thousands):






                                                             Page 39




Interest on outstanding loans and notes was $5.6 million higher in 1998
than in 1997 due to an increase of $76.3 million in the average outstanding
balances.

General and administrative expenses increased by $1.2 million to $6.68
million in 1998 versus $5.44 million in 1997.  The increase in general and
administrative expenses was primarily due to an increase in property
acquisition expenses and employee costs.  General and administrative
expenses as a percentage of revenue decreased to 7.8% in 1998 as compared
to 8.0% in 1997.  During 1997, we increased our number of employees to 47
from 35.  The majority of the new employees were hired in the third quarter
of 1997 and work primarily on new property acquisitions.

Property expenses were $1.8 million in 1998 and 1997.  At December 31,
1998, five properties were available for lease as compared to eight at
December 31, 1997.

In 1997, we took a $165,000 charge for impairment losses to reduce the net
carrying value on three properties because they became held for sale.  All
of these properties have been sold.  We took no provision for impairment in
1998.

During 1998, we sold five properties for $2.8 million and recognized a gain
of $526,000.  During 1997, we sold 10 properties (six restaurants, two
child care centers, one automotive parts store and a multi-tenant location)
for a total of $4.4 million and recognized a gain of $1.1 million.


                                                             Page 40

In 1998, Realty Income had net income of $41.3 million versus $34.8 million
in 1997.  The $6.5 million increase in net income is primarily due to the
increase in rental revenue from properties acquired in 1998 and 1997 of
$17.0 million, which was partially offset by an increase of $10.1 million
in the following expenses:

  - Depreciation and amortization of $3.34 million;
  - Interest expense of $5.50 million; and
  - General and administrative expense of $1.24 million.


THE YEAR 2000 ISSUE
===================

In connection with the Year 2000 issue, we completed the remediation of our
internal computer systems in October 1999.  The total cost of remediation
associated with our corporate level computer systems was less than $30,000.
Through March 1, 2000, we have not experienced any Year 2000 erroneous
results or problems.

We are not aware of any Year 2000 problems that have affected the
operations of our tenants or vendors.  Through March 1, 2000, any Year 2000
issues that may have impacted our tenants or vendors has not impacted us.


IMPACT OF INFLATION
===================

Tenant leases generally provide for limited increases in rent as a result
of increases in the tenant's sales volumes, increases in the consumer price
index, and/or fixed increases.  We expect that inflation will cause these
lease provisions to result in increases in rent over time.  During times
when inflation is greater than increases in rent as provided for in the
leases, however, rent increases may not keep up with the rate of inflation.

Approximately 97.8% or 1,052 of the properties in the portfolio are leased
to tenants under net leases in which the tenant is responsible for property
costs and expenses.  These features in the leases reduce our exposure to
rising property expenses due to inflation.  Inflation and increased costs
may have an adverse impact on our tenants if increases in our tenant's
operating expenses exceed increases in revenue.











                                                             Page 41

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
====================================================================

We are exposed to interest rate changes primarily as a result of our credit
facilities and long-term debt used to maintain liquidity and expand our
real estate investment portfolio and operations.  Our interest rate risk
management objective is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on
earnings and cash flows and to lower our overall borrowing costs.  To
achieve our objectives we borrow primarily at fixed rates and may
selectively enter into derivative financial instruments such as interest
rate lock agreements, interest rate swaps and caps in order to mitigate our
interest rate risk on a related financial instrument.  We are not a party
to any derivative financial instruments at December 31, 1999.  We do not
enter into any transactions for speculative or trading purposes.

Our interest rate risk is monitored using a variety of techniques.  The
table below presents the principal amounts, weighted average interest
rates, fair values and other terms required by year of expected maturity to
evaluate the expected cash flows and sensitivity to interest rate changes
(dollars in table in millions).




Schedules not Filed:  All schedules, other than that indicated in the Table
of Contents, have been omitted as the required information is inapplicable
or the information is presented in the financial statements or related
notes.
























                                                                 Page 43

                   Independent Auditors' Report
                   ----------------------------

The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Realty Income Corporation:


We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Realty Income
Corporation and subsidiaries as listed in the accompanying table of
contents.  In connection with our audits of the consolidated financial
statements, we also have audited the financial statement schedule III
listed in the accompanying table of contents.  These consolidated financial
statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the
Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule based on
our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free
of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles
used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating
the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Realty
Income Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, and
the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years
in the three-year period ended December 31, 1999, in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles.  Also in our opinion, the related
financial statement schedule III, when considered in relation to the basic
consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all
material respects, the information set forth therein.


                                 /s/KPMG LLP


San Diego, California
January 25, 2000,
   except as to note 18A,
   which is as of February 1, 2000







                                                                 Page 44

           REALTY INCOME CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   Consolidated Balance Sheets
                   ===========================
                   December 31, 1999 and 1998
          (dollars in thousands, except per share data)










   The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements
            are an integral part of these statements.

                                                             Page 46

           REALTY INCOME CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                Consolidated Statements of Income
                =================================
          Years Ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997
          (dollars in thousands, except per share data)
















   The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements
            are an integral part of these statements.


                                                             Page 50


              REALTY INCOME CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
                 =====================================
             Years Ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997
                        (dollars in thousands)


For supplemental disclosures, see note 12.

   The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements
            are an integral part of these statements.

                                                             Page 52


               REALTY INCOME CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
               Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements
               ==========================================
                    December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997

1.  Organization and Operation

Realty Income Corporation ("Realty Income", the "Company", "we" or "our")
is organized as a Maryland corporation.  We invest in commercial retail
real estate and have elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust
("REIT").  As of December 31, 1999, we owned 1,076 properties in 45 states
containing over 8.6 million leasable square feet.

2.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Procedures

Principles of Consolidation - The accompanying consolidated financial
statements include the accounts of Realty Income and entities we control
(subsidiaries) after elimination of all material intercompany balances and
transactions.

Cash Equivalents - We consider all short-term, highly liquid investments
that are readily convertible to cash and have an original maturity of three
months or less at the time of purchase to be cash equivalents.

Depreciation and Amortization - Depreciation of buildings and improvements,
and amortization of goodwill are computed using the straight-line method
over an estimated useful life of 25 years.  Amortization of goodwill for
each of the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997 was $924,000.

Leases - All leases are accounted for as operating leases.   Under this
method, lease payments are recognized as revenue over the term of the
lease.

Federal Income Taxes - We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ("IRS Code").  We believe Realty
Income has qualified and continues to qualify as a REIT and therefore will
be permitted to deduct distributions paid to its stockholders, eliminating
the federal taxation of income represented by those distributions at the
Company's level.  Accordingly, no provision has been made for federal
income taxes in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.

Distributions Paid and Payable - Realty Income pays distributions monthly
to our common stockholders.  The following is a summary of monthly cash
distributions paid per common share for the years ended December 31, 1999,
1998 and 1997.








                                                             Page 53

2.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)



The following presents the federal income tax characterization of
distributions paid or deemed to be paid to common stockholders for the
years ended December 31:



In May 1999, we issued 2,760,000 shares of 9 3/8% Class B cumulative
redeemable preferred stock (the "Class B Preferred").  Dividends on the
Class B Preferred are paid quarterly in arrears.  For the year ended
December 31, 1999, dividends of $3.86 million were paid on the Class B
Preferred.

In July 1999, we issued 1,380,000 shares of 9 1/2% Class C cumulative
redeemable preferred stock (the "Class C Preferred").  Dividends on the
Class C Preferred are paid monthly in arrears.  For the year ended
December 31, 1999, dividends of $1.37 million were paid on the Class C
Preferred.


                                                             Page 54


2.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

The following presents the federal income tax characterization of dividends
paid or deemed to be paid to Class B Preferred and Class C Preferred
stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1999:



Provision for Impairment Losses - We review long-lived assets, including
goodwill, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.
Generally, a provision is made for impairment loss if estimated future
operating cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) plus
estimated disposition proceeds (undiscounted) are less than the current
book value.  If a property is held for sale, it is carried at the lower of
cost or estimated fair value, less costs to sell.  For the year ended
December 31, 1997, a provision for impairment losses of $165,000 was
charged to operations to reduce the net carrying value of three properties
held for sale in 1997.  All of these properties have been sold.  No
provision for impairment loss was charged in 1998 or 1999.

Net Income Per Common Share - Basic net income per common share is computed
by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted
average number of common shares outstanding during each period.  Diluted
net income per common share is computed by dividing the amount of net
income available to common stockholders for the period by the number of
common shares that would have been outstanding assuming the issuance of
common shares for all potentially dilutive common shares outstanding during
the reporting period.

The following is a reconciliation of the denominator of the basic net
income per common share computation to the denominator of the diluted net
income per common share computation, for the years ended
December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997:








                                                             Page 55

2.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)



In 1999 and 1998, 186,181 and 25,000 stock options, respectively, that were
anti-dilutive have been excluded in calculating the incremental shares from
the assumed conversion of stock options.  No stock options were anti-
dilutive in 1997.

Stock Option Plan - We account for our stock option plan in accordance with
the provisions of Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 25,
"Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees", and related interpretations.
As such, compensation expense would be recorded on the date of grant only
if the current market price of the underlying stock exceeded the exercise
price.  Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, "Accounting
for Stock-Based Compensation" ("SFAS No. 123"), permits entities to
recognize as expense over the vesting period the fair value of all stock-
based awards on the date of grant.  Alternatively, SFAS No. 123 allows
entities to continue to apply the provisions of APB Opinion No. 25 and
provide pro forma net income and pro forma earnings per share disclosures
for employee stock option grants made in 1995 and future years as if the
fair-value based method defined in SFAS No. 123 had been applied.  We have
elected to continue to apply the provisions of APB Opinion No. 25 and
provide the pro forma disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 123.

Derivative Financial Instrument - In two instances, we used interest rate
treasury lock agreements to hedge the effect of interest rate fluctuations.
These instruments each met the requirement for hedge accounting, including
a high correlation to a specific transaction.  Accordingly, the amount
received and paid under the terms of the agreements is recognized in income
when interest expense related to the hedge item is recognized.

Change in Accounting Principle - In October 1998, we adopted Statement of
Position 98-5, "Reporting on the Costs of Start-Up Activities" ("SOP 98-
5").  SOP 98-5 requires that costs incurred during start-up activities,


                                                             Page 56


2.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

including organization costs, be expensed as incurred.  Prior to October
1998, organization costs were amortized over 60 months.  In October 1998,
the unamortized balances of organization costs were written off.

Pro forma amounts assuming the adoption of SOP 98-5 was applied as of
January 1, 1997:



Use of Estimates - The preparation of the consolidated financial statements
in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported
amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.  Actual
results could differ from those estimates.

Reclassifications - Certain of the 1998 and 1997 balances have been
reclassified to conform to the 1999 presentation.

3.  Credit Facility Available for Acquisitions

In December 1999, we entered into a $200 million, three-year, revolving,
unsecured acquisition credit facility, which expires in December 2002.  The
$200 million credit facility is from The Bank of New York, as
administrative agent, and several U.S. and non-U.S. banks.  As of
December 31, 1999 and 1998, the outstanding balances on the credit
facilities were $119.2 million and $84.8 million, respectively, with an
effective interest rate of approximately 7.35% and 6.27%, respectively.
Our $170 million credit facility was cancelled simultaneously with the
execution of the $200 million credit facility.  Unamortized fees of
$355,000 relating to the $170 million credit facility were charged in 1999
as an extraordinary loss on early extinguishment of the credit facility.

The $200 million credit facility currently bears interest at 1.225% over
the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") and offers us other interest
rate options.  A facility fee of 0.225%, per annum, accrues on the total
commitment of the credit facility.

The $200 million credit facility is and the $170 million credit facility
was subject to various leverage and interest coverage ratio limitations.
The Company is and has been in compliance with these limitations.

                                                             Page 57

3.  Credit Facility Available for Acquisitions (continued)

In 1999, 1998 and 1997, interest of $1.6 million, $660,000 and $168,000,
respectively, was capitalized on properties under development.

4.  Notes Payable

In January 1999, we issued $20 million of 8.0% senior notes due 2009 (the
"1999 Notes").  The 1999 Notes are unsecured and were sold at 98.757% of
par to yield 8.1%.  The proceeds from 1999 Notes were used to pay down bank
borrowings.  Interest on the 1999 Notes is payable semiannually.

In October 1998, we issued $100 million of 8.25% Monthly Income Senior
Notes due 2008 (the "1998 Notes").  The 1998 Notes are unsecured and were
sold at par ($25.00).  After taking into effect the results of a treasury
interest rate lock agreement (see note 5), the effective rate to us on the
1998 Notes is 9.12%.  Interest on the 1998 Notes is payable monthly.

In May 1997, we issued $110 million of 7.75% senior notes due 2007 (the
"1997 Notes").  The 1997 Notes are unsecured and were sold at 99.929% of
par to yield 7.76%.  After taking into effect results of a treasury
interest rate lock agreement (see note 5), the effective interest rate to
us on the 1997 Notes is 7.62%.  Interest on the 1997 Notes is payable
semiannually.

Interest incurred on the 1999 Notes, 1998 Notes and 1997 Notes collectively
for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997 were $18.3 million,
$10.0 million and $5.6 million, respectively.

5.  Derivative Financial Instruments

In May 1998, we entered into a treasury interest rate lock agreement to
protect against the possibility of rising interest rates applicable to the
1998 Notes (see note 4).  Under the interest rate lock agreement, we were
to receive or make a payment based on the differential between a specified
interest rate, (5.726%), and the actual 10-year treasury interest rate on a
notional principal amount of $100 million, at the end of six months.  Based
on the 10-year treasury interest rate at October 23, 1998 (the interest
rate pricing date), we made a payment of $8.7 million in settlement of the
agreement in October 1998.  The payment on the agreement is being amortized
over 10 years (the life of the 1998 Notes) as a yield adjustment to
interest expense.

In December 1996, we entered into a treasury interest rate lock agreement
to hedge against rising interest rates applicable to the 1997 Notes (see
note 4).  Under the terms of the interest rate lock agreement, we were to
receive or make a payment based on the differential between a specified
interest rate (6.537%) and the actual 10-year treasury interest rate on a
notional principal amount of $90 million, at the end of six months.  Based
on the 10-year treasury interest rate at May 1, 1997 (the interest rate


                                                             Page 58


5.  Derivative Financial Instruments (continued)

pricing date), we received $1.1 million in settlement of the agreement in
June 1997. The payment received on the agreement is being amortized over 10
years (the life of the 1997 Notes) as a yield adjustment to interest
expense.

Our only involvement with derivative financial instruments was the two
aforementioned treasury interest rate lock agreements and we have not used
derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.

6.  Common Stock Offerings

A.  In March 1998, we issued 372,093 shares of common stock to a unit
investment trust at a net price to us of $25.531 per share, based on a 5%
discount to the then market price of $26.875 per share.  The net proceeds
of $9.5 million were used to repay bank borrowings of $7.9 million and to
acquire additional properties.

B.  In February 1998, we issued 751,174 shares of common stock to a unit
investment trust at a net price to us of $25.295 per share, based on a 5%
discount to the then market price of $26.625 per share.  The net proceeds
of $18.9 million were to be used to repay bank borrowings.

C.  In October 1997, we issued 2.7 million shares of common stock at a
price of $27.00 per share.  The net proceeds of $68.7 million were used to
repay bank borrowings of $62.6 million and to acquire properties.

7.  Preferred Stock Offerings

A.  In May 1999, we issued 2,760,000 shares of Class B Preferred at a price
of $25.00 per share.  The net proceeds of $66.5 million were used to repay
bank borrowings.

B.  In July 1999, we issued 1,380,000 shares of Class C Preferred stock at
a price of $25.00 per share.  The net proceeds of $33.2 million were used
to repay bank borrowings.

8.  Operating Leases

A.  General - At December 31, 1999, we owned 1,076 properties in 45 states.
Of these 1,076 properties, 1,069 are single-tenant and the remainder are
multi-tenant.  At December 31, 1999, 17 properties were vacant and
available for lease or sale.

Substantially all leases are net leases whereby the tenant pays property
taxes and assessments, maintains the interior and exterior of the building,
and carries insurance coverage for public liability, property damage, fire,
and extended coverage.

Percentage rent for 1999, 1998 and 1997 was $1.7 million, $1.7 million and
$1.8 million, respectively.

                                                             Page 59


8.  Operating Leases (continued)

At December 31, 1999, minimum annual rents to be received on the operating
leases are as follows (dollars in thousands):



B.  Major Tenants - The following schedule presents rental revenue,
including percentage rents, from tenants representing more than 10% of our
total revenue for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 or 1997 (dollars
in thousands):


[FN]
(1)  Rental revenue from Golden Corral Corporation represents less than 10%
of our total revenue for 1999 and 1998.


9.  Property Acquisitions

During 1999 we invested $181.4 million in 110 new retail properties and
properties under development with an average initial contractual lease rate
of 10.5%. During 1998 we invested $193.4 million in 149 new retail
properties and properties under development with an average initial
contractual lease rate of 10.4%.







                                                             Page 60


10.  Gain on Sales of Properties

In 1999, we sold three properties (a home furnishings store, home
improvement store and restaurant) for $9.4 million and recognized a gain of
$1.3 million.  In 1998, we sold five properties (two child care centers,
two restaurants and a multi-tenant location) for a total of $2.8 million
and recognized a gain of $526,000.  In 1997, we sold ten properties (six
restaurants, two child care centers, one automotive parts store and a
multi-tenant location) for a total of $4.4 million and recognized a gain of
$1.1 million.

In November 1999, we approved a plan to sell three of our multi-tenant
locations.  The carrying value of the three properties at December 31, 1999
was approximately $29.0 million and contributed $2.1 million, $1.7 million
and $1.4 million to income from operations in 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively.  We anticipate the properties will be sold during 2000.
These properties are included in the other non-reportable segment in note
16.

11.  Fair Value of Financial Instruments

We believe that the carrying values reflected in the consolidated balance
sheets at December 31, 1999 and 1998 reasonably approximate the fair values
for cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, and all liabilities
except the lines of credit payable and notes payable. In making these
assessments, we used estimates. The fair value of the lines of credit
payable approximates its carrying value because its terms are similar to
those available in the market place. The fair value of the notes payable at
December 31, 1999 and 1998 is estimated to be $199.4 million and $203.9
million, respectively, based upon the closing market price per note or
indicative price per each note at December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

12.  Supplemental Disclosures of Cash Flow Information

Interest paid during 1999, 1998 and 1997 was $22.4 million, $12.5 million
and $6.9 million, respectively.

The following non-cash investing and financing activities are included in
the accompanying consolidated financial statements:

A.  In 1999 and 1998, the acquisition of properties resulted in the
following non-cash changes (dollars in thousands):




                                                             Page 61


12.  Supplemental Disclosure of Cash Flow Information (continued)

B.  In 1998, the former shareholders of the R.I.C. Advisor, Inc., or the
Advisor, returned 20,279 shares to the Company.  This fulfilled the
obligation of the Advisor's shareholders to the Company under an
indemnification agreement entered into by these parties.  This transaction
resulted in the following non-cash changes in 1998 (dollars in thousands):



13. Employee Benefit Plan

A.  We have a 401(k) plan covering substantially all of our employees.
Under our 401(k) plan, employees may elect to make contributions to the
plan up to a maximum of 15% of their compensation, subject to limits
established by the IRS Code.  We match 50% of the participants'
contributions up to a maximum of six percent of a participant's annual
compensation.  Our aggregate matching contributions each year have been
immaterial to our results of operations.

B.  As a result of the merger with the Advisor in 1995, the Company assumed
a defined benefit pension plan (the "Plan") covering substantially all of
its employees. The Plan was terminated on January 2, 1996 and final
disbursement of the Plan's assets occurred on February 24, 1997.

14. Stock Incentive Plan

In September 1993, our board of directors approved a stock incentive plan
(the "Stock Plan") designed to attract and retain directors, officers and
employees of the Company by enabling those individuals to participate in
the ownership of the Company.  The Stock Plan authorizes the issuance in
each calendar year of up to 3% of the total shares outstanding at the end
of such year.  At no time may the total number of shares granted under the
Stock Plan exceed 1,950,308.  The Stock Plan provides for the award
(subject to ownership limitations) of a broad variety of stock-based
compensation alternatives such as nonqualified stock options, incentive
stock options, restricted stock and performance awards.

Stock options are granted with an exercise price equal to the underlying
stock's fair market value at the date of grant.  Stock options expire 10
years from the date they are granted and vest over service periods of one,
three, four and five years.  Prior to December 31, 1999, 661,270 stock
options and 29,517 restricted shares of common stock had been granted and
not cancelled under the Stock Plan.

                                                             Page 62


14. Stock Incentive Plan (continued)

The following table summarizes our stock option activity for the years
ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997:



At December 31, 1999, the options exercisable under the Stock Plan had
exercise prices ranging from $20.00 to $26.06 with a weighted average price
of $24.57, and expiration dates ranging from August 2004 to December 2008
with a weighted average remaining term of 7.6 years.

The fair value of each stock option grant was estimated at the date of
grant using the binomial option-pricing model with the following
assumptions:






                                                             Page 64

14. Stock Incentive Plan (continued)

We apply APB Opinion No. 25 in accounting for our Stock Plan and,
accordingly, no compensation cost has been recognized for its stock options
in the consolidated financial statements.  Had we determined compensation
cost based on the fair value at the grant date for its stock options under
SFAS No. 123, our net income and diluted net income per common share would
have been as follows:



15. Stockholder Rights Plan

In June 1998, our board of directors adopted a Stockholder Rights Plan (the
"Rights Plan") that will expire in July 2008.  The Rights Plan assigns one
right (a "Right") to purchase one one-hundredth (1/100th) of a share of our
Class A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share
(the "Preferred Stock"), for each share of common stock owned on or issued
after July 1, 1998.  Initially, the Rights will not be exercisable and will
not trade separately from our common stock.

Under certain circumstances, stockholders will be able to exercise their
Rights if a person or group initiates an unsolicited takeover of the
Company by acquiring 15% of our common stock or by making a tender offer to
acquire 15% or more of our common stock.  If an unsolicited acquirer gains
control of the Company, stockholders other than the acquirer would be able
to purchase either our common stock or the acquirer's stock at a 50%
discount.

The dividend, liquidation, and voting rights, and the non-redemption
feature of the Preferred Stock are designed so that the value of the one
one-hundredth interest in a share of the new Preferred Stock that can be
purchased with each Right will approximate what our board of directors
believes to be the long-term value of one share of our common stock.







                                                             Page 65

16. Segment Information

We evaluate performance and make resource allocation decisions on a
property by property basis.  For financial reporting purposes, we have
grouped our operating segments into eight reportable segments.  Our
segments combine properties into groups based upon the business of our
tenants. All of the properties have been acquired separately and are
incorporated into one of the applicable segments.  Revenue is the only
component of segment profit and loss we measure.  Since our revenue is
primarily from net leases, expenditures for additions to long-lived assets
were to acquire additional properties.  The accounting policies of the
segments are the same as those described in note 2.

The following tables set forth certain information regarding the properties
owned by us as of December 31, 1999 classified according the business of
the respective tenants (dollars in thousands):


17. Commitments and Contingencies

In the ordinary course of our business, we are party to various legal
actions which we believe are routine in nature and incidental to the
operation of our business.  We believe that the outcome of the proceedings
will not have a material adverse effect upon our consolidated statements
taken as a whole.

18. Subsequent Event

A.  In February 2000, we entered into a $25 million, three-year, revolving
credit agreement with the Bank of Montreal, which expires in February 2003.
The credit facility currently bears interest at 1.225% over LIBOR and
offers us other interest rate options.  A facility fee of 0.225%, per
annum, accrues on the total commitment of the credit facility.  This credit
facility can be used for the acquisition of property and for making capital
contributions to subsidiaries for the purpose of acquiring properties.

B. In January 2000, we formed Crest Net Lease, Inc., of which we own 95% of
the common stock, all of which is non-voting, and certain members of
management own 5% of the common stock, all of which is voting stock.  Crest
Net Lease was created to actively buy and sell certain select properties,
primarily to buyers using tax-deferred exchanges, under Section 1031 of the
IRS Code.




                                                             Page 67


                      REALTY INCOME CORPORATION
                           AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 CONSOLIDATED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA
             (dollars in thousands, except per share data)
             (not covered by Independent Auditors' Report)

                                                             Page 68


ITEM 9:  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
         ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
- ---------------------------------------------------------

We have had no disagreements with our independent auditors' on accountancy
or financial disclosure.


PART III
========

ITEM 10:  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
- ------------------------------------------------------------

The information set forth under the captions "Director Nominees" and
"Officers Of The Company" and "Compliance With Federal Securities Laws" in
the definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders
presently scheduled to be held on May 3, 2000, to be filed pursuant to
Regulation 14A.


ITEM 11:  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
- --------------------------------

The information set forth under the caption "Executive Compensation" in the
definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders presently
scheduled to be held on May 3, 2000, to be filed pursuant to Regulation
14A.


ITEM 12:  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
          MANAGEMENT
- -------------------------------------------------------------

The information set forth under the caption "Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners And Management" in the definitive proxy statement for the
Annual Meeting of Stockholders presently scheduled to be held on May 3,
2000, to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A.


ITEM 13:  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
- --------------------------------------------------------

The information set forth under the caption "Certain Transactions" in the
definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders presently
scheduled to be held on May 3, 2000, to be filed pursuant to Regulation
14A.





                                                             Page 69



PART IV
=======

ITEM 14:  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON
          FORM 8-K
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

A.  The following documents are filed as part of this report.

    1.  Financial Statements (see Item 8)

        a.   Independent Auditors' Report
        b.   Consolidated Balance Sheets,
             December 31, 1999 and 1998
        c.   Consolidated Statements of Income,
             Years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997
        d.   Consolidated Statements of
             Stockholders' Equity,
             Years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997
        e.   Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows,
             Years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997
        f.   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
        g.   Consolidated Quarterly Financial Data,
               (unaudited) for 1999 and 1998

    2.  Financial Statement Schedule is attached to this
        report.  Reference is made to page F-1 of this report for
        Schedule III Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation.

        Schedules not Filed:  All schedules, other than those
        indicated in the Table of Contents, have been omitted as the
        required information is inapplicable or the information is
        presented in the financial statements or related notes.

    3.  Exhibits

        2.1  Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of May 15, 1997
             between Realty Income Corporation, a Delaware
             corporation, and Realty Income Maryland, Inc., a
             Maryland corporation (incorporated by reference to
             the Company's Form 8-B12B dated July 29, 1997
             ("Form 8-B") and incorporated herein by reference).

        3.1  Articles of Incorporation of the Company (filed
             as Appendix B to the Company's Proxy Statement
             dated March 28, 1997 ("1997 Proxy Statement")
             and incorporated herein by reference).

        3.2  Bylaws of the Company (filed as Appendix C to the
             Company's 1997 Proxy Statement and incorporated
             herein by reference).

                                                             Page 70



        3.3  Articles Supplementary of the Class A Junior
             Participating Preferred Stock of Realty Income
             Corporation (filed as an exhibit to Realty Income's
             registration statement on Form 8-A, dated June 26,
             1998, and incorporated herein by reference).

        3.4  Articles Supplementary to the Articles of Incorporation
             of Realty Income Corporation classifying and designating
             the Class B Preferred Stock (filed as exhibit 4.1 to the
             Company's Form 8-K dated May 24, 1999 and incorporated
             herein by reference).

        3.5  Articles Supplementary to the Articles of Incorporation
             of Realty Income Corporation classifying and designating
             the Class C Preferred Stock (filed as exhibit 4.1 to the
             Company's Form 8-K dated July 29, 1999 and incorporated
             herein by reference).

        4.1  Pricing Committee Resolutions and Form of 7.75%
             Notes due 2007 (filed as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company's
             Form 8-K dated May 5, 1997 and incorporated herein by
             reference).

        4.2  Indenture dated as of May 6, 1997 between the Company
             and The Bank of New York (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the
             Company's Form 8-K dated May 5, 1997 and incorporated
             herein by reference).

        4.3  First Supplemental Indenture dated as of May 28, 1997,
             between the Company and The Bank of New York (filed as
             Exhibit 4.3 to the Company's Form 8-B and incorporated
             herein by reference).

        4.4  Rights Agreement, dated as of June 25, 1998, between
             Realty Income Corporation and The Bank of New York
             (filed as an exhibit to the Company's registration
             statement on Form 8-A, dated June 26, 1998, and
             incorporated herein by reference).

        4.5  Pricing Committee Resolutions (filed as an exhibit
             to Realty Income's Form 8-K, dated October 27, 1998
             and incorporated herein by reference).

        4.6  Form of 8.25% Notes due 2008 (filed as an exhibit to
             Realty Income's Form 8-K, dated October 27, 1998
             and incorporated herein by reference).

        4.7  Indenture dated as of October 28, 1998 between
             Realty Income and The Bank of New York (filed)
             as an exhibit to Realty Income's Form 8-K,
             dated October 27, 1998 and incorporated herein by
             reference).

                                                             Page 71

        4.8  Pricing Committee Resolutions and Form of 8% Notes due
             2009 (filed as exhibit 4.2 to Realty Income's Form 8-K,
             dated January 21, 1999 and incorporated herein by
             reference).

       10.1  $200 million Revolving Credit Agreement dated December 14,
             1999 (filed herein).

       10.2  First Amendment dated January 21, 2000 to the $200 million
             Revolving Credit Agreement dated December 14, 1999 (filed
             herein).

       10.3  $25 million Revolving Credit Agreement dated February 1, 2000
             (filed herein).

       10.4  1994 Stock Option and Incentive Plan (filed as Exhibit
             4.1 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-8
             (registration number 33-95708) and incorporated herein
             by reference).

       10.5  First Amendment to the 1994 Stock Option and Incentive
             Plan, dated June 12, 1997 (filed as Exhibit 10.9 to the
             Company's Form 8-B and incorporated herein by reference).

       10.6  Second Amendment to the 1994 Stock Option and Incentive
             Plan, dated December 16, 1997, (filed as Exhibit 10.9 to the
             Company's Form 10-K dated December 31, 1997 and incorporated
             herein by reference).

       10.7  Management Incentive Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.10 to the
             Company's Form 10-K dated December 31, 1997 and incorporated
             herein by reference).

       10.8  Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement for
             Independent Directors, (filed as Exhibit 10.11 to the
             Company's Form 10-K dated December 31, 1997 and incorporated
             herein by reference).

       10.9  Form of Indemnification Agreement entered into between
             the Company and the executive officers of the Company
             (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Form 8-K dated
             November 21, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference).

      10.10  Form of Indemnification Agreement entered into between
             the Company and each director on the board of directors
             of the Company (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's
             Form 8-K dated November 21, 1997 and incorporated herein
             by reference).




                                                             Page 72

      10.11  Form of Employment Agreement between the Company and its
             Executive Officers (incorporated by reference to the
             Company's Form 8-B12B dated July 29, 1997 and
             incorporated herein by reference).

       12.1  Statement re computation of ratios, filed herein.

       21.1  Subsidiaries of the Company as of January 1, 2000, filed
             herein.

       23.1  Consent of KPMG LLP, filed herein.

       27    Financial Data Schedule, filed herein.

B. The Registrant filed no reports on Form 8-K during the last quarter of
the period covered by this report.




































                                                             Page 73

                            SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

REALTY INCOME CORPORATION



By:   /s/THOMAS A. LEWIS
      ------------------------------------
      Thomas A. Lewis
      Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors,
      Chief Executive Officer and President

Date: March 22, 2000



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the registrant
and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.



By:   /s/WILLIAM E. CLARK
      ------------------------------------
      William E. Clark
      Chairman of the Board of Directors

Date: March 22, 2000



By:   /s/THOMAS A. LEWIS
      ------------------------------------
      Thomas A. Lewis
      Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors,
      Chief Executive Officer and President
      (Principal Executive Officer)

Date: March 22, 2000



By:   /s/DONALD R. CAMERON
      ------------------------------------
      Donald R. Cameron
      Director

Date: March 22, 2000
                                                             Page 74


SIGNATURES (continued)

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the registrant
and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.



By:   /s/ROGER P. KUPPINGER
      ------------------------------------
      Roger P. Kuppinger
      Director

Date: March 22, 2000



By:   /s/MICHAEL D. MCKEE
      ------------------------------------
      Michael D. McKee
      Director

Date: March 22, 2000



By:   /s/WILLARD H. SMITH JR
      ------------------------------------
      Willard H. Smith Jr
      Director

Date: March 22, 2000



By:   /s/KATHLEEN R. ALLEN, PH.D.
      ------------------------------------
      Kathleen R. Allen, Ph.D.
      Director

Date: March 22, 2000



By:   /s/GARY MALINO
      ------------------------------------
      Gary Malino
      Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer
      (Principal Financial Officer)

Date: March 22, 2000


                                                             Page 75

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the registrant
and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


By:   /s/GREGORY J. FAHEY
      ------------------------------------
      Gregory J. Fahey
      Vice President, Controller

Date: March 22, 2000



                          EXHIBIT INDEX
                          =============

Exhibit No.     Description
- -----------     -----------


10.1            $200 million Revolving Credit Agreement dated December 14,

10.2            First Amendment, dated January 21, 2000, to the
                $200 million Revolving Credit Agreement dated
                December 14, 1999

10.3            $25 million Revolving Credit Agreement dated February 1,

12.1            Statement re computation of ratios

21.1            Subsidiaries of the Company as of January 1, 2000

23.1            Consent of KPMG LLP

27              Financial Data Schedule














                                                             Page 76


                 REALTY INCOME CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
           SCHEDULE III REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION



























                                                             Page F-96

                 REALTY INCOME CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
           SCHEDULE III REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION


Note 1.  One thousand seventy-two of the properties are single unit retail
outlets.  One grocery property located in Sheboygan, WI and three other
properties located in San Diego, CA are multi-tenant commercial properties.
All properties were acquired on an all cash basis except one; no
encumbrances were outstanding for the periods presented.

Note 2.  The aggregate cost for federal income tax purposes is
$998,424,738.

Note 3.  Reconciliation of total real estate carrying value for the three
years ended December 31, 1999 are as follows:



Note 5.  In 1997, a provision for impairment loss was made on two vacant
properties in Riverside, CA and Irving, TX which was sold in 1998 and a
restaurant property in McMinnville, OR which was sold in 1997.































                                                             Page F-98








