
10-K405
FORM 10-K405




================================================================================
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K


ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF

                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999



          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (b) of the Act:
                                                           Name of each exchange
Title of each class                                         on which registered
- -------------------                                         -------------------

Common stock, $0.0001 par value of Simon
  Property Group, Inc. paired with 1/100th of a
  beneficial interest in shares of
  common stock, par value $.0001
  per share, of SPG Realty Consultants, Inc.             New York Stock Exchange

6.5% Series B Convertible Preferred Stock,
  $.0001 par value                                       New York Stock Exchange

       Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrants (1) have filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrants were required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days. YES [X]  NO [_]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrants' knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]

The aggregate market value of shares of common stock held by non-affiliates of
the Registrants was approximately $4,141 million based on the closing market
price on the New York Stock Exchange for such stock on January 31, 2000. As of
March 16, 2000, Simon Property Group, Inc. had 169,998,168; 3,200,000 and 4,000
shares of common stock, Class B common stock and Class C common stock
outstanding, respectively, which were paired with 1,732,022 shares of common
stock, par value $0.0001 per share, of SPG Realty Consultants, Inc. outstanding
on that same date.

                      Documents Incorporated By Reference

Portions of the Registrants' Annual Report to Shareholders are incorporated by
reference into Parts I, II and IV and portions of the Registrants' Proxy
Statements in connection with their Annual Meetings of Shareholders to be held
on May 10, 2000 are incorporated by reference in Part III.
================================================================================



                         SIMON PROPERTY GROUP, INC. AND
                          SPG REALTY CONSULTANTS, INC.
                           Annual Report on Form 10-K
                               December 31, 1999




                                    Part I

Item 1. Business


     Background

     Simon Property Group, Inc. ("SPG"), a Delaware corporation, is a self-
administered and self-managed, real estate investment trust ("REIT"). Each share
of common stock of SPG is paired ("Paired Shares") with a beneficial interest in
1/100th of a share of common stock of SPG Realty Consultants, Inc., also a
Delaware corporation ("SRC" and together with SPG, the "Companies").

     Simon Property Group, L.P. (the "SPG Operating Partnership"), formerly
known as Simon DeBartolo Group, L.P., is the primary subsidiary of SPG. Units of
ownership interest ("Units") in the SPG Operating Partnership are paired with a
Unit in SPG Realty Consultants, L.P. (the "SRC Operating Partnership" and
together with the SPG Operating Partnership, the "Operating Partnerships"). The
SRC Operating Partnership is the primary subsidiary of SRC. The Companies
together with the Operating Partnerships are hereafter referred to as "Simon
Group", which prior to the CPI Merger (see below) refers to Simon DeBartolo
Group, Inc. and the SPG Operating Partnership. At December 31, 1999, the
Companies' direct and indirect ownership interests in the Operating Partnerships
totaled 72.4%.

     Mergers and Acquisitions

     Mergers and acquisitions have been a significant component of the growth
and development of Simon Group's business. Beginning with the $3.0 billion
acquisition, through merger, of DeBartolo Realty Corporation ("DRC") in August
of 1996 (the "DRC Merger"), Simon Group has completed five major mergers and/or
acquisitions that have helped shape the current organization. During 1997, Simon
Group completed the acquisition of Retail Property Trust, along with its
operating partnership, Shopping Center Associates, for approximately $1.3
billion. In February of 1998, Simon Group acquired a 50% ownership interest in a
portfolio of fourteen properties for approximately $0.5 billion. In September of
1998, Simon Group completed the acquisition, through merger, of Corporate
Property Investors, Inc. ("CPI"), and Corporate Realty Consultants, Inc. for
approximately $5.9 billion (the "CPI Merger"). And most recently, the NED
Acquisition was completed in 1999, for approximately $1.8 billion, as described
below.

     The NED Acquisition. During 1999, Simon Group acquired ownership interests
in 14 regional malls from New England Development Company (the "NED
Acquisition"). Simon Group acquired one of the properties directly and formed a
joint venture with three partners ("Mayflower"), of which Simon Group owns
49.1%, to acquire interests in the remaining properties. The total costs of the
NED Acquisition is approximately $1.8 billion, of which Simon Group's share is
approximately $894 million. Simon Group assumed management responsibilities for
the portfolio, which includes approximately 10.7 million square feet of GLA.
Simon Group's share of the cost of the NED Acquisition included the assumption
of approximately $530 million of mortgage indebtedness; $177 million in cash;
and the issuance of approximately $187 million of common and preferred equity in
the Operating Partnerships.

     In addition to the NED Acquisition, Simon Group acquired the remaining
ownership interests in four existing Properties as well as 50% of the economic
benefits of Mall of America in Minneapolis, Minnesota in 1999 at a combined cost
of approximately $318 million.

     Description of the Business

     SPG, primarily through the SPG Operating Partnership, is engaged in the
ownership, operation, management, leasing, acquisition, expansion and
development of real estate properties, primarily regional malls and community
shopping centers. As of December 31, 1999, SPG and the SPG Operating Partnership
owned or held an interest in 259 income-producing properties in the United
States, which consisted of 168 regional malls, 78 community shopping centers,
four specialty retail centers, five office and mixed-use properties and four
value-oriented super-regional malls in 36 states (the "Properties") and five
additional retail real estate properties operating in Europe. The SPG Operating
Partnership also owned an interest in two properties currently under
construction and 11 parcels of land held for future development, which together
with the Properties are hereafter referred to as the "Portfolio" or the
"Portfolio Properties". The SPG Operating Partnership also holds substantially
all of the economic interest in M.S. Management Associates, Inc. (the
"Management Company"). The



Management Company manages certain of the Properties and certain other retail
real estate properties not owned by Simon Group, and also engages in property
development activities.

     SRC, primarily through the SRC Operating Partnership, engages primarily in
activities that capitalize on the resources, customer base and operating
activities of SPG, which could not be engaged in by SPG without potentially
impacting its status as a REIT. As of December 31, 1999, these activities
included several new e-commerce initiatives described under the caption
"Operating Strategies". In addition, effective January 1, 2000, SRC formed Simon
Brand Ventures, LLC ("SBV") to continue and expand upon the mall marketing
initiatives program established in 1997 by Simon Group to take advantage of its
size and tenant relationships, primarily through strategic corporate alliances.
SRC also has interests in two joint ventures which own  land held for sale,
which are located adjacent to Properties in the Portfolio, and an investment in
piiq.com, an aggregator of internet retailers.

     General

     During 1999, regional malls (including specialty retail centers and retail
space in the mixed-use Properties), community centers and the remaining
Portfolio comprised 91.5%, 5.1%, and 3.4%, respectively of combined consolidated
rent revenues and tenant reimbursements. The Properties contain an aggregate of
approximately 184.6 million square feet of GLA, of which 110.6 million square
feet is owned by Simon Group ("Owned GLA"). More than 4,400 different retailers
occupy more than 20,200 stores in the Properties. Total estimated retail sales
at the Properties in 1999 were approximately $38 billion.

     SPG and certain of its subsidiaries are taxed as REITs under sections 856
through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), and
applicable Treasury regulations relating to REIT qualification. SPG is self-
administered and self-managed and does not engage or pay a REIT advisor. SPG
provides management, development, leasing, accounting, finance and legal, design
and construction expertise through its own personnel or, where appropriate,
through outside professionals.

     Operating Strategies

     Simon Group's primary business objectives are to increase cash generated
from operations per Paired Share and the value of the Portfolio Properties.
Simon Group plans to achieve these objectives through a variety of methods
discussed below, although no assurance can be made that such objectives will be
achieved.

     Leasing. Simon Group pursues an active leasing strategy, which includes
     aggressively marketing available space; renewing existing leases at higher
     base rents per square foot; and continuing to sign leases that provide for
     percentage rents and/or regular or periodic fixed contractual increases in
     base rents.

     Management. Drawing upon the expertise gained through management of a
     geographically diverse Portfolio nationally recognized as high quality
     retail and mixed-use Properties, Simon Group seeks to maximize cash flow
     through a combination of an active merchandising program to maintain its
     shopping centers as inviting shopping destinations, continuation of its
     successful efforts to minimize overhead and operating costs, coordinated
     marketing and promotional activities directed towards establishing and
     maintaining customer loyalty, and systematic planning and monitoring of
     results.

     E-Commerce. Simon Group is actively developing several unique programs
     designed to take advantage of new retail opportunities of the digital age.
     Elements of the strategy include digitizing the existing assets of the
     Properties by implementing internet web sites for each of the Properties,
     creating products that leverage the digitalization of consumers and Simon
     merchants through an enhanced broadband network called TenantConnect.net
     and incubating concepts that leverage the physical and virtual worlds
     through a venture creation subsidiary called clixnmortar.com.

     Acquisitions. Simon Group intends to selectively acquire individual
     properties and portfolios of properties that meet its investment criteria
     as opportunities arise. Management believes, however, that due to the rapid
     consolidation of the regional mall business, coupled with the current
     status of the capital markets, that acquisition activity in the near term
     will be a less significant component of the Companies' growth strategy.

     Development. Simon Group's strategy is to selectively develop new
     properties in major metropolitan areas that exhibit strong population and
     economic growth. During 1999, Simon Group opened one new regional mall, one
     specialty center, one value-oriented super-regional mall and three new
     community shopping centers. These additions added approximately 4.9 million
     square feet of GLA to the Portfolio at a cost to Simon Group of
     approximately $505 million. Simon Group also has two additional projects
     under construction, which are scheduled to open in 2000.



     Strategic Expansions and Renovations. A key objective of Simon Group is to
     increase the profitability and market share of the Properties through the
     completion of strategic renovations and expansions. During 1999, Simon
     Group invested approximately $277 million on redevelopment projects and
     completed four major redevelopment projects. Simon Group has a number of
     renovation and/or expansion projects currently under construction, or in
     preconstruction development.

     Simon Group also has direct or indirect interests in twelve parcels of land
     being held for future development in eight states totaling approximately
     866 acres. Management believes Simon Group is well positioned to pursue
     future development opportunities as conditions warrant.

     International Expansion. Simon Group's management believes the expertise it
     has gained through the development and management of its domestic Portfolio
     can be utilized in retail properties throughout the world. Simon Group
     intends to continue pursuing international opportunities on a selected
     basis to enhance the value of its Paired Shares.


     Competition

     Simon Group believes that it has a competitive advantage in the retail real
estate business as a result of (i) its use of innovative retailing concepts,
(ii) its management and operational expertise, (iii) its extensive experience
and relationship with retailers and lenders, (iv) the size, quality and
diversity of its Properties and (v) the mall marketing initiatives of SBV, which
Simon Group believes is the world's largest and most sophisticated mall
marketing initiative. Management believes that the Properties are the largest,
as measured by GLA, of any publicly traded REIT, with more regional malls than
any other publicly traded REIT. For these reasons, management believes Simon
Group to be the leader in the industry.

     All of the Portfolio Properties are located in developed areas. With
respect to certain of such properties, there are other properties of the same
type within the market area. The existence of competitive properties could have
a material adverse effect on Simon Group's ability to lease space and on the
level of rents Simon Group can obtain.

     There are numerous commercial developers, real estate companies and other
owners of real estate that compete with Simon Group in its trade areas. This
results in competition for both acquisition of prime sites (including land for
development and operating properties) and for tenants to occupy the space that
Simon Group and its competitors develop and manage.

     Environmental Matters

     General Compliance. Management believes that the Portfolio Properties are
in compliance, in all material respects, with all Federal, state and local
environmental laws, ordinances and regulations regarding hazardous or toxic
substances (see Item 3. Legal Proceedings). Nearly all of the Portfolio
Properties have been subjected to Phase I or similar environmental audits (which
generally involve only a review of records and visual inspection of the property
without soil sampling or ground water analysis) by independent environmental
consultants. The Phase I environmental audits are intended to discover
information regarding, and to evaluate the environmental condition of, the
surveyed properties and surrounding properties. The environmental audits have
not revealed, nor is management aware of, any environmental liability that
management believes will have a material adverse effect on Simon Group. No
assurance can be given that existing environmental studies with respect to the
Portfolio Properties reveal all potential environmental liabilities; that any
previous owner, occupant or tenant of a Portfolio Property did not create any
material environmental condition not known to management; that the current
environmental condition of the Portfolio Properties will not be affected by
tenants and occupants, by the condition of nearby properties, or by unrelated
third parties; or that future uses or condition (including, without limitation,
changes in applicable environmental laws and regulations or the interpretation
thereof) will not result in imposition of additional environmental liability.

     Asbestos-Containing Materials. Asbestos-containing materials are present in
most of the Properties, primarily in the form of vinyl asbestos tile, mastics
and roofing materials, which are generally in good condition. Fireproofing and
insulation containing asbestos is also present in certain Properties in limited
concentrations or in limited areas. The presence of such asbestos-containing
materials does not violate currently applicable laws. Simon Group will remove
asbestos-containing materials in the ordinary course of any renovation,
reconstruction and expansion, and in connection with the retenanting of space.

     Underground Storage Tanks. Several of the Portfolio Properties contain or
at one time contained, underground storage tanks used to store waste oils or
other petroleum products primarily related to auto services center
establishments or emergency electrical generation equipment. All regulated tanks
have been removed, upgraded or abandoned in place in accordance with applicable
environmental laws. Site assessments have revealed certain soil and groundwater
contamination



associated with such tanks at some of these Properties. Subsurface
investigations (Phase II assessments) and remediation activities are either
ongoing or scheduled to be conducted at such Properties. The cost of remediation
with respect to such matters has not been and is not expected to be material.

     Properties to be Developed or Acquired. Land held for shopping mall
development or that may be acquired for development may contain residues or
debris associated with the use of the land by prior owners or third parties. In
certain instances, such residues or debris could be or contain hazardous wastes
or hazardous substances. Prior to exercising any option to acquire any of the
optioned properties, Simon Group will conduct environmental due diligence
consistent with past practice.

     Employees

     Simon Group and its affiliates employ approximately 5,840 persons at
various centers and offices throughout the United States, of which 2,940 are
part-time. Approximately 1,000 employees are located at Simon Group's
headquarters in Indianapolis, Indiana.

     Insurance

     Simon Group has comprehensive liability, fire, flood, extended coverage and
rental loss insurance with respect to its Properties. Management believes that
such insurance provides adequate coverage.

     Corporate Headquarters

     Simon Group's executive offices are located at National City Center, 115
West Washington Street, Indianapolis, Indiana 46204, and its telephone number is
(317) 636-1600.

     Executive Officers of the Registrants

     The following table sets forth certain information with respect to the
executive officers of the Companies as of December 31, 1999.



 (1) Melvin Simon is the brother of Herbert Simon and the father of David Simon.

     Set forth below is a summary of the business experience of the executive
officers of the Companies. The executive officers of the Companies serve at the
pleasure of the Board of Directors and have served SPG's predecessor since its
formation in 1993, with the exception of Mr. Mautner, who has held his office
since the CPI Merger and Mr. Sokolov, Mr.



Giuliano and Ms. Alshab, who have held their offices since the DRC Merger. For
biographical information of Melvin Simon, Herbert Simon, David Simon, Hans C.
Mautner, and Richard Sokolov, see Item 10 of this report.

     Mr. Foxworthy is the Executive Vice President - Corporate Development of
the Companies. Mr. Foxworthy joined Melvin Simon & Associates, Inc. ("MSA") in
1980 and has been an Executive Vice President in charge of Corporate Development
of MSA since 1986 and has held the same position with the Companies since 1993.

     Mr. Garvey is the Executive Vice President - Property Development of the
Companies. Mr. Garvey, who was Executive Vice President and Director of
Development at MSA, joined MSA in 1979 and held various positions with MSA.

     Mr. Napoli is the Executive Vice President - Leasing of the Companies. Mr.
Napoli also served as Executive Vice President and Director of Leasing of MSA,
which he joined in 1989.

     Mr. Neutzling is the Executive Vice President - Property Management of the
Companies. Mr. Neutzling has also been an Executive Vice President of MSA since
1992 overseeing all property and asset management functions. He joined MSA in
1974 and has held various positions with MSA.

     Mr. Barkley serves as the Companies' General Counsel and Secretary. Mr.
Barkley holds the same position for MSA. He joined MSA in 1978 as Assistant
General Counsel for Development Activity.

     Mr. Sterrett serves as the Companies' Treasurer. He joined MSA in 1989 and
has held various positions with MSA.

     Mr. Rulli holds the position of Senior Vice President - Human Resources and
Corporate Operations. He joined MSA in 1988 and has held various positions with
MSA.

     Mr. Giuliano has served as Senior Vice President since the DRC Merger. He
joined DRC in 1993, where he served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer up to the DRC Merger.

     Ms. Corsaro is President of Simon Brand Ventures and Sr. Vice President of
Marketing for the Companies. Ms. Corsaro joined MSA in 1983 and has served in
various business development positions.

     Ms. Alshab is President of clixnmortar.com and the Senior Vice President &
Chief Information Officer of SPG. She joined DRC in 1995.



Item 2. Properties

     Portfolio Properties

     The Properties primarily consist of two types: regional malls and community
shopping centers. Regional malls contain two or more anchors and a wide variety
of smaller stores ("Mall" stores) located in enclosed malls connecting the
anchors. Additional stores ("Freestanding" stores) are usually located along the
perimeter of the parking area. The 168 regional malls in the Properties range in
size from approximately 200,000 to 2.8 million square feet of GLA, with all but
five regional malls over 400,000 square feet. These regional malls contain in
the aggregate more than 17,000 occupied stores, including over 650 anchors which
are mostly national retailers. As of December 31, 1999, regional malls
(including specialty retail centers and retail space in the mixed-use
Properties) represented 85.0% of total GLA, 79.9% of Owned GLA and 86.4% of
total annualized base rent of the Properties.

     Community shopping centers are generally unenclosed and smaller than
regional malls. Most of the 78 community shopping centers in the Properties
range in size from approximately 100,000 to 400,000 square feet of GLA.
Community shopping centers generally are of two types: (i) traditional community
centers, which focus primarily on value-oriented and convenience goods and
services, are usually anchored by a supermarket, drugstore or discount retailer
and are designed to service a neighborhood area; and (ii) power centers, which
are designed to serve a larger trade area and contain at least two anchors that
are usually national retailers among the leaders in their markets and occupy
more than 70% of the GLA in the center. As of December 31, 1999, community
shopping centers represented 10.6% of total GLA, 12.8% of Owned GLA and 6.0% of
the total annualized base rent of the Properties.

     Simon Group also has joint venture interests in four specialty retail
centers, five office and mixed-use Properties and four value-oriented super-
regional malls. The specialty retail centers contain approximately 1,272,000
square feet of GLA and do not have anchors; instead, they feature retailers and
entertainment facilities in a distinctive shopping environment and location. The
five office and mixed-use Properties range in size from approximately 348,000 to
1,039,000 square feet of GLA. Two of these Properties are regional malls with
connected office buildings, two are located in mixed-use developments and
contain primarily office space and the remaining one is solely office space. The
value-oriented super-regional malls range in size from approximately 1.2 million
to 1.5 million square feet of GLA. These Properties combine retail outlets,
manufacturers' off-price stores and other value-oriented tenants. As of December
31, 1999, value-oriented super-regional malls represented 2.9% of total GLA,
4.7% of Owned GLA and 4.7% of the total annualized base rent of the Properties.

     As of December 31, 1999, approximately 90.6% of the Mall and Freestanding
Owned GLA in regional malls, specialty retail centers and the retail space in
the mixed use Properties was leased, approximately 95.1% of the Owned GLA in the
value-oriented super-regional malls was leased, and approximately 88.6% of Owned
GLA in the community shopping centers was leased.

     Of the 259 Properties, 178 are owned 100% by Simon Group and the remainder
are held as joint venture interests. Simon Group is the managing or co-managing
general partner or member of all but nine of the Properties held as joint
venture interests.



                            Additional Information

     The following table sets forth certain information, as of December 31,
1999, regarding the Properties:
























 












































       PROPERTIES UNDER CONSTRUCTION


               Footnotes:
               ----------

 (1)  The date listed is the expiration date of the last renewal option
      available to the SPG Operating Partnership under the ground lease. In a
      majority of the ground leases, the lessee has either a right of first
      refusal or the right to purchase the lessor's interest. Unless otherwise
      indicated, each ground lease listed in this column covers at least 50% of
      its respective Property.
 (2)  The SPG Operating Partnership's interests in some of the Properties held
      as joint venture interests are subject to preferences on distributions in
      favor of other partners or the SPG Operating Partnership.
 (3)  This retailer operates two stores at this Property.
 (4)  Primarily retail space with approximately 105,800 square feet of office
      space.
 (5)  Indicates anchor has closed, but the SPG Operating Partnership still
      collects rents and/or fees under an agreement.
 (6)  This Property is managed by a third party.
 (7)  Indicates ground lease covers less than 15% of the acreage of this
      Property .
 (8)  The SPG Operating Partnership receives substantially all of the economic
      benefit of these Properties.
 (9)  Indicates anchor is currently under construction.
(10)  Indicates ground lease(s) cover(s) less than 50% of the acreage of the
      Property.
(11)  Includes an anchor space currently vacant.
(12)  Primarily retail space with approximately 119,900 square feet of office
      space.
(13)  The SPG Operating Partnership sold its 50% interest effective January 31,
      2000.
(14)  The SPG Operating Partnership is entitled to 50% of the economic benefits
      of this property.
(15)  Indicates ground lease covers all of the Property except for parcels owned
      in fee by anchors.
(16)  Primarily retail space with approximately 52,000 square feet of office
      space.
(17)  The SPG Operating Partnership assumed management effective January 1,
      2000.
(18)  Primarily retail space with approximately 69,900 square feet of office
      space.
(19)  Primarily retail space with approximately 129,500 square feet of office
      space.
(20)  Primarily retail space with approximately 73,800 square feet of office
      space.
(21)  Includes outlots in which the SPG Operating Partnership has an 85%
      interest and which represent less than 3% of the GLA and total annualized
      base rent for the Property.
(22)  The SPG Operating Partnership owns 60% of the original phase of this
      Property and 55% of phase II.
(23)  Primarily retail space with approximately 167,100 square feet of office
      space.
(24)  Primarily retail space with approximately 499,700 square feet of office
      space.
(25)  Primarily office space with approximately 12,800 square feet of retail
      space.
(26)  Primarily office space with approximately 24,300 square feet of retail
      space.
(27)  Effective January 1, 2000, the SPG Operating Partnership acquired the
      remaining ownership interest in this property.
(28)  Indicates ground lease covers outparcel only.
(29)  The SPG Operating Partnership demolished the previously existing regional
      mall, Charles Towne Square, and is in the process of rebuilding this
      community center and a cinema on the land.
(30)  The SPG Operating Partnership sold its interest effective February 18,
      2000.
(31)  Scheduled to open during the fall of 2000.
(32)  Scheduled to open during the summer of 2000.



     Land Held for Development

     Simon Group has direct or indirect ownership interests in twelve parcels of
land held for future development, containing an aggregate of approximately 866
acres located in eight states. In addition, Simon Group, through the Management
Company, has interests in two parcels of land in Mt. Juliet, Tennessee and
Gwinnett County, Georgia totaling 243 acres, which were previously held for
development, but are now being marketed for sale.

     Joint Ventures

     At certain of the Properties held as joint-ventures, Simon Group and its
partners each have rights of first refusal, subject to certain conditions, to
acquire additional ownership in the Property should the other partner decide to
sell its ownership interest. In addition, certain of the Properties held as
joint ventures contain "buy-sell" provisions, which gives the partners the right
to trigger a purchase or sale of ownership interest amongst the partners.

     Mortgage Financing on Properties

     The following table sets forth certain information regarding the mortgages
and other debt encumbering the Properties. All mortgage and property related
debt is nonrecourse, although certain Unitholders have guaranteed a portion of
the property related debt in the aggregate amount of $643.7 million.



                MORTGAGE AND OTHER DEBT ON PORTFOLIO PROPERTIES
                            (Dollars in thousands)















                              (Footnotes on following page)



(Footnotes for preceding pages)

 (1) Loans secured by these four Properties are cross-collateralized and cross-
     defaulted.
 (2) Requires monthly payment of interest only.
 (3) LIBOR + 1.500%.
 (4) Includes applicable extension available at the SPG Operating Partnership's
     option.
 (5) These eleven Properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
 (6) These three Properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
 (7) Secured by cross-collateralized and cross-dafaulted mortgages encumbering
     seven of the Properties (Bay Park Square, Boardman Plaza, Cheltenham
     Square, De Soto Square, Upper Valley Mall, Washington Square, and West
     Ridge Mall).
 (8) LIBOR + 0.365%, through an interest rate protection agreement is
     effectively fixed at an all-in-one rate of 6.16%.
 (9) Loans secured by these four Properties are cross-collateralized and cross-
     defaulted.
(10) LIBOR + 3.000%.
(11) LIBOR + 1.000%.
(12) Loans secured by these seven Properties are cross-collateralized and cross-
     defaulted.
(13) LIBOR + 0.300%, through an interest rate protection agreement is
     effectively fixed at an all-in-one rate of 6.19%.
(14) LIBOR + 0.550%, with LIBOR capped at 8.700% through maturity.
(15) LIBOR + 1.375%.
(16) LIBOR + 0.500%, with LIBOR swapped at 7.24% through maturity.
(17) LIBOR + 1.050%.
(18) Lender also participates in a percentage of certain gross receipts above a
     specified base.
(19) July 23, 2000 is the earliest date on which the lender may call the bonds.
(20) LIBOR + 1.400%.
(21) LIBOR + 1.300%, with LIBOR set using a 90 day rate.
(22) Requires semi-annual payments of interest only.
(23) LIBOR + 0.800%.
(24) $1,250,000 unsecured revolving credit facility. Currently, bears interest
     at LIBOR + 0.650% and provides for different pricing based upon the SPG
     Operating Partnership's investment grade rating. Two interest rate caps
     currently limit LIBOR on $90,000 and $50,000 of this indebtedness to 11.53%
     and 16.77%, respectively. As of 12/31/99, $460,519 was available after
     outstanding borrowings and letters of credit.
(25) LIBOR + 0.650%. Consists of two tranches of $450,000 and $500,000 due
     03/24/00 and 09/24/00, respectively. Commitments have been received in
     excess of $450,000 to refinance the first tranche for one year. SPG and the
     SPG Operating Partnership are co-obligors of this debt.
(26) The MOPPRS have an actual maturity of June 15, 2028, but are subject to
     mandatory tender on June 16, 2008.
(27) Includes minority interest partners' share of consolidated indebtedness of
     $160,517.
(28) As defined in the accompanying consolidated financial statements, Joint
     Venture Properties are those accounted for using the equity method of
     accounting.
(29) LIBOR + 1.300%, with LIBOR capped at 9.500% through maturity.
(30) LIBOR + 1.800%.
(31) LIBOR + 0.440%, with LIBOR capped at 8.81% through maturity.
(32) LIBOR + 1.500%, with LIBOR capped at 7.75% through maturity.
(33) These Commercial Mortgage Notes are secured by cross-collateralized
     mortgages encumbering thirteen Properties (Eastland Mall, Empire East,
     Empire Mall, Granite Run Mall, Mesa Mall, Lake Square, Lindale Mall,
     Northpark Mall, Southern Hills Mall, Southpark Mall, Southridge Mall,
     Rushmore Mall, and Valley Mall). A weighted average rate is used for each
     component. The floating component has an interest protection agreement
     which caps LIBOR at 11.67%.
(34) The interest rate on this cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted mortgage
     is fixed at 7.22% through November of 2000 and thereafter the rate is the
     greater of 7.22% or 2.00% over the then current yield of a six month
     treasury bill selected by lender.
(35) LIBOR + 1.350%.
(36) LIBOR + 0.700%.
(37) Loans require monthly interest payments only until they begin amortizing
     November, 2000.
(38) LIBOR + 4.160%.
(39) LIBOR + 1.970%.
(40) LIBOR + 0.870%, with LIBOR capped at 8.130% through April 30, 2000.
(41) Canadian Prime.
(42) Beginning January 2000, this note will bear interest at 6.000%.
(43) LIBOR + 1.500%, rate may be reduced based upon project performance.
(44) LIBOR + 1.250%, rate may be reduced based upon project performance.
(45) LIBOR + 1.200%.
(46) Includes outside partners' share of indebtedness of $2,635,335 and
     indebtedness of an affiliate of $37,097.



Item 3. Legal Proceedings

     The information set forth in Note 13 to Combined Financial Statements in
the Companies' Annual Report to Shareholders filed as Exhibit 13.1 regarding
pending material litigation is incorporated herein by reference.

     Simon Group is subject to routine litigation and administrative proceedings
arising in the ordinary course of its business, none of which are expected to
have a material adverse effect on its financial position or results of
operations.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

     None.

                                    Part II

Item 5. Market for the Registrants' Common Equity and Related Stockholder
Matters

     Market Information

     The Paired Shares trade on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") under the
symbol "SPG". The quarterly price range on the NYSE for the Paired Shares (and
for the common shares of SPG's predecessor prior to the CPI Merger) and the
distributions declared per share for each quarter in the last two fiscal years
are shown below:



     (1)  Includes a $0.4721 distribution declared in the third quarter of 1998,
          but not payable until the fourth quarter of 1998, related to the CPI
          Merger, designated to align the time periods of distribution payments
          of the merged companies. The current annual distribution rate is $2.02
          per Paired Share.

     There is no established public trading market for SPG's Class B common
stock or Class C common stock. Distributions per share of the Class B and Class
C common stock were identical to the other Paired Shares.

     Holders

     The number of holders of record of the Paired Shares was 2,500 as of March
16, 2000. Additionally, the Class B common stock is held entirely by a voting
trust to which Melvin Simon, Herbert Simon, David Simon and certain of their
affiliates are parties and is exchangeable on a one-for-one basis into Paired
Shares, and the Class C common stock is held entirely by The Edward J. DeBartolo
Corporation and is also exchangeable on a one-for-one basis into Paired Shares.

     Distributions

     SPG qualifies as a REIT under the Code. To maintain its status as a REIT,
SPG is required each year to distribute to its shareholders at least 95% of its
taxable income after certain adjustments.



     Future distributions paid by the Companies will be at the discretion of the
Boards of Directors and will depend on the actual cash flow of the Companies,
their financial condition, capital requirements, the annual REIT distribution
requirements and such other factors as the Board of Directors of the Companies
deem relevant.

     The Companies have an Automatic Dividend Reinvestment Plan (the "Plan")
which allows shareholders to acquire additional Paired Shares by automatically
reinvesting cash dividends. Paired Shares are acquired pursuant to the Plan at a
price equal to the prevailing market price of such Paired Shares, without
payment of any brokerage commission or service charge. Shareholders who do not
participate in the Plan continue to receive cash dividends, as declared.

     Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities

     The Registrants did not issue any equity securities that were not required
to be registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Act") during
the fourth quarter of 1999, except as follows: On October 15, 1999, SPG issued
1,000,000 shares of 8.00% Series E Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock to an
institutional investor in connection with a property acquisition. The foregoing
transaction was exempt from registration under the Act in reliance on Section 4
(2).

Item 6. Selected Financial Data

     The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference
to the Selected Financial Data section of the Companies' Annual Report to
Shareholders which is filed as Exhibit 13.1 to this Form 10-K.

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
        of Operations

     The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference
to the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations section of the Companies' Annual Report to Shareholders which is
filed as Exhibit 13.1 to this Form 10-K.

Item 7A. Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosure About Market Risk

     The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference
to the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations section of the Companies' Annual Report to Shareholders under the
caption Liquidity and Capital Resources, which is filed as Exhibit 13.1 to this
Form 10-K.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

     Reference is made to the Index to Financial Statements contained in Item
14.

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
        Financial Disclosure

     None.



                                   Part III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrants

     The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference
to the Companies' definitive Proxy Statements for their annual meetings of
shareholders to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A and is
included under the caption "EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANTS" in Part I
hereof.

Item 11. Executive Compensation

     The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference
to the Companies' definitive Proxy Statements for their annual meetings of
shareholders to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

     The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference
to the Companies' definitive Proxy Statements for their annual meetings of
shareholders to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

     The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference
  to the Companies' definitive Proxy Statements for their annual meetings of
  shareholders to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A



                                    PART IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statements, Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)  (1)  Financial Statements

     The Companies' combined and individual financial statements and independent
auditors' report are incorporated herein by reference to the financial
statements and independent auditors' report in the Companies' Annual Report to
Shareholders, which are filed as Exhibit 13.1. Additionally, the Report of Ernst
& Young LLP on SRC's 1997 audited financial statements which are incorporated
herein by reference is filed as Exhibit 99.1. In addition, the financial
statements of Mill Creek, a significant subsidiary of SRC, which are filed as
Exhibit 99.2 are incorporated herein by reference.


(b)  Reports on Form 8-K

          One Form 8-K was filed during the fourth quarter ended December 31,
          1999.

          On November 15, 1999 under Item 5 - Other Events, SPG reported that it
          made available additional ownership and operational information
          concerning Simon Group and the properties owned or managed as of
          September 30, 1999, in the form of a Supplemental Information package.
          A copy of the package was included as an exhibit to the 8-K filing.



                                  SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrants have duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                                         SIMON PROPERTY GROUP, INC. AND
                                         SPG REALTY CONSULTANTS, INC.


                                         By  /s/ David Simon
                                            ---------------------------
                                            David Simon
                                            Chief Executive Officer

March 23, 2000

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrants and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.









             REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS ON SCHEDULE



To the Board of Directors of
Simon Property Group, Inc.:

We have audited in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the
United States, the financial statements of SIMON PROPERTY GROUP, INC. and SPG
REALTY CONSULTANTS, INC. included in this Form 10-K and have issued our report
thereon dated February 16, 2000. Our audits were made for the purpose of forming
an opinion on the basic financial statements taken as a whole. The schedule,
"Schedule III: Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation", as of December 31,
1999, of Simon Property Group, Inc. and SPG Realty Consultants, Inc. is the
responsibility of the Companies' management and is presented for purposes of
complying with the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and is not part of
the basic financial statements. The schedule has been subjected to the auditing
procedures applied in the audits of the basic financial statements and, in our
opinion, fairly states in all material respects the financial data required to
be set forth therein in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a
whole.



                                                         ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
Indianapolis, Indiana,
February 16, 2000.



          SIMON PROPERTY GROUP, INC. AND SPG REALTY CONSULTANTS, INC.
                   REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                               December 31, 1999                    SCHEDULE III

                            (Dollars in thousands)




          SIMON PROPERTY GROUP, INC. AND SPG REALTY CONSULTANTS, INC.
                   REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                               December 31, 1999                    SCHEDULE III

                            (Dollars in thousands)







          SIMON PROPERTY GROUP, INC. AND SPG REALTY CONSULTANTS, INC.
                   REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                             December 31, 1999                      SCHEDULE III

                            (Dollars in thousands)






          SIMON PROPERTY GROUP, INC. AND SPG REALTY CONSULTANTS, INC.
                   REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                               December 31, 1999                    SCHEDULE III

                            (Dollars in thousands)







          SIMON PROPERTY GROUP, INC. AND SPG REALTY CONSULTANTS, INC.
                   REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                               December 31, 1999                    SCHEDULE III

                            (Dollars in thousands)




         SIMON PROPERTY GROUP, INC. AND SPG REALTY CONSULTANTS, INC.

                 NOTES TO SCHEDULE III AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1999

                            (Dollars in thousands)

(1)  Reconciliation of Real Estate Properties:

     The changes in real estate assets for the years ended December 31, 1999,
     1998 and 1997 are as follows:



  The unaudited aggregate cost for SPG and SRC for federal income tax purposes
as of December 31, 1999 were $8,644,003 and $7,568, respectively.

(2)  Reconciliation of Accumulated Depreciation:

  The changes in accumulated depreciation and amortization for the years ended
December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997 are as follows:



     Depreciation of the Companies' investment in buildings and improvements
reflected in the statements of operations is calculated over the estimated
original lives of the assets as follows:

     Buildings and Improvements - typically 35 years
     Tenant Inducements - shorter of lease term or useful life

(3)  Initial cost represents net book value at December 20, 1993.

(4)  Not developed/constructed by Simon Group or its predecessors. The date of
     construction represents acquisition date.



                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS







     (a)  Represents a management contract, or compensatory plan, contract or
arrangement required to be filed pursuant to Regulation S-K.


