
10-K
FORM 10-K



 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
(MARK ONE)
 
[X]ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
   ACT OF 1934
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996
 
                                      OR
 
[_]TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
   EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
For the transition period from             to             .
 
                         Commission File Number 1-644
 
                               ----------------
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
               DELAWARE                              13-1815595
    (State or other jurisdiction of     (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
    incorporation or organization)
 
  300 PARK AVENUE, NEW YORK, NEW YORK                   10022
    (Address of principal executive                   (Zip Code)
               offices)
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code 212-310-2000
Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12 (b) of the Act:
 
          TITLE OF EACH CLASS              NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE ON WHICH
          -------------------                        REGISTERED
                                                     ----------
  $4.25 Preferred Stock, without par         New York Stock Exchange
      value, cumulative dividend               New York Stock Exchange
     Common Stock, $1.00 par value
 
 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes X   No
 
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.   [X]
 
  At February 28, 1997 the aggregate market value of stock held by non-
affiliates was $15,246.5 million. There were 147,309,385 shares of Common
Stock outstanding as of February 28, 1997.
 
                     DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:
 
               DOCUMENTS                         FORM 10-K REFERENCE
               ---------                         -------------------
  Portions of Proxy Statement for the       Part III, Items 10 through 13
          1997 Annual Meeting
 
 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
                                    PART I
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
 
  (a) General Development of the Business
 
  Colgate-Palmolive Company (the "Company") is a corporation which was
organized under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1923. The Company
manufactures and markets a wide variety of products throughout the world for
use by consumers. For recent business developments, refer to the information
set forth under the captions "Results of Operations" and "Liquidity and
Capital Resources" in Part II, Item 7 of this report.
 
  (b) Financial Information About Industry Segments
 
  For information about industry segments refer to the information set forth
under the caption "Results of Operations" in Part II, Item 7 of this report.
 
  (c) Narrative Description of the Business
 
  For information regarding description of the business refer to Note 1 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements included herein; "Average number of
employees" appearing under "Historical Financial Summary" included herein; and
"Research and development" expenses appearing in Note 11 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements included herein.
 
  Compliance with environmental rules and regulations has not significantly
affected the Company's capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position.
Capital expenditures for environmental control facilities totaled $21.6
million in 1996 and are budgeted at $25.1 million for 1997. For future years,
expenditures are expected to be in the same range. The Company has programs
that are designed to ensure that its operations and facilities meet or exceed
all applicable environmental rules and regulations.
 
  (d) Financial Information About Foreign and Domestic Operations and Export
Sales
 
  For information concerning geographic area financial data refer to the
information set forth under the caption "Results of Operations" in Part II,
Item 7 of this report.
 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
 
  The Company owns and leases a total of 321 manufacturing, distribution,
research and office facilities worldwide. Corporate headquarters is housed in
leased facilities at 300 Park Avenue, New York, New York.
 
  In the United States, the Company operates 46 facilities, of which 26 are
owned. Major U.S. manufacturing and warehousing facilities used by the Oral,
Personal and Household Care segment are located in Kansas City, Kansas;
Morristown, New Jersey; Jeffersonville, Indiana; and Cambridge, Ohio. The
Company is transforming its former facilities in Jersey City, New Jersey into
a mixed-use complex with the assistance of developers and other investors. The
Pet Nutrition segment has major facilities in Bowling Green, Kentucky; Topeka,
Kansas; and Richmond, Indiana. Research facilities are located throughout the
world with the primary research center for Oral, Personal and Household Care
products located in Piscataway, New Jersey.
 
  Overseas, the Company operates 275 facilities, of which 117 are owned, in
over 70 countries. Major overseas facilities used by the Oral, Personal and
Household Care segment are located in Australia, Brazil, Canada, China,
Colombia, France, Italy, Mexico, Thailand, the United Kingdom and elsewhere
throughout the world. In some areas outside the United States, products are
either manufactured by independent contractors under Company specifications or
are imported from the United States or elsewhere.
 
 

 
  All facilities operated by the Company are, in general, well maintained and
adequate for the purpose for which they are intended. The Company conducts
continuing reviews of its facilities with the view to modernization and cost
reduction.
 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
  For information regarding legal matters refer to the discussion set forth
under the caption "Outlook" in Part II, Item 7 and Notes 3 and 16 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements included herein. The Company expects shortly
to enter into its undertakings described in Note 16.
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
  None.
 

 
                      EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
  The following is a list of executive officers as of March 18, 1997:
 

 

 
  Each of the executive officers listed above has served the registrant or its
subsidiaries in various executive capacities for the past five years.
 
  The Company By-Laws, paragraph 38, states: The officers of the corporation
shall hold office until their respective successors are chosen and qualified
in their stead, or until they have resigned, retired or been removed in the
manner hereinafter provided. Any officer elected or appointed by the Board of
Directors may be removed at any time by the affirmative vote of a majority of
the whole Board of Directors.
 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND
     RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS
 
  Refer to the information regarding the market for the Company's Common Stock
and the quarterly market price information appearing under "Market and
Dividend Information" in Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
included herein; the information under "Capital Stock and Stock Compensation
Plans" in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein; and
the "Number of shareholders of record" and "Cash dividends declared and paid
per common share" under the caption "Historical Financial Summary" included
herein.
 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
  Refer to the information set forth under the caption "Historical Financial
Summary" included herein.
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
     RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
 
 
 

 
- --------
*  Sales outside North America represented approximately 29%, 29% and 25% of
   total sales of Pet Nutrition and Other products in 1996, 1995 and 1994,
   respectively.
 
NET SALES
 
  Worldwide net sales increased 5% to $8,749.0 in 1996 on volume growth of 5%
reflecting increases in every geographic region. Sales in the Oral, Personal
and Household Care segment were up 4% on 5% volume growth.
 
  In 1996, sales in North America rose 5% on the same percentage of volume
growth. Market share climbed for three of the region's key product categories:
toothpaste, dishwashing liquid and deodorants. Products
 

 
contributing to the sales growth included Colgate Baking Soda & Peroxide
toothpaste, Palmolive antibacterial dishwashing liquid, Speed Stick gel and
Irish Spring Sport soap.
 
  Overall sales in Europe decreased slightly in 1996 on 3% higher volume due
primarily to the negative effects of weaker European currencies. Volume was up
sharply in Russia. New product launches including Colgate Triple Stripe
toothpaste, Fabuloso fabric softener and Ajax Expel cleaner, as well as the
relaunching of Palmolive Shower gel, enabled the region to achieve higher
volume and increase market share for a majority of its core categories.
 
  Sales in Latin America were up 8% on 7% volume growth. Leading the way in
this region were Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Dominican Republic and Ecuador
which were partially offset by the negative impact of Venezuela caused by the
country's economic downturn. Mexican operations are beginning to recover from
the economic downturn of 1995. New product introductions contributed to the
rapid expansion of sales in this region, which is evidenced by the success of
Colgate Total Fresh Stripe toothpaste and Colgate Baking Soda & Peroxide
toothpaste, Protex Fresh soap, Fab Total detergent and Suavitel fabric
softener refills.
 
  The Asia/Africa region posted an overall sales increase of 6% on 7% volume
growth for the year, largely due to a combination of new product introductions
and geographic expansion, especially in China. The successful introductions of
new products elsewhere in the region including Fabuloso fragranced cleaner,
Protex Fresh soap, Dynamo antibacterial detergent, Palmolive Optims Shampoo
and Palmolive Shower Cream also contributed to the volume growth.
 
  Sales for the Pet Nutrition and Other segment increased 10% on 6% volume
growth. Hill's Pet Nutrition completed its transition to a company-owned
distribution and sales network. During 1996, Hill's also relaunched the entire
Science Diet line and added three new products. Due to Hill's' rapid expansion
in international markets, a European manufacturing facility was added in 1996
in order to support this growth.
 
  Worldwide net sales in 1995 increased 10% to $8,358.2, reflecting growth
among all divisions. Asia/Africa with sales growth of 17% on 13% higher volume
and Latin America with 14% sales growth on 21% higher volume led the way on
the strength of oral and personal care product sales. North America posted
overall sales increases of 10% on 9% volume growth, largely due to the
introduction of new products. Sales in Europe were up 10% on flat volumes,
primarily reflecting the positive effects of stronger European currencies.
Sales for the Pet Nutrition and Other segment declined, reflecting the sale of
non-core businesses in 1994, partially offset by a modest sales increase of 2%
at Hill's.
 
GROSS PROFIT
 
  Gross profit margin was 49.1%, above both the 1995 level of 47.9% and the
1994 level of 48.4%. The 1996 increase reflects cost-reduction programs, focus
on high margin products, the initial benefits of the 1995 restructuring
program and economic recovery in Mexico.
 
SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
 
  Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales were
35% in 1996, 34% in 1995 and 35% in 1994. The modest increase in 1996
represents increased advertising spending, increased investment in China,
India and Russia as well as slightly higher distribution costs. The Company
continues to focus on expense-containment strategies including the 1995
restructuring program. It is anticipated that these initiatives will provide
incremental funds to further increase investments in research and development
as well as media advertising to support growth.
 
PROVISION FOR RESTRUCTURED OPERATIONS
 
  In September 1995, the Company announced a major worldwide restructuring of
its manufacturing and administrative operations designed to further enhance
profitable growth over the next several years by generating
 

 
significant efficiencies and improving competitiveness. The charge included
employee termination costs and expenses associated with the realignment of the
Company's global manufacturing operations, as well as settlement of
contractual obligations. The worldwide restructuring program resulted in a
1995 third quarter pretax charge of $460.5 ($369.2 net of tax) or $2.54 per
share for the year. To date, 14 factories have been closed or reconfigured,
and the realignments in facilities around the world are expected to be
substantially completed during 1997.
 
OTHER EXPENSE, NET
 
  Other expense, net of other income, consists principally of amortization of
goodwill and other intangible assets, minority interest in earnings of less-
than-100% owned consolidated subsidiaries, earnings from equity investments
and asset sales. Amortization expense increased in each of the three years
presented due to higher levels of intangible assets stemming from the
Company's recent acquisitions, most notably Kolynos in 1995 and Cibaca in
India in 1994.
 
 

 
 
EARNINGS BEFORE INTEREST AND TAXES
 
  Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) increased 12% in 1996 to $1,152.0
compared with $1,029.4 (excluding restructuring) in the prior year. EBIT for
the Oral, Personal and Household Care segment was up 13% with North America,
Europe and Latin America posting gains of 20%, 13% and 16%, respectively.
Results in Asia/Africa were flat, reflecting a significant increase in
advertising spending in the region. The Pet Nutrition and Other segment
rebounded from 1995 with an increase of 7%.
 
  In 1995, EBIT was impacted by the provision for restructured operations of
$460.5. Excluding this charge, EBIT for the Oral, Personal and Household Care
segment was up 13% with North America, Asia/Africa and Latin America posting
gains of 20%, 14% and 15%, respectively. Results in Europe showed modest
improvement in 1995. Overall EBIT was tempered by the 27% decline in the Pet
Nutrition and Other segment, principally due to the sale of non-core
businesses in 1994 as well as a realignment of the sales force and
distribution at Hill's.
 
INTEREST EXPENSE, NET
 
  Interest expense, net of interest income, was $197.4 in 1996 compared with
$205.4 in 1995 and $86.7 in 1994. The decrease in 1996 is primarily a result
of lower debt levels for the year. The increase in net interest expense in
1995 versus the prior year is a result of higher debt for the full year,
incurred primarily to finance Kolynos and other acquisitions, and slightly
higher effective interest rates in 1995.
 

 
INCOME TAXES
 
  The effective tax rate on income was 33.5% in 1996 versus 52.7% in 1995 and
34.1% in 1994. The overall effective rate in 1995 was impacted by the charge
for restructuring, the tax benefit of which was 20% due to the effect of tax
benefits in certain jurisdictions not expected to be realized. Excluding the
charge, the effective income tax rate was 34.3% in 1995. Global tax planning
strategies benefited the effective tax rate in all three years presented.
 
NET INCOME
 
  Net income was $635.0 in 1996 or $4.19 per share compared with $172.0 in
1995 or $1.04 per share including the provision for restructured operations of
$369.2 or $2.54 per share. Excluding the special charge in 1995, earnings were
$541.2 or $3.58 per share compared with $580.2 or $3.82 per share in 1994.
 
 

 
 
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
 
  Net cash provided by operations increased 13% to $917.4 in 1996 compared
with $810.2 in 1995 and $829.4 in 1994. The increase in cash generated by
operating activities in 1996 reflects the Company's improved profitability and
working capital management. Cash generated from operations was used to fund
capital spending, reduce debt levels and increase dividends.
 
  During 1996, long-term debt decreased from $3,029.0 to $2,897.2. The Company
continued to focus on enhancing its debt portfolio, resulting in the
refinancing of a substantial portion of commercial paper and other short-term
borrowings to longer term instruments. In 1996, the Company entered into a
$496.3 loan agreement and obtained a $406.0 term loan with foreign commercial
banks. In addition, the Company issued $100.0 of notes in a private placement
and issued $75.0 of medium-term notes under previously filed shelf
registrations.
 
  As of December 31, 1996, $341.9 of domestic and foreign commercial paper was
outstanding. These borrowings carry a Standard & Poor's rating of A1 and a
Moody's rating of P1. The commercial paper as well as other short-term
borrowings are classified as long-term debt at December 31, 1996, as it is the
Company's intent and ability to refinance such obligations on a long-term
basis. The Company has additional sources of liquidity available in the form
of lines of credit maintained with various banks. At December 31, 1996, such
unused lines of credit amounted to $1,785.7. In addition, at December 31,
1996, the Company had $697.8 available under previously filed shelf
registrations.
 
  During 1995, the Company issued $89.2 of Swiss franc bonds and $71.7 of
Luxembourg franc bonds, both of which were immediately swapped into U.S.
dollar floating rate debt. In addition, $220.0 of medium-term notes were
issued under the shelf registration filed in May 1994. Also in 1995, the
Company obtained a $75.0 term note and filed a shelf registration for $700.0
of debt securities.
 
  During 1994, the Company obtained a $50.0 term note and filed a shelf
registration for $500.0 of debt securities, of which $208.0 medium-term notes
were issued in that year.
 

 
  The Company utilizes interest rate agreements and foreign exchange contracts
to manage interest rate and foreign currency exposures. The principal
objective of such financial derivative contracts is to moderate the effect of
fluctuations in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. The Company, as a
matter of policy, does not speculate in financial markets and therefore does
not hold these contracts for trading purposes. The Company utilizes what are
considered straightforward instruments, such as forward foreign exchange
contracts and non-leveraged interest rate swaps, to accomplish its objectives.
As of December 31, 1996, the Company had $925.9 notional amount of interest
rate swaps outstanding converting floating rate debt to fixed rate debt and
$285.0 of swaps outstanding converting fixed rate debt to floating.
 
  The ratio of net debt to total capitalization (defined as the ratio of the
book values of debt less cash and marketable securities ["net debt"] to net
debt plus equity) decreased to 58% during 1996 from 64% in 1995. The decrease
is primarily the result of higher company earnings in 1996 as well as
effective working capital management and lower acquisitions than in prior
years. The ratio of market debt to market capitalization (defined as above
using fair market values) decreased to 17% during 1996 from 23% in 1995. The
Company primarily uses market value analyses to evaluate its optimal
capitalization.
 
 

 
 
  Capital expenditures were 5.2% of net sales in both 1996 and 1995 and were
5.3% of net sales in 1994. Capital spending continues to be focused primarily
on projects that yield high aftertax returns, thereby reducing the Company's
cost structure. Capital expenditures for 1997 are expected to continue at the
current rate of approximately 5% of net sales.
 
  Other investing activities in 1996, 1995 and 1994 included strategic
acquisitions and equity investments worldwide.
 
  During 1996, the Company acquired the Profiden oral care business in Spain,
the Seprod fabric care business in Jamaica and other regional brands in the
Oral, Personal and Household Care segment. During 1995, the Company acquired
Kolynos in Latin America and Odol oral care products in Argentina and made
other regional investments. During 1994, the Company acquired the Cibaca
toothbrush and toothpaste business in India and several other regional brands
across the Oral, Personal and Household Care segment. The aggregate purchase
price of all 1996, 1995 and 1994 acquisitions was $38.5, $1,321.9 and $149.8,
respectively.
 
  During 1994, the Company repurchased a significant amount of common shares
in the open market and private transactions to provide for employee benefit
plans and to maintain its targeted capital structure. Aggregate repurchases
for the year approximated 6.9 million shares with a total purchase price of
$411.1.
 
  Dividend payments were $296.2 in 1996, up from $276.5 in 1995 and $246.9 in
1994. Common stock dividend payments increased to $1.88 per share in 1996 from
$1.76 per share in 1995 and $1.54 in 1994. The Series B Preference Stock
dividends were declared and paid at the stated rate of $4.88 per share in all
three years.
 
  Internally generated cash flows appear to be adequate to support currently
planned business operations, acquisitions and capital expenditures.
Significant acquisitions, such as the acquisition of Kolynos discussed
previously, would require external financing.
 

 
  The Company is a party to various superfund and other environmental matters
and is contingently liable with respect to lawsuits, taxes and other matters
arising out of the normal course of business. Management proactively reviews
and manages its exposure to, and the impact of, environmental matters. While
it is possible that the Company's cash flows and results of operations in
particular quarterly or annual periods could be affected by the one-time
impacts of the resolution of such contingencies, it is the opinion of
management that the ultimate disposition of these matters, to the extent not
previously provided for, will not have a material impact on the Company's
financial condition or ongoing cash flows and results of operations.
 
OUTLOOK
 
  Looking forward into 1997, the Company is well positioned for strong growth
in developing markets, particularly Asia and Latin America. However, economic
uncertainty in Venezuela and the pace of recovery in Mexico may continue to
impact overall results from Latin America, and its projected growth may be
tempered until these economies become more stable. In addition, in 1996, the
antitrust regulatory authorities in Brazil approved the acquisition of Kolynos
subject to certain conditions. The Company is currently negotiating
undertakings related to those conditions with the Brazilian authorities. The
undertakings, which the Company hopes to execute soon, are expected to include
a commitment by the Company to suspend the Kolynos trademark on toothpaste
sold in Brazil for four years. During this time, the Company will market an
alternate brand of toothpaste. The Company will continue to use the Kolynos
name in Brazil for other oral care products, such as toothbrushes, mouthwash
and dental floss. The undertakings are also expected to require the Company to
contract manufacture toothpaste on commercial terms for third parties in
Brazil. Although management is confident Kolynos can successfully operate in
Brazil within these conditions, there cannot, of course, be absolute assurance
that the conditions will not have an adverse impact on the Company's
performance in Brazil. The acquisition is discussed further in Notes 3 and 16
to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Competitive pressures in Western
European markets are expected to persist as business in this region will
continue to be affected by slow economic growth, high unemployment and retail
trade consolidation. Movements in foreign currency exchange rates can also
impact future operating results as measured in U.S. dollars. Effective January
1997, the Company changed the functional currency of its Mexican operations
from the Mexican peso to the U.S. dollar. The effect of this change on future
results of operations is not determinable. Savings from the 1995 worldwide
restructuring began in the latter half of 1996 and are expected to reach
$100.0 annually by 1998.
 
  The Company expects the continued success of Colgate Total, using patented
proprietary technology, to bolster worldwide oral care leadership and expects
new products in all other categories to add potential for further growth.
Overall, the global economic situation for 1997 is not expected to be
materially different from that experienced in 1996 and the Company expects its
positive momentum to continue. Historically, the consumer products industry
has been less susceptible to changes in economic growth than many other
industries, and therefore the Company constantly evaluates projects that will
focus operations on opportunities for enhanced growth potential. Over the long
term, Colgate's continued focus on its consumer products business and the
strength of its global brand names, its broad international presence in both
developed and developing markets, and its strong capital base all position the
Company to take advantage of growth opportunities and to continue to increase
profitability and shareholder value.
 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
  See the "Index to Financial Statements" which is located on page 14 of this
report.
 
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
  None.
 

 
                                   PART III
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
  Information regarding directors and executive officers of the registrant set
forth in the Proxy Statement for the 1997 Annual Meeting is incorporated
herein by reference, as is the text in Part I of this report under the caption
"Executive Officers of the Registrant".
 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
  The information set forth in the Proxy Statement for the 1997 Annual Meeting
is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
(a) Security ownership of management set forth in the Proxy Statement for the
    1997 Annual Meeting is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(b) There are no arrangements known to the registrant that may at a subsequent
    date result in a change in control of the registrant.
 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
  The information set forth in the Proxy Statement for the 1997 Annual Meeting
is incorporated herein by reference.
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
(a) Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules
 
  See the "Index to Financial Statements" which is located on page 14 of this
report.
 
(b) Exhibits. See the exhibit index which begins on page 41.
 
(c) Reports on Form 8-K. None.
 

 
                                  SIGNATURES
 
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
                                                Colgate-Palmolive Company
                                                -------------------------
                                                      (Registrant)
 
Date March 18, 1997                          By       /s/ Reuben Mark
                                                -------------------------
                                                       Reuben Mark
                                                  Chairman of the Board
                                               and Chief Executive Officer
 
  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
 
(a)Principal Executive Officer
 
            /s/ Reuben Mark
        ---------------------------
                Reuben Mark
           Chairman of the Board
        and Chief Executive Officer
 
  Date March 18, 1997
 
(b)Principal Financial and Accounting Officer
 
          /s/ Stephen C. Patrick
        ---------------------------
            Stephen C. Patrick 
         Chief Financial Officer
 
  Date March 18, 1997
 
(c)Directors:
 
  Vernon R. Alden, Jill K. Conway,
  Ronald E. Ferguson, Ellen M. Hancock,
  David W. Johnson, John P. Kendall,
  Richard J. Kogan, Delano E. Lewis,
  Reuben Mark, Howard B. Wentz, Jr.
 
           /s/ Andrew D. Hendry
        ---------------------------
             Andrew D. Hendry
            as Attorney-in-Fact
 
  Date March 18, 1997
 

 
 
 
 
                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
                              FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996
 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
                            NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10022
 

 
                         INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 

 
  All other financial statements and schedules not listed have been omitted
since the required information is included in the financial statements or the
notes thereto or is not applicable or required.
 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                  Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts
 

 
 
 
 
 
                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                  Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amount
 

 
                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
                  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF RETAINED EARNINGS
                              Dollars in Millions
 

 
             CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN CAPITAL ACCOUNTS
                              Dollars in Millions
 

 
                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                              Dollars in Millions
 

 
 
                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
                 Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts
 
1.  NATURE OF OPERATIONS
 
  The Company manufactures and markets a wide variety of products in the U.S.
  and around the world in two distinct business segments: Oral, Personal and
  Household Care, and Pet Nutrition. Oral, Personal and Household Care
  products include toothpastes, oral rinses and toothbrushes, bar and liquid
  soaps, shampoos, conditioners, deodorants and antiperspirants, baby and
  shave products, laundry and dishwashing detergents, fabric softeners,
  cleansers and cleaners, bleaches and other similar items. These products
  are sold primarily to wholesale and retail distributors worldwide. Pet
  Nutrition products include pet food products manufactured and marketed by
  Hill's Pet Nutrition. The principal customers for Pet Nutrition products
  are veterinarians and specialty pet retailers. Principal global trademarks
  include Colgate, Palmolive, Mennen, Kolynos, Protex, Ajax,
  Soupline/Suavitel, Fab, Science Diet and Prescription Diet in addition to
  various regional trademarks.
 
  The Company's principal classes of products accounted for the following
  percentages of worldwide sales for the past three years:
 

 
  Company products are marketed under highly competitive conditions. Products
  similar to those produced and sold by the Company are available from
  competitors in the U.S. and overseas. Product quality, brand recognition
  and acceptance, and marketing capability largely determine success in the
  Company's business segments. The financial and descriptive information on
  the Company's geographic area and industry segment data, appearing in the
  tables contained in management's discussion, is an integral part of these
  financial statements. More than half of the Company's net sales, operating
  profit and identifiable assets are attributable to overseas operations.
  Transfers between geographic areas are not significant.
 
  The Company's products are generally marketed by a sales force employed by
  each individual subsidiary or business unit. In some instances,
  distributors and brokers are used. Most raw materials used worldwide are
  purchased from others, are available from several sources and are generally
  available in adequate supply. Products and commodities such as tallow and
  essential oils are subject to wide price variations. No one of the
  Company's raw materials represents a significant portion of total material
  requirements.
 
  Trademarks are considered to be of material importance to the Company's
  business; consequently, the practice is followed of seeking trademark
  protection by all available means. Although the Company owns a number of
  patents, no one patent is considered significant to the business taken as a
  whole.
 
2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
  PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION
 
  The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Colgate-
  Palmolive Company and its majority-owned subsidiaries. Intercompany
  transactions and balances have been eliminated. Investments in companies in
  which the Company's interest is between 20% and 50% are accounted for using
  the equity method. The Company's share of the net income from such
  investments is recorded as equity earnings and is classified as other
  expense, net in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
  REVENUE RECOGNITION
 
  Sales are recorded at the time products are shipped to trade customers. Net
  sales reflect units shipped at selling list prices reduced by promotion
  allowances.
 
  ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES
 
  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
  accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
  assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
  disclosure of contingent gains and losses at the date of the financial
  statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
  reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
  CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
 
  The Company considers all highly liquid investments with maturities of
  three months or less when purchased to be cash equivalents. Investments in
  short-term securities that do not meet the definition of cash equivalents
  are classified as marketable securities. Marketable securities are reported
  at cost, which equals market.
 
  INVENTORIES
 
  Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market. The last-in, first-
  out (LIFO) method is used to value substantially all inventories in the
  U.S. as well as in certain overseas locations. The remaining inventories
  are valued using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method.
 
  PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
 
  Land, buildings, and machinery and equipment are stated at cost.
  Depreciation is provided, primarily using the straight-line method, over
  estimated useful lives ranging from 3 to 40 years.
 
  GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLES
 
  Goodwill represents the excess of purchase price over the fair value of
  identifiable tangible and intangible net assets of businesses acquired.
  Goodwill and other intangibles are amortized on a straight-line basis over
  periods not exceeding 40 years. The recoverability of carrying values of
  intangible assets is evaluated on a recurring basis. The primary indicators
  of recoverability are current and forecasted profitability of a related
  acquired business. For the three-year period ended December 31, 1996, there
  were no material adjustments to the carrying values of intangible assets
  resulting from these evaluations.
 
  INCOME TAXES
 
  Deferred taxes are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of
  temporary differences between the amounts carried for financial reporting
  and tax purposes. Provision is made currently for taxes payable on
  remittances of overseas earnings; no provision is made for taxes on
  overseas retained earnings that are deemed to be permanently reinvested.
 
  POSTRETIREMENT AND POSTEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS
 
  The cost of postretirement health care and other benefits is actuarially
  determined and accrued over the service period of covered employees.
 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
  TRANSLATION OF OVERSEAS CURRENCIES
 
  The assets and liabilities of subsidiaries, other than those operating in
  highly inflationary environments, are translated into U.S. dollars at year-
  end exchange rates, with resulting translation gains and losses accumulated
  in a separate component of shareholders' equity. Income and expense items
  are converted into U.S. dollars at average rates of exchange prevailing
  during the year.
 
  For subsidiaries operating in highly inflationary environments,
  inventories, goodwill and property, plant and equipment are translated at
  the rate of exchange on the date the assets were acquired, while other
  assets and liabilities are translated at year-end exchange rates.
  Translation adjustments for these operations are included in net income.
 
  GEOGRAPHIC AREAS AND INDUSTRY SEGMENTS
 
  The financial and descriptive information on the Company's geographic area
  and industry segment data, appearing in the tables contained in
  management's discussion of this report, is an integral part of these
  financial statements.
 
3.  ACQUISITIONS
 
  During 1996, the Company acquired the Profiden oral care business in Spain,
  the Seprod fabric care business in Jamaica as well as other regional brands
  in the Oral, Personal and Household Care segment. The Company also expanded
  its investment in the Pet Nutrition segment in the Netherlands. The
  aggregate purchase price of all 1996 acquisitions was $38.5.
 
  On January 10, 1995, the Company acquired the worldwide Kolynos oral care
  business ("Kolynos") for $1,040.0. Kolynos is an oral care business
  operating primarily in South America. The transaction was structured as a
  multinational acquisition of assets and stock and was accounted for under
  the purchase method of accounting. The net book value of Kolynos assets was
  approximately $50.0. As further described in Note 16, during 1996, the
  antitrust regulatory authorities in Brazil approved the acquisition subject
  to certain conditions.
 
  The following unaudited pro forma summary combines the results of the
  operations of the Company and Kolynos as if the acquisition had occurred as
  of the beginning of 1994 after giving effect to certain adjustments,
  including amortization of goodwill, increased interest expense on the
  acquisition debt incurred and the related income tax effects.
 
              SUMMARIZED PRO FORMA COMBINED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994
 

 
  The pro forma financial information is not necessarily indicative of either
  the results of operations that would have occurred had the Company and
  Kolynos actually been combined during the year ended December 31, 1994, or
  the future results of operations of the combined companies. There are
  certain other
 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)

  benefits that are anticipated to be realized from the implementation of the
  Company's integration plans which are not included in the pro forma
  information.
 
  In addition, during 1995, the Company acquired the Odol oral care business
  in Argentina, the Barbados Cosmetic Products business in the Caribbean as
  well as other regional brands in the Oral, Personal and Household Care
  Segment. The aggregate purchase price of all 1995 acquisitions was
  $1,321.9.
 
  During 1994, the Company acquired the Cibaca toothpaste and toothbrush
  business in India, the NSOA laundry soap business in Senegal as well as
  several other regional brands in the Oral, Personal and Household Care
  segment. The aggregate purchase price of all 1994 acquisitions was $149.8.
 
  All of these acquisitions have been accounted for as purchases, and,
  accordingly, the purchase prices were allocated to the net tangible and
  intangible assets acquired based on estimated fair values at the dates of
  the respective acquisitions. The results of operations have been included
  in the Consolidated Financial Statements since the respective acquisition
  dates. The inclusion of pro forma financial data for all acquisitions
  except Kolynos prior to the dates of acquisition would not have materially
  affected reported results.
 
4.  LONG-TERM DEBT AND CREDIT FACILITIES
 
  Long-term debt consists of the following at December 31:
 

 
  Commercial paper and certain other short-term borrowings are classified as
  long-term debt as it is the Company's intent and ability to refinance such
  obligations on a long-term basis. Scheduled maturities of debt outstanding
  at December 31, 1996, excluding short-term borrowings reclassified, are as
  follows: 1997--$110.4; 1998--$184.9; 1999--$167.1; 2000--$339.6; 2001--
  $97.6, and $1,622.5 thereafter. The Company has entered into interest rate
  swap agreements and foreign exchange contracts related to certain of these
  debt instruments (see Note 12).
 
  At December 31, 1996, the Company had unused credit facilities amounting to
  $1,785.7. Commitment fees related to credit facilities are not material.
  The weighted average interest rate on short-term borrowings, excluding
  amounts reclassified, as of December 31, 1996 and 1995 was 7.5% and 8.3%,
  respectively.
 
  The Company's long-term debt agreements include various restrictive
  covenants and require the maintenance of certain defined financial ratios
  with which the Company is in compliance.
 
 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)

5.  CAPITAL STOCK AND STOCK COMPENSATION PLANS
 
  PREFERRED STOCK
 
  Preferred Stock consists of 250,000 authorized shares without par value. It
  is issuable in series, of which one series of 125,000 shares, designated
  $4.25 Preferred Stock, with a stated and redeemable value of $100 per
  share, has been issued and is outstanding. The $4.25 Preferred Stock is
  redeemable only at the option of the Company.
 
  PREFERENCE STOCK
 
  In 1988, the Company authorized the issuance of 50,000,000 shares of
  Preference Stock, without par value. The Series B Convertible Preference
  Stock, which is convertible into two shares of common stock, ranks junior
  to all series of the Preferred Stock. At December 31, 1996 and 1995,
  5,849,039 and 6,014,615 shares of Series B Convertible Preference Stock,
  respectively, were outstanding and issued to the Company's ESOP.
 
  SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS PLAN
 
  Under the Company's Shareholder Rights Plan, each share of the Company's
  common stock carries with it one Preference Share Purchase Right
  ("Rights"). The Rights themselves will at no time have voting power or pay
  dividends. The Rights become exercisable only if a person or group acquires
  20% or more of the Company's common stock or announces a tender offer, the
  consummation of which would result in ownership by a person or group of 20%
  or more of the common stock. When exercisable, each Right entitles a holder
  to buy one two-hundredth of a share of a new series of preference stock at
  an exercise price of $87.50.
 
  If the Company is acquired in a merger or other business combination, each
  Right will entitle a holder to buy, at the Right's then current exercise
  price, a number of the acquiring company's common shares having a market
  value of twice such price. In addition, if a person or group acquires 30%
  or more of the Company's common stock, other than pursuant to a cash tender
  offer for all shares in which such person or group increases its stake from
  below 20% to 80% or more of the outstanding shares, each Right will entitle
  its holder (other than such person or members of such group) to purchase,
  at the Right's then current exercise price, a number of shares of the
  Company's common stock having a market value of twice the Right's exercise
  price.
 
  Further, at any time after a person or group acquires 30% or more (but less
  than 50%) of the Company's common stock, the Board of Directors may, at its
  option, exchange part or all of the Rights (other than Rights held by the
  acquiring person or group) for shares of the Company's common stock on a
  one-for-one basis.
 
  The Company, at the option of its Board of Directors, may redeem the Rights
  for $.005 at any time before the acquisition by a person or group of
  beneficial ownership of 20% or more of its common stock. The Board of
  Directors is also authorized to reduce the 20% and 30% thresholds to not
  less than 15%. Unless redeemed earlier, the Rights will expire on October
  24, 1998.
 
  INCENTIVE STOCK PLAN
 
  The Company has a plan which provides for grants of restricted stock awards
  for officers and other executives of the Company and its major
  subsidiaries. A committee of non-employee members of the Board
 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)

  of Directors administers the plan. During 1996 and 1995, 126,229 and
  237,019 shares, respectively, were awarded to employees in accordance with
  the provisions of the plan.
 
  STOCK OPTION PLANS
 
  The Company's 1987 and 1996 Stock Option Plans ("Plans") provide for the
  issuance of non-qualified stock options to officers and key employees.
  Options are granted at prices not less than the fair market value on the
  date of grant. At December 31, 1996, 811,843 shares of common stock were
  available for future grants.
 
  The Plans contain an accelerated ownership feature which provides for the
  grant of new options when previously owned shares of Company stock are used
  to exercise existing options. The number of new options granted under this
  feature is equal to the number of shares of previously owned Company stock
  used to exercise the original options and to pay the related required U.S.
  income tax. The new options are granted at a price equal to the fair market
  value on the date of the new grant and have the same expiration date as the
  original options exercised.
 
  Stock option plan activity is summarized below:
 

 
  The following table summarizes information relating to currently
  outstanding and exercisable options as of December 31, 1996:
 

 
  The Company applies Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting
  for Stock Issued to Employees," and related interpretations in accounting
  for options granted under the Plan. Accordingly, no compensation expense
  has been recognized. Had compensation expense been determined based on the
  Black-Scholes option pricing model value at the grant date for awards in
  1996 and 1995 consistent with
 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)

  the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123,
  "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" (SFAS 123), the Company's net
  income, primary earnings per common share and fully diluted earnings per
  common share would have been $621.7, $4.09 per share and $3.82 per share,
  respectively in 1996 and $166.1, $1.00 per share and $.98 per share,
  respectively in 1995. The SFAS 123 method of accounting has not been
  applied to options granted prior to January 1, 1995, and the resulting pro
  forma compensation expense may not be indicative of pro forma expense in
  future years.
 
  The weighted average Black-Scholes value of grants issued in 1996 and 1995
  was $10.81 and $9.45, respectively. The Black-Scholes value of each option
  granted is estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the
  following assumptions: option term until exercise ranging from 2 to 4
  years, volatility ranging from 17% to 18%, risk free interest rate ranging
  from 5.8% to 6.4% and an expected dividend yield of 2.5%. The Black-Scholes
  model used by the Company to calculate option values was developed to
  estimate the fair value of short-term freely tradable, fully transferable
  options without vesting restrictions and was not designed to value reloads,
  all of which significantly differ from the Company's stock option awards.
  The value of this model is also limited by the inclusion of highly
  subjective assumptions which greatly affect calculated values.
 
6.EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLAN
 
  In 1989, the Company expanded its employee stock ownership plan (ESOP)
  through the introduction of a leveraged ESOP covering certain employees who
  have met certain eligibility requirements. The ESOP issued $410.0 of long-
  term notes due through 2009 bearing an average interest rate of 8.6%. The
  long-term notes, which are guaranteed by the Company, are reflected in the
  accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. The ESOP used the proceeds of the
  notes to purchase 6.3 million shares of Series B Convertible Preference
  Stock from the Company. The Stock has a minimum redemption price of $65 per
  share and pays semiannual dividends equal to the higher of $2.44 or the
  current dividend paid on two common shares for the comparable six-month
  period. Each share may be converted by the Trustee into two shares of
  common stock.
 
  Dividends on these preferred shares, as well as common shares also held by
  the ESOP, are paid to the ESOP trust and, together with contributions, are
  used by the ESOP to repay principal and interest on the outstanding notes.
  Preferred shares are released for allocation to participants based upon the
  ratio of the current year's debt service to the sum of total principal and
  interest payments over the life of the loan. At December 31, 1996,
  1,275,380 shares were allocated to participant accounts.
 
  Dividends on these preferred shares are deductible for income tax purposes
  and, accordingly, are reflected net of their tax benefit in the
  Consolidated Statements of Retained Earnings.
 
  Annual expense related to the leveraged ESOP, determined as interest
  incurred on the notes, less employee contributions and dividends received
  on the shares held by the ESOP, plus the higher of either principal
  repayments on the notes or the cost of shares allocated, was $3.9 in 1996,
  $8.3 in 1995 and $8.0 in 1994. Similarly, unearned compensation, shown as a
  reduction in shareholders' equity, is reduced by the higher of principal
  payments or the cost of shares allocated.
 
  Interest incurred on the ESOP's notes amounted to $33.5 in 1996, $33.9 in
  1995 and $34.2 in 1994. The Company paid dividends on the stock held by the
  ESOP of $31.1 in 1996, $31.7 in 1995 and $32.3 in 1994. Company
  contributions to the ESOP were $4.1 in 1996, $6.4 in 1995 and $5.7 in 1994.
  Employee contributions to the ESOP were $5.9 in 1996 and $0 in 1995 and
  1994.
 
 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)

7.  RETIREMENT PLANS AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS
 
  RETIREMENT PLANS
 
  The Company, its U.S. subsidiaries and a majority of its overseas
  subsidiaries maintain pension plans covering substantially all of their
  employees. Most plans provide pension benefits that are based primarily on
  years of service and employees' career earnings. In the Company's principal
  U.S. plans, funds are contributed to trustees in accordance with regulatory
  limits to provide for current service and for any unfunded projected
  benefit obligation over a reasonable period. To the extent these
  requirements are exceeded by plan assets, a contribution may not be made in
  a particular year. Plan assets consist principally of common stocks,
  guaranteed investment contracts with insurance companies, investments in
  real estate funds and U.S. Government obligations.
 
  Net periodic pension expense of the plans includes the following
  components:
 

 
  The following table sets forth the funded status of the plans at December
  31:
 

 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
  The actuarial assumptions used to determine the projected benefit
  obligation of the plans were as follows:
 

 
  When remeasuring the pension obligation, the Company reassesses each
  actuarial assumption. The settlement rate assumption is pegged to long-term
  bond rates to reflect the cost to satisfy the pension obligation currently,
  while the other assumptions reflect the long-term outlook of rates of
  compensation increases and return on assets.
 
  OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS
 
  The Company and certain of its subsidiaries provide health care and life
  insurance benefits for retired employees to the extent not provided by
  government-sponsored plans. The Company utilizes a portion of its leveraged
  ESOP, in the form of future retiree contributions, to reduce its obligation
  to provide these postretirement benefits. Postretirement benefits currently
  are not funded.
 
  Postretirement benefits expense includes the following components:
 

 
  The actuarial present value of postretirement benefit obligations included
  in Other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets is comprised of the
  following components, at December 31:
 
 

 
  The principal actuarial assumptions used in the measurement of the
  accumulated benefit obligation were as follows:
 

 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
  When remeasuring the accumulated benefit obligation, the Company reassesses
  each actuarial assumption.
 
  The cost of these postretirement medical benefits is dependent upon a
  number of factors, the most significant of which is the rate at which
  medical costs increase in the future. The effect of a 1% increase in the
  assumed medical cost trend rate would increase the accumulated
  postretirement benefit obligation by approximately $14.8; annual expense
  would not be materially affected.
 
8.  INCOME TAXES
 
  The provision for income taxes consists of the following for the years
  ended December 31:
 

 
  Differences between accounting for financial statement purposes and
  accounting for tax purposes result in taxes currently payable being (lower)
  higher than the total provision for income taxes as follows:
 

 
  The components of income before income taxes are as follows for the three
  years ended December 31:
 

 
  The difference between the statutory United States federal income tax rate
  and the Company's global effective tax rate as reflected in the
  Consolidated Statements of Income is as follows:
 

 
  In addition, net tax benefits of $28.9 in 1996 and $6.8 in 1995 were
  recorded directly through equity.
 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
  The components of deferred tax assets (liabilities) are as follows at
  December 31:
 

 
  The major component of the 1996 and 1995 valuation allowance relates to tax
  benefits in certain jurisdictions not expected to be realized.
 
9.  FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION
 
  Cumulative translation adjustments, which represent the effect of
  translating assets and liabilities of the Company's non-U.S. entities,
  except those in highly inflationary economies, were as follows:
 

 
  Foreign currency charges, resulting from the translation of balance sheets
  of subsidiaries operating in highly inflationary environments and from
  foreign currency transactions, are included in the Consolidated Statements
  of Income.
 
10. EARNINGS PER SHARE
 
  Primary earnings per share are determined by dividing net income, after
  deducting preferred stock dividends net of related tax benefits ($21.4 in
  1996, $21.6 in 1995 and 1994), by the weighted average number of common
  shares outstanding (146.6 million in 1996, 145.2 million in 1995 and 146.2
  million in 1994).
 
  Earnings per common share assuming full dilution are calculated assuming
  the conversion of all potentially dilutive securities, including
  convertible preferred stock and outstanding options, unless the effect of
  such conversion is antidilutive. This calculation also assumes reduction of
  available income by pro forma ESOP replacement funding, net of income
  taxes.
 
 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
11. INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION
 
  Other expense, net consists of the following for the years ended December
  31:
 

 
  The following is a comparative summary of certain expense information for
  the years ended December 31:
 

 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
12. BALANCE SHEET INFORMATION
 
  Supplemental balance sheet information is as follows:
 

 
  Inventories valued under LIFO amounted to $203.7 at December 31, 1996, and
  $207.2 at December 31, 1995. The excess of current cost over LIFO cost at
  the end of each year was $52.6 and $42.9, respectively.
 

 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
  FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
  In assessing the fair value of financial instruments at December 31, 1996
  and 1995, the Company has used available market information and other
  valuation methodologies. Some judgment is necessarily required in
  interpreting market data to develop the estimates of fair value, and,
  accordingly, the estimates are not necessarily indicative of the amounts
  that the Company could realize in a current market exchange.
 
  The estimated fair value of the Company's financial instruments at December
  31 are summarized as follows:
 

 
  FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RATE RISK MANAGEMENT
 
  The Company utilizes interest rate agreements and foreign exchange
  contracts to manage interest rate and foreign currency exposures. The
  principal objective of such contracts is to moderate the effect of
  fluctuations in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. The Company, as
  a matter of policy, does not speculate in financial markets and therefore
  does not hold these contracts for trading purposes. The Company
  utilizes what it considers straightforward instruments, such as forward
  foreign exchange contracts and non-leveraged interest rate swaps, to
  accomplish its objectives.
 
  The Company primarily uses interest rate swap agreements to effectively
  convert a portion of its floating rate debt to fixed rate debt in order to
  manage interest rate exposures in a manner consistent with achieving a
  targeted fixed to variable interest rate ratio. The net effective cash
  payment of these financial derivative instruments combined with the related
  interest payments on the debt that they hedge are accounted for as interest
  expense. Those interest rate instruments that do not qualify as hedge
  instruments for accounting purposes are marked to market and carried on the
  balance sheets at fair value. As of December 31, 1996 and 1995, the Company
  had agreements outstanding with an aggregate notional amount of $1,210.9
  and $1,142.2, respectively, with maturities through 2025.
 
  The Company uses forward exchange contracts principally to hedge foreign
  currency exposures associated with its net investment in foreign operations
  and overseas debt. This hedging minimizes the impact of foreign exchange
  rate movements on the Company's financial position. The terms of these
  contracts are generally less than five years.
 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
  As of December 31, 1996 and 1995, the Company had approximately $676.9 and
  $972.0, respectively, of outstanding foreign exchange contracts. At
  December 31, 1996, approximately 15% of outstanding foreign exchange
  contracts served to hedge net investments in foreign subsidiaries, 40%
  hedged intercompany loans, 40% hedged third-party firm commitments and the
  remaining 5% hedged certain transactions that are anticipated to settle in
  accordance with their identified terms. The Company makes net settlements
  for foreign exchange contracts at maturity, based on rates agreed to at
  inception of the contracts.
 
  Gains and losses from contracts that hedge the Company's investments in its
  foreign subsidiaries are shown in the cumulative translation adjustments
  account included in shareholders' equity. Gains and losses from contracts
  that hedge firm commitments are recorded in the balance sheets as a
  component of the related receivable or payable until realized, at which
  time they are recognized in the statements of income.
 
  The contracts that hedge anticipated sales and purchases do not qualify as
  hedges for accounting purposes. Accordingly, the related gains and losses
  are calculated using the current forward foreign exchange rates and are
  recorded in the statements of income as other expense, net. These contracts
  mature within 15 months.
 
  The Company is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by
  counterparties on interest rate agreements and foreign exchange contracts;
  however, nonperformance by these counterparties is considered remote as it
  is the Company's policy to contract only with counterparties that have a
  long-term debt rating of A or higher. The amount of any such exposure is
  generally the unrealized gain on such contracts, which at December 31, 1996
  was not significant.
 
13. MARKET AND DIVIDEND INFORMATION
 
  The Company's common stock and $4.25 Preferred Stock are listed on the New
  York Stock Exchange. The trading symbol for the common stock is CL.
  Dividends on the common stock have been paid every year since 1895, and the
  amount of dividends paid per share has increased for 34 consecutive years.
 
  MARKET PRICE

 
  DIVIDENDS PAID PER SHARE
 

 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
14. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)
 

  --------
  (1) The sum of the quarterly fully diluted earnings (loss) per share
      amounts is not equal to the full year because the computations of the
      weighted average number of shares outstanding and the potential impact
      of dilutive securities for each quarter and for the full year are
      required to be made independently.
  (2) The third quarter of 1995 includes a provision for restructured
      operations of $460.5 ($369.2 aftertax) or $2.54 per share on a primary
      basis and $2.50 per share on a fully diluted basis.
 
15. RESTRUCTURED OPERATIONS
 
  In September 1995, the Company announced a major worldwide restructuring of
  its manufacturing and administrative operations designed to further enhance
  profitable growth over the next several years by generating significant
  efficiencies and improving competitiveness. As a result of this
  rationalization, 24 of the 112 factories worldwide will be closed or
  significantly reconfigured of which 14 had been closed or reconfigured at
  the end of 1996.
 
  The changes are expected to be substantially completed during 1997 in
  facilities around the world, but primarily in North America and Europe. The
  charge includes employee termination costs, expenses associated with the
  realignment of the Company's global manufacturing operations as well as
  settlement of contractual obligations.
 
  The worldwide restructuring program resulted in a 1995 pretax charge of
  $460.5 ($369.2 net of tax) or $2.54 per share for the year.
 
  A summary of the restructuring reserve established is as follows:
 

 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
  Of the restructuring reserve remaining as of December 31, 1996 and 1995,
  $115.2 and $100.0, respectively, is classified as a current liability,
  $38.0 and $175.9, respectively, as a noncurrent liability, and $50.0 and
  $159.7, respectively, as a reduction of fixed assets.
 
16. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
 
  Minimum rental commitments under noncancellable operating leases, primarily
  for office and warehouse facilities, are $70.0 in 1997, $58.4 in 1998,
  $51.7 in 1999, $47.5 in 2000, $44.7 in 2001 and $193.1 for years
  thereafter. Rental expense amounted to $93.3 in 1996, $91.8 in 1995 and
  $83.4 in 1994. Contingent rentals, sublease income and capital leases,
  which are included in fixed assets, are not significant.
 
  The Company has various contractual commitments to purchase raw materials,
  products and services totaling $123.4 that expire through 1998.
 
  The Company is a party to various superfund and other environmental matters
  and is contingently liable with respect to lawsuits, taxes and other
  matters arising out of the normal course of business. Management
  proactively reviews and manages its exposure to, and the impact of,
  environmental matters. While it is possible that the Company's cash flows
  and results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods could
  be affected by the one-time impacts of the resolution of such
  contingencies, it is the opinion of management that the ultimate
  disposition of these matters, to the extent not previously provided for,
  will not have a material impact on the Company's financial condition or
  ongoing cash flows and results of operations.
 
  As discussed in Note 3, the acquisition of Kolynos was reviewed by
  antitrust regulatory authorities in Brazil. The antitrust regulatory
  authorities in Brazil approved the acquisition subject to certain
  conditions. The Company is currently negotiating undertakings related to
  those conditions with the Brazilian authorities. Among other things, those
  undertakings would result in the substitution by the Company of a new
  toothpaste brand for Kolynos in Brazil for four years and the Company
  contract manufacturing toothpaste in Brazil for third parties during this
  period.
 
17. SUBSEQUENT EVENT
 
  On March 6, 1997, the Company's Board of Directors approved a two-for-one
  common stock split effected in the form of a 100% stock dividend. As a
  result of the split, shareholders will receive one additional share of
  Colgate common stock for each share they hold as of April 25, 1997. Par
  value will remain at $1 per share. Giving retroactive effect for the stock
  split, common shares issued as of December 31, 1996 would have been
  366,426,590. Earnings per share, after giving retroactive effect to the
  two-for-one split, are presented below for each of the three years ended
  December 31:
 

 
  Financial information contained elsewhere in this report has not been
  adjusted to reflect the impact of the common stock split.
 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
                 SCHEDULE II--VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
 
                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996
                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
 

- --------
NOTES:
(1) Uncollectible accounts written off and cash discounts allowed.
(2) Increase/decrease in allowance for tax loss and tax credit carryforward
    benefits which more likely than not will not be utilized in the future.
 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
                 SCHEDULE II-VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
 
                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995
                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
 

- --------
NOTES:
(1) Uncollectible accounts written off and cash discounts allowed.
(2) Increase/decrease in allowance for tax loss and tax credit carryforward
    benefits which more likely than not will not be utilized in the future.
(3) Allowance for tax benefits from restructured operations in certain
    jurisdictions not expected to be realized.
(4) Other adjustments.
 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
                 SCHEDULE II-VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
 
                     FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994
                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
 

- --------
NOTES:
(1) Uncollectible accounts written off and cash discounts allowed.
(2) Allowance for tax loss and tax credit carryforward benefits which more
    likely than not will not be utilized in the future.
(3) Other adjustments.
 

 
                   REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
 
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of
 Colgate-Palmolive Company:
 
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Colgate-
Palmolive Company (a Delaware corporation) and subsidiaries as of December 31,
1996 and 1995, and the related consolidated statements of income, retained
earnings, changes in capital accounts and cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 1996. These financial statements and
the schedules referred to below are the responsibility of the Company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements and schedules based on our audits.
 
  We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.
 
  In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of Colgate-Palmolive Company
and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1996 and 1995, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 1996, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.
 
  Our audit was made for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic
financial statements taken as a whole. The schedules listed in the index to
financial statements are presented for purposes of complying with the
Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and are not part of the basic
financial statements. The schedules have been subjected to the auditing
procedures applied in the audit of the basic financial statements and, in our
opinion, fairly state in all material respects the financial data required to
be set forth therein in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a
whole.
 
                                       /S/ ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
 
New York, New York
March 6, 1997
 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
                       HISTORICAL FINANCIAL SUMMARY*(1)
                 Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts
 

- --------
*  On March 6, 1997, the Board of Directors approved a two-for-one common
   stock split. Financial information has not been adjusted to reflect the
   impact of the split.
(1) All share and per share amounts have been restated to reflect the 1991
    two-for-one stock split.
(2) Income in 1995 includes a net provision for restructured operations of
    $369.2 ($2.54 per share on a primary basis or $2.50 per share on a fully
    diluted basis).
(3) Income in 1994 includes a one-time charge of $5.2 for the sale of a non-
    core business, Princess House.
(4) Income in 1993 includes a one-time impact of adopting new mandated
    accounting standards, effective in the first quarter of 1993, of $358.2
    ($2.30 per share on a primary basis or $2.10 per share on a fully diluted
    basis).
(5) Income in 1991 includes a net provision for restructured operations of
    $243.0 ($1.80 per share on a primary basis or $1.75 per share on a fully
    diluted basis).
(6) Income in 1988 includes Hill's service agreement renegotiation net charge
    of $42.0 ($.30 per share on both a primary and fully diluted basis).
(7) Due to timing differences, 1988 includes three dividend declarations
    totaling $.55 per share and four payments totaling $.74 per share while
    all other years include four dividend declarations.
(8) Income in 1987 includes a net provision for restructured operations of
    $144.8 ($1.06 per share on a primary basis or $1.05 per share on a fully
    diluted basis).
 

 
 
 
 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
                             EXHIBITS TO FORM 10-K
 
                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,1996
 
                           COMMISSION FILE NO. 1-644
 

 


 


 

- --------
*  Registrant hereby undertakes upon request to furnish the Commission with a
   copy of any instrument with respect to long-term debt where the total
   amount of securities authorized thereunder does not exceed 10% of the total
   assets of the registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.
 
  The exhibits indicated above which are not included with the Form 10-K are
available upon request and payment of a reasonable fee approximating the
registrant's cost of providing and mailing the exhibits. Inquiries should be
directed to:
 
                             Colgate-Palmolive Company
                             Office of the Secretary (10-K Exhibits)
                             300 Park Avenue
                             New York, New York 10022-7499

