
10-K405
FORM 10-K




                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                               ----------------

                                   FORM 10-K

(Mark One)
(X) ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
    ACT OF 1934
    For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999

                                       OR

[_]TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
   ACT OF 1934
    For the transition period from  to .

Commission File Number 1-644
                               ----------------

                        [LOGO] Colgate-Palmolive Company

             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                DELAWARE                               13-1815595
    (State or other jurisdiction of       (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
     incorporation or organization)

  300 Park Avenue, New York, New York                    10022
    (Address of principal executive                    (Zip Code)
                offices)

        Registrant's telephone number, including area code 212-310-2000
          Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

          Title of each class                Name of each exchange on which
                                                       registered

   $4.25 Preferred Stock, without par
       value,cumulative dividend                New York Stock Exchange


     Common Stock, $1.00 par value              New York Stock Exchange

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes  X  No

  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [ X ]

  At February 29, 2000 the aggregate market value of stock held by non-
affiliates was $30.2 billion. There were 577,857,544 shares of Common Stock
outstanding as of February 29, 2000.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:

               Documents                          Form 10-K Reference


  Portions of Proxy Statement for the        Part III, Items 10 through 13
          2000 Annual Meeting


                                    PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

 (a) General Development of the Business

  Colgate-Palmolive Company (together with its subsidiaries, the "Company"),
which was organized under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1923, is a
leading consumer products company whose products are marketed in over 200
countries and territories throughout the world.

  For recent business developments, refer to the information set forth under
the captions "Results of Operations", "Liquidity and Capital Resources" and
"Outlook" in Part II, Item 7 of this report.

 (b) Financial Information About Industry Segments

  Worldwide net sales and earnings by geographic region and business segment
during the last three years appears under the caption "Results of Operations"
in Part II, Item 7 of this report on pages 6 and 7.

 (c) Narrative Description of the Business

  The Company manages its business in two distinct product segments: Oral,
Personal and Household Care, and Pet Nutrition. Colgate is a global leader in
Oral Care with the leading toothpaste brand in the U.S. and throughout many
parts of the world. Colgate's Oral Care products include toothbrushes,
toothpaste, mouth rinses and dental floss, and pharmaceutical products for
dentists and other oral health professionals. Significant recent product
launches in this segment include Colgate Total Fresh Stripe toothpaste, and
Colgate Actibrush and Colgate Navigator toothbrushes.

  Colgate leads many segments of the Personal Care market with several
products including bar and liquid soaps, shampoos, conditioners, deodorants
and antiperspirants, and baby and shave products. Colgate is the market leader
in liquid soaps in the U.S. and globally is the market leader in male
deodorant sticks. Strong brands in this segment include Irish Spring, Softsoap
and Palmolive, which is available as a soap and, in many countries, as a
shampoo and conditioner. Colgate also manufactures and markets Mennen
deodorants, baby care products and men's toiletries.

  Colgate manufactures and markets a wide array of products for Household
Care. Major products include Palmolive and Ajax dishwashing liquid and
antibacterial hand soaps and new Palmolive Spring Sensations. Colgate also
markets other household names in cleaning and laundry products such as Fab,
Ajax and Murphy's oil soap which is North America's leading wood floor
cleaner. In the Company's major markets outside the U.S., Colgate is number
one in fabric softeners with leading brands Suavitel in Latin America,
Soupline in Europe and Softlan in Asia.

  Sales of Oral, Personal, Household and Fabric Care products accounted for
32%, 24%, 16% and 14% of total worldwide sales in 1999, respectively.
Geographically, Oral Care is a significant part of the Company's business in
Asia/Africa, comprising over 45% of sales in that region. See also Note 1 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements.

  Colgate, through its Hill's Pet Nutrition subsidiary, sells high quality pet
nutrition products for dogs and cats. Hill's markets pet foods primarily under
two names: Science Diet, which is sold by authorized pet supply retailers,
breeders and veterinarians for every day nutritional needs, and Prescription
Diet for dogs and cats with disease conditions. Hill's sells its products in
68 countries and leads the premium pet food segment in Japan. Sales of Pet
Nutrition products accounted for 12% of total worldwide sales in 1999.

Research and Development

  Strong research and development capabilities enable Colgate to support its
many brands with technologically sophisticated products for consumer's
personal needs and pet nutrition needs. During 1999, the Company spent $169.2
million on research and development activities.



Distribution; Competition; Trademarks and Patents

  The Company's products are generally marketed by a direct sales force at
each individual operating subsidiary or business unit. In some instances,
distributors or brokers are used. No single customer accounts for as much as
10% of the Company's sales.

  Most raw materials are purchased from other companies and are available from
several sources. While it is generally the Company's policy to streamline
supply chain sources, raw materials used in the manufacture of the Company's
products are generally available in adequate supply. Raw material commodities
such as tallow and essential oils are subject to wide price variations. No one
of the Company's raw materials represents a significant portion of total
material requirements.

  The Company's products are marketed under highly competitive conditions.
Products similar to those produced and sold by the Company are available from
competitors in the U.S. and overseas. Certain of the Company's competitors are
larger and have greater resources than the Company. Product quality, brand
recognition and acceptance and marketing capability largely determine success
in the Company's business segments.

  Trademarks are considered to be of material importance to the Company's
business. The Company follows a practice of seeking trademark protection by
all available means in the United States and throughout the world where the
Company's products are sold. Principal global trademarks include Colgate,
Palmolive, Mennen, Protex, Ajax, Soupline, Suavitel, Fab, Science Diet and
Prescription Diet in addition to several regional trademarks. These trademarks
are of significant importance to the Company and its subsidiaries within their
markets. The Company's rights in these trademarks endure for as long as they
are used and registered. Although the Company owns a number of patents, no one
patent is considered significant to the business as a whole.

Employees

  At year-end, the Company employed approximately 37,200 employees of which
approximately 80% were located outside the United States.

Environmental Matters

  Compliance with environmental rules and regulations has not significantly
affected the Company's earnings or competitive position. Capital expenditures
for environmental control facilities totaled $18.2 million for 1999. For
future years, expenditures are expected to be in the same range. The Company
has programs that are designed to ensure that its operations and facilities
meet or exceed applicable rules and regulations. Please refer to Note 14 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements.

 (d) Financial Information About Foreign and Domestic Operations and Export
 Sales

  For information concerning geographic area financial data refer to the
information set forth under the caption "Results of Operations" in Part II,
Item 7 of this report.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

  The Company owns and leases a total of 304 manufacturing, distribution,
research and office facilities worldwide. Corporate headquarters is housed in
leased facilities at 300 Park Avenue, New York, New York.

  In the United States, the Company operates 46 facilities, of which 20 are
owned. Major U.S. manufacturing and warehousing facilities used by the Oral,
Personal and Household Care segment are located in Kansas City, Kansas;
Morristown, New Jersey; Jeffersonville, Indiana, and Cambridge, Ohio. The Pet
Nutrition segment has major facilities in Bowling Green, Kentucky; Topeka,
Kansas; Commerce, California; and Richmond, Indiana.



Research facilities are located throughout the world with the primary research
center for Oral, Personal and Household Care products located in Piscataway,
New Jersey and the primary research center for Pet Nutrition products located
in Topeka, Kansas.

  Overseas, the Company operates 258 facilities, of which 98 are owned, in
over 70 countries. Major overseas facilities used by the Oral, Personal and
Household Care segment are located in Australia, Brazil, Canada, China,
Colombia, France, Italy, Mexico, Thailand, the United Kingdom and elsewhere
throughout the world. In some areas outside the United States, products are
either manufactured by independent contractors under Company specifications or
are imported from the United States or elsewhere.

  All facilities operated by the Company are, in general, well maintained and
adequate for the purpose for which they are intended. The Company conducts
continuing reviews of its facilities with the view to modernization and cost
reduction.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

  On September 8, 1998, one of the Company's Brazilian subsidiaries, Kolynos
do Brasil Ltda. ("Kolynos"), received notice of an administrative proceeding
from the Central Bank of Brazil, citing Articles 1, 3, 9, 23 and 58 of Law No.
4131 dated September 3, 1962 and related circular letters, which address
foreign capital registration and foreign exchange transactions. The notice
primarily takes issue with certain filings made with the Central Bank in
connection with the financing of the acquisition of Kolynos in January 1995,
which is described in the Company's Form 8-K dated January 10, 1995. The
Central Bank's sole remedy is to seek to impose fines prescribed in the above-
referenced statutes and, in no way, challenges or seeks to unwind the
acquisition.

  Management believes, based on the opinion of its Brazilian legal counsel,
that the filings challenged by the Central Bank fully complied with Brazilian
law and that the issues raised in the notice are without merit. The Company
intends to defend its position and cooperate with the Brazilian banking
authorities to seek a satisfactory resolution of this matter.

  For information regarding legal matters refer to Note 14 of the Consolidated
Financial Statements included herein.



ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

  None.

                     EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

  The following is a list of executive officers as of March 27, 2000:



  Each of the executive officers listed above has served the registrant or its
subsidiaries in various executive capacities for the past five years.

  The Company By-Laws, paragraph 38, states: The officers of the corporation
shall hold office until their respective successors are chosen and qualified
in their stead, or until they have resigned, retired or been removed in the
manner hereinafter provided. Any officer elected or appointed by the board of
directors may be removed at any time by the affirmative vote of a majority of
the whole board of directors.



                                    PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS

  Refer to the information regarding the market for the Company's Common Stock
and the quarterly market price information appearing under the caption "Market
and Dividend Information" included herein; the information under "Capital
Stock and Stock Compensation Plans" in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements included herein; and the "Number of shareholders of record" and
"Cash dividends declared and paid per common share" under the caption
"Historical Financial Summary" included herein.

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

  Refer to the information set forth under the caption "Historical Financial
Summary" included herein.

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
       RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

Results of Operations




- --------
(/1/) Net sales in the United States for Oral, Personal and Household Care
      were $1,880.8, $1,799.6 and $1,756.1 in 1999, 1998 and 1997,
      respectively.
(/2/) Net sales in the United States for Pet Nutrition were $709.2, $688.6 and
      $689.4 in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

Net Sales and Earnings Before Interest and Taxes (EBIT)

  Worldwide net sales increased 2% to $9,118.2 in 1999 on volume growth of 5%.
Net sales would have grown 7% excluding foreign currency translation. Net
sales in the Oral, Personal and Household Care segment increased 1% on 4%
volume growth, while net sales in Pet Nutrition increased 7% on 8% volume
growth. In 1998, worldwide net sales decreased 1% to $8,971.6 on volume growth
of 3.5%, reflecting the negative impact of foreign currency translation.

  EBIT rose from $1,423.0 to $1,566.2 in 1999. The 10% increase reflected the
Company's strong volume growth and cost-control initiatives that were
effective in increasing margins. EBIT increased 11% in 1998 to $1,423.0 from
$1,285.8 in 1997.

Gross Profit

  Gross profit margin increased to 53.7%, above both the 1998 level of 52.2%
and the 1997 level of 50.7%. This favorable trend continues to reflect the
Company's financial strategy to improve all aspects of its supply chain
through global sourcing, restructuring and other cost-reduction initiatives,
as well as its emphasis on higher margin products.



(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)


Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

  Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales were
level at 36% for the three-year period 1997 to 1999. The amounts include
higher advertising costs offset by the Company's continued focus on expense
containment.

Other Expense, Net

  Other expense, net, consists principally of amortization of goodwill and
other intangible assets, minority interest in earnings of less-than-100%-owned
consolidated subsidiaries, earnings from equity investments, gain on sale of
real estate and non-core product lines, and other miscellaneous gains and
losses. Other expense, net, increased in 1999 from $61.2 to $73.6, primarily
due to one-time charges.

  As part of the Company's ongoing program of product standardization and
organization redesign, the Company incurred one-time charges related to the
exiting of certain activities, such as the manufacture of aluminum tubes in
Brazil. These charges were offset by an aftertax gain of $17.6 recorded on the
sale of the U.S. Baby Magic brand and an aftertax gain of $11.4 on the sale of
real estate.





Segment Results

 North America

  North America achieved excellent results for the year. Net sales excluding
divestments grew 6% to $2,143.7 as unit volume rose 8% driven by innovative
new products. The launch of Colgate Total Fresh Stripe in the first quarter
strengthened the Company's No. 1 position in toothpaste. The introduction of
Speed Stick clear antiperspirant and Palmolive Spring Sensations dishwashing
liquid increased market shares in the personal and household care lines,
respectively. In 1998, North America posted overall sales growth excluding
divestments of 6% to $2,047.5 on volume growth of 5%.

  EBIT for North America was up 4% to $413.0. The region achieved earnings
growth through volume gains, continued focus on cost-control and value-added
initiatives. EBIT in 1998 was up 27% to $395.5 due to higher margins on higher
volumes.

 Latin America

  Net sales in Latin America decreased 2% to $2,356.7 on 3% volume growth.
Strong growth in Mexico, Venezuela and Central America largely offset
challenging economic conditions in Brazil and Ecuador. The



(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

continued success of products such as Colgate Double Cool Stripe toothpaste
and herbal toothpaste under the Sorriso and Kolynos brand names as well as the
introduction of Speed Stick gel and product extensions of Softsoap liquid soap
and Palmolive shower gels continue to strengthen market leadership. In 1998,
Latin America net sales increased 2% to $2,407.9 on 7% volume growth.

  EBIT in Latin America increased 7% to $535.7 as a result of continued
efforts in cost reduction, selective selling price increases and lower
advertising expenditures in Brazil. EBIT in 1998 was up 4% to $502.0.

 Europe

  Net sales in Europe declined 2% to $2,028.8 on unit volume increases of 2%,
offset by negative foreign currency impact. The United Kingdom, Italy, the
Netherlands and Spain achieved the strongest sales growth and volume increases
in the region. Volume increases were driven by the relaunch of Colgate Total
toothpaste and new varieties of Palmolive shower gels and Palmolive liquid
soaps. In 1998, Europe net sales remained flat at $2,067.7, due primarily to
weak economic conditions in Russia, while volume grew 1%.

  EBIT for Europe increased 8% to $342.0 despite the 2% decline in sales due
to higher margins and higher volumes. EBIT in 1998 rose 12% to $317.5.

 Asia/Africa

  Net sales in the Asia/Africa region increased 5% to $1,519.7 as volume
increased 7%. The strong performance is attributed to the economic recovery
within the ASEAN region and the significant growth in India and China, through
continued geographic expansion as well as new product launches. During 1999,
the Company achieved the No. 1 position in toothpaste in China. In 1998, net
sales in the Asia/Africa region decreased 12% to $1,452.6 as volume decreased
1%, reflecting the weaker ASEAN currencies.

  EBIT grew 5% in Asia/Africa to $166.7 driven by increased volumes across the
region. EBIT in 1998 decreased 11% to $158.6 reflecting weakened economies in
the ASEAN countries and strong competition in India.

 Pet Nutrition

  Net sales for Hill's Pet Nutrition increased 7% to $1,069.3 on 8% volume
growth. Within the United States, sales increased due to the introduction of
new products including Science Diet Feline Hairball Control and new life-stage
variants launched in the fourth quarter. Strong growth occurred in Japan and
Europe due to the introduction of new feline varieties and improvements in the
entire dry cat food line, complemented by increased advertising. In 1998, net
sales for the Pet Nutrition segment increased 3% to $995.9 on 4% volume gains.

  EBIT in the Pet Nutrition segment grew 27% to $219.9 driven by volume, cost-
improvement initiatives and the benefit of lower raw material costs. EBIT in
1998 increased 7% to $173.8 on both higher volumes and improved gross profit
margins.

Interest Expense, Net

  Interest expense, net, was $171.6 compared with $172.9 in 1998 and $183.5 in
1997. The decline in net interest expense in 1998 was primarily the result of
lower average debt levels during the year compared with 1997 and a decrease in
interest rates.

Income Taxes

  The effective tax rate on income was 32.8% in 1999 versus 32.1% in 1998 and
32.8% in 1997. Global tax planning strategies, including the realization of
tax credits, benefited the effective tax rate in all three years presented.



(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)


Net Income

  Net income was $937.3 in 1999 or $1.47 per share on a diluted basis compared
with $848.6 in 1998 or $1.30 per share and $740.4 in 1997 or $1.13 per share.




- --------
(/1/) Long-lived assets in the United States, primarily fixed assets and
      goodwill, represented approximately one-third of total long-lived assets
      of $4,952.3, $5,330.0 and $5,234.9 in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

  Net cash provided by operations increased 10% to $1,292.7 compared with
$1,178.8 in 1998 and $1,097.8 in 1997. The increases reflect the Company's
improved profitability, lower cash taxes and working capital management. Cash
generated from operations was used to fund capital spending, increase
dividends and repurchase common shares.

  During 1999, long-term debt remained level at $2,582.2 and total debt
increased from $2,757.5 to $2,789.5 due to increased short-term borrowings.

  As of December 31, 1999, $477.3 of domestic and foreign commercial paper was
outstanding. These borrowings carry a Standard & Poor's rating of A1 and a
Moody's rating of P1. The commercial paper as well as other short-term
borrowings are classified as long-term debt at December 31, 1999, as it is the
Company's intent and ability to refinance such obligations on a long-term
basis. The Company has additional sources of liquidity available in the form
of lines of credit maintained with various banks. At December 31, 1999, such
unused lines of credit amounted to $1,527.9.

  As of December 31, 1998, $461.2 of domestic and foreign commercial paper was
outstanding. An unused line of credit of approximately $1,670.9 was available
in addition to $203.8 available under previously filed shelf registrations.



(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)


  The ratio of net debt to total capitalization (defined as the ratio of the
book values of debt less cash and marketable securities ["net debt"] to net
debt plus equity) increased to 58% during 1999 from 55% in 1998. The ratio had
increased in 1998 from 53% in 1997. The increase in 1999 was primarily the
result of increased borrowings and lower equity levels related to foreign
exchange devaluation in Brazil.





  Capital expenditures were 4%, 4% and 5% of net sales for 1999, 1998 and
1997, respectively. Capital spending continues to be focused primarily on
projects that yield high aftertax returns. The higher level in 1997 primarily
reflected capital spending relating to the Company's restructuring programs.
Capital expenditures for 2000 are expected to continue at the current rate of
approximately 4% of net sales.

  Other investing activities in 1999, 1998 and 1997 included strategic
acquisitions and divestitures around the world. The aggregate purchase price
of all 1999, 1998 and 1997 acquisitions was $46.4, $22.6 and $20.3,
respectively. The U.S. Baby Magic brand was sold in 1999; the HandiWipes brand
was sold in 1998, and the Sterno fuel brand was sold in 1997. The aggregate
sale price of all 1999, 1998 and 1997 sales of brands was $94.7, $57.4 and
$101.4, respectively.

  The Company repurchases common shares in open market and private
transactions to provide for employee benefit plans and to maintain its
targeted capital structure. Aggregate repurchases for 1999 were 12.8 million
shares, with a total purchase price of $624.4. In 1998, 14.3 million shares
were repurchased with a total purchase price of $542.5.

  Dividend payments were $366.0, up from $345.6 in 1998 and $333.4 in 1997.
Common stock dividend payments increased to $.59 per share in 1999 from $.55
per share in 1998 and $.53 per share in 1997. The Series B Preference Stock
dividends were declared and paid at the rate of $4.96 per share in 1999 and
$4.88 per share in both 1998 and 1997.

  Internally generated cash flows appear to be adequate to support currently
planned business operations, acquisitions and capital expenditures.
Significant acquisitions would require external financing.



(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)


  The Company is a party to various superfund and other environmental matters
and is contingently liable with respect to lawsuits, taxes and other matters
arising out of the normal course of business. Management proactively reviews
and manages its exposure to, and the impact of, environmental matters. While
it is possible that the Company's cash flows and results of operations in
particular quarterly or annual periods could be affected by the one-time
impacts of the resolution of such contingencies, it is the opinion of
management that the ultimate disposition of these matters, to the extent not
previously provided for, will not have a material impact on the Company's
financial condition or ongoing cash flows and results of operations.

Status of Restructuring Reserve

  In September 1995, a reserve of $460.5 was established to cover a worldwide
restructuring of manufacturing and administrative operations. The primary
elements of the reserve related to employee termination costs and expenses
associated with the realignment of the Company's global manufacturing
operations, as well as settlement of contractual obligations. The costs of
completing the restructuring activities to date approximated the original
estimate. As planned, the restructuring has produced savings that increase
pretax earnings by over $150.0 annually.

  The planned restructuring projects, primarily in North America and Europe
but also affecting Hill's Pet Nutrition and Colgate locations in Asia/Africa
and certain Latin America locations, are substantially completed. The
remaining reserve amount of $5.4 relates to the consolidation of
administrative operations following the implementation of SAP computer systems
and related process changes in Europe.

Managing Foreign Currency and Interest Rate Exposure

  The Company is exposed to market risk from foreign currency exchange rate
fluctuations and interest rates. To manage the volatility relating to foreign
currency exposures on a consolidated basis, the Company utilizes a number of
techniques, including selective borrowings in local currencies, purchases of
forward foreign currency exchange contracts, balance sheet management and
increases in selling prices.

  The Company operates in over 200 countries and territories and is exposed to
currency fluctuation related to manufacturing and selling its products in
currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The major foreign currency exposures
involve the markets in Mexico, Brazil and France, each of which represents
individually 5% to 10% of worldwide sales. Each of the other countries'
operations represents less than 4% of worldwide sales. In the countries of
Mexico and France during the three-year period from 1997 to 1999, the
combination of selling price increases and cost containment measures have more
than offset the impact of foreign currency rate movements resulting in
increased gross profit margins during the periods presented. Profitability in
Brazil decreased in 1999 following increases in 1998 and 1997 as a result of a
devaluation of the Brazilian currency in January 1999.

  The Company utilizes simple instruments such as interest rate swaps to
manage the Company's mix of fixed and floating rate debt. The Company's target
floating rate obligations as a percentage of the Company's global debt is set
by policy. As a matter of policy, the Company does not speculate in financial
markets and therefore does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments
for trading purposes.

Value at Risk

  The Company's risk management procedures include the monitoring of interest
rate and foreign exchange exposures and the Company's offsetting hedge
positions utilizing analytical analyses of cash flows, market value,
sensitivity analysis and value-at-risk estimations. However, the use of these
techniques to quantify the market risk of such instruments should not be
construed as an endorsement of their accuracy or the accuracy of the related
assumptions. The Company utilizes a Value-at-Risk (VAR) model and an Earnings-
at-Risk (EAR) model that are intended to measure the maximum potential loss in
its interest rate and foreign exchange financial



(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

instruments assuming adverse market conditions occur, given a 95% confidence
level. The models utilize a variance/covariance modeling technique. Historical
interest rates and foreign exchange rates from the preceding year are used to
estimate the volatility and correlation of future rates. The estimated maximum
potential one-day loss in fair value of interest rate or foreign exchange rate
instruments, calculated using the VAR model, is not material to the
consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows of the
Company.

  The estimated maximum yearly loss in earnings due to interest rate or
foreign exchange rate instruments, calculated utilizing the EAR model, is not
material to the Company's results of operations. Actual results in the future
may differ materially from these projected results due to actual developments
in the global financial markets.

  A discussion of the Company's accounting policies for financial instruments
is included in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to
the Consolidated Financial Statements, and further disclosure relating to
financial instruments is included in the Fair Value of Financial Instruments
note.

Year 2000 Update

  The Company developed plans to address the possible exposures related to the
year 2000 on the Company's internal systems and equipment. In the critical
area of internal operating systems, the computer systems and embedded
microprocessors and control systems in all operations were either replaced
(including through conversion to SAP) or made compliant by December 31, 1999.
In addition, the other aspects of the year 2000 project plan were completed by
December 31, 1999.

  The incremental cost, including external contractor costs, costs to modify
existing systems and costs of internal resources dedicated to preparing for
the year 2000, was approximately $30.0. These costs were charged to expense as
incurred and were incremental to the investment in SAP systems which was
previously planned and implemented.

  No significant year 2000 problems have been encountered with the Company's
internal systems and equipment.

Conversion to the Euro Currency

  On January 1, 1999, certain member countries of the European Union
established fixed conversion rates between their existing currencies and
adopted the euro as their new common legal currency. As of that date, the euro
began trading on currency exchanges and the legacy currencies were to remain
legal tender in the participating countries for a transition period between
January 1, 1999 and January 1, 2002.

  The Company is addressing most of the issues involved with the introduction
of the euro through its worldwide conversion to the SAP system. The more
important issues facing the Company include reassessing currency risk and
processing tax and accounting records.

  Based upon progress to date, the Company believes that use of the euro will
not have a significant impact on the manner in which it conducts its business
affairs and processes its business and accounting records. Accordingly,
conversion to the euro is not expected to have a material effect on the
Company's financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.

Outlook

  Looking forward into 2000, the Company is well positioned for strong growth
in most of its markets, particularly North America and Asia/Africa. However,
movements in foreign currency exchange rates can impact future operating
results as measured in U.S. dollars. In particular, economic uncertainty in
some countries in Latin America and the continued weakness in the euro may
impact the overall results of Latin America and Europe.



(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)


  The Company expects the continued success of Colgate Total toothpaste, using
patented proprietary technology, to bolster worldwide oral care leadership and
expects new products in Oral Care and other categories to add potential for
further growth. Overall, subject to global economic conditions, the Company
does not expect the 2000 market conditions to be materially different from
those experienced in 1999 and the Company expects its positive momentum to
continue. Historically, the consumer products industry has been less
susceptible to changes in economic growth than many other industries, and
therefore the Company constantly evaluates projects that will focus operations
on opportunities for enhanced growth potential. Over the long term, Colgate's
continued focus on its consumer products business and the strength of its
global brand names, its broad international presence in both developed and
developing markets, and its strong capital base all position the Company to
take advantage of growth opportunities and to continue to increase
profitability and shareholder value.

Forward-Looking Statements

  Readers are cautioned that the Results of Operations and other sections of
this report contain forward-looking statements that are based on management's
estimates, assumptions and projections. A description of some of the factors
that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations
expressed in the Company's forward-looking statements set forth in the
Company's Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
November 13, 1998 under the caption "Cautionary Statement on Forward-Looking
Statements" is incorporated herein by reference. These factors include, but
are not limited to, the risks associated with international operations, the
activities of competitors, retail trade practices, the success of new product
introductions, cost pressures, manufacturing and environmental matters.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

  See the "Index to Financial Statements" which is located on page 17 of this
report.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

  None.

                                   PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

  Information regarding directors and executive officers of the registrant set
forth in the Proxy Statement for the 2000 Annual Meeting is incorporated
herein by reference, as is the text in Part I of this report under the caption
"Executive Officers of the Registrant".

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

  The information set forth in the Proxy Statement for the 2000 Annual Meeting
is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

  (a) Security ownership of management set forth in the Proxy Statement for
the 2000 Annual Meeting is incorporated herein by reference.

  (b) There are no arrangements known to the registrant that may at a
subsequent date result in a change in control of the registrant.



ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

  The information set forth in the Proxy Statement for the 2000 Annual Meeting
is incorporated herein by reference.

                                    PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

  (a) Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules

  See the "Index to Financial Statements" which is located on page 17 of this
report.

  (b) Exhibits. See the exhibit index which is included herein.

  (c) Reports on Form 8-K

  None.



                                  SIGNATURES

  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                          Colgate-Palmolive Company
                                                 (Registrant)

                                          By:    /s/ Reuben Mark
                                               --------------------------------
                                                       Reuben Mark
                                                  Chairman of the Board
                                               and Chief Executive Officer

Date: March 27, 2000

  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below on March 27, 2000 by the following persons on
behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated.

(a) Principal Executive Officer           (c) Principal Accounting Officer


           /s/ Reuben Mark                        /s/ Dennis J. Hickey
- -------------------------------------     -------------------------------------
             Reuben Mark                            Dennis J. Hickey
   Chairman of the Board and Chief            Vice President and Corporate
          Executive Officer                            Controller


(b) Principal Financial Officer           (d) Directors:


       /s/ Stephen C. Patrick             Jill K. Conway, Ronald E. Ferguson,
- -------------------------------------     Ellen M. Hancock, David W. Johnson,
         Stephen C. Patrick               John P. Kendall, Richard J. Kogan,
       Chief Financial Officer            Reuben Mark, Howard B. Wentz, Jr.

                                                  /s/ Andrew D. Hendry
                                          -------------------------------------
                                                    Andrew D. Hendry
                                                   as Attorney-in-Fact





                                 United States
                       Securities and Exchange Commission
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K

                              FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                      For The Year Ended December 31, 1999

                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

                            NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10022



                         INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



  All other financial statements and schedules not listed have been omitted
since the required information is included in the financial statements or the
notes thereto or is not applicable or required.



                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

                       Consolidated Statements of Income

                 (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)





                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

                          Consolidated Balance Sheets

                 (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)




                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

 Consolidated Statements of Retained Earnings, Comprehensive Income and Changes
                              in Capital Accounts

                  Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts



                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

                     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts



                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                 Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts
1. Nature of Operations

  The Company manufactures and markets a wide variety of products in the U.S.
and around the world in two distinct business segments: Oral, Personal and
Household Care, and Pet Nutrition. Oral, Personal and Household Care products
include toothpaste, oral rinses and toothbrushes, bar and liquid soaps,
shampoos, conditioners, deodorants and antiperspirants, baby and shave
products, laundry and dishwashing detergents, fabric softeners, cleansers and
cleaners, bleaches and other similar items. These products are sold primarily
to wholesale and retail distributors worldwide. Pet Nutrition products include
pet food products manufactured and marketed by Hill's Pet Nutrition. The
principal customers for Pet Nutrition products are veterinarians and specialty
pet retailers. Principal global trademarks include Colgate, Palmolive, Mennen
Speed Stick, Protex, Ajax, Soupline, Suavitel, Fab, Science Diet and
Prescription Diet in addition to various regional trademarks.

  The Company's principal classes of products accounted for the following
percentages of worldwide sales for the past three years:



2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Principles of Consolidation

  The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Colgate-
Palmolive Company and its majority-owned subsidiaries. Intercompany
transactions and balances have been eliminated. Investments in companies in
which the Company's interest is between 20% and 50% are accounted for using
the equity method. The Company's share of the net income from such investments
is recorded as equity earnings and is classified as Other expense, net in the
Consolidated Statements of Income.

Revenue Recognition

  Sales are recorded at the time products are shipped to trade customers. Net
sales reflect units shipped at selling list prices reduced by promotion
allowances.

Use of Estimates

  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent gains and losses at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Accounting Changes

  In June 1998, the FASB issued Statement No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities." The statement establishes accounting and
reporting standards requiring that every derivative instrument be recorded in
the balance sheet as either an asset or liability measured at its fair value.
The statement requires that changes in the derivative's fair value be
recognized currently in earnings unless specific hedge



                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

            Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements--(continued)

                (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

accounting criteria are met. Statement No. 133 will be effective,
prospectively, for the Company's financial statements in the year 2001. The
statement is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's financial
position, results of operations or cash flows.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

  The Company considers all highly liquid investments with maturity of three
months or less when purchased to be cash equivalents. Investments in short-
term securities that do not meet the definition of cash equivalents are
classified as marketable securities. Marketable securities are reported at
cost, which approximates market.

Inventories

  Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market. The first-in, first-
out (FIFO) method is used to value most inventories. The remaining inventories
are valued using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method.

Property, Plant and Equipment

  Land, buildings, and machinery and equipment are stated at cost.
Depreciation is provided, primarily using the straight-line method, over
estimated useful lives ranging from 3 to 40 years.

Goodwill and Other Intangibles

  Intangible assets principally consist of goodwill, which is amortized on the
straight-line method, generally over a period of 40 years. Other intangible
assets, principally non-compete agreements and customer lists, are amortized
on the straight-line method over periods ranging from 5 to 20 years depending
on their useful lives.

  The recoverability of the carrying values of intangible assets is evaluated
periodically based on a review of forecasted operating cash flows and the
profitability of the related business. For the three-year period ended
December 31, 1999, there were no material adjustments to the carrying values
of intangible assets resulting from these evaluations.

Advertising

  Advertising costs are expensed in the year incurred.

Income Taxes

  Deferred taxes are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of
temporary differences between the amounts carried for financial reporting and
tax purposes. Provision is made currently for taxes payable on remittances of
overseas earnings; no provision is made for taxes on overseas retained
earnings that are deemed to be permanently reinvested.

Translation of Overseas Currencies

  The assets and liabilities of subsidiaries, other than those operating in
highly inflationary environments, are translated into U.S. dollars at year-end
exchange rates, with resulting translation gains and losses accumulated in a
separate component of shareholders' equity. Income and expense items are
converted into U.S. dollars at average rates of exchange prevailing during the
year.



                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

            Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements--(continued)

                (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)


  For subsidiaries operating in highly inflationary environments, inventories,
goodwill and property, plant and equipment are translated at the rate of
exchange on the date the assets were acquired, while other assets and
liabilities are translated at year-end exchange rates. Translation adjustments
for these operations are included in net income.

  Prior to 1999, Mexico was a highly inflationary economy and the results of
the Company's Mexican operations were measured using the U.S. dollar as its
functional currency. Effective January 1, 1999, the Company ceased to account
for its Mexican operations as highly inflationary as historical inflation
levels had fallen sharply. The impact of the change was not material to the
Company's earnings.

  During 1998, as required by generally accepted accounting principles, the
Company ceased to account for its Brazilian operations as highly inflationary.
The effect of this change was to reduce shareholders' equity by $98.4,
primarily related to the recognition of deferred tax benefits expected to be
realized in the future. Due to the devaluation of the Brazilian real during
1999, $242.4 was charged to cumulative translation adjustments which was, in
effect, a write-down of our foreign-currency-denominated assets (primarily
goodwill and property, plant and equipment). This will be accompanied by lower
amortization and depreciation expense in future periods.

Financial Instruments

  The net effective cash payment of the interest rate swap contracts combined
with the related interest payments on the debt that they hedge are accounted
for as interest expense. Those interest rate instruments that do not qualify
as hedge instruments for accounting purposes are marked to market and recorded
at fair value.

  Gains and losses from foreign exchange contracts that hedge the Company's
investments in its foreign subsidiaries are shown in the cumulative
translation adjustments account included in shareholders' equity. Gains and
losses from contracts that hedge firm commitments are recorded in the balance
sheets as a component of the related receivable or payable until realized, at
which time they are recognized in the statements of income. The contracts that
hedge anticipated sales and purchases do not qualify as hedges for accounting
purposes. Accordingly, the related gains and losses are calculated using the
current forward rates and are recorded in the Consolidated Statements of
Income as Other expense, net.

Segment Information

  The Company operates in two product segments: Oral, Personal and Household
Care, and Pet Nutrition. The operations of the Oral, Personal and Household
Care segment are managed geographically in four reportable operating segments:
North America, Latin America, Europe and Asia/Africa.

  Management measures segment profit as operating income, which is defined as
income before interest expense and income taxes. The accounting policies of
the operating segments are the same as those described in the summary of
significant accounting policies. Corporate operations include research and
development costs, unallocated overhead costs, and gains and losses on sales
of non-strategic brands and assets. Corporate assets include primarily real
estate and benefit plan assets.

  The financial and descriptive information on the Company's geographic area
and industry segment data, appearing in the tables contained in management's
discussion of this report, is an integral part of these financial statements.



                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

            Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements--(continued)

                (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)


3. Acquisitions and Divestitures

  During 1999, 1998 and 1997, the Company made several acquisitions totaling
$46.4, $22.6 and $20.3, respectively. Individually, none of these acquisitions
were significant.

  The acquisitions were accounted for as purchases, and accordingly, the
purchase prices were allocated to the net tangible and intangible assets
acquired based on estimated fair values at the dates the acquisitions were
consummated. The results of operations of the acquired businesses have been
included in the Consolidated Financial Statements since the respective
acquisition dates. The inclusion of pro forma financial data for all
acquisitions would not have materially affected the financial information
included herein.

  The aggregate sale price of all 1999, 1998 and 1997 divestitures was $94.7,
$57.4 and $101.4, respectively. In 1999, the U.S. Baby Magic brand and related
assets were sold for $90.0, and in 1998, the HandiWipes brand and related
assets were sold for $53.0. In 1997, the Sterno fuel brand and related assets
were sold for $70.0.

4. Long-Term Debt and Credit Facilities

  Long-term debt consists of the following at December 31:



  Commercial paper and certain other short-term borrowings are classified as
long-term debt as it is the Company's intent and ability to refinance such
obligations on a long-term basis. Scheduled maturities of debt outstanding at
December 31, 1999, excluding short-term borrowings reclassified, are as
follows: 2000--$338.9; 2001--$192.5; 2002--$135.0; 2003--$409.8; 2004--$205.1,
and $823.6 thereafter. The Company has entered into interest rate swap
agreements and foreign exchange contracts related to certain of these debt
instruments (see Note 11).

  At December 31, 1999, the Company had unused credit facilities amounting to
$1,527.9. Commitment fees related to credit facilities are not material. The
weighted average interest rate on short-term borrowings, excluding amounts
reclassified, as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, was 7.8% and 6.2%,
respectively.

  The Company's long-term debt agreements include various restrictive
covenants and require the maintenance of certain defined financial ratios with
which the Company is in compliance.

5. Capital Stock and Stock Compensation Plans

Preferred Stock

Preferred Stock consists of 250,000 authorized shares without par value. It is
issuable in series, of which one series of 125,000 shares, designated $4.25
Preferred Stock, with a stated and redeemable value of $100 per share,



                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

            Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements--(continued)

                (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

has been issued. The $4.25 Preferred Stock is redeemable only at the option of
the Company. At December 31, 1999 and 1998, 115,510 and 122,620 shares of
$4.25 Preferred Stock, respectively, were outstanding.

Preference Stock

  In 1988, the Company authorized the issuance of 50,000,000 shares of
Preference Stock, without par value. The Series B Convertible Preference
Stock, which is convertible into eight shares of common stock, ranks junior to
all series of the Preferred Stock. At December 31, 1999 and 1998, 5,446,442
and 5,598,808 shares of Series B Convertible Preference Stock, respectively,
were outstanding and issued to the Company's Employee Stock Ownership Plan.

Common Stock

  On May 5, 1999, the Company's Board of Directors approved a two-for-one
common stock split effected in the form of a 100% stock dividend. As a result
of the split, shareholders received one additional share of common stock for
each share they held as of May 19, 1999, which was distributed June 30, 1999.
Par value remained at $1 per share. The Consolidated Financial Statements and
financial information contained elsewhere in this report have been restated to
reflect the effect of the common stock split for all periods presented.

Shareholder Rights Plan

  Under the Company's Shareholder Rights Plan, each share of the Company's
common stock carries with it one Preference Share Purchase Right ("Rights").
The Rights themselves will at no time have voting power or pay dividends. The
Rights become exercisable only if a person or group acquires 15% or more of
the Company's common stock or announces a tender offer, the consummation of
which would result in ownership by a person or group of 15% or more of the
common stock. When exercisable, each Right entitles a holder to buy one two-
hundredth of a share of a new series of preference stock at an exercise price
of $220.00, subject to adjustment.

  If the Company is acquired in a merger or other business combination, each
Right will entitle a holder to buy, at the Right's then current exercise
price, a number of the acquiring company's common shares having a market value
of twice such price. In addition, if a person or group acquires 15% or more of
the Company's common stock, each Right will entitle its holder (other than
such person or members of such group) to purchase, at the Right's then current
exercise price, a number of shares of the Company's common stock having a
market value of twice the Right's exercise price.

  Further, at any time after a person or group acquires 15% or more (but less
than 50%) of the Company's common stock, the Board of Directors may, at its
option, exchange part or all of the Rights (other than Rights held by the
acquiring person or group) for shares of the Company's common stock on a one-
for-one basis.

  The Company, at the option of its Board of Directors, may amend the Rights
or redeem the Rights for $.01 at any time before the acquisition by a person
or group of beneficial ownership of 15% or more of its common stock. The Board
of Directors is also authorized to reduce the 15% threshold to not less than
10%. Unless redeemed earlier, the Rights will expire on October 31, 2008.

Stock Repurchases

  During 1998, the Company entered into a series of forward purchase
agreements on its common stock. These agreements are settled on a net basis in
shares of the Company's common stock. To the extent that the market price of
the Company's common stock on a settlement date is higher/(lower) than the
forward purchase



                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

            Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements--(continued)

                (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

price, the net differential is received/(paid) by the Company. As of December
31, 1999, agreements were in place covering approximately $480.5 of the
Company's common stock (7.7 million shares) that had forward prices averaging
$62.56 per share. If these agreements were settled based on the December 31,
1999 market price of the Company's common stock ($65.00 per share), the
Company would be entitled to receive approximately 288,000 shares. During 1999
and 1998, settlements resulted in the Company receiving 2,322,701 and 642,662
shares, respectively, which were recorded as treasury stock.

Incentive Stock Plan

  The Company has a plan which provides for grants of restricted stock awards
for officers and other executives of the Company and its major subsidiaries. A
committee of non-employee members of the Board of Directors administers the
plan. During 1999 and 1998, 692,238 and 570,154 shares, respectively, were
awarded to employees in accordance with the provisions of the plan.

Stock Option Plans

  The Company's Stock Option Plans ("Plans") provide for the issuance of non-
qualified stock options to officers and key employees. Options are granted at
prices not less than the fair market value on the date of grant. At 1999 year-
end, 31,119,432 shares of common stock were available for future grants.

  The Plans contain an accelerated ownership feature which provides for the
grant of new options when previously owned shares of Company stock are used to
exercise existing options. The number of new options granted under this
feature is equal to the number of shares of previously owned Company stock
used to exercise the original options and to pay the related required U.S.
income tax. The new options are granted at a price equal to the fair market
value on the date of the new grant and have the same expiration date as the
original options exercised.

  Stock option plan activity is summarized below:





                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

            Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements--(continued)

                (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)


  The following table summarizes information relating to currently outstanding
and exercisable options as of December 31, 1999:



  The Company applies Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting
for Stock Issued to Employees," and related interpretations in accounting for
options granted under the Plans. Accordingly, no compensation expense has been
recognized. Had compensation expense been determined based on the Black-
Scholes option pricing model value at the grant date for awards in 1999, 1998
and 1997 consistent with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" (SFAS 123), the
Company's net income, basic earnings per common share and diluted earnings per
common share would have been $891.9, $1.49 per share and $1.40 per share,
respectively, in 1999; $803.5, $1.33 per share and $1.25 per share,
respectively, in 1998; and $716.1, $1.18 per share and $1.10 per share,
respectively, in 1997.

  The weighted average Black-Scholes value of grants issued in 1999, 1998 and
1997 was $8.61, $6.24 and $3.93, respectively. The Black-Scholes value of each
option granted is estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with
the following assumptions: option term until exercise ranging from 2 to 7
years, volatility ranging from 19% to 30%, risk-free interest rate ranging
from 5.0% to 6.2% and an expected dividend yield of 2.5%. The Black-Scholes
model used to determine the option values shown above was developed to
estimate the fair value of short-term freely tradable, fully transferable
options without vesting restrictions and was not designed to value reloads,
all of which significantly differ from the Company's stock option awards. The
value of this model is also limited by the inclusion of highly subjective
assumptions which greatly affect calculated values.

6. Employee Stock Ownership Plan

  In 1989, the Company expanded its Employee Stock Ownership Plan ("ESOP")
through the introduction of a leveraged ESOP covering certain employees who
have met certain eligibility requirements. The ESOP issued $410.0 of long-term
notes due through 2009 bearing an average interest rate of 8.7%. The long-term
notes, which are guaranteed by the Company, are reflected in the accompanying
Consolidated Balance Sheets. The ESOP used the proceeds of the notes to
purchase 6.3 million shares of Series B Convertible Preference Stock from the
Company. The Stock has a minimum redemption price of $65 per share and pays
semiannual dividends equal to the higher of $2.44 or the current dividend paid
on eight common shares for the comparable six-month period.

  Dividends on these preferred shares, as well as common shares also held by
the ESOP, are paid to the ESOP trust and, together with contributions, are
used by the ESOP to repay principal and interest on the outstanding notes.
Preferred shares are released for allocation to participants based upon the
ratio of the current year's debt service to the sum of total principal and
interest payments over the life of the loan. At December 31, 1999,



                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

            Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements--(continued)

                (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

1,628,735 shares were allocated to participant accounts and 3,817,707 shares
were available for future allocation. Each allocated share may be converted by
the trustee into eight common shares but preferred shares generally convert
only after the employee ceases to work for the Company.

  Dividends on these preferred shares are deductible for income tax purposes
and, accordingly, are reflected net of their tax benefit in the Consolidated
Statements of Retained Earnings, Comprehensive Income and Changes in Capital
Accounts.

  Annual expense related to the leveraged ESOP, determined as interest
incurred on the notes, less employee contributions and dividends received on
the shares held by the ESOP, plus the higher of either principal repayments on
the notes or the cost of shares allocated, was $9.2 in 1999, $2.4 in 1998 and
$3.0 in 1997. Similarly, unearned compensation, shown as a reduction in
shareholders' equity, is reduced by the higher of principal payments or the
cost of shares allocated.

  Interest incurred on the ESOP's notes amounted to $32.0 in 1999, $32.5 in
1998 and $33.0 in 1997. The Company paid dividends on the stock held by the
ESOP of $29.1 in 1999, $29.3 in 1998 and $29.8 in 1997. Company contributions
to the ESOP were $9.3 in 1999, $0 in 1998 and $1.0 in 1997. Employee
contributions to the ESOP were $.6 in 1999, $9.4 in 1998 and $8.2 in 1997.

7. Retirement Plans and Other Retiree Benefits

Retirement Plans

  The Company, its U.S. subsidiaries and some of its overseas subsidiaries
maintain defined benefit retirement plans covering substantially all of their
employees. Benefits are based primarily on years of service and employees'
career earnings. In the Company's principal U.S. plans, funds are contributed
to the trusts in accordance with regulatory limits to provide for current
service and for any unfunded projected benefit obligation over a reasonable
period. To the extent these requirements are exceeded by plan assets, a
contribution may not be made in a particular year. Assets of the plans consist
principally of common stocks, guaranteed investment contracts with insurance
companies, investments in real estate funds and U.S. Government and corporate
obligations. Domestic plan assets also include investments in the Company's
common stock representing 10% and 7% of plan assets at December 31, 1999 and
1998, respectively.

Other Retiree Benefits

  The Company and certain of its subsidiaries provide health care and life
insurance benefits for retired employees to the extent not provided by
government-sponsored plans. The Company utilizes a portion of its leveraged
ESOP, in the form of future retiree contributions, to reduce its obligation to
provide these postretirement benefits and offset its current service cost.
Postretirement benefits otherwise are not currently funded.



                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

            Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements--(continued)

                 (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)


  Summarized information of the Company's defined benefit retirement plans and
postretirement plans are as follows:






                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

            Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements--(continued)

                (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)



  The accumulated benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for the
pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets
were $203.7 and $9.7, respectively, as of December 31, 1999, and $206.9 and
$8.5, respectively, as of December 31, 1998. These amounts represent non-
qualified domestic plans and plans at foreign locations that are primarily
unfunded, as such book reserves equal to the unfunded amount have been
recorded.

  The projected benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for the
pension plans with projected benefit obligations in excess of plan assets were
$271.6 and $42.9, respectively, as of December 31, 1999, and $360.0 and
$110.1, respectively, as of December 31, 1998.

  The assumed medical cost trend rate used in measuring the postretirement
benefit obligation was 5.50% for 2000 and years thereafter. Changes in this
rate can have a significant effect on amounts reported. The effect of a 1%
increase/decrease in the assumed medical cost trend rate would change the
accumulated postretirement benefit obligation by approximately $14.3; annual
expense would change by approximately $1.7.

8.Income Taxes

  The provision for income taxes consists of the following for the years ended
December 31:



  The components of income before income taxes are as follows for the three
years ended December 31:





                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

            Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements--(continued)

                (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)


  The difference between the statutory U.S. federal income tax rate and the
Company's global effective tax rate as reflected in the Consolidated
Statements of Income is as follows:



  In addition, net tax benefits (costs) of $169.0 in 1999 and $(18.5) in 1998
were recorded directly through equity which included tax benefits related to
employee benefit plans. The 1999 amount also reflects tax benefits related to
currency devaluation in Brazil whereas the 1998 amount reflects tax
adjustments recorded upon the change in accounting for Brazil as no longer
highly inflationary.

  Differences between accounting for financial statement purposes and
accounting for tax purposes result in taxes currently payable being lower than
the total provision for income taxes as follows:



  The components of deferred tax assets (liabilities) are as follows at
December 31:



  The major component of the 1999 and 1998 valuation allowance relates to tax
benefits in certain jurisdictions not expected to be realized.



                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

            Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements--(continued)

                (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)


  Applicable U.S. income and foreign withholding taxes have not been provided
on approximately $728.7 of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries at
December 31, 1999. These earnings are currently considered to be permanently
invested and are not subject to such taxes. Determining the tax liability that
would arise if these earnings were remitted is not practicable.

9. Supplemental Income Statement Information



10. Supplemental Balance Sheet Information



  Inventories valued under LIFO amounted to $168.1 and $162.2 at December 31,
1999 and 1998, respectively. The excess of current cost over LIFO cost at the
end of each year was $37.2 and $39.8, respectively. The liquidations of LIFO
inventory quantities increased income by $0, $1.3 and $0 in 1999, 1998 and
1997, respectively.





                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

            Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements--(continued)

                (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)



11. Fair Value of Financial Instruments

  The Company utilizes interest rate swap contracts and foreign currency
exchange contracts to manage interest rate and foreign currency exposures.
(See Management's Discussion and Analysis--Managing Foreign Currency and
Interest Rate Exposure for further discussion.) In assessing the fair value of
financial instruments at December 31, 1999 and 1998, the Company has used
available market information and other valuation methodologies. Some judgment
is necessarily required in interpreting market data to develop the estimates
of fair value, and, accordingly, the estimates are not necessarily indicative
of the amounts that the Company could realize in a current market exchange.

  The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities,
long-term investments and short-term debt approximated fair value as of
December 31, 1999 and 1998. The estimated fair value of the Company's
remaining financial instruments at December 31 are summarized as follows:



  As of December 31, 1999 and 1998, the Company had interest rate agreements
outstanding with an aggregate notional amount of $965.9 and $825.0,
respectively, with maturities through 2018.

  As of December 31, 1999 and 1998, the Company had approximately $431.6 and
$411.1, respectively, of outstanding foreign exchange contracts. At December
31, 1999, approximately 7% of outstanding foreign exchange contracts served to
hedge net investments in foreign subsidiaries, 28% hedged intercompany loans
and 65% hedged third-party debt and other firm commitments.



                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

            Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements--(continued)

                (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)


  The Company is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by
counterparties on interest rate agreements and foreign exchange contracts;
however, nonperformance by these counterparties is considered remote as it is
the Company's policy to contract with diversified counterparties that have a
long-term debt rating of A or higher. The amount of any such exposure is
generally the unrealized gain on such contracts, which at December 31, 1999
was not significant.

12. Restructured Operations

  In September 1995, a reserve of $460.5 was established to cover a worldwide
restructuring of manufacturing and administrative operations. The primary
elements of the reserve related to employee termination costs and expenses
associated with the realignment of the Company's global manufacturing
operations, as well as settlement of contractual obligations. As planned, the
restructuring has produced savings that increase pretax earnings by over
$150.0 annually.

  The planned restructuring projects, primarily in North America and Europe
but also affecting Hill's Pet Nutrition and Colgate locations in Asia/Africa
and certain Latin America locations, are substantially completed. The
remaining reserve amount of $5.4 relates to the consolidation of
administrative operations following the implementation of SAP and related
process changes in Europe.

  A summary of the changes in the restructuring reserve is as follows:



  In total, the headcount reductions resulting from the restructuring projects
will total 4,907. The cumulative headcount reductions as of 1997, 1998 and
1999 were 3,133, 3,986 and 4,807, respectively. Factory closures and/or
reconfigurations totaled 25. The cumulative factory closures and/or
reconfigurations as of 1997, 1998 and 1999 were 20, 23 and 25, respectively.
The costs of completing the restructuring activities to date approximated the
original reserve. The headcount and factory totals were increased by 765 and
1, respectively, as a result of refinements of original estimates.

  Of the restructuring reserve remaining as of December 31, 1999 and 1998,
$5.4 and $39.6, respectively, is classified as a current liability.




                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

            Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements--(continued)

                (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

13. Earnings Per Share




14. Commitments and Contingencies

  Minimum rental commitments under noncancellable operating leases, primarily
for office and warehouse facilities, are $65.9 in 2000, $60.6 in 2001, $52.7
in 2002, $44.2 in 2003, $38.5 in 2004 and $134.4 thereafter. Rental expense
amounted to $102.4 in 1999, $102.7 in 1998 and $94.4 in 1997. Contingent
rentals, sublease income and capital leases, which are included in fixed
assets, are not significant.

  The Company has various contractual commitments to purchase raw materials,
products and services totaling $62.7 that expire through 2001.

  The Company is a party to various superfund and other environmental matters
and is contingently liable with respect to lawsuits, taxes and other matters
arising out of the normal course of business. Management proactively reviews
and manages its exposure to, and the impact of, environmental matters and
other contingencies.

  On September 8, 1998, one of the Company's Brazilian subsidiaries, Kolynos
do Brasil Ltda. ("Kolynos"), received notice of an administrative proceeding
from the Central Bank of Brazil. The notice primarily takes issue with certain
filings made with the Central Bank in connection with financing arrangements
related to the acquisition of Kolynos in January 1995. The Central Bank seeks
to impose fines prescribed by statute, and it, in no way, challenges or seeks
to unwind the acquisition. Management believes, based on the opinion of its
Brazilian legal counsel, that the filings challenged by the Central Bank fully
complied with Brazilian law and that the issues raised in the notice are
without merit.

  While it is possible that the Company's cash flows and results of operations
in particular quarterly or annual periods could be affected by the one-time
impacts of the resolution of the above contingencies, it is the opinion of
management that the ultimate disposition of these matters, to the extent not
previously provided for, will not have a material impact on the Company's
financial condition or ongoing cash flows and results of operations.



                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

            Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements--(continued)

                 (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)


15. Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)





                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

                        Market and Dividend Information



  The Company's common stock and $4.25 Preferred Stock are listed on the New
York Stock Exchange. The trading symbol for the common stock is CL. Dividends
on the common stock have been paid every year since 1895 and the amount of
dividends paid per share has increased for 37 consecutive years.



Dividends Paid Per Share






                SCHEDULE II--VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

                     For the Year Ended December 31, 1999
                 Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts


- --------
NOTES:
(/1/) Uncollectible accounts written off and cash discounts allowed.
(/2/) Primarily due to the impact of exchange rate changes in Brazil.
(/3/) Increase/decrease in allowance for tax loss and tax credit carryforward
      benefits which are more likely to not be utilized in the future.



                SCHEDULE II--VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

                     For the Year Ended December 31, 1998
                 Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts


- --------
NOTES:
(/1/) Uncollectible accounts written off and cash discounts allowed.
(/2/) Increase/decrease in allowance for tax loss and tax credit carryforward
      benefits which are more likely to not be utilized in the future.



                SCHEDULE II--VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

                     For the Year Ended December 31, 1997
                 Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts


- --------
NOTES:
(/1/) Uncollectible accounts written off and cash discounts allowed.
(/2/) Increase/decrease in allowance for tax loss and tax credit carryforward
      benefits which are more likely to not be utilized in the future.



                   Report of Independent Public Accountants

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of
 Colgate-Palmolive Company:

  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Colgate-
Palmolive Company (a Delaware corporation) and subsidiaries as of December 31,
1999 and 1998, and the related consolidated statements of income, retained
earnings, comprehensive income and changes in capital accounts, and cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1999. These
financial statements and the schedules referred to below are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express
an opinion on these financial statements and schedules based on our audits.

  We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

  In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of Colgate-Palmolive Company
and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 1999, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.

  Our audit was made for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic
financial statements taken as a whole. The schedules listed in the index to
financial statements are presented for purposes of complying with the
Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and are not part of the basic
financial statements. These schedules have been subjected to the auditing
procedures applied in the audit of the basic financial statements and, in our
opinion, fairly state in all material respects the financial data required to
be set forth therein in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a
whole.

                                          /s/ Arthur Andersen LLP

New York, New York
February 1, 2000



COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

Historical Financial Summary(/1/)
Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts


- -------
(/1/) All share and per share amounts have been restated to reflect the 1999,
      1997 and the 1991 two-for-one stock splits.
(/2/) Income in 1995 includes a net provision for restructured operations of
      $369.2. (Excluding this charge, earnings per share would have been $.89,
      basic and $.84, diluted.)
(/3/) Income in 1994 includes a one-time charge of $5.2 for the sale of a non-
      core business, Princess House.
(/4/) Income in 1993 includes a one-time impact of adopting new mandated
      accounting standards, effective in the first quarter of 1993, of $358.2.
      (Excluding this charge, earnings per share would have been $.84, basic
      and $.79, diluted.)
(/5/) Income in 1991 includes a net provision for restructured operations of
      $243.0. (Excluding this charge, earnings per share would have been $.64,
      basic and $.60, diluted.)



                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

                             EXHIBITS TO FORM 10-K

                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999

                           Commission File No. 1-644






- --------
* Registrant hereby undertakes upon request to furnish the Commission with a
  copy of any instrument with respect to long-term debt where the total amount
  of securities authorized thereunder does not exceed 10% of the total assets
  of the registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.

  The exhibits indicated above which are not included with the Form 10-K are
available upon request and payment of a reasonable fee approximating the
registrant's cost of providing and mailing the exhibits. Inquiries should be
directed to:

                                          Colgate-Palmolive Company
                                          Office of the Secretary (10-K
                                          Exhibits)
                                          300 Park Avenue
                                          New York, New York 10022-7499


