
10-K405
SHERWIN WILLIAMS



 
================================================================================
 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                          ----------------------------
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 

 
                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-4851
                          ----------------------------
 
                          THE SHERWIN-WILLIAMS COMPANY
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)
 
                                      OHIO
         (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)
                                   34-0526850
                      (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
 
                   101 PROSPECT AVENUE, N.W., CLEVELAND, OHIO
                    (Address of principal executive offices)
                                   44115-1075
                                   (Zip Code)
 
                                 (216) 566-2000
               Registrant's telephone number, including area code
             ------------------------------------------------------
 
          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
 

 
          Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                                      None
     Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant: (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.   Yes X   No
                                               ---    ---
     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ X ]
 
     As of January 31, 1996, 85,523,699 shares of the Registrant's Common Stock,
with a par value of $1.00 each, were outstanding, net of treasury shares. The
aggregate market value of such voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant as of that date was $3,578,435,300.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
     Definitive Proxy Statement dated March 13, 1996, as regards certain
information required to be disclosed in Part III.
 
================================================================================

 
                          THE SHERWIN-WILLIAMS COMPANY
                         AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
     As used in this Form 10-K, the terms "Company" and "Registrant" mean The
Sherwin-Williams Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, taken as a whole,
unless the context indicates otherwise.
 
                                

 
                       NOTE ON INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
 
     In Part III of this Form 10-K, various information and data are
incorporated by reference from the Company's Definitive Proxy Statement dated
March 13, 1996 ("Proxy Statement"). Any reference in this Form 10-K to
disclosures in the Proxy Statement shall constitute incorporation by reference
only of that specific information and data into this Form 10-K.

 
                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1.   BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS
 
     The Sherwin-Williams Company, which was first incorporated under the laws
of the State of Ohio eighteen years after its founding in 1866, is engaged in
the manufacture, distribution and sale of coatings and related products to
professional, industrial, commercial and retail customers primarily throughout
North America.
 
PAINT STORES SEGMENT
 
     The Paint Stores Segment exclusively distributes Sherwin-Williams(R)
branded architectural coatings, industrial maintenance products and industrial
finishes produced by the Coatings Segment of the Company and similar coatings
and related items produced by others. Paint, wallcoverings, floorcoverings,
window treatments, spray equipment and other associated products are marketed by
store personnel and direct sale representatives to the do-it-yourself customer,
professional painter, contractor, industrial and commercial maintenance
customer, property manager, architect and manufacturer of products requiring a
factory finish. Competitors of the Segment are other paint and wallpaper stores,
mass merchandisers, home centers, independent hardware stores, hardware chains
and manufacturer-operated outlets. Product quality, service and price determine
the competitive advantage in the highly fragmented paint product market. The
loss of any single customer would not have a material adverse effect on the
business of the Segment.
 
     In order to sustain continued growth in the competitive marketplace, the
Segment recognizes that the superior knowledge of, and service provided by, its
store employees are critical to success. Substantial progress was made during
1995 in employee selection, training, development and retention. All store
employees are required to complete an Employee Certification Process in order to
become certified in their position and eligible for promotion. This process,
coined internally as Sherwin-Williams University or "SWU", requires employees to
complete specific training in all areas of in-store activity, such as product
knowledge, product application, customer service and store operations. By the
end of 1995, virtually all paint store employees had received such certification
in their positions. While customers receive the ultimate benefit through
enhanced customer service, employees are also more knowledgeable and able to
better manage their operations. This training, along with a new job posting
system which allows employees to preview and apply for internal promotion
opportunities if they meet the certification and eligibility requirements, has
improved employee retention to approximately three times better than the
industry average in 1995. This investment in store employees will have an impact
on the future growth and success of the Paint Stores Segment.
 
     During 1996, the Segment plans to introduce several new products, including
the following: Woodscapes(TM), a premium exterior stain line designed to provide
long-lasting color with an extended warranty; Healthspec(TM), an interior paint
product line with low odor characteristics which will permit application in
occupied commercial buildings such as hospitals, institutions and schools; and
LowTemp 35(TM), an exterior latex house paint to be marketed to contractors
which will permit application in temperatures as low as 35 degrees Fahrenheit,
extending their painting season up to 20 percent in some areas of the country.
In response to consumer demand, a semi-gloss has also been added to the
EverClean(R) product line. Marketing programs for this line expansion will be
targeted at both retail and wholesale customers in 1996. In addition to
promoting new products, aggressive advertising campaigns will also highlight the
wide selection of wallcovering products available with a low-price guarantee at
Sherwin-Williams stores, further emphasizing the wide array of products and
services available through the stores.
 

 
COATINGS SEGMENT
 
     The five divisions within the Coatings Segment (Coatings, Consumer Brands,
Automotive, Transportation Services and Diversified Brands) participate in the
manufacture, distribution or sale of coatings and related products.
 
     The Segment has sales to certain customers that, individually, may be a
significant portion of its revenues. However, the loss of any single customer
would not have a material adverse effect on the overall business of the Segment.
All technical expenditures are sponsored by the Company and occur in the
Coatings Segment. The expenditures for research and development appear on page
26 of this report.
 
COATINGS DIVISION
 
     The Coatings Division manufactures paint and paint-related products for
do-it-yourself customers, professional painters, contractors, industrial and
commercial maintenance accounts, and manufacturers of factory finished products.
Sherwin-Williams(R) branded architectural and industrial finishes are
manufactured exclusively for the Paint Stores Segment. Labels, color cards,
traffic paint, adhesives, private label and other branded products are
manufactured for the Paint Stores Segment, the Consumer Brands Division and
other divisions of the Company. Competitive factors for the Division are product
innovation, manufactured product quality, service, distribution and price.
Domestic competitors of the Division consist of other coatings manufacturers
located throughout the United States. There are approximately 900 such
manufacturers at the regional and national levels. The Coatings Division
continues to strive to be the lowest cost producer of high quality coatings to
gain an advantage over its competitors. The Coatings Division integrated the
Company's international architectural operations into the Division's operations
beginning in 1994. There are many competitors in each of the foreign markets
served as the Division sells its products around the world through subsidiaries
and joint ventures and licenses technology, trademarks and trade names. At
December 31, 1995, the Division had 41 licensing agreements in 32 foreign
countries. The majority of the licensees' sales are in South America, the
strongest market. New licensing agreements were signed in Belgium, Lebanon and
Vietnam in 1995. The Division increased the focus on international growth during
1995, acquiring Sherwin-Williams Argentina I. y C.S.A. (a former licensee) and
purchasing a manufacturing facility for its Brazilian operations. Additional new
business development will take place following a predetermined regional approach
for the establishment of subsidiaries, joint ventures and licensees in selected
countries.
 
     During 1995, the Division integrated the manufacturing processes of several
newly-acquired companies into its operations. This integration includes
application of the Division's manufacturing quality standards to the new
operations to achieve overall production synergies which will increase effective
capacity while enhancing product quality. In 1995, the Division began full
operations at its Fort Wayne, Indiana powder coatings facility and also began
construction of a new powder coatings facility in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.
Powder coatings technology represents an environmentally-friendly coating which
can be applied with minimal waste. The addition of these facilities into its
manufacturing base will allow the Division to meet the increasing demand for
powder coatings.
 
     In 1996, the primary goal of the Division will involve integrating the
manufacturing operations of the Pratt & Lambert United, Inc. (Pratt & Lambert)
facilities which were acquired in January 1996 into the Division's core
operations. Raw material and conversion cost synergies are expected to be
achieved while increasing production volume. In addition, continued efforts will
be made toward improving product quality and customer service, as well as
continued attainment and/or renewal of ISO 9000 certification at all of the
Division's newly-acquired and existing facilities.
 
CONSUMER BRANDS DIVISION
 
     The Consumer Brands Division is responsible for the sales and marketing of
branded and private label products by a direct sales staff to unaffiliated home
centers, mass merchandisers, independent dealers and distributors. Many of the
country's leading retailers are among the Division's regional and
 

 
national customers. The Division's competition for sales to these leading
retailers comes from over 500 regional and national paint manufacturers and
distributors of branded and private label paint and associated products. The
competitive factors that will set the leaders apart from the rest are service,
brand recognition, distribution and price.
 
     During 1995, the Division targeted the best regional home centers for paint
and stain partnerships to expand its distribution outlets throughout the United
States with notable success being achieved in previously under-represented
geographic regions. This progress took place despite the consolidation of
retailers in the home center and independent paint store categories. The
acquisition of F.L.R. Paints, Incorporated earlier in the year provided the
addition of the H&C(R) product line of concrete stains and sealers. This product
line is marketed nationally as a masonry coating with superior waterproofing and
color enhancing qualities. Also during 1995, the Division successfully launched
its own nationally-broadcast television show, Room by Room(TM), on the Home and
Garden Television Network. This advertising method allows the Division to reach
millions of potential customers while providing decorating suggestions for the
average do-it-yourselfer.
 
     In 1996, the Division will build on its already strong marketing programs,
focusing on its new Ralph Lauren(TM) product line, which was first introduced at
the end of 1995. In addition, the Division will integrate marketing and sales
programs for Pratt & Lambert products, which have a strong presence in the
independently-owned paint and decorator stores. With continued emphasis on
demographically-targeted marketing programs and strategic product placement, the
Division looks forward to becoming the total paint and stain supplier to more
independent dealers, home centers and mass merchants across the United States in
the upcoming year.
 
AUTOMOTIVE DIVISION
 
     The Automotive Division develops and manufactures motor vehicle finish and
refinish products which are marketed under the Sherwin-Williams(R) and other
branded labels in the United States and Canada through its network of 143
company-operated branches. The branches are supported by a direct sales staff,
and products are also marketed through jobbers and wholesale distributors. The
Division is the sole distributor of Standox(R) branded vehicle refinishing
paints in the United States and Canada for American Standox, Inc., a joint
venture. The Division sells directly to independent automotive body shops,
automotive dealerships, fleet owners and refinishers, production shops, body
builders and manufacturers requiring a factory finish (OEM). The Automotive
Division has numerous competitors in its domestic and foreign markets with broad
product offerings and several others with niche products. A subsidiary in
Jamaica generally markets a full line of products. Products manufactured in
Kingston, Jamaica are sold through 9 stores and other dealers and by a direct
sales force to independent dealers, painters, contractors, automotive body shops
and industrial and commercial maintenance accounts in Jamaica. A portion of the
income for the Division comes from the licensing of technology, trademarks and
trade names to foreign companies. The Division has 16 licensees in 15 foreign
countries, including new agreements signed in Syria and India in 1995. Key
competitive factors for the Automotive Division are distribution, product
quality, technology and service. Strong distribution and high quality products
have been the Division's greatest competitive advantages.
 
     The Division opened its new state-of-the-art distribution service center in
Richmond, Kentucky during 1995 and achieved ISO 9002 combined
manufacturing/distribution certification at this site. The remaining
distribution facilities of the Division were also certified during 1995, which
emphasizes the Division's ongoing commitment to quality. New product development
and customer service also remain primary goals to the Division. Several new
products were introduced during the year to meet customer needs and
expectations, including the 3.5 volatile organic compounds (VOC) Acrylic
Urethane (WesThane(TM)) system and the new high solids 2.1 VOC clearcoats. These
technically-advanced products were successfully designed to meet customer
requirements while adhering to strict VOC environmental regulations.
 

 
     During 1996, the Division will continue the development of new products and
will introduce the spectrophotometer as an important sales aid at the jobber and
shop mixing locations. This color-reading device will be used to select colors
to exact specifications using the latest technological advances. In furtherance
of the Division's international growth, Productos Quimicos Y Pinturas, S.A. de
C.V. and its affiliated companies (Productos) were acquired in January 1996.
Productos is the second largest automotive paint distributor in Mexico,
manufacturing and marketing the Excelo(TM) brand product line for the vehicle
refinish market. The Division will concentrate on combining this acquisition
with its other international operations in 1996.
 
TRANSPORTATION SERVICES DIVISION
 
     The Transportation Services Division provides warehousing, truckload
freight, pool assembly, freight brokerage and consolidation services primarily
for the Company and for certain external manufacturers, distributors and
retailers throughout the United States. This Division provides the Company with
total logistics service support which allows increased delivery schedules, lower
field inventory levels and fewer out-of-stocks.
 
     The Transportation Services Division has many different and diverse
competitors. In the trucking industry, there are a few large carriers having
small or moderate market share while thousands of other carriers compete for the
balance of the market. The warehousing and distribution service market is
characterized by a large number of competitors with none having dominant share.
Since the primary business of the Division is to provide services for the
Company's other divisions, gaining market share is not of major significance.
 
     The Division's new 1,000,000 square foot state-of-the-art distribution
service center in Fredericksburg, Pennsylvania began shipments in November 1995.
This facility replaces four smaller facilities and will serve Paint Stores,
Consumer Brands and Diversified Brands Divisions' customers throughout
northeastern United States and Canada. Expansion of the Midwest distribution
service center in Effingham, Illinois was also substantially completed, bringing
the total square footage at that site to 1,300,000. These facilities will bring
further efficiencies to the Division's overall distribution function while
maintaining its standard of quality service. To emphasize its commitment to
quality, the Division continued its pursuit of ISO 9003 certification during
1995, achieving such certification at all of its operating facilities except its
new Fredericksburg facility.
 
     The Division's primary focus in 1996 will be to identify logistic synergies
and merge the distribution functions of Pratt & Lambert with the Company.
Efforts will be focused on implementing plans which will best serve customer
needs while achieving overall cost savings for the Company.
 
DIVERSIFIED BRANDS DIVISION
 
     The Diversified Brands Division (formerly the Specialty Division) competes
in three areas: custom and industrial aerosols; paint applicators; and retail
and wholesale consumer aerosols. The Division participates in the retail and
wholesale paint, automotive, homecare products, institutional, insecticide and
industrial markets. A wide variety of aerosol products are filled, packaged and
distributed to regional and national customers. Approximately 8.1 percent of the
Division's total sales represent aerosols and paint applicators sold to the
Paint Stores Segment. The remaining products are marketed through mass
merchandisers, home centers, automotive chains and maintenance distribution
channels. There are various primary competitors in each of the Division's
product lines. The main competitive factors are technical know-how, quality,
service and price. Superior quality products, excellent regulatory-complying
products, leadership positions in electronic commerce and strong customer
relationships have enabled the Division to distinguish itself from the
competition.
 
     Several new products were introduced by the Division during 1995, including
Krylon(R) Living Color(R) Latex Enamel. Living Color(R) enamel represents the
first spray product to deliver a latex paint in aerosol form while offering a
versatile color palette to meet a variety of decorating needs. The product
reinforces the Company's leadership in spray paint technology under the
Krylon(R) brand, offering superior gloss, low odor and soap and water clean-up
while being VOC compliant. Other
 

 
product introductions during 1995 included the Dupli-Color(R) Flawless(TM) kit,
which makes it easier for consumers to make scratch repairs on their vehicles,
and Rust Tough(R) Water-Based Enamel, a corrosion-protectant coating. These
products exemplify the rewards of countless hours of research and development,
to which the Division is committed.
 
     The new products introduced in 1995 will continue to be marketed via
extensive advertising efforts throughout 1996, including a national television
commercial featuring Krylon(R) Living Color(R), providing a positive impact on
sales. The Division will also continue its research and development activities
in search of products which meet or exceed customer expectations and which are
technologically advanced in relation to those of its competitors.
 
OTHER SEGMENT
 
     The Other Segment is responsible for the acquisition, development, leasing
and management of properties for use by the Company and others. Obtaining real
estate in the proper location at the appropriate cost is a critical component
for achieving the desired operating success, particularly for paint stores and
distribution service centers. This Segment has many competitors consisting of
other real estate owners, developers and managers in certain states where we
currently hold property. The main competitive factors are the availability of
property and price.
 
     At the end of 1995, the Retail Properties Division owned or leased 211
properties, representing over 1,700,000 square feet of space, which are
conducive to the sale of paint and associated products. Such properties include
131 freestanding buildings, for exclusive use by the Paint Stores Segment, and
80 multi-tenant properties, utilized when the basic needs of the paint store can
be met and where external rental opportunities can be profitably operated. The
paint store must be easily accessible to professional painters and contractors
with sufficient access to pickup and delivery areas. Multi-tenant properties are
usually smaller "strip" shopping centers with adequate parking and, generally,
the paint store will be located at the end of the shopping area for the most
convenient access. In 1996, the Division does not anticipate significant growth
in the number of owned retail properties needed by the Paint Stores Segment. The
occupancy rate for external space was 90.1 percent at December 31, 1995.
 
     The Non-Retail Properties Division owned or leased 20 properties
approximating 3.7 million square feet. These properties consisted primarily of
office buildings, manufacturing facilities and distribution service centers at
the end of 1995. Occasionally, such properties are acquired or developed to
provide the lowest cost alternative for expansion of distribution operations.
Locations that have been utilized profitably in the past which can no longer
contribute to the Company's future plans are currently offered for sale or
lease. At the end of 1995, the Non-Retail Properties Division had achieved an
overall occupancy rate of 93.9 percent.
 
RAW MATERIALS AND PRODUCTS PURCHASED FOR RESALE
 
     With respect to the Paint Stores Segment, there are sufficient suppliers of
each product purchased for resale that the Segment does not anticipate any
significant sourcing problems. For the Coatings Segment, raw materials and fuel
supplies are generally available from various sources in sufficient quantities
that the Segment does not anticipate any significant sourcing problems during
1996.
 
SEASONALITY
 
     The majority of the sales for the Paint Stores Segment and Coatings Segment
traditionally occur during the second and third quarters. There is no
significant seasonality in sales for the Other Segment.
 
TRADEMARKS AND TRADE NAMES
 
     Customer recognition of trademarks and trade names collectively contribute
significantly to the sales of the Company. The Paint Stores Segment is
identified with names such as Sherwin-Williams(R), SuperPaint(R), Pro Mar(R),
EverClean(R), Glas-Clad(R), Perma-Clad(R), Old Quaker(R), and Con-Lux(R). The
 

 
Coatings Segment employs a variety of trade names and trademarks in marketing
its products, such as Sherwin-Williams(R), Dutch Boy(R), Kem-Tone(R),
Martin-Senour(R), Cuprinol(R), Old Quaker(R), H&C(R), White Lightning(R),
Acme(R), Krylon(R), Standox(R), Rust Tough(R), Rubberset(R) and Dupli-Color(R).
 
PATENTS
 
     Although patents and licenses are not of material importance to the
business of the Company as a whole, the Automotive and Coatings Divisions'
international operations derive a substantial part of their income from the
license of technology, trademarks and trade names to foreign companies.
 
BACKLOG AND PRODUCTIVE CAPACITY
 
     Backlog orders are not significant in the business of any Segment.
Sufficient productive capacity currently exists to fulfill the Company's needs
for paint products through 1996.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
     The Company employed approximately 18,500 persons at December 31, 1995.
 
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE
 
     See Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations, on pages 11 through 17 of this report, for further details on
environmental compliance.
 

 
BUSINESS SEGMENTS
(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 

 
NOTES TO SEGMENT TABLES
 
     Operating profit is total revenue, including realized profit on
intersegment transfers, less operating costs and expenses. Intersegment
transfers are accounted for at values comparable to normal unaffiliated customer
sales. Corporate expenses include interest which is unrelated to real estate
leasing activities, certain provisions for disposition and termination of
operations and environmental remediation which are not directly associated with
or allocable to any operating segment, and other adjustments.
 
     Identifiable assets are those directly identified with each segment's
operations. Corporate assets consist primarily of cash, investments, deferred
pension assets and headquarters' property, plant and equipment.
 
     Export sales, sales of foreign subsidiaries and sales to any individual
customer were each less than 10% of consolidated sales to unaffiliated customers
during all years presented.
 

 
ITEM 2.   DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY
 
     The Company's corporate headquarters are located in Cleveland, Ohio. The
Company's principal manufacturing and distribution facilities, operated by the
Coatings Segment, are located as set forth below.
 

 

 
     In addition, the Coatings Segment operates 143 company-operated automotive
branches, of which 1 is owned, in the United States and Canada and 9 leased
stores in Jamaica.
 
     There were 2,089 company-operated paint stores in the United States, Canada
and Puerto Rico at December 31, 1995, which constitute the entire operations of
the Paint Stores Segment. All stores are leased locations with 209 being leased
from the Company's Retail Properties Division in the Other Segment. At the end
of 1995, the Paint Stores Segment was comprised of four separate operating
geographic divisions: the Mid Western Division with 582 stores primarily located
in the midwestern and upper west coast states and western Canada; the Eastern
Division which has 449 stores along the upper east coast and New England states
and eastern Canada; the Southeastern Division which has 545 stores principally
covering the lower east and gulf coast states and Puerto Rico; and the South
Western Division with 513 stores in the plains and the lower west coast states.
The Paint Stores Segment opened 59 new stores in 1995, closed 16, relocated 44,
and re-merchandised 429, thereby completing the re-merchandising program which
began in 1993.
 
     All property within the Other Segment is owned by the Company except for 2
land leases in the Retail Properties Division and one property lease in the
Non-Retail Properties Division.
 

 
ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
     As previously reported in the Company's Quarterly Report for the period
ended June 30, 1993, on July 16, 1993, the United States Department of Justice,
on behalf of the United States Environmental Protection Agency, filed a
complaint against the Company in the United States District Court for the
Northern District of Illinois. The complaint alleges violations under various
environmental statutes concerning the Company's operations at its southeast
Chicago facility. The relief sought demands an undetermined amount of civil
penalties and further demands certain, unspecified corrective action be taken to
clean up the site.
 
ITEM 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
     None
 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
     The following table sets forth the names and ages of the current Executive
Officers, the positions and offices with the Company held by them as of February
29, 1996 and the date when each was first elected or appointed an Executive
Officer:
 

 
     Following is a brief account of each Executive Officer's business
experience with the Company during the last five year period:
 
     Mr. Breen has served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since June
1986 and has served as a Director since April 1979.
 

 
     Mr. Commes has served as President and Chief Operating Officer since June
1986 and has served as a Director since April 1980.
 
     Mr. Ault has served as Vice President -- Corporate Controller since January
1987.
 
     Mr. Butler has served as President & General Manager, Coatings Division
since February 1992 prior to which he served as President & General Manager,
Consumer Division commencing May 1984.
 
     Mr. Connor has served as President & General Manager, Diversified Brands
Division (formerly Specialty Division) since April 1994 prior to which he served
as Senior Vice President -- Marketing, Paint Stores Group commencing September
1992. From June 1986 to September 1992, Mr. Connor served as President & General
Manager, Western Division, Paint Stores Group.
 
     Mr. Ivy has served as Vice President -- Corporate Planning and Development
since April 1992 prior to which he served as Vice President and Treasurer
commencing January 1989.
 
     Mr. King has served as President & General Manager, Consumer Brands
Division since February 1992 prior to which he served as Vice President,
Director of Sales and Marketing, Consumer Division commencing June 1987.
 
     Mr. Kroeger has served as Vice President -- Human Resources since October
1987.
 
     Mr. Macatee has served as President, Paint Stores Group since September
1992 prior to which he served as President & General Manager, South Central
Division, Paint Stores Group commencing June 1986.
 
     Mr. Pitorak has served as Senior Vice President -- Finance, Treasurer and
Chief Financial Officer since April 1992 prior to which he served as Senior Vice
President -- Finance and Chief Financial Officer commencing July 1991. From
February 1988 to July 1991, Mr. Pitorak served as Vice President, General
Counsel and Secretary.
 
     Mr. Scaminace has served as President & General Manager, Automotive
Division since April 1994 prior to which he served as President & General
Manager, Specialty Division commencing September 1985.
 
     Mr. Stellato has served as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
since July 1991 prior to which he served as Assistant Secretary and Corporate
Director of Taxes commencing December 1989.
 
     There are no family relationships between any of the persons named.
 

 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5.   MARKET FOR COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
           STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
 
     Sherwin-Williams Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and
traded under the symbol SHW.
 
                      QUARTERLY STOCK PRICES AND DIVIDENDS
 

 
     The number of shareholders of record for Sherwin-Williams Common Stock, par
value $1.00 each, as of January 31, 1996 was 12,074. The closing market value
per share as listed on the New York Stock Exchange as of the close of business
on January 31, 1996 was $42.125.
 
ITEM 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
 

 
* Includes a reduction, beginning January 1, 1992, for the additional expense of
  accruing postretirement benefits. Such additional expense was $5.7 million
  after income taxes ($.06 per share) in 1992.
 
ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
           FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
HIGHLIGHTS
 
- --  Effective February 1, 1995, the Company acquired all outstanding shares of
    F.L.R. Paints, Incorporated thus acquiring the H&C(R) brand of high
    performance concrete stains and sealers.
 

 
- --  Effective August 29, 1995, the Company acquired the assets of Con-Lux
    Coatings, Inc., a manufacturer of environmentally-compliant, high
    performance chemical coatings, industrial maintenance and architectural
    finish products.
 
- --  Effective November 1, 1995, the Company acquired the assets of White
    Lightning Products Corp., a manufacturer of high quality caulks and
    sealants.
 
- --  Effective December 1, 1995, the Company acquired its licensee,
    Sherwin-Williams Argentina I.y C.S.A., one of the top three paint companies
    in the Argentine decorative coatings market.
 
- --  During the fourth quarter of 1995, an Agreement and Plan of Merger to
    acquire all outstanding shares of common stock, at a price of $35 per share,
    was entered into with Pratt & Lambert United, Inc. (Pratt & Lambert), a
    manufacturer of coatings and adhesives sold to independent dealers, mass
    merchandisers, home centers and specialty markets. On January 10, 1996, the
    merger was effected, making Pratt & Lambert a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
    Company.
 
FINANCIAL CONDITION -- 1995
 
     The Company generated more than $282.7 million in cash flow from operations
during 1995 and ended the year financially strong. The Company's financial
strength entering 1995 and the year's cash flow allowed us to take advantage of
the opportunity to make several key acquisitions and to increase the Company's
investments in property and equipment which enhance manufacturing and
distribution efficiency. The Consolidated Balance Sheets and Statements of
Consolidated Cash Flows, on pages 23 and 24 of this report, present more detail
of the Company's strong financial position and operating cash flow. Cash and
short-term investments increased $18.1 million to $269.5 million at December 31,
1995. Increases and decreases in other components of working capital occurred
primarily due to increased sales and moderate increases in manufacturing
activity. Total assets grew by $179 million during 1995 to $2.1 billion. The
current ratio of 2.0 remained constant at December 31, 1995 and 1994.
 
     Net property, plant and equipment increased $47.2 million from 1994.
Capital expenditures of $108.4 million and fixed assets acquired of $9.4 million
were partially offset by depreciation expense of $62.9 million and certain
retirements of assets. Capital expenditures in 1995 were principally for the
opening, remodeling or relocating of paint stores, the construction of
distribution service centers and the upgrading of manufacturing facilities and
research sites. Capital expenditures increased in the Paint Stores Segment
during 1995 primarily due to increased store openings. In the Coatings Segment,
capital expenditures increased due to completing the distribution service
centers in Fredericksburg, Pennsylvania and Richmond, Kentucky and costs of the
new powder coatings manufacturing facility currently under construction in
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. Capital expenditures also increased in the Other
Segment primarily due to renovation costs at certain of the Company's managed
properties. In 1996, the most significant capital expenditures planned relate to
installation of new point-of-sale terminals in the Company's paint stores and
improvements to a manufacturing facility of S-W Brazil. We plan to continue
investing strategically in upgrading or expanding existing facilities, including
those obtained through acquisition. We do not anticipate the need for any
specific external financing to support our capital programs.
 
     Intangible assets and other long-term investments associated with
acquisitions, including the Company's investment in its unconsolidated
subsidiary in Argentina, accounted for the majority of the increase in other
long-term assets. Intangible assets acquired during 1995 of $31.8 million
exceeded 1995 amortization expense of $15.0 million. The balance of deferred
pension assets of $233.6 million at December 31, 1995 represents the excess fair
market value of the assets of the defined benefit pension plans over the
actuarially-determined projected benefit obligations. The 1995 increase
represents the recognition of the current year net pension credit, whose
components are further described in Note 6 on page 30 of this report. Due to
decreased interest rates on high-quality, long-term investments, the assumed
discount rate used in computing the actuarial present value of the
 

 
benefit obligations of these plans was lowered to 7.25 percent at December 31,
1995, thereby increasing the unrecognized net loss of the plans. The
unrecognized net loss represents the cumulative unamortized portion of items
deferred in previous years due to changes in assumptions or actual results which
differed from estimates in those years. These items are amortized as a component
of the net pension credit over the average remaining service lives of the
employees in the plans beginning in the year following their deferral. The
actual return on plan assets of the defined benefit pension plans during 1995
exceeded the assumed asset earnings rate primarily due to actual returns
realized on equity investments. These excess earnings are also deferred, causing
an offsetting decrease to the cumulative unrecognized net loss amount. The
effects of these changes, combined with an increased asset base, will increase
the net pension credit in the coming year.
 
     The increase in long-term debt at December 31, 1995 was primarily due to
debt incurred on several 1995 acquisitions. Debt may be added to the Company
balance sheet if it exists on an acquired company and cannot be retired or if
debt instruments are issued to defer a portion of the purchase price provided
the seller. The Company did not incur any short-term borrowings during 1995 nor
incur any borrowings to finance current operations. As more fully explained in
Note 8, on page 33 of this report, the Company arranged additional financing
flexibility during 1995. In addition, in early 1996, the Company increased the
value of its commercial paper program to $600,000 and increased the value of its
shelf registration of debt securities to $450,000. Certain short-term borrowings
were incurred in January 1996 for the acquisition of Pratt & Lambert shares as
explained below and in Note 2, on page 28 of this report. It is expected that
the Company will remain in a borrowing position throughout 1996.
 
     The long-term liability for postretirement benefits increased from the
excess of the net postretirement benefit expense, as determined in accordance
with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 106, over the costs
for benefit claims incurred. The current portion of the accrued postretirement
benefit liability, amounting to $8.2 million at December 31, 1995, is included
in other accruals. Similar to the change in assumptions of the Company's defined
benefit pension plans, the assumed discount rate used to calculate the actuarial
present value of the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation was lowered
to 7.25 percent at December 31, 1995, causing a cumulative unrecognized net loss
for the postretirement plan. The effect of this change on the net postretirement
benefit expense for 1996 will be negligible as the cumulative unrecognized net
loss is below the threshold for required amortization. Plan amendments made
January 1, 1993 significantly reduced the accumulated postretirement benefit
obligation at that date, creating an unrecognized prior service credit. The
reduction of the annual postretirement benefit expense for these amendments
began in 1993 and will continue through 2004. See Note 7, on page 31 of this
report, for additional information concerning the Company's postretirement
benefit obligations.
 
     Other long-term liabilities include accruals for environmental-related
liabilities and other non-current items. The decrease in these liabilities at
December 31, 1995 is due to the fulfillment of certain obligations during 1995
and the reclassification of certain amounts to current liabilities. See Note 10,
on page 34 of this report, for additional information concerning the Company's
other long-term liabilities.
 
     The Company and certain other companies were named defendants in a number
of lawsuits arising from the manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead
paints. It is possible that additional lawsuits may be filed against the Company
in the future with similar allegations. The various existing lawsuits seek
damages for personal injuries and property damages, along with costs incurred to
abate the lead related paint from buildings. The Company believes that such
lawsuits are without merit and is vigorously defending them. The Company does
not believe that any potential liability ultimately determined to be
attributable to the Company arising out of such lawsuits will have a material
adverse effect on the Company's business or financial condition.
 
     The operations of the Company, like those of other companies in our
industry, are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and
regulations. These laws and regulations not only govern our current operations
and products, but also impose liability on the Company for past
 

 
operations which were conducted utilizing practices and procedures considered
acceptable under the laws and regulations existing at that time. The Company
expects environmental laws and regulations to impose increasingly stringent
requirements upon the Company and our industry in the future. The Company
believes it conducts its operations in compliance with applicable environmental
laws and regulations and has implemented various programs designed to protect
the environment and ensure continued compliance.
 
     The Company is involved with environmental compliance and remediation
activities at some of its current and former sites. The Company, together with
other parties, has also been designated a potentially responsible party under
federal and state environmental protection laws for the remediation of hazardous
waste at a number of third-party sites, primarily Superfund sites. The Company
may be similarly designated with respect to additional third-party sites in the
future.
 
     The Company accrues for certain environmental remediation activities
relating to its past operations and third-party sites, including Superfund
sites, for which commitments or clean-up plans have been developed or for which
costs or minimum costs can be reasonably estimated. The Company continuously
assesses its potential liability for remediation activities with respect to its
past operations and third-party sites. Any potential liability ultimately
determined to be attributable to the Company, however, is subject to a number of
uncertainties including, among others, the number of parties involved with
respect to any given site, the volumetric contribution which may be attributed
to the Company relative to that attributable to other parties, the nature and
magnitude of the wastes involved, and the method and extent of remediation. The
Company's environmental-related accruals are adjusted as information becomes
available upon which more accurate costs can be reasonably estimated. Actual
costs incurred may vary from these estimates due to the inherent uncertainties
involved.
 
     The Company is a defendant in a lawsuit filed by the United States
Department of Justice, on behalf of the United States Environmental Protection
Agency, regarding the Company's operations at its southeast Chicago facility.
The lawsuit, which alleges violations under various environmental statutes,
seeks an undeterminable amount of civil penalties and further demands that
certain, unspecified, corrective action be taken to clean up the site. The
Company is also a defendant in a lawsuit brought by PMC, Inc. regarding one of
the Company's former Chemical Division's manufacturing facilities. This facility
is located adjacent to the Company's southeast Chicago facility referenced above
and was sold to PMC, Inc. in 1985. PMC, Inc. is seeking an undisclosed amount
for environmental remediation costs and other damages based upon contractual and
tort theories, and under various environmental laws. The Company is vigorously
defending both of these lawsuits.
 
     With respect to the Company's southeast Chicago facility and its former
manufacturing facility adjacent thereto, both referenced above, the Company has
evaluated its potential liability and, based upon its preliminary evaluation,
has accrued an appropriate amount. However, due to the uncertainties surrounding
these facilities, the Company's ultimate liability may result in costs that are
significantly higher than currently accrued. In such event, the recording of the
liability may result in a significant impact on net income for the annual or
interim period during which the additional costs are accrued.
 
     In the opinion of the Company's management, any potential liability
ultimately attributed to the Company for its environmental-related matters will
not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition,
liquidity, cash flow or, except as set forth in the preceding paragraph, net
income. See Note 10, on page 34 of this report, for discussion of the
environmental-related accruals included in the Company's consolidated balance
sheets.
 
     Capital expenditures and expenses for ongoing environmental compliance
measures are included in the normal operating expenses of conducting business.
The Company's capital expenditures and other expenses for ongoing environmental
compliance measures were not material to the Company's financial condition or
net income during 1995, and the Company does not expect such capital
expenditures and other expenses to be material to the Company's financial
condition or net income in the future.
 

 
     Shareholders' equity increased $158.8 million during 1995 due primarily to
current year net income offset partially by dividends paid to shareholders. The
Company acquired 411,300 shares of its common stock in addition to shares
received in exchange for stock issued in accordance with the Company's stock
plans. Treasury stock amounting to 385,572 shares was issued to acquire the
assets of White Lightning Products Corp. We acquire our own stock for general
corporate purposes and, depending upon our cash position and market conditions,
we may acquire additional shares of stock in the future. See the Statements of
Consolidated Shareholders' Equity, on page 25 of this report, and Note 12, on
page 35 of this report, for equity and capital stock detail.
 
     In March 1995, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No.
121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived
Assets to be Disposed Of", which requires impairment losses to be recorded on
long-lived assets used in operations when indicators of impairment are present
and the undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated by those assets are
less than the assets' carrying amounts. Accounting for assets to be disposed is
also addressed by SFAS No. 121. The Company will adopt SFAS No. 121 during 1996
and, based on current circumstances, does not believe the effect of adoption
will be material.
 
     At a meeting held February 21, 1996, the Board of Directors increased the
quarterly dividend to $.175 per share. This represents the seventeenth
consecutive increase and a compounded rate of increase of 28.9 percent since the
dividend was reinstated in the fourth quarter of 1979. The 1995 annual dividend
of $.64 per share marked the sixteenth consecutive year that the dividend
approximated our payout ratio target of 30 percent of the prior year's earnings.
 
     The 1996 acquisition of Pratt & Lambert shares, for an approximate purchase
price of $400 million, will impact the short-term borrowing position of the
Company. The Company financed the merger through the use of available cash, a
$50 million floating term note and other available sources of financing. The
floating term note is accompanied by a two-year interest rate swap agreement.
The swap agreement involves the exchange of fixed and floating rate interest
payment obligations based upon a $50 million notional amount. Any market risk of
the swap agreement related to the fluctuation in interest rates will be offset
by a change to the interest payment obligation on the Company's floating term
note. Preliminary estimates of the fair market value of the net assets to be
recorded pursuant to the merger will approximate $58.3 million, with
approximately $337.6 million recorded as goodwill. These estimates are
tentative, pending completion of final appraisals. The goodwill ultimately
recorded for the purchase will be amortized over its estimated life. Immediately
after the merger, the Company repaid approximately $95 million of Pratt &
Lambert's outstanding debt via issuance of short-term commercial paper. See Note
2, on page 28 of this report, for further details of the merger, subsequent debt
repayment and related interest rate swap agreement.
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS -- 1995 VS 1994
 
     Consolidated net sales increased 5.6 percent, to $3.27 billion, over 1994
due primarily to volume and price increases in the Paint Stores Segment.
 
     Sales in the Paint Stores Segment increased 7.3 percent for the year as all
divisions achieved sales improvements, particularly in paint and paint-related
product lines. Comparable store sales increased 6.5 percent. Increased paint
gallons sold to wholesale customers, which includes professional painters,
contractors, and industrial and commercial maintenance accounts, generated the
majority of the sales increase. Volume sales to retail customers remained
sluggish. Selling price increases implemented to partially offset increased raw
materials costs also contributed to the sales improvements.
 
     External sales in the Coatings Segment increased 2.7 percent over 1994. The
Consumer Brands Division was the primary contributor to this sales increase due
to increased gallon sales, particularly in its Dutch Boy(R) brand. In the
Automotive Division, sales increases in the automotive branches were partially
offset by declines in two of its major product lines which resulted from soft
automotive aftermarket sales throughout 1995. Reduced consumer demand in the
custom, automotive and industrial markets led to flat sales as compared to 1994
in the Diversified Brands Division. Revenue for the real estate operations in
the Other Segment increased slightly for the year.
 

 
     Consolidated gross profit as a percent of sales was slightly lower than
1994, decreasing to 42.7 percent from 42.8 percent. Margins increased slightly
in the Paint Stores Segment due to gallon sales improvement combined with
successful implementation of supplemental selling price increases during the
year to partially offset increased costs for raw materials. The Coatings
Segment's margins were lower than 1994 due to the adverse effects of raw
material cost increases combined with a sales mix toward lower-margin products
in the Automotive Division and production volume decreases in the Diversified
Brands Division.
 
     Consolidated selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of
sales declined to 32.8 percent from 32.9 percent in 1994. The Paint Stores
Segment carefully contained SG&A spending throughout 1995, leading to favorable
SG&A costs as a percent of sales. The Coatings Segment's SG&A expenses as a
percent of sales were higher than 1994 primarily due to increased market
penetration costs for new customers in the Consumer Brands Division and to the
marginally higher sales amount.
 
     Consolidated operating profits increased 4.0 percent in 1995. In the Paint
Stores Segment, operating profits increased 12.7 percent over 1994 due to
increased volume and controlled SG&A spending. Operating profits in the Coatings
Segment improved 0.6 percent for the year. Increased raw material costs during
1995 combined with moderate production volume increases adversely impacted this
Segment's results. The operating profits of the Other Segment increased in 1995
due primarily to reduced interest expense on average long-term debt allocable to
its real estate operations combined with provisions incurred in 1994 for
disposition of certain non-retail properties. Corporate expenses increased in
1995 due primarily to various environmental and disposition provisions which are
not directly associated with or allocable to any individual segment. Refer to
pages 1 through 7 of this report for additional Business Segment information.
 
     Interest expense decreased 21.3 percent for the year due to reduced average
long-term debt resulting from normal maturities and 1994 debt purchases. As a
result, interest coverage increased to 126.8 times from 93.8 times in 1994. Our
fixed charge coverage, which is calculated using interest and rent expense,
improved to 4.2 times from 4.1 times in 1994.
 
     Interest and net investment income increased 40.1 percent in 1995 due
primarily to increased investment yields. Other costs and expenses decreased in
1995 primarily due to increased dividends and a net reduction of other expenses
as more fully described in Note 4 on page 29 of this report. The effective
income tax rate decreased in 1995, as shown in Note 14 on page 36 of this
report, primarily due to increased tax-exempt investment vehicles.
 
     Net income increased 7.5 percent in 1995 to $200.7 million from $186.6
million in 1994. Net income per share increased 8.8 percent to $2.34 from $2.15.
 
     We believe that the acquisition of Pratt & Lambert has long-term strategic
benefits for the Company and will be essentially earnings neutral for the year
1996.
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS -- 1994 VS 1993
 
     Consolidated net sales increased in 1994 by $150.8 million to $3.1 billion,
an increase of 5.1 percent. The growth in sales was driven primarily by gains in
the Paint Stores Segment.
 
     The Paint Stores Segment realized an 8.5 percent sales increase, despite
continued sluggish retail sales, as all operating divisions achieved sales
results better than the results of 1993. Comparable-store sales increased 7.8
percent. Strong emphasis was placed on store level pricing discipline, however,
continued competitive pressures allowed the implementation of only selective
price increases during the year. Most of the Segment's sales increase resulted
from increased paint gallons sold to wholesale customers, complemented by
wholesale sales increases in most other major product lines.
 
     Sales of the Coatings Segment were essentially flat for 1994. Reduced
demand by certain large customers as they adjusted their inventories downward
affected many of the divisions within the Segment. The Consumer Brands Division
also was impacted by the loss of a portion of the business of
 

 
a home center account. New customers added to our distribution base during 1994
partially offset the effect of the above declines. Improved 1994 sales for the
Automotive Division resulted primarily from sales growth in its branch
distribution network and strong gains at original equipment manufacturers.
Krylon(R) branded products provided the primary impetus for the improved sales
results of the Diversified Brands Division.
 
     Consolidated gross profit dollars were 6.0 percent higher than 1993 while
gross profit as a percent of sales increased to 42.8 percent from 42.5 percent
in 1993. The Paint Stores Segment's 1994 gross margin remained constant in
comparison to 1993. Despite continued sales mix shifts to lower-margin items in
the Diversified Brands and Automotive Divisions, manufacturing efficiencies,
stable raw material costs for most of the year, cost containment and a favorable
sales mix in the Segment's other divisions led to an increase in the Coatings
Segment's 1994 gross margin.
 
     Consolidated selling, general and administrative expenses decreased as a
percent of sales to 32.9 percent from 33.3 percent in 1993. The Paint Stores
Segment's SG&A costs as a percent of sales were below 1993 due primarily to
containment of selling and administrative expenses combined with the sales gain
achieved. The Coatings Segment's SG&A expenditures were approximately the same
in 1994 as in 1993. Due to this segment's flat sales, a slight increase in SG&A
costs as a percent of sales resulted.
 
     As a result of the above, consolidated operating profits increased 14.0
percent over 1993. The Paint Stores Segment's operating profits improved 20.3
percent due primarily to volume gains and the containment of SG&A costs. Despite
sluggish sales, the Coatings Segment's operating profits increased 3.4 percent
due primarily to the favorable edge in gross margin. The operating profits of
the Other Segment increased in comparison to 1993 due primarily to reduced
interest expense on long-term debt allocable to the real estate operations as a
result of various debt purchases. Corporate expenses, which are not directly
associated with or allocable to any operating segment, were approximately the
same as 1993.
 
     Total interest expense decreased 50.1 percent from 1993 due to purchases of
long-term debt and normal maturities. Correspondingly, our interest coverage
improved to 93.8 times in 1994 compared to 42.0 times in 1993. Our fixed charge
coverage, which is calculated using interest and rent expense, improved to 4.1
times in 1994 versus 3.7 times in 1993.
 
     Interest and net investment income increased 17.1 percent to $8.2 million
primarily as a result of increased investment yields partially offset by reduced
cash and short-term investment balances resulting primarily from the purchase of
common stock for treasury purposes during the year. Other costs and expenses
increased in 1994 primarily due to increased costs related to financing and
investing activities which are further explained in Note 4 on page 29 of this
report. As shown in Note 14, on page 36 of this report, the effective income tax
rate remained the same in 1994 as in 1993.
 
     Net income increased 12.9 percent to $186.6 million and net income per
share increased 16.2 percent to $2.15. Approximately $.04 of the increase in net
income per share over 1993 was due to the purchase of common stock for treasury
purposes at various times throughout 1994.
 

 
ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
 
Shareholders and Board of Directors
The Sherwin-Williams Company
Cleveland, Ohio
 
     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of The
Sherwin-Williams Company and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1995, 1994 and
1993, and the related statements of consolidated income, shareholders' equity
and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
1995. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed at Item
14(a). The financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the
Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
financial statements and schedule based on our audits.
 
     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
     In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of
The Sherwin-Williams Company and subsidiaries at December 31, 1995, 1994 and
1993, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1995, in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related
financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial
statements taken as a whole, presents farily, in all material respects, the
information set forth therein.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
Cleveland, Ohio
January 19, 1996
 

 
REPORT OF MANAGEMENT
 
Shareholders
The Sherwin-Williams Company
 
     We have prepared the accompanying consolidated financial statements and
related information included herein for the years ended December 31, 1995, 1994
and 1993. The primary responsibility for the integrity of the financial
information rests with management. This information is prepared in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles based upon our best estimates and
judgments and giving due consideration to materiality.
 
     The Company maintains accounting and control systems which are designed to
provide reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded from loss or
unauthorized use and which produce records adequate for preparation of financial
information. There are limits inherent in all systems of internal control based
on the recognition that the cost of such systems should not exceed the benefits
to be derived. We believe our system provides this appropriate balance.
 
     The Board of Directors pursues its responsibility for these financial
statements through the Audit Committee, composed exclusively of outside
directors. The Committee meets periodically with management, internal auditors
and our independent auditors to discuss the adequacy of financial controls, the
quality of financial reporting and the nature, extent and results of the audit
effort. Both the internal auditors and independent auditors have private and
confidential access to the Audit Committee at all times.
 

 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
     See "Item 14 -- Financial Statement Schedule, Reports on Form 8-K and
Exhibits" for the required Financial Statements.
 
ITEM 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
     None
 

 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10.   DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE
             REGISTRANT
 
     The information required by Item 10 regarding Directors is contained under
the caption "Election of Directors" in the Proxy Statement which will be filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission, pursuant to Regulation 14A, not
later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year, which information under
such caption is incorporated herein by reference.
 
     The information required by Item 10 regarding Executive Officers is
contained under the caption "Executive Officers of the Registrant" in Part I of
this Form 10-K which information under such caption is incorporated herein by
reference.
 
     The information required by Item 10 regarding certain significant employees
is contained under the captions "Corporate Officers of the Company" and
"Operating Managers of the Company" (excluding the Executive Officers) in the
Proxy Statement which information under such captions is incorporated herein by
reference.
 
ITEM 11.   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
     The information required by Item 11 is contained under certain captions and
tables in the Proxy Statement which information under such captions and tables
is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 12.   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL
             OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
     The information required by Item 12 is contained under the captions
"Security Ownership of Management" and "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
Owners" in the Proxy Statement which information under such captions is
incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 13.   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED
             TRANSACTIONS
 
     None
 

 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14.   FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE, REPORTS ON FORM 8-K AND EXHIBITS
 

 
(b) Reports on Form 8-K. The Company did not file any reports on Form 8-K during
    the quarter ended December 31, 1995.
 

 
                       STATEMENTS OF CONSOLIDATED INCOME
 
                  (Thousands of Dollars Except Per Share Data)
 

 
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 

 
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
                             (Thousands of Dollars)
 

 
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 

 
                     STATEMENTS OF CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS
 
                             (Thousands of Dollars)
 

 
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 

 
                STATEMENTS OF CONSOLIDATED SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
                             (Thousands of Dollars)
 

 
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 

 
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
               (Thousands of Dollars Unless Otherwise Indicated)
 
NOTE 1 -- SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
Consolidation. The consolidated financial statements include all significant
controlled subsidiaries. Inter-company accounts and transactions have been
eliminated.
 
Business segments. Business segment information appears on pages 1 through 7 of
this report.
 
Foreign currency translation. All consolidated foreign operations use the local
currency of the country of operation as the functional currency and translate
the local currency asset and liability accounts at year-end exchange rates while
income and expense accounts are translated at average exchange rates. The
resulting translation adjustments are accumulated as a separate component of
Shareholders' Equity titled "Cumulative foreign currency translation
adjustment".
 
Cash flows. The Company considers all highly liquid investments with a maturity
of three months or less when purchased to be cash equivalents.
 
Nature of operations. The Company is engaged in the manufacture, distribution
and sale of coatings and related products to professional, industrial,
commercial and retail customers primarily in North America.
 
Use of estimates. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and
accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
Environmental Matters. Capital expenditures for ongoing environmental compliance
measures are recorded in the consolidated balance sheets and related expenses
are included in the normal operating expenses of conducting business. The
Company is involved with environmental compliance and remediation activities at
some of its current and former sites and at a number of third-party sites. The
Company accrues for certain environmental remediation activities for which
commitments or clean-up plans have been developed or for which costs or minimum
costs can be reasonably estimated. All accrued amounts are recorded on an
undiscounted basis. See Note 4 and Note 10 for discussion of the
environmental-related expense and accruals included in the financial statements.
 
Property, plant and equipment. Property, plant and equipment is stated on the
basis of cost. Depreciation is provided principally by the straight-line method.
The major classes of assets and ranges of depreciation rates are as follows:
 

 
Investment in Life Insurance. The Company invests in broad-based corporate owned
life insurance. The cash surrender value of the policies, net of policy loans,
are included in Other Assets. The net expense associated with such investment is
included in Other Costs and Expenses. Such expense is immaterial to income
before income taxes.
 
Intangibles. Intangible assets were $122,862, $105,821 and $115,765, net of
accumulated amortization of $65,114, $62,744 and $49,562, at December 31, 1995,
1994 and 1993, respectively. These assets are amortized by the straight-line
method over the expected period of benefit. The Company reviews such assets for
impairment and revises the related estimated remaining lives if necessary.
 
Technical expenditures. Total technical expenditures include research and
development costs, quality control, product formulation expenditures and other
similar items. Research and development costs
 

 
included in technical expenditures were $17,238, $16,319 and $17,190 for 1995,
1994 and 1993, respectively.
 
Advertising expenses. The cost of advertising is expensed as incurred. The
Company incurred $152,588, $148,973 and $144,778 in advertising costs during
1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.
 
Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Standards. In March 1995, the Financial
Accounting Standards Board issued Statement No. 121, Accounting for the
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed Of,
which requires impairment losses to be recorded on long-lived assets used in
operations when indicators of impairment are present and the undiscounted cash
flows estimated to be generated by those assets are less than the assets'
carrying amounts. Statement 121 also addresses the accounting for long-lived
assets that are expected to be disposed of. The Company will adopt Statement 121
in the first quarter of 1996 and, based on current circumstances, does not
believe the effect of adoption will be material.
 
Net income per share. Net income per share was computed based on the average
number of shares and share equivalents outstanding during the year. See
computation on page 43 of this report.
 
Letters of credit. The Company occasionally enters into standby letter of credit
agreements to guarantee various operating activities. These agreements, which
expire in 1996, provide credit availability to the various beneficiaries if
certain contractual events occur. Amounts outstanding under these agreements
totaled $17,075, $20,091 and $24,656 at December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993,
respectively.
 
Fair value of financial instruments. The following methods and assumptions were
used by the Company in estimating its fair value disclosures for financial
instruments:
 
     Cash and cash equivalents: The carrying amounts reported in the
     consolidated balance sheets for cash and cash equivalents approximate fair
     value.
 
     Short-term investments: The carrying amounts reported in the consolidated
     balance sheets for marketable debt and equity securities are based on
     quoted market prices and approximate fair value.
 
     Investments in Securities: The Company maintains certain long-term
     investments in a fund to provide for payment of health care benefits of
     certain qualified employees. These investments are classified as
     held-to-maturity securities with the related carrying amounts included in
     Other Assets. The estimated fair values of these securities, shown below,
     are based on quoted market prices.
 

 
     Long-term debt (including current portion): The fair values of the
     Company's publicly traded debentures, shown below, are based on quoted
     market prices. The fair values of the Company's non-traded debt, also shown
     below, are estimated using discounted cash flow analyses, based on the
     Company's current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of
     borrowing arrangements.
 

 

 
     Interest rate swaps: The Company occasionally enters into interest rate
     swaps primarily to hedge against interest rate risks. These agreements
     generally involve the exchange of fixed and floating rate interest payment
     obligations without the exchange of the underlying principal amounts.
     Counterparties to these agreements are major financial institutions.
     Management believes the risk of incurring losses related to credit risk is
     remote.
 
          The fair values for the Company's off-balance-sheet instruments, shown
     below, are based on pricing models or formulas using current assumptions
     for comparable instruments. All fair value amounts shown represent a
     liability position at the respective date.
 

 
     Non-traded investments: It was not practicable to estimate the fair value
     of the Company's investment in certain non-traded investments because of
     the lack of quoted market prices and the inability to estimate fair values
     without incurring excessive costs. The carrying amounts, included in other
     assets, of $31,491, $18,829 and $25,778 at December 31, 1995, 1994 and
     1993, respectively, represent the Company's best estimate of current
     economic values of these investments.
 
Reclassification. Certain amounts in the 1994 and 1993 financial statements have
been reclassified to conform with the 1995 presentation.
 
NOTE 2 -- SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
 
     Acquisition. Effective January 8, 1996, the Company accepted for payment
10,825,550 shares of common stock (or approximately 96.3% of the total shares
outstanding) of Pratt & Lambert United, Inc. (Pratt & Lambert) pursuant to a
cash tender offer commenced on November 9, 1995 pursuant to the Agreement and
Plan of Merger dated as of November 4, 1995 (Merger Agreement) entered into
between the Company, SWACQ, Inc. (a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company) and
Pratt & Lambert. The terms of the Merger Agreement provided that the Company
would acquire all of the outstanding shares of Pratt & Lambert for a cash price
of $35 per share, or a total purchase price of approximately $400,000. Pursuant
to the laws of the State of New York, the merger was effected on January 10,
1996 (merger date) without a vote of the shareholders. Effective on the merger
date, SWACQ, Inc. was merged into Pratt & Lambert, making Pratt & Lambert a
wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. As a result of the merger, all shares
not tendered were converted into the right to receive $35 per share in cash,
without interest.
 
     The acquisition was financed through the use of available cash, a $50,000
floating term note and other available sources of financing. The floating term
note is accompanied by a two-year interest rate swap agreement which involves
the exchange of fixed and floating rate interest payment obligations without the
exchange of the underlying principal amount. The notional amount upon which the
interest is based is $50,000. Any market risk of the swap agreement related to
the fluctuation in interest rates will be offset by a change to the interest
payment obligation on the Company's floating term note.
 
     The merger will be accounted for under the purchase method of accounting,
and the results of operations of Pratt & Lambert will be included in the results
of operations of the Company beginning in 1996. Pratt & Lambert is principally
engaged in the production and sale of coatings and adhesives to the dealer, mass
merchandiser, home center and specialty markets. In August 1994, Pratt &
Lambert, Inc. merged with United Coatings, Inc., a supplier primarily to the
mass merchant market. Pratt & Lambert's annual sales during 1995 were
approximately $479,000.
 

 
     Debt Repayment. Subsequent to the merger, the Company repaid approximately
$95,000 of Pratt & Lambert's outstanding debt. The debt repayment was financed
through the issuance of short-term commercial paper. Depending on cash flows and
market conditions in 1996, a portion of the short-term commercial paper may be
refinanced into long-term debt.
 
NOTE 3 -- INVENTORIES
 
     Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined
principally on the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method which provides a better
matching of current costs and revenues. The following presents the effect on
inventories, net income and net income per share had the Company used the
first-in, first-out (FIFO) and average cost methods of inventory valuation
adjusted for income taxes at the statutory rate and assuming no other
adjustments. This information is presented to enable the reader to make
comparisons with companies using the FIFO method of inventory valuation.
 

 
NOTE 4 -- OTHER COSTS AND EXPENSES
 
     A summary of significant items included in other costs and expenses is as
follows:
 

 
     The net expense of financing and investing activities represents the
realized gains or losses associated with disposing of fixed assets, the net gain
or loss associated with the investment of certain long-term asset funds, the
premium associated with the retirement or acquisition of certain outstanding
9.875 percent debentures during 1993 and 1994, and, in 1994 and 1995, the net
pre-tax expense associated with the Company's investment in broad-based
corporate owned life insurance.
 
     During the three years ended December 31, 1995, provisions for
environmental remediation reflect the increased estimated costs of
environmental-related matters at current, former and third-party sites (see Note
10).
 
NOTE 5 -- DISPOSITION AND TERMINATION OF OPERATIONS
 
     The Company is continually re-evaluating its operating facilities with
regard to the long-term strategic goals established by management and the board
of directors. Operating facilities which are not expected to sufficiently
contribute to the Company's future plans are closed or sold.
 
     At the time of the decision to close or sell a facility, a provision is
made and the expense included in other costs and expenses to reduce property,
plant and equipment to its estimated net realizable value. Similarly, provisions
are made which reduce all other assets to their estimated net realizable values
and provide for all qualified exit costs such as lease cancellation penalties,
post-closure rent
 

 
expenses and incremental post-closure expenses, and the estimated costs of
employee termination benefits if management has approved a termination plan and
communicated such plan to the affected employees. The expenses associated with
the provisions for such exit costs and termination benefits are included in cost
of goods sold. Adjustments to all previous accruals, as closure or disposition
occurs, are included in other costs and expenses. In prior years, the provisions
for disposition, actual costs and accruals balances in the table below included
certain amounts for environmental-related matters. All such matters are now
disclosed together in Note 10.
 
     The provisions made in 1995 represent the reduction to net realizable value
for certain assets and exit costs associated with closing certain warehouses due
to distribution consolidations within the Company. In 1994, provisions were made
for the closing of certain warehouses which were replaced during 1995 by larger,
more efficient facilities. In 1993, provisions were made for the closing of
certain warehouses, small manufacturing facilities and selected unprofitable
retail paint stores as part of production and distribution consolidations.
 
     A summary of the financial data related to the closing or sale of the
facilities is as follows:
 

 
NOTE 6--PENSION BENEFITS
 
     Substantially all employees of the Company participate in noncontributory
defined benefit or defined contribution pension plans. Defined benefit plans
covering salaried employees provide benefits that are based primarily on years
of service and employees' compensation. The defined benefit plan covering hourly
employees generally provides benefits of stated amounts for each year of
service. Multi-employer plans are primarily defined benefit plans which provide
benefits of stated amounts for union employees. The Company's funding policy for
defined benefit pension plans is to fund at least the minimum annual
contribution required by applicable regulations. Plan assets consist primarily
of cash, equity and fixed-income securities. There were 969,400 shares of the
Company's stock included in these assets at December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993.
 
     Due to decreased rates of high-quality long-term investments, the assumed
discount rate was changed December 31, 1995, increasing the projected benefit
obligation. The decreased interest rates during 1995 positively impacted the
return on plan assets in the defined benefit pension trusts. The effect of the
change in the assumed discount rate and the increased earnings on plan assets
resulted in a net decrease in the unrecognized net loss, whose amortization will
be reduced beginning in 1996. Changes in the assumed discount rate and rate of
return on plan assets at December 31, 1994 and 1993 previously increased the
unrecognized net loss, whose amortization in 1995 and 1994, respectively,
reduced the net pension credit.
 

 
     The net pension credit for defined benefit plans and its components was as
follows:
 

 
     Based on the latest actuarial information available, the following table
sets forth the funded status and amounts recognized in the Company's
consolidated balance sheets for the defined benefit pension plans:
 

 
     The Company's annual contribution for its defined contribution pension
plans, which is based on a level percentage of compensation for covered
employees, offset the pension credit by $20,326 for 1995, $20,193 for 1994 and
$19,809 for 1993. The cost of multiemployer and foreign plans charged to income
was immaterial for the three years ended December 31, 1995.
 
NOTE 7 -- BENEFITS OTHER THAN PENSIONS
 
     In addition to providing pension benefits, the Company provides certain
health care and life insurance benefits under company-sponsored plans for active
and retired employees. The health care plans are contributory and contain
cost-sharing features such as deductibles and coinsurance. There were 14,823,
14,160 and 13,883 active employees entitled to receive benefits under these
plans as of December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively. The cost of these
benefits for active employees is recognized as claims are incurred and amounted
to $37,194, $32,694 and $35,597 for 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively. The
Company has a fund, to which it no longer intends to contribute, that provides
for payment of health care benefits of certain qualified employees.
Distributions from the fund amounted to $5,265 in 1995, $4,662 in 1994 and
$5,719 in 1993.
 
     Substantially all employees of the Company who were hired prior to January
1, 1993 and who are not members of a collective bargaining unit are eligible for
certain health care and life insurance benefits upon retirement from active
service with the Company. There were 4,008, 4,093 and 4,126
 

 
retired employees entitled to receive benefits as of December 31, 1995, 1994 and
1993, respectively. The plans are unfunded.
 
     The assumed discount rate used in determining the actuarial present value
of the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation was 7.25% in 1995 and 1993
and 8.25% in 1994. The change in the assumed discount rate at December 31, 1995,
caused by decreased interest rates of high-quality long-term investments,
increased the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation, the effect of which
increased the unrecognized net loss. Amortization of the loss will begin in
1996. The assumed weighted-average annual rate of increase in the per capita
cost of covered benefits (i.e., the health care cost trend rate) is 8.5 percent
for 1996 and decreases gradually to 5.5 percent for 2003 and thereafter. The
assumed health care cost trend rate was lowered one percentage point at December
31, 1993 for each year thereafter, which decreased the accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation. The health care cost trend rate has a
significant effect on the amounts reported. To illustrate, increasing the
assumed health care cost trend rate by one percentage point in each year would
increase the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation as of December 31,
1995 by $11,667 and the aggregate service and interest cost components of net
periodic postretirement benefit cost for 1995 by $1,036.
 
     Based on the latest actuarial information available, the following table
sets forth the amounts recognized in the Company's consolidated balance sheets
for postretirement benefits other than pensions:
 

 

 
NOTE 8 -- LONG-TERM DEBT
 
     Maturities of long-term debt are as follows for the next five years: $755
in 1996; $662 in 1997; $467 in 1998; $2,506 in 1999; and $1,178 in 2000.
 
     Interest expense on long-term debt amounted to $2,387, $2,768 and $6,136
for 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively. There were no interest charges
capitalized during the periods presented.
 
     The Company had the following other financing arrangements available at
December 31, 1995 outlined below. There were no outstanding borrowings under
these arrangements at the end of 1995.
 
     Under a 364-day revolving credit agreement with a group of thirteen banks
effective August 31, 1995, the Company may borrow up to $100,000. The agreement
may be extended for additional 364-day periods under the terms thereof.
 
     Under a five-year revolving credit agreement with the same group of
thirteen banks effective August 31, 1995, as amended November 30, 1995, the
Company may borrow up to $500,000. The agreement may be extended for additional
one-year periods under the terms thereof. Amounts outstanding under the
agreement may be converted into two-year term loans at any time.
 
     Both revolving credit agreements contain net worth and certain
non-financial covenants. There are no compensating balance arrangements.
 
     The Company has a commercial paper program under which $280,000 aggregate
principal amount of unsecured short-term notes can be issued.
 
     Under a shelf registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission
covering $200,000 of unsecured debt securities with maturities ranging from nine
months to thirty years, the Company may issue securities from time to time in
one or more series and will offer the securities on terms determined at the time
of sale.
 
     Subsequent to the date of the financial statements, the Company issued a
$50,000 term note and approximately $205,000 in other available sources of
financing as more fully explained in Note 2.
 
NOTE 9 -- LEASES
 
     The Company leases certain stores, warehouses, office space and equipment.
Renewal options are available on the majority of leases and, under certain
conditions, options exist to purchase some properties. Rental expense for
operating leases was $95,536, $93,637 and $91,672 for 1995, 1994 and 1993,
respectively. Certain store leases require the payment of contingent rentals
based on sales in excess of specified minimums. Contingent rentals included in
rent expense were $9,102 in 1995, $8,985
 

 
in 1994 and $9,234 in 1993. Rental income, as lessor, from real estate leasing
activities and sublease rental income for all years presented was not
significant.
 
     Following is a schedule, by year and in the aggregate, of future minimum
lease payments under noncancellable operating leases having initial or remaining
terms in excess of one year at December 31, 1995:
 

 
NOTE 10 -- OTHER LONG-TERM LIABILITIES
 
     Other long-term liabilities consist of the following:
 

 
     The Company has provided for the estimated costs associated with
environmental remediation activities at some of its current and former sites.
Also, the Company, together with other parties, has been designated a
potentially responsible party under federal and state environmental protection
laws for the remediation of hazardous waste at a number of third-party sites,
primarily Superfund sites. In general, these laws provide that potentially
responsible parties may be held jointly and severally liable for investigation
and remediation costs regardless of fault. The Company provides for its
estimated potential liability for investigation and remediation costs with
respect to such third-party sites.
 
     The Company initially provides for the estimated cost of certain
environmental-related activities relating to its current, former and third-party
sites when minimum costs can be reasonably estimated. These estimates are
determined based on currently-available facts regarding each site. If the best
estimate of costs can only be identified within a range and no specific amount
within that range can be determined more likely than any other amount within the
range, the minimum of the range is accrued. Actual costs incurred may vary from
these estimates due to the inherent uncertainties involved. The Company believes
that any additional liability in excess of amounts provided which may result
from the resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on
the financial condition, liquidity or cash flow of the Company.
 
     In addition to the long-term portion of environmental-related accruals
shown above, current accruals for certain environmental-related liabilities
associated with current, former and third-party sites are included in other
accruals in current liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets.
 
NOTE 11 -- STOCK PURCHASE PLAN
 
     As of December 31, 1995, 11,203 employees participated through regular
payroll deductions in the Company's Employee Stock Purchase and Savings Plan.
The Company's contribution charged to income amounted to $26,795, $22,242 and
$20,658 for 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively. Additionally, the Company made
contributions on behalf of participating employees, which represent salary
 

 
reductions for income tax purposes, amounting to $12,775 in 1995, $11,456 in
1994 and $10,335 in 1993.
 
     At December 31, 1995, there were 13,075,095 shares of the Company's stock
being held by this plan, representing 15.3 percent of the total number of shares
outstanding. Shares of company stock credited to each member's account under the
plan are voted by the trustee under confidential instructions from each
individual plan member. Shares for which no instructions are received are voted
by the trustee in the same proportion as those for which instructions are
received.
 
NOTE 12 -- CAPITAL STOCK
 

 
     An aggregate of 4,889,865, 5,663,772 and 4,087,364 shares of stock at
December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively, were reserved for future
restricted stock grants, the exercise and future grants of stock options, and,
prior to their expiration in February 1995, the conversion of convertible
subordinated debentures. At December 31, 1995, there were 300,000,000 shares of
common stock and 30,000,000 shares of serial preferred stock authorized for
issuance.
 
     The Company has a shareholders' rights plan which designates 1,000,000
shares of the authorized serial preferred stock as cumulative redeemable serial
preferred stock which may be issued if the Company becomes the target of
coercive and unfair takeover tactics.
 
NOTE 13 -- STOCK PLAN
 
     The Company's stock plan permits the granting of stock options, stock
appreciation rights and restricted stock to eligible employees. The 1994 Stock
Plan succeeded the 1984 Stock Plan which expired on February 15, 1994. Although
no further grants may be made under the 1984 Stock Plan, all rights granted
under such plan remain. The 1994 Stock Plan authorized an additional 2,000,000
shares to be added to authorized shares of the 1984 Stock Plan which were not
granted as of the 1984 Stock Plan's expiration date. Non-qualified and incentive
stock options have been granted to certain officers and key employees under the
plans at prices not less than fair market value of the shares, as
 

 
defined by the plans, at the date of grant. The options generally become
exercisable to the extent of one-third of the optioned shares for each full year
of employment following the date of grant and generally expire ten years after
the date of grant.
 
     Restricted stock grants, with an outstanding balance of 186,000 shares at
December 31, 1995, were awarded to certain officers and key employees which
require four years of continuous employment from the date of grant before
receiving the shares without restriction. The number of shares to be received
without restriction is based on the Company's performance relative to a peer
group of companies. There were 104,000 and 121,500 shares issued without
restriction pursuant to these grants during 1995 and 1993, respectively.
Unamortized deferred compensation expense with respect to the restricted stock
amounted to $4,024 at December 31, 1995, $1,612 at December 31, 1994 and $3,760
at December 31, 1993 and is being amortized over the four-year vesting period.
Deferred compensation expense aggregated $1,563, $1,416 and $3,271 in 1995, 1994
and 1993, respectively. No stock appreciation rights have been granted.
 

 
NOTE 14--INCOME TAXES
 
     The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 109 (SFAS No. 109), "Accounting for Income
Taxes". Under SFAS No. 109, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined
based on differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and
liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that are
currently in effect.
 
     Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences
between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting
purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components of
the Company's deferred tax liabilities and assets as of December 31, 1995, 1994
and 1993 are as follows:
 

 

 
     Significant components of the provisions for income taxes are as follows:
 

 
     A reconciliation of the statutory federal income tax rate and the effective
tax rate follows:
 

 
     It is the Company's intention to reinvest undistributed earnings of foreign
subsidiaries; accordingly, no deferred income taxes have been provided thereon.
At December 31, 1995, such undistributed earnings amounted to $4,500. Included
in the Company's deferred tax assets are valuation reserves of $17,784, $14,021
and $9,758 at December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively, resulting from the
uncertainty as to future recognition of certain foreign net operating losses and
other foreign assets.
 
NOTE 15--SUMMARY OF QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED)
 

 
     Year-end adjustments during the fourth quarter of $1,565 increased net
income by $1,017 ($.01 per share). Cost of goods sold decreased by a net of
$8,268 ($5,374 after-tax, $.06 per share) as a result of physical inventory
adjustments of $13,528 ($8,793 after-tax, $.10 per share) which were partially
offset by certain provisions for the disposition and termination of operations
of $5,260 ($3,419 after-tax, $.04 per share). Administrative expenses were
increased by $60 ($39 after-tax, no per share effect) due to other year-end
adjustments. Other costs and expenses increased $6,643 ($4,318 after-tax, $.05
per share) due to the provisions for environmental-related matters at certain
current, former and third-party sites of $7,136 ($4,638 after-tax, $.05 per
share) which were partially
 

 
offset by reductions to prior accruals for the disposition and termination of
operations of $493 ($320 after-tax, no per share effect).
 

 
     Net income for the fourth quarter was reduced $809 ($.01 per share) due to
certain year-end adjustments. A net decrease in cost of goods sold resulted from
physical inventory adjustments of $19,017 ($12,361 after-tax, $.14 per share)
which were partially offset by certain provisions for the disposition and
termination of operations of $13,600 ($8,840 after-tax, $.10 per share). A net
increase in administrative expenses due to other year-end adjustments of $2,150
($1,398 after-tax, $.01 per share) and in other costs and expenses due to the
remaining provisions for the disposition and termination of operations of $1,812
($1,178 after-tax, $.02 per share) and provisions for environmental remediation
at certain sites of $2,700 ($1,755 after-tax, $.02 per share) more than offset
the gain in cost of goods sold.
 
VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES
(SCHEDULE II)
 
     Changes in the allowance for doubtful accounts are as follows:
 

 
     Activity related to other asset reserves:
 

 
     Charges to expense consist primarily of amortization of intangibles and, in
1994, adjustments to reduce certain assets to their estimated net realizable
values. Other additions (deductions) consist primarily of actual costs incurred
and balance sheet reclassifications and, in 1995, removal of fully-amortized
items.
 

 
     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, in the City of
Cleveland, and State of Ohio, on the 13th day of March, 1996.
 
THE SHERWIN-WILLIAMS COMPANY
 
By: /s/        L. E. STELLATO
    ------------------------------------------
         L. E. Stellato, Secretary
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons in the capacities
indicated on March 13, 1996.
 

 

 

 
* The undersigned, by signing his name hereto, does sign this report on behalf
  of the designated Officers and Directors of The Sherwin-Williams Company
  pursuant to Powers of Attorney executed on behalf of each such Officer and
  Director.
 

 

 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

 

 

 

