
10-K405
THE SHERWIN-WILLIAMS COMPANY     10-K405



 
================================================================================
 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                          ----------------------------
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
                ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996
 
                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-4851
                          ----------------------------
 
                          THE SHERWIN-WILLIAMS COMPANY
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)
 
                                      OHIO
         (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)

                                   34-0526850
                      (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
 
                   101 PROSPECT AVENUE, N.W., CLEVELAND, OHIO
                    (Address of principal executive offices)

                                   44115-1075
                                   (Zip Code)
 
                                 (216) 566-2000
               Registrant's telephone number, including area code
             ------------------------------------------------------
 
          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
 

 
          Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                                      None
 
     Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant: (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.   Yes X   No  _
 
     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ X ]
 
     At January 31, 1997, 172,155,968 shares of the Registrant's Common Stock,
with a par value of $1.00 each, were outstanding, net of treasury shares. The
aggregate market value of such voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant at that date was $4,744,253,442. The number of shares of Common Stock
has been restated to reflect the effect of the Company's two-for-one stock split
to be distributed on or about March 28, 1997.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
     Definitive Proxy Statement dated March 12, 1997 relating to certain
information required to be disclosed in Part III.
 
================================================================================

 
                          THE SHERWIN-WILLIAMS COMPANY
                         AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
     As used in this Form 10-K, the terms "Company" and "Registrant" mean The
Sherwin-Williams Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, taken as a whole,
unless the context indicates otherwise.
 
                                

 
                       NOTE ON INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
 
     In Part III of this Form 10-K, various information and data are
incorporated by reference from the Company's Definitive Proxy Statement dated
March 12, 1997 ("Proxy Statement"). Any reference in this Form 10-K to
disclosures in the Proxy Statement shall constitute incorporation by reference
only of that specific information and data into this Form 10-K.
 
                                PRELIMINARY NOTE
 
     References contained in this Form 10-K to the number or value of shares of
the Company's Common Stock (including per share data) have been restated to
reflect the effect of the two-for-one stock split to be distributed on or about
March 28, 1997 to shareholders of record on March 3, 1997.

 
                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1.   BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS
 
     The Sherwin-Williams Company, which was first incorporated under the laws
of the State of Ohio eighteen years after its founding in 1866, is engaged in
the manufacture, distribution and sale of coatings and related products to
professional, industrial, commercial and retail customers in North and South
America.
 
PAINT STORES SEGMENT
 
     The Paint Stores Segment is the exclusive distributor of
Sherwin-Williams(R) branded architectural coatings, industrial maintenance
products, industrial finishes and related items produced by the Coatings Segment
of the Company and others. The Paint Stores Segment is also a distributor of
similar coatings and other products manufactured by third parties. Paint,
wallcoverings, floorcoverings, window treatments, spray equipment and other
associated products are marketed by store personnel and direct sales
representatives to the do-it-yourself customer, professional painter,
contractor, industrial and commercial maintenance customer, property manager,
architect and manufacturer of products requiring a factory finish. Competitors
of the Segment are other paint and wallpaper stores, mass merchandisers, home
centers, independent hardware stores, hardware chains and manufacturer-operated
outlets. Product quality, service and price determine the competitive advantage
in the highly fragmented paint product market. The loss of any single customer
would not have a material adverse effect on the business of the Segment.
 
     During 1996, the Paint Stores Segment integrated a number of acquired
businesses. The Segment obtained 27 stores as part of the Pratt & Lambert
United, Inc. (Pratt & Lambert) acquisition and also completed various other
acquisitions, including Pro-Line Paint Company, Seagrave Coatings Corporation,
Mercury Paint Company and Brod-Dugan Company. The Pro-Line and Seagrave
acquisitions provide the Segment with expanded presence in the industrial and
marine markets, while the Mercury and Brod-Dugan acquisitions add 25 stores
selling well-known and respected brands to contractors and retail customers.
 
     The Segment's base business performed exceptionally well during 1996.
LowTemp 35(TM) Exterior Latex Paint, a high quality exterior latex paint which
can be applied in temperatures as low as 35 degrees Fahrenheit, was one of many
new products introduced during 1996. This product was selected by the editors of
"Today's Homeowner" magazine as one of the fifty best new products for 1997. The
editorial staff of the magazine conducted a yearlong search for the best new
products based on characteristics such as innovation, quality, durability, ease
of use, price, warranty and environmental friendliness. LowTemp 35(TM) exhibited
the desired attributes and was selected as the most innovative new paint
product. After receiving this same award for its EverClean(R) product line in
1995, the Segment was especially honored to receive such high recognition for
the second consecutive year.
 
     In 1997, the Segment will continue to capitalize on its achievements and
product knowledge by further enhancement of existing products and continued
introduction of new and innovative products. Over thirty new products will be
introduced in the coming year, including a new family of interior primers under
the Prep-Rite(TM) label. These primers will have labels which will clearly
instruct the consumer to use the right primer based on the type of surface to be
painted. Advertising campaigns will highlight many of these new products while
continuing to emphasize the Segment's existing superior-quality products. In
addition, following the successful print advertising campaign in 1996 which
highlighted the Segment's increased wallcovering product selection and its
readily-accessible customer service team, advertising will be expanded in 1997
to include national television promotion of the Segment's wallcovering product
line and its low-price guarantee available at all Sherwin-Williams' stores.
 

 
COATINGS SEGMENT
 
     The five divisions within the Coatings Segment (Coatings, Consumer Brands,
Automotive, Transportation Services and Diversified Brands) participate in the
manufacture, distribution and/or sale of coatings and related products.
 
     The Segment has sales to certain customers that, individually, may be a
significant portion of its revenues. However, the loss of any single customer
would not have a material adverse effect on the overall business of the Segment.
All technical expenditures are sponsored by the Company and occur in the
Coatings Segment. The expenditures for research and development appear on page
29 of this report.
 
COATINGS DIVISION
 
     In the United States, the Coatings Division manufactures paint and
paint-related products for do-it-yourself customers, professional painters,
contractors, industrial and commercial maintenance accounts, and manufacturers
of factory finished products. Sherwin-Williams(R) branded architectural and
industrial finishes are manufactured exclusively for the Paint Stores Segment.
Labels, color cards, traffic paint, adhesives, private label and other branded
products are manufactured for the Paint Stores Segment, the Consumer Brands
Division and other divisions of the Company. Competitive factors for the
Division are product innovation, manufactured product quality, service,
distribution and price. Domestic competitors of the Division consist of other
coatings manufacturers located throughout the United States. There are
approximately 900 such manufacturers at the regional and national levels. The
Coatings Division continues to strive to be the lowest cost producer of high
quality coatings to gain an advantage over its competitors.
 
     Worldwide, there are many competitors in each of the foreign markets served
by the Division as it manufactures, distributes and sells its products through
wholly-owned subsidiaries, joint ventures and licensees of technology,
trademarks and trade names. During 1996, the Division assumed the management of
the architectural paints and coatings business of Globo S.A. Tintas e Pigmentos
located in Brazil and the industrial coatings portion of the Stierling Group of
companies located in the Republic of Chile, after the Company's acquisition of
such businesses. At December 31, 1996, the Division included 9 subsidiaries and
joint ventures in 8 foreign countries and 37 licensing agreements in 30 foreign
countries. The majority of the sales from licensees and subsidiaries are in
South America, the Division's strongest international market. New licensing
agreements were signed in the Dominican Republic and Vietnam in 1996. In
addition, new licensees in Argentina, China and Greece were obtained through the
Pratt & Lambert acquisition. In 1997, the Division will continue to develop new
business internationally by following a predetermined regional approach for the
establishment of subsidiaries, joint ventures and licensees in selected
countries.
 
     During 1996, the Coatings Division focused on integrating the operations of
Pratt & Lambert and several smaller domestic acquisitions into its own
operations. The integration benefits included the consolidation and overhead
cost synergies while producing record gallon output. The Division's priorities
for foreign acquisitions were to lower the cost of production through
manufacturing efficiencies, better manufactured product quality, and improved
service and distribution. The Division also continued to expand its powder
coatings operations during 1996, completing construction of a new plant in
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania and obtaining a new plant as part of the Pratt &
Lambert transaction. The Division's first powder coatings plant in Fort Wayne,
Indiana obtained ISO 9001 certification of its quality control system.
 
     In 1997, the Division will continue to integrate the manufacturing
facilities obtained in 1996 as well as the manufacturing facility the Division
obtained in January 1997 as part of the Thompson Minwax Holding Corp. (Thompson
Minwax) acquisition. The integration of the acquired plants into the existing
organization requires an analysis of the strategic fit of each of the Division's
facilities, acquired and existing, in relation to the total manufacturing
capability of the Division. Those facilities that do not fit well into the
strategic plan will be closed and their production transferred to more
 

 
efficient, more strategically located plants. As part of the analysis of the
strategic fit of each facility, the Coatings Division will complete the closing
of certain non-strategic facilities in 1997, while increasing the capacity and
efficiency of other facilities. When the rationalization is completed, the
Division will undergo a complete logistics and product sourcing review to
further improve the efficiency of the manufacturing and distribution network.
Throughout 1997, the Division also plans to continue its heightened research and
development activities through new process developments that bring the
manufacturing of products closer to the end user and through increased support
of new product introductions.
 
CONSUMER BRANDS DIVISION
 
     The Consumer Brands Division is responsible for the sales and marketing of
branded and private label products by a direct sales staff to unaffiliated home
centers, mass merchandisers, independent dealers and distributors. Many of the
country's leading retailers are among the Division's regional and national
customers. The Division's competition for sales to these leading retailers comes
from over 400 regional and national paint manufacturers and distributors of
branded and private label paint and associated products. The competitive factors
that set the leaders apart from the rest are service, brand recognition,
distribution and price.
 
     The acquisition of Pratt & Lambert provided the Division sales and
marketing responsibility over the Pratt & Lambert(R), Fabulon(R) and M.L.
Campbell(R) brands. In addition to expanding sales of branded products through
independently-owned paint and decorator stores, the acquisition enabled the
Division to significantly enlarge its distribution of private label products in
the mass merchandiser and home center channels. The home center channel
continues to consolidate, creating competition for the business of the best
regional and national home centers. The Division has been successful in
targeting the majority of the strong home centers. The Division's launch of the
Ralph Lauren(TM) paint line was highly successful in 1996, with distribution
through both the independent store and home center channels. The Division
created the color palette for this upscale paint line and provides the technical
expertise for the easy-to-use textural finishes that represent a breakthrough
development for the paint industry.
 
     In 1997, the Division will introduce several new products, including the
launch of a new line of paints under the Martha Stewart(TM) label in early
spring. In addition, the acquisition of Thompson Minwax will add the full line
of Thompson's(R) exterior stains and sealants to enhance the Division's position
in the market for both wood stains and concrete coatings. These products are an
excellent balance with the Division's existing Cuprinol(R) wood stains and
H&C(R) concrete coatings lines. The acquisition of Thompson Minwax will also
assist the Division in expanding internationally, as it will add a line of
interior varnishes and exterior stains under the Ronseal(TM) brand name in the
United Kingdom and Ireland. Marketing programs for 1997 will target these new
lines in addition to continued advertising of the Division's Dutch Boy(R), Pratt
& Lambert(R) and other brands.
 
AUTOMOTIVE DIVISION
 
     The Automotive Division develops, manufactures and markets motor vehicle
finish and refinish products under the Sherwin-Williams(R) and other branded
labels in the United States and Canada through its network of 135
company-operated branches at December 31, 1996. The branches are supported by a
direct sales staff. Products are also marketed through independent jobbers and
wholesale distributors. The Division is the sole distributor of Standox(R)
branded vehicle refinishing paints in the United States and Canada for American
Standox, Inc., a joint venture. The Division sells directly to independent
automotive body shops, automotive dealerships, fleet owners and refinishers,
production shops, body builders and manufacturers requiring a factory finish
(OEM). A subsidiary in Jamaica generally markets a full line of products.
Products manufactured in Kingston, Jamaica are sold through 9 stores and other
dealers and by a direct sales force to independent dealers, painters,
contractors, automotive body shops and industrial and commercial maintenance
accounts in Jamaica. A portion of the income for the Division comes from the
licensing of technology, trademarks and trade
 

 
names to foreign companies. The Division has 12 licensees in 14 foreign
countries, including a new agreement signed in Indonesia in 1996. Key
competitive factors for the Automotive Division are technology, product quality,
distribution and service. The Automotive Division has numerous competitors in
its domestic and foreign markets with broad product offerings and several others
with niche products. Strong distribution and high quality products have been the
Division's greatest competitive advantages.
 
     The Division's international operations grew substantially in 1996.
Productos Quimicos y Pinturas, S.A. de C.V. and its affiliated companies were
acquired in January 1996, expanding the Division's presence in the Mexican
market with the highly recognized Excelo(TM) brand products. In May 1996,
Lazzuril Tintas S/A, a Brazilian automotive coatings company, was acquired. Late
in 1996, the Division assumed the management of the automotive coatings business
of the Stierling Group of companies, a leading producer of automotive coatings
in Chile. The addition of these businesses in Mexico and South America will
positively impact the Division's name recognition in these areas, providing the
opportunity for future growth.
 
     During 1996, the Division's domestic business concentrated on continued
improvement in product quality and color matching technology, achieving much
success. The Division also increased its presence in automotive racing circuits
promoting its Ultra 7000(R) product line. The Division sponsored two
high-performance dragsters which appeared in races throughout the U.S. The
dragsters are painted to match the Ultra 7000(R) black and rainbow product
labels, providing an opportunity for the painting technicians and fans of those
racing circuits to see the Division's products.
 
     In 1997, the Division will seek to expand its OEM business through
commercialization of new interior waterborne coatings and exterior accessory
coatings. The Division will continue to emphasize its improved color-matching
capabilities to all markets as well as its commitment to developing new
technology. Recent technological advancements have also assisted the Division in
the development of new products with lower volatile organic compound (VOC)
content to meet new regulations which will be effective in mid-1997. The
Division's sales force will receive extensive training in early 1997 on changes
in product attributes of these new VOC-compliant products and related
application techniques which they can provide to the Division's customers. This
commitment to improved products, technology and training enhances the Division's
position for continued growth.
 
TRANSPORTATION SERVICES DIVISION
 
     The Transportation Services Division provides warehousing, truckload
freight, pool assembly, freight brokerage and consolidation services primarily
for the Company and for certain external manufacturers, distributors and
retailers throughout the United States and Canada. This Division provides the
Company with total logistics service support which allows increased delivery
schedules, lower field inventory levels and fewer out-of-stocks.
 
     The Transportation Services Division has many different and diverse
competitors. In the trucking industry, there are a few large carriers having
small or moderate market share while thousands of other carriers compete for the
balance of the market. The warehousing and distribution service market is
characterized by a large number of competitors with none having dominant share.
Since the primary business of the Division is to provide services for the
Company's other divisions, gaining market share is not an objective.
 
     The Division spent the majority of 1996 integrating and consolidating the
distribution centers obtained through the Pratt & Lambert acquisition into its
existing distribution network. Consolidation efforts were successful, allowing
the Division to achieve logistic and distribution synergies while continuing to
meet strong demand. In its ongoing endeavor to improve distribution efficiency,
a state-of-the-art truck routing software package was installed during 1996.
This routing package represents a computerized fleet planning device which
provides optimal loading, delivery and route information based on daily
distribution requirements, thereby lowering overall costs.
 

 
     In 1997, the Division will integrate the Thompson Minwax traffic functions
into the existing network and continue to strive for increased productivity and
efficiency in distribution by implementing a supply chain management system.
This system will evaluate service quality based on criteria such as timeliness,
dispatch effectiveness and service levels. When combined with the routing
software package installed in 1996, the Division will be able to more
efficiently monitor its distribution functions from start to finish. The
Division will also continue its consolidation of distribution centers into
larger regional locations. Construction of a 695,000 square foot
state-of-the-art distribution service center in Reno, Nevada is scheduled to
begin in early 1997, which will allow for the consolidation of four existing
centers in the northern Nevada area.
 
DIVERSIFIED BRANDS DIVISION
 
     The Diversified Brands Division competes in the following areas: retail and
wholesale consumer aerosols; custom and industrial aerosols; paint applicators;
and cleaning products. The Division participates in the retail and wholesale
paint, automotive, homecare products, institutional, insecticide and industrial
markets. A wide variety of aerosol products are filled, packaged and distributed
to regional, national and international customers. Products are marketed through
mass merchandisers, home centers, automotive chains and maintenance distribution
channels in the United States, Canada, Mexico and Brazil. Approximately 6.2
percent of the Division's total sales in 1996 represented aerosols and paint
applicators sold to the Paint Stores Segment. There are various primary
competitors in each of the Division's product lines. The main competitive
factors are technical know-how, quality, service and price. Superior quality
products, excellent regulatory-complying products, technical leadership
positions in electronic commerce and strong customer relationships have enabled
the Division to distinguish itself from the competition.
 
     In 1996, the Division added consumer, industrial and janitorial cleaning
products, with reputable brand names such as Cello(R) and Spring Fresh(R), to
its product selection in the United States through the acquisitions of the
Household and Professional Products Division of Grow Group, Inc. (Cleaning
Solutions Group) and Sunshine Quality Products, Inc. The Division capitalized on
these acquisitions by introducing a full line of industrial maintenance cleaners
under the Sprayon(R) label at the end of 1996. This line of cleaning products
represents the first full-line program of its kind to the industrial maintenance
channel and complements the Division's other product lines. The Division also
expanded internationally in 1996 through the acquisition of Industria Quimica
Elgin Ltda., a leading producer and marketer of aerosol paint under the
Colorgin(TM) brand label in Brazil. The extensive distribution network of
Industria Quimica positions the Division to benefit from the emerging aerosol
paint market in South America.
 
     New products will continue to be an important element for growth in 1997.
Following the highly-successful 1996 introduction of Krylon(R) Living Color(R)
Latex Enamel, a latex paint in aerosol form, the Division will expand its
Krylon(R) Living Color(R) and Krylon(R) Decorator product lines in the 1997
season to include a complementary line of small-can enamels available in both
latex and alkyd formulas. Other product launches will include a Cello(R) line of
cleaning products for professional janitorial contractors and a Dupli-Color(R)
automotive bulk paint and chemical line, available in 25 colors, to be marketed
to retail customers. Efforts in 1997 will also be targeted toward the
integration of manufacturing and marketing operations of Thompson Minwax.
Product lines to be added include various interior stains and varnishes under
the Minwax(R) brand name, finishing and enamel coating products under the
Formby's(R) and Red Devil(R) brand names and specialty lubricants under the Tri-
Flow(TM) brand name.
 
OTHER SEGMENT
 
     The Other Segment is responsible for the acquisition, development, leasing
and management of properties for use by the Company and others generally within
the United States. Obtaining real estate in the proper location at the
appropriate cost is a critical component for achieving the desired operating
success, particularly for paint stores and distribution service centers. This
Segment has
 

 
many competitors consisting of other real estate owners, developers and managers
in areas where we currently hold property. The main competitive factors are the
availability of property and price.
 
     At the end of 1996, the Retail Properties Division owned or leased 221
properties, representing over 1,700,000 square feet of space, which are
conducive to the sale of paint and associated products. Such properties include
140 freestanding buildings, for exclusive use by the Paint Stores Segment, and
81 multi-tenant properties, utilized when the basic needs of the paint store can
be met and where external rental opportunities can be profitably operated. The
paint store must be easily accessible to professional painters and contractors
with sufficient access to pickup and delivery areas. Multi-tenant properties are
usually smaller "strip" shopping centers with adequate parking and, generally,
the paint store will be located at the end of the shopping area for the most
convenient access. In 1997, the Division does not anticipate significant growth
in the number of owned retail properties needed by the Paint Stores Segment. The
occupancy rate for external space was 86.6 percent at December 31, 1996.
 
     The Non-Retail Properties Division owned or leased 29 properties at the end
of 1996 consisting of office buildings, idle manufacturing facilities,
distribution service centers and vacant land. Occasionally, such properties are
acquired or developed to provide the lowest cost alternative for expansion of
distribution operations. Locations that have been utilized profitably in the
past which can no longer contribute to the Company's future plans are offered
for sale or lease. At the end of 1996, three idle or vacant properties obtained
in the acquisition of Pratt & Lambert were under contract for sale, with
settlement to occur in early 1997. One of the Division's largest tenants
terminated its office space lease as of December 31, 1996, vacating over 300,000
square feet of office and storage space. While lease commitments have already
been obtained for over 60 percent of this space, the vacancy will adversely
impact the Non-Retail Properties Division in 1997.
 
RAW MATERIALS AND PRODUCTS PURCHASED FOR RESALE
 
     With respect to the Paint Stores Segment, there are sufficient suppliers of
each product purchased for resale that the Segment does not anticipate any
significant sourcing problems. For the Coatings Segment, raw materials and fuel
supplies are generally available from various sources in sufficient quantities
that the Segment does not anticipate any significant sourcing problems during
1997.
 
SEASONALITY
 
     The majority of the sales for the Paint Stores Segment and Coatings Segment
traditionally occur during the second and third quarters. There is no
significant seasonality in sales for the Other Segment.
 
TRADEMARKS AND TRADE NAMES
 
     Customer recognition of trademarks and trade names collectively contribute
significantly to the sales of the Company. The Paint Stores Segment is
identified with names such as Sherwin-Williams(R), SuperPaint(R), Pro Mar(R),
EverClean(R), Glas-Clad(R), Perma-Clad(R), Old Quaker(R), Con-Lux(R),
Mercury(TM) and Brod-Dugan(TM). The Coatings Segment employs a variety of trade
names and trademarks in marketing its products, such as Sherwin-Williams(R),
Dutch Boy(R), Kem-Tone(R), Martin-Senour(R), Cuprinol(R), H&C(R), White
Lightning(R), Krylon(R), Standox(R), Rust Tough(R), Excelo(TM), Lazzuril(TM),
Colorgin(TM), Pratt & Lambert(R), Ralph Lauren(TM), Rubberset(R) and
Dupli-Color(R).
 
PATENTS
 
     Although patents and licenses are not of material importance to the
business of the Company as a whole, the Automotive and Coatings Divisions'
international operations derive a portion of their income from the license of
technology, trademarks and trade names to foreign companies.
 

 
BACKLOG AND PRODUCTIVE CAPACITY
 
     Backlog orders are not significant in the business of any Segment.
Sufficient productive capacity currently exists to fulfill the Company's needs
for paint products through 1997.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
     The Company employed approximately 20,800 persons at December 31, 1996.
 
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE
 
     See Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations, on pages 14 through 19 of this report, for further details on
environmental compliance.
 

 
BUSINESS SEGMENTS
 

 
NOTES TO SEGMENT TABLE
 
     Intersegment transfers are accounted for at values comparable to normal
unaffiliated customer sales. Operating profit is total revenue, including
realized profit on intersegment transfers, less operating costs and expenses.
Corporate expenses include interest which is unrelated to real estate leasing
activities, certain provisions for disposition and termination of operations and
environmental remediation which are not directly associated with or allocable to
any operating segment, and other adjustments.
 
     Identifiable assets are those directly identified with each segment's
operations. Corporate assets consist primarily of cash, investments, deferred
pension assets and headquarters' property, plant and equipment.
 
     Export sales, sales of foreign subsidiaries and sales to any individual
customer were each less than 10% of consolidated sales to unaffiliated customers
during all years presented.
 

 
ITEM 2.   DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY
 
     The Company's corporate headquarters are located in Cleveland, Ohio. The
Company's principal manufacturing and distribution facilities, operated by the
Coatings Segment, are located as set forth below.
 

 

 

 
     In addition, the Coatings Segment included 135 company-operated automotive
branches, of which 1 was owned, in the United States and Canada and 9 leased
stores in Jamaica at December 31, 1996.
 
     The operations of the Paint Stores Segment included 2,156 company-operated
specialty paint stores in the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico at December
31, 1996. All stores are leased locations with 219 being leased from the
Company's Retail Properties Division in the Other Segment. The Paint Stores
Segment is divided into four separate operating divisions, each of which is
responsible for the stores located within its geographical region. At the end of
1996, the Mid Western Division operated 598 stores primarily located in the
midwestern and upper west coast states and western Canada, the Eastern Division
operated 450 stores along the upper east coast and New England states and
eastern Canada, the Southeastern Division operated 570 stores principally
covering the lower east and gulf coast states and Puerto Rico, and the South
Western Division operated 538 stores in the plains and the lower west coast
states. The Paint Stores Segment opened 23 net new stores in 1996, added 55
stores through acquisitions (of which 11 were closed) and relocated 38.
 
     All property within the Other Segment is owned by the Company except for 4
land leases in the Retail Properties Division and 4 warehouse leases in the
Non-Retail Properties Division.
 
ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
     On July 16, 1993, the United States Department of Justice, on behalf of the
United States Environmental Protection Agency, filed a complaint against the
Company in the United States District Court for the Northern District of
Illinois. The complaint alleged violations under various environmental statutes
concerning the Company's operations at its southeast Chicago, Illinois facility.
The complaint demanded an undetermined amount of civil penalties and further
demanded certain, unspecified corrective action be taken to clean up the site.
Pursuant to a Consent Decree entered into recently with the United States of
America, on behalf of the Administrator of the United States Environmental
Protection Agency, the Company has agreed to (i) comply with applicable
environmental laws and regulations, (ii) pay a civil penalty in the amount of
$4,700,000, (iii) spend $1,100,000 at two environmental remediation/restoration
projects located in the south side of Chicago, Illinois which are unrelated to
the Company's activities, (iv) conduct an investigation at its southeast
Chicago, Illinois facility to determine the nature, extent and potential impact,
if any, of environmental contamination at the facility, and (v) implement
selected remedial action measures, if required, to address any environmental
contamination identified pursuant to the investigation. The Consent Decree is
subject to Court approval.
 
ITEM 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
     None
 

 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
     The following table sets forth the names and ages of the current Executive
Officers, the positions and offices with the Company held by them as of February
28, 1997 and the date when each was first elected or appointed an Executive
Officer.
 

 
     Following is a brief account of each Executive Officer's business
experience with the Company during the last five year period:
 
     Mr. Breen has served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since June
1986 and has served as a Director since April 1979.
 
     Mr. Commes has served as President and Chief Operating Officer since June
1986 and has served as a Director since April 1980.
 
     Mr. Ault has served as Vice President -- Corporate Controller since January
1987.
 
     Mr. Butler has served as President & General Manager, Coatings Division
since February 1992 prior to which he served as President & General Manager,
Consumer Division commencing May 1984.
 
     Mr. Connor has served as President & General Manager, Diversified Brands
Division since April 1994 prior to which he served as Senior Vice
President -- Marketing, Paint Stores Group commencing September 1992. From June
1986 to September 1992, Mr. Connor served as President & General Manager,
Western Division, Paint Stores Group.
 
     Mr. Ivy has served as Vice President -- Corporate Planning and Development
since April 1992 prior to which he served as Vice President and Treasurer
commencing January 1989.
 

 
     Mr. King has served as President & General Manager, Consumer Brands
Division since February 1992 prior to which he served as Vice President,
Director of Sales and Marketing, Consumer Division commencing June 1987.
 
     Mr. Kroeger has served as Vice President -- Human Resources since October
1987.
 
     Mr. Macatee has served as President, Paint Stores Group since September
1992 prior to which he served as President & General Manager, South Central
Division, Paint Stores Group commencing June 1986.
 
     Mr. Pitorak has served as Senior Vice President -- Finance, Treasurer and
Chief Financial Officer since April 1992 prior to which he served as Senior Vice
President -- Finance and Chief Financial Officer commencing July 1991.
 
     Mr. Scaminace has served as President & General Manager, Automotive
Division since April 1994 prior to which he served as President & General
Manager, Diversified Brands Division commencing September 1985.
 
     Mr. Stellato has served as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
since July 1991.
 
     There are no family relationships between any of the persons named.
 

 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5.   MARKET FOR COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
           STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
 
     Sherwin-Williams Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and
traded under the symbol SHW.
 
   

 
     The number of shareholders of record for Sherwin-Williams Common Stock, par
value $1.00 per share, at January 31, 1997 was 11,887. The closing market value
per share as listed on the New York Stock Exchange at the close of business on
January 31, 1997 was $27.750.*
 
* Per share data reflects the effect of the stock split described in Note 17 to
  the consolidated financial statements.
 
ITEM 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
(Millions of Dollars, except per share data)
 

 
 * Includes a reduction, beginning January 1, 1992, for the additional expense
   of accruing postretirement benefits. Such additional expense was $5.7 million
   after income taxes ($.03 per share**) in 1992.
 
** Per share data reflects the effect of the stock split described in Note 17 to
   the consolidated financial statements.
 

 
ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
          FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
FINANCIAL CONDITION -- 1996
 
     During 1996, the Company invested more than $670.7 million in the
acquisitions of Pratt & Lambert United, Inc. (Pratt & Lambert) in January and
many smaller domestic and foreign acquisitions that followed. These acquisitions
were financed through the use of $267.6 million of cash and cash equivalents and
short-term investments available at the beginning of 1996 plus short-term
borrowings, long-term debt and excess operating cash flow generated during the
year. Nearly $332.6 million in net operating cash flow was generated in 1996
providing the funds to invest in property, plant and equipment, to increase the
annual dividend to shareholders and to partially finance the acquisition
activity. The Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets and Statements of
Consolidated Cash Flows, on pages 25 and 26 of this report, provide more
detailed information on the Company's financial position and cash flows.
 
     Changes in the components of working capital included an increase in
short-term borrowings incurred during the year through the use of a portion of
the Company's commercial paper program, which had unused borrowing availability
of $433.8 million at December 31, 1996. This program is fully backed by the
Company's revolving credit agreements. Other current assets increased $113.7
million, of which approximately $56.0 million is related to a settlement
receivable with certain insurance carriers pertaining to environmental-related
matters, and approximately $68.0 million is related to various assets acquired,
including the Company's investment in a subsidiary in Chile which was not
consolidated at December 31, 1996. Increased current deferred income taxes
related primarily to the tax effects of purchase accruals recorded in connection
with acquisitions. Increases in other components of working capital occurred
primarily due to the effects of the acquisitions and related increases in sales
and manufacturing activity. The Company's current ratio declined to 1.35 at
December 31, 1996. The decrease in this ratio from 2.0 at the end of 1995
occurred primarily due to the increased short-term borrowings and related
decreases in cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments.
 
     Deferred pension assets, totaling $254.4 million at December 31, 1996,
represent the excess fair market value of the assets in the defined benefit
pension trusts over the actuarially-determined projected benefit obligations.
The 1996 increase in deferred pension assets resulted primarily from net
deferred pension assets acquired combined with the recognition of the net
pension credit further described in Note 6 on page 32 of this report. The actual
return on plan assets of the defined benefit pension plans exceeded the assumed
asset earnings rate of 8.5 percent primarily due to favorable actual returns
realized on equity investments. These excess earnings are deferred, decreasing
the cumulative unrecognized net loss. The effect of this decrease, combined with
an increased asset base, will increase the net pension credit in 1997. The
increase in goodwill of $507.7 million and the increase in intangible and other
long-term assets of $54.7 million primarily relates to acquisitions of $612.5
million offset by amortization expense of $27.4 million and other reductions in
long-term assets from 1995. Goodwill represents the excess cost over fair value
of net assets acquired in purchase business combinations, and intangible assets
represent the cost of trademarks and other intangibles acquired.
 
     Net property, plant and equipment increased $93.0 million during 1996
primarily due to capital expenditures of $122.7 million and net fixed assets
acquired of $55.6 million, offset partially by depreciation expense of $76.2
million and dispositions or retirements of certain assets. Capital expenditures
in 1996 represented primarily the costs of upgrading or installing point-of-sale
computer systems in paint stores, relocating or remodeling paint stores, new
powder coatings manufacturing facilities, and upgrading distribution centers and
manufacturing facilities. The increase in capital expenditures in the Paint
Stores Segment in 1996 occurred primarily due to the upgrade or installation of
new point-of-sale computer systems in most of the Segment's stores. In the
Coatings Segment, increased capital expenditures in 1996 relating to a new
Brazilian manufacturing facility in
 

 
the Coatings Division were offset by lower construction costs in the
Transportation Services and Automotive Divisions due to the 1995 completion of
distribution centers in Fredericksburg, Pennsylvania and Richmond, Kentucky.
Capital expenditures in the Corporate area increased due to the increased cost
of a replacement aircraft. In 1997, the most significant planned capital
expenditures are the continued replacement of point-of-sale computer systems in
the paint stores, the construction of a 695,000 square foot distribution center
in Reno, Nevada and various productivity improvement projects at manufacturing
facilities. The Company will continue to invest strategically in upgrading or
expanding its facilities and equipment. We do not anticipate the need for any
specific external financing to support these capital programs. Total assets grew
to just under $3.0 billion during 1996, an increase of $853.5 million from
December 31, 1995.
 
     Long-term debt increased $118.7 million to $142.7 million at December 31,
1996. The issuance of two $50.0 million floating term notes in conjunction with
the purchase of Pratt & Lambert and the subsequent refinancing of their existing
debt and the issuance of various fixed rate notes totaling $22.0 million in
conjunction with other acquisitions accounted for the majority of the change in
long-term debt. Long-term debt assumed as part of certain acquisitions and other
changes in long-term debt, totaling $69.1 million, were more than offset by
payments of $72.4 million. As more fully explained in Note 16 on page 43 of this
report, the Company increased the aggregate principal amount of short-term debt
which can be issued under its commercial paper program to $1.45 billion in
January 1997. This program is fully supported by revolving credit agreements in
the same aggregate amount. Proceeds from borrowings under this program were used
to purchase all outstanding shares of Thompson Minwax Holding Corp. (Thompson
Minwax) in January 1997. Subsequently, in February 1997, the Company issued
$100.0 million of 6.25% notes due February 1, 2000, $100.0 million of 6.5% notes
due February 1, 2002 and $200.0 million of 6.85% notes due February 1, 2007
under its previously existing shelf registration with the Securities and
Exchange Commission. In addition, the Company issued $150.0 million of 7.375%
debentures due February 1, 2027 and $150.0 million of 7.45% debentures due
February 1, 2097 in a private offering not registered under the Securities Act
of 1933, as amended. The net proceeds from the sale of the notes and debentures
were used to refinance a portion of the Company's commercial paper outstanding.
Due to the refinancing, the size of the commercial paper program and related
revolving credit agreements will be re-evaluated in 1997. The Company expects to
remain in a borrowing position throughout 1997.
 
     The increase in the long-term postretirement liability occurred due to the
combination of postretirement liabilities assumed in acquisitions and the excess
of the net postretirement expense, as determined in accordance with Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 106, over the costs for benefit claims
incurred. The current portion of the accrued postretirement liability is
included in other accruals. See Note 7, on page 34 of this report, for
additional information concerning the Company's postretirement obligations.
 
     Other long-term liabilities include accruals for environmental-related
items and other miscellaneous items. The increase of $104.9 million during 1996
occurred due primarily to adjustments made to previously recorded
environmental-related accruals, liabilities assumed for environmental-related
matters as a result of acquisitions and other items. In addition, the Company
accrued certain additional environmental-related expenses in accordance with the
early adoption of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants
Statement of Position 96-1 (SOP 96-1), "Environmental Remediation Liabilities".
See Note 1, on page 28 of this report, for further information concerning the
Company's adoption of SOP 96-1 and see Note 10, on page 37 of this report, for
additional information concerning the Company's other long-term liabilities.
 
     The Company and certain other companies are defendants in a number of
lawsuits arising from the manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead paints.
It is possible that additional lawsuits may be filed against the Company in the
future with similar allegations. The various existing lawsuits seek damages for
personal injuries and property damages, along with costs involving the abatement
of lead related paint from buildings and medical monitoring costs. The Company
believes that such lawsuits are without merit and is vigorously defending them.
The Company does not believe that any potential
 

 
liability ultimately determined to be attributable to the Company arising out of
such lawsuits will have a material adverse effect on the Company's business or
financial condition.
 
     The operations of the Company, like those of other companies in our
industry, are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and
regulations. These laws and regulations not only govern our current operations
and products, but also impose liability on the Company for past operations which
were conducted utilizing practices and procedures considered acceptable under
the laws and regulations existing at that time. The Company expects
environmental laws and regulations to impose increasingly stringent requirements
upon the Company and our industry in the future. The Company believes it
conducts its operations in compliance with applicable environmental laws and
regulations and has implemented various programs designed to protect the
environment and promote continued compliance.
 
     Capital expenditures and other expenses related to ongoing environmental
compliance measures are included in the normal operating expenses of conducting
business. The Company's capital expenditures and other expenses related to
ongoing environmental compliance measures were not material to the Company's
financial condition or net income during 1996, and the Company does not expect
such capital expenditures and other expenses to be material to the Company's
financial condition or net income in the future.
 
     The Company is involved with environmental compliance and remediation
activities at some of its current and former sites. The Company, together with
other parties, has also been designated a potentially responsible party under
federal and state environmental protection laws for the remediation of hazardous
waste at a number of third-party sites, primarily Superfund sites. The Company
may be similarly designated with respect to additional third-party sites in the
future.
 
     The Company accrues for certain environmental remediation-related
activities relating to its past operations and third-party sites, including
Superfund sites, for which commitments or clean-up plans have been developed or
for which costs or minimum costs can be reasonably estimated. The Company
continuously assesses its potential liability for remediation-related activities
and adjusts its environmental-related accruals as information becomes available
upon which more accurate costs can be reasonably estimated and as additional
accounting guidelines are issued, such as SOP 96-1, which require changing the
estimated costs or the procedure utilized in estimating such costs. Actual costs
incurred may vary from these estimates due to the inherent uncertainties
involved including, among others, the number and financial condition of parties
involved with respect to any given site, the volumetric contribution which may
be attributed to the Company relative to that attributable to other parties, the
nature and magnitude of the wastes involved, the various technologies that can
be used for remediation and the determination of acceptable remediation with
respect to a particular site.
 
     Pursuant to a Consent Decree entered into with the United States of
America, on behalf of the Environmental Protection Agency, which has been filed
in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois and
which is subject to court approval, the Company has agreed, in part, to (i)
conduct an investigation at its southeast Chicago, Illinois facility to
determine the nature, extent and potential impact, if any, of environmental
contamination at the facility, and (ii) implement remedial action measures, if
required, to address any environmental contamination identified pursuant to the
investigation. In addition, the Company is a defendant in a lawsuit brought by
PMC, Inc. regarding one of the Company's former Chemical Division's
manufacturing facilities which is located adjacent to the Company's southeast
Chicago, Illinois facility. This former manufacturing facility was sold to PMC,
Inc. in 1985. PMC, Inc. is seeking an undisclosed amount for environmental
remediation costs and other damages based upon contractual and tort theories,
and under various environmental laws. The Company is vigorously defending this
lawsuit.
 
     With respect to the Company's southeast Chicago, Illinois facility and its
former manufacturing facility adjacent thereto, the Company has evaluated its
potential liability and, based upon its preliminary evaluation, has accrued an
appropriate amount. However, due to the uncertainties surrounding these
facilities, the Company's ultimate liability may result in costs that are
significantly
 

 
higher than currently accrued. In such event, the recording of the liability may
result in a significant impact on net income for the annual or interim period
during which the additional costs are accrued.
 
     In the opinion of the Company's management, any potential liability
ultimately attributed to the Company for its environmental-related matters will
not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition,
liquidity, cash flow or, except as set forth in the preceding paragraph, net
income. See Note 10, on page 37 of this report, for discussion of the
environmental-related accruals included in the Company's consolidated balance
sheets.
 
     Shareholders' equity increased $189.1 million during 1996 due primarily to
current year net income offset partially by dividends paid to shareholders.
Approximately 77,800 shares of the Company's common stock were received in
exchange from the exercise of stock options during 1996. We did not acquire any
of our own shares through open market purchases during this time period.
Depending upon our cash position and market conditions in the future, we may
acquire shares of our own stock for general corporate purposes.
 
     At a meeting held January 29, 1997, the Board of Directors declared a
two-for-one common stock split and increased the quarterly dividend to $.10 per
share on a post-split basis, both payable to shareholders of record on March 3,
1997. The increase in the quarterly dividend represents the eighteenth
consecutive annual increase and a compounded rate of increase of 28.0 percent
since the dividend was reinstated in the fourth quarter of 1979. The 1996 annual
dividend of $.35 per share (on a post-split basis) marked the seventeenth
consecutive year that the dividend approximated our payout ratio target of 30
percent of the prior year's earnings.
 
     The January 1997 acquisition of Thompson Minwax, for an approximate
purchase price of $830 million, included funds to extinguish all of Thompson
Minwax's previously-existing debt. Preliminary estimates of the fair market
value of the net assets to be recorded pursuant to the acquisition will
approximate $257.3 million, with approximately $572.7 million recorded as
goodwill. These estimates are tentative, pending completion of final appraisals.
The goodwill ultimately recorded for the purchase will be amortized over its
estimated life. See Note 16, on page 43 of this report, for additional
information related to the acquisition.
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS -- 1996 VS 1995
 
     Consolidated net sales increased to $4.13 billion in 1996, a 26.2 percent
increase over 1995. Excluding incremental sales from Pratt & Lambert and other
smaller acquisitions (collectively, Acquisitions) after date of acquisition, net
sales for 1996 increased 7.5 percent.
 
     Sales in the Paint Stores Segment increased 13.1 percent over 1995, or 9.1
percent excluding Acquisitions, due primarily to increased paint gallons sold to
both retail and wholesale customers. Comparable store sales were up 10.0 percent
for the year. Despite selling price reductions on certain non-paint product
lines in 1996, volume gains generated overall sales increases in all non-paint
product lines except window treatments.
 
     Incremental sales from Acquisitions led to an external sales increase of
51.4 percent over 1995 in the Coatings Segment. Excluding Acquisitions, external
sales increased 4.7 percent. Increased gallons sold to national accounts and
independent dealers led to a net external sales increase excluding Acquisitions
over last year in the Consumer Brands Division. In the Automotive Division, 1996
external sales gains excluding Acquisitions were generated primarily from sales
growth in its branch distribution network. The addition of new products and new
customers in the Diversified Brands Division during 1996 helped to achieve sales
gains in its custom, automotive, hardware and industrial product lines excluding
Acquisitions. Revenue generated by real estate operations in the Other Segment
decreased slightly compared to 1995 due to the disposition of certain properties
in late 1995 and in 1996.
 
     Lower gross profit margins from some of the Acquisitions' businesses caused
consolidated gross profit as a percent of sales to decline to 41.8 percent from
42.7 percent in 1995. Excluding
 

 
Acquisitions, gross profit margins increased to 44.4 percent. Gross profit
margins in the Paint Stores Segment, both including and excluding Acquisitions,
were higher than last year due to increased sales of its higher margin product
lines combined with increased retail sales. Stable product costs combined with a
favorable sales mix led to improved gross profit margins over last year in the
Coatings Segment excluding Acquisitions.
 
     Consolidated selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses as a
percent of sales were favorable to last year, declining to 31.7 percent from
32.8 percent, due to lower-than-average expenses in the Acquisitions'
businesses. Excluding Acquisitions, SG&A expenses as a percent of sales
increased to 33.5 percent. The Paint Stores Segment's controlled spending
throughout 1996 combined with its sales gains led to favorable SG&A expenses as
a percent of sales on both an as-reported basis and excluding Acquisitions. The
Coatings Segment's SG&A expenses as a percent of sales excluding Acquisitions
were unfavorable to last year due primarily to increased merchandising costs,
advertising and promotional expenses related to product introductions in the
Consumer Brands and Diversified Brands Divisions.
 
     Consolidated operating profits increased 30.3 percent over 1995, or 19.2
percent excluding Acquisitions. Operating profits of the Paint Stores Segment
increased 30.2 percent, or 28.1 percent excluding Acquisitions, due to volume
gains and the continued containment of SG&A expenses. The Coatings Segment's
operating profits excluding Acquisitions increased 11.9 percent due to stable
raw material costs and manufacturing efficiencies resulting from volume gains.
The operating profits of the Other Segment increased in comparison to 1995
primarily due to the reduction in costs associated with disposed properties.
Corporate expenses increased over 1995 due to increased interest expense,
decreased net investment income and increases in other costs and expenses which
are not directly associated with or allocable to any individual operating
segment. Refer to pages 1 through 8 of this report for additional Business
Segment information.
 
     The increases in long-term debt and short-term borrowings which occurred in
1996 due to the financing of Acquisitions caused interest expense to increase
significantly over 1995. Correspondingly, interest coverage decreased to 16.3
times from 126.8 times in 1995. Fixed charge coverage, which is calculated using
interest and gross rent expense, declined to 3.9 times from 4.2 times in 1995.
 
     Net interest and investment income was lower than 1995 due to lower average
cash and short-term investment balances offset partially by higher average
yields. Other costs and expenses increased in 1996 due to increased provisions
for dispositions and termination of operations and for environmental
remediation-related matters and other items as more fully discussed in Note 4 on
page 31 of this report. The effective income tax rate increased in 1996, as
shown in Note 14, on page 41 of this report, primarily due to the increase in
non-deductible tax items, primarily goodwill.
 
     Net income increased 14.2 percent in 1996 to $229.2 million from $200.7
million in 1995. Excluding Acquisitions, net income increased 12.6 percent. Net
income per share increased 13.7 percent in 1996 to $1.33 from $1.17.
 
     In accordance with the consensus guidance in Emerging Issues Task Force No.
87-11, "Allocation of Purchase Price to Assets to be Sold", all 1996 results of
operations exclude the results of operations of certain Pratt & Lambert
subsidiaries through their respective dates of sale. These subsidiaries, which
were sold during the third quarter of 1996, include essentially all operations
of Pierce & Stevens Corp., a manufacturer of specialty chemicals, and Miracle
Adhesives Corporation, a manufacturer of adhesives for the construction
industry. The total operating profit related to these subsidiaries prior to
their sale, approximately $3.0 million in 1996, has been excluded from the
statement of consolidated income. The net gain realized on the sale of these
subsidiaries was insignificant to the allocation of purchase price pursuant to
APB Opinion No. 16.
 
     The acquisition of Thompson Minwax in January 1997 will affect our results
of operations beginning in 1997.
 

 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS -- 1995 VS 1994
 
     Consolidated net sales increased 5.6 percent, to $3.27 billion, over 1994
due primarily to volume and price increases in the Paint Stores Segment.
 
     Sales in the Paint Stores Segment increased 7.3 percent for 1995 as all
divisions achieved sales improvements, particularly in paint and paint-related
product lines. Comparable store sales increased 6.5 percent. Increased paint
gallons sold to wholesale customers generated the majority of the sales
increase. Volume sales to retail customers remained sluggish. Selling price
increases implemented to partially offset increased raw materials costs also
contributed to the sales improvements.
 
     External sales in the Coatings Segment increased 2.7 percent over 1994. The
Consumer Brands Division was the primary contributor to this sales increase due
to increased gallon sales, particularly in its Dutch Boy(R) brand. In the
Automotive Division, sales increases in the automotive branches were partially
offset by declines in two of its major product lines which resulted from soft
automotive aftermarket sales throughout 1995. Reduced consumer demand in the
custom, automotive and industrial markets led to flat sales as compared to 1994
in the Diversified Brands Division. Revenue for the real estate operations in
the Other Segment increased slightly for 1995.
 
     Consolidated gross profit as a percent of sales was slightly lower than
1994, decreasing to 42.7 percent from 42.8 percent. Gross profit margins
increased slightly in the Paint Stores Segment due to gallon sales improvement
combined with successful implementation of supplemental selling price increases
during the year to partially offset increased costs for raw materials. The
Coatings Segment's gross profit margins were lower than 1994 due to the adverse
effects of raw material cost increases combined with a sales mix toward
lower-margin products in the Automotive Division and production volume decreases
in the Diversified Brands Division.
 
     Consolidated SG&A expenses as a percent of sales declined to 32.8 percent
from 32.9 percent in 1994. The Paint Stores Segment carefully contained SG&A
spending throughout 1995, leading to favorable SG&A expenses as a percent of
sales. The Coatings Segment's SG&A expenses as a percent of sales were higher
than 1994 primarily due to increased market penetration costs for new customers
in the Consumer Brands Division and to the marginally higher sales amount.
 
     Consolidated operating profits increased 4.0 percent in 1995. In the Paint
Stores Segment, operating profits increased 12.7 percent over 1994 due to
increased volume and controlled SG&A spending. Operating profits in the Coatings
Segment improved 0.6 percent for 1995. Increased raw material costs during 1995
combined with moderate production volume increases adversely impacted this
Segment's results. The operating profits of the Other Segment increased in 1995
due primarily to reduced interest expense on average long-term debt allocable to
its real estate operations combined with provisions incurred in 1994 for
disposition of certain non-retail properties. Corporate expenses increased in
1995 due primarily to various environmental remediation-related and disposition
provisions which are not directly associated with or allocable to any individual
segment.
 
     Interest expense decreased 21.3 percent during 1995 due to reduced average
long-term debt resulting from normal maturities and 1994 debt purchases. As a
result, interest coverage increased to 126.8 times from 93.8 times in 1994. Our
fixed charge coverage, which is calculated using interest and gross rent
expense, improved to 4.2 times from 4.1 times in 1994.
 
     Interest and net investment income increased 40.1 percent in 1995 due
primarily to increased investment yields. Other costs and expenses decreased in
1995 primarily due to increased dividends and a net reduction of other expenses
as more fully described in Note 4 on page 31 of this report. The effective
income tax rate decreased in 1995, as shown in Note 14 on page 41 of this
report, primarily due to increased tax-exempt investment vehicles.
 
     Net income increased 7.5 percent in 1995 to $200.7 million from $186.6
million in 1994. Net income per share increased 9.3 percent to $1.17 from $1.07.
 

 
ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
 
Shareholders and Board of Directors
The Sherwin-Williams Company
Cleveland, Ohio
 
     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of The
Sherwin-Williams Company and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1996, 1995 and
1994, and the related statements of consolidated income, shareholders' equity
and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
1996. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed at Item
14(a). These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the
Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements and schedule based on our audits.
 
     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
     In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of
The Sherwin-Williams Company and subsidiaries at December 31, 1996, 1995 and
1994, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1996, in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related
financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial
statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the
information set forth therein.
 
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
 
Cleveland, Ohio
January 23, 1997, except for Note 17,
as to which the date is January 29, 1997
 

         
REPORT OF MANAGEMENT
 
Shareholders
The Sherwin-Williams Company
 
     We have prepared the accompanying consolidated financial statements and
related information included herein for the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995
and 1994. The primary responsibility for the integrity of the financial
information rests with management. This information is prepared in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles based upon our best estimates and
judgments and giving due consideration to materiality.
 
     The Company maintains accounting and control systems which are designed to
provide reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded from loss or
unauthorized use and which produce records adequate for preparation of financial
information. There are limits inherent in all systems of internal control based
on the recognition that the cost of such systems should not exceed the benefits
to be derived. We believe our system provides this appropriate balance.
 
     The Board of Directors pursues its responsibility for these financial
statements through the Audit Committee, composed exclusively of outside
directors. The Committee meets periodically with management, internal auditors
and our independent auditors to discuss the adequacy of financial controls, the
quality of financial reporting and the nature, extent and results of the audit
effort. Both the internal auditors and independent auditors have private and
confidential access to the Audit Committee at all times.
 

 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
     See "Item 14 -- Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form
8-K" for the required Financial Statements.
 
ITEM 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
          FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
     None
 

 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10.   DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE
             REGISTRANT
 
     The information required by Item 10 regarding Directors is contained under
the caption "Election of Directors (Proposal 1)" in the Proxy Statement which
will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, pursuant to
Regulation 14A, not later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year which
information under such caption is incorporated herein by reference.
 
     The information required by Item 10 regarding Executive Officers is
contained under the caption "Executive Officers of the Registrant" in Part I of
this Form 10-K which information under such caption is incorporated herein by
reference.
 
     The information required by Item 10 regarding certain significant employees
is contained under the captions "Corporate Officers of the Company" and
"Operating Managers of the Company" (excluding the Executive Officers) in the
Proxy Statement which information under such captions is incorporated herein by
reference.
 
ITEM 11.   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
     The information required by Item 11 is contained on pages 7 through 18 of
the Proxy Statement and under the captions "Directors' Fees" and "Compensation
Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation" contained in the Proxy Statement
which information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 12.   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL
             OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
     The information required by Item 12 is contained under the captions
"Security Ownership of Management" and "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
Owners" in the Proxy Statement which information under such captions is
incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 13.   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED
             TRANSACTIONS
 
     None
 

 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14.   EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 

 
(b) Reports on Form 8-K -- Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 22, 1996
    reporting, under Item 5, the signing of a definitive agreement to purchase
    Thompson Minwax Holding Corp.
 

 
                         STATEMENTS OF CONSOLIDATED INCOME
 
                    (Thousands of Dollars Except Per Share Data)
 

 
*Per share data reflects the effect of the stock split described in Note 17.
 
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 

 
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
                             (Thousands of Dollars)
 

 
*Common share amounts reflect the effect of the stock split described in Note
 17.
 
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 

 
                     STATEMENTS OF CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS
 
                             (Thousands of Dollars)
 

 
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 

 
                STATEMENTS OF CONSOLIDATED SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
                  (Thousands of Dollars Except Per Share Data)
 

 
*Per share data reflects the effect of the stock split described in Note 17.
 
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 

 
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
               (Thousands of Dollars Unless Otherwise Indicated)
       (All common share amounts and per share data reflect the effect of
                     the stock split described in Note 17.)
 
NOTE 1 -- SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
Consolidation. The consolidated financial statements include all significant
controlled subsidiaries. Inter-company accounts and transactions have been
eliminated.
 
Business segments. Business segment information appears on pages 1 through 8 of
this report.
 
Foreign currency translation. All consolidated non-highly inflationary foreign
operations use the local currency of the country of operation as the functional
currency and translate the local currency asset and liability accounts at
year-end exchange rates while income and expense accounts are translated at
average exchange rates. The resulting translation adjustments are accumulated as
a separate component of Shareholders' Equity titled "Cumulative foreign currency
translation adjustment". All consolidated highly inflationary foreign operations
use the Company's currency as the functional currency.
 
Cash flows. The Company considers all highly liquid investments with a maturity
of three months or less when purchased to be cash equivalents.
 
Nature of operations. The Company is engaged in the manufacture, distribution
and sale of coatings and related products to professional, industrial,
commercial and retail customers in North and South America.
 
Use of estimates. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and
accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
Environmental matters. Capital expenditures for ongoing environmental compliance
measures are recorded in the consolidated balance sheets and related expenses
are included in the normal operating expenses of conducting business. The
Company is involved with environmental compliance and remediation activities at
some of its current and former sites and at a number of third-party sites. The
Company accrues for certain environmental remediation-related activities for
which commitments or clean-up plans have been developed or for which costs or
minimum costs can be reasonably estimated. All accrued amounts are recorded on
an undiscounted basis. In 1996, the Company adopted American Institute of
Certified Public Accountants Statement of Position (SOP) 96-1, "Environmental
Remediation Liabilities". SOP 96-1 proscribes that accrued environmental
remediation-related expenses include direct costs of remediation and indirect
costs related to the remediation effort. Although the Company previously accrued
for the direct costs of remediation and certain indirect costs, additional
indirect costs were required to be accrued by the Company at the time of
adopting SOP 96-1 such as compensation and benefits for employees directly
involved in the remediation activities and fees paid to outside engineering,
consulting and law firms. The effect of initially applying the provisions of SOP
96-1 has been treated as a change in accounting estimate and is not material to
the accompanying financial statements. See Note 4 and Note 10 for discussions of
the environmental remediation-related expense and accruals included in the
financial statements.
 
Stock-based compensation. The Company uses the intrinsic value method of
accounting for stock-based compensation in accordance with Accounting Principles
Board Opinion No. 25. See Note 13 for pro forma disclosure of net income and
earnings per share under the fair value method of accounting for stock-based
compensation as proscribed by Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 123.
 

 
Property, plant and equipment. Property, plant and equipment is stated on the
basis of cost. Depreciation is provided principally by the straight-line method.
The major classes of assets and ranges of depreciation rates are as follows:
 

 
Investment in life insurance. The Company invests in broad-based corporate owned
life insurance. The cash surrender values of the policies, net of policy loans,
are included in Other Assets. The net expense associated with such investment is
included in Other Costs and Expenses. Such expense is immaterial to income
before income taxes.
 
Goodwill. Goodwill represents the cost in excess of fair value of net assets
acquired in purchase transactions and is amortized on a straight-line basis over
periods not exceeding 40 years. The Company evaluates the recoverability of
goodwill at each balance sheet date and would record an impairment if necessary.
Accumulated amortization of goodwill was $18,186, $3,821 and $2,714 at December
31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.
 
Intangibles. Intangible assets were $104,206, $84,070 and $86,283, net of
accumulated amortization of $74,450, $61,293 and $60,030 at December 31, 1996,
1995 and 1994, respectively. These assets are amortized by the straight-line
method over the expected period of benefit. The Company reviews such assets for
impairment and revises the related estimated remaining lives if necessary.
 
Technical expenditures. Total technical expenditures include research and
development costs, quality control, product formulation expenditures and other
similar items. Research and development costs included in technical expenditures
were $18,661, $17,238 and $16,319 for 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.
 
Advertising expenses. The cost of advertising is expensed as incurred. The
Company incurred $212,448, $152,588 and $148,973 in advertising costs during
1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.
 
Net income per share. Net income per share was computed based on the average
number of shares and share equivalents outstanding during the year after
adjustment for the effect of the two-for-one stock split described in Note 17.
See computation on page 49 of this report.
 
Letters of credit. The Company occasionally enters into standby letter of credit
agreements to guarantee various operating activities. These agreements, which
expire in 1997, provide credit availability to the various beneficiaries if
certain contractual events occur. Amounts outstanding under these agreements
totaled $17,092, $17,075 and $20,091 at December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994,
respectively.
 
Fair value of financial instruments. The following methods and assumptions were
used by the Company in estimating its fair value disclosures for financial
instruments:
 
     Cash and cash equivalents: The carrying amounts reported in the
     consolidated balance sheets for cash and cash equivalents approximate fair
     value.
 
     Short-term investments: The carrying amounts reported in the consolidated
     balance sheets for marketable debt and equity securities are based on
     quoted market prices and approximate fair value.
 
     Investments in securities: The Company maintains certain long-term
     investments, classified as available for sale securities, in a fund to
     provide for payment of health care benefits of certain qualified employees.
     The estimated fair values of these securities, included in other assets, of
     $31,785, $34,709 and $37,668 at December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994,
     respectively, are based on quoted market prices.
 

 
     Long-term debt (including current portion): The fair values of the
     Company's publicly traded debentures, shown below, are based on quoted
     market prices. The fair values of the Company's non-traded debt, also shown
     below, are estimated using discounted cash flow analyses, based on the
     Company's current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of
     borrowing arrangements.
 

 
     Interest rate swaps: The Company occasionally enters into interest rate
     swaps primarily to hedge against interest rate risks. These agreements
     generally involve the exchange of fixed and floating rate interest payment
     obligations without the exchange of the underlying principal amounts.
     Counterparties to these agreements are major financial institutions.
     Management believes the risk of incurring losses related to credit risk is
     remote.
 
     The fair values for the Company's off-balance-sheet instruments, shown
     below, are based on pricing models or formulas using current assumptions
     for comparable instruments.

 
     Non-traded investments: It was not practicable to estimate the fair value
     of the Company's investment in certain non-traded investments because of
     the lack of quoted market prices and the inability to estimate fair values
     without incurring excessive costs. The carrying amounts, included in other
     assets, of $100,797, $31,491 and $18,829 at December 31, 1996, 1995 and
     1994, respectively, represent the Company's best estimate of current
     economic values of these investments.
 
Reclassification. Certain amounts in the 1995 and 1994 financial statements have
been reclassified to conform with the 1996 presentation.
 
NOTE 2 -- ACQUISITIONS AND MERGERS
 
     Effective January 10, 1996, the Company, through its wholly-owned
subsidiary, SWACQ, Inc., acquired all outstanding stock and completed its merger
with Pratt & Lambert United, Inc. (Pratt & Lambert) for a total cash purchase
price of approximately $400,000. The excess purchase price over the fair value
of the net assets acquired is being amortized over 40 years using the
straight-line method.
 
     For financial statement purposes, the acquisition is being accounted for
under the purchase method of accounting. Accordingly, the results of operations
of Pratt & Lambert since the date of acquisition are included in the Company's
statements of consolidated income. The following unaudited pro forma combined
condensed statement of consolidated income for the year ended December 31, 1995
was prepared in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 16 and
assumes the merger had occurred on January 1, 1995. The following pro forma data
reflects adjustments for interest expense, net investment income, depreciation
expense and amortization of intangible assets. In management's opinion, the pro
forma financial information is not indicative of the results of operations which
would have occurred had the acquisition of Pratt & Lambert taken
 

 
place on January 1, 1995 or of future results of operations of the combined
companies under the ownership and operation of the Company.
 
                          UNAUDITED PRO FORMA COMBINED
                   CONDENSED STATEMENT OF CONSOLIDATED INCOME
           ---------------------------------------------------------
 

 
     In addition, during the three-year period ended December 31, 1996, the
Company also purchased various domestic automotive and retail paint
distributors, coatings manufacturers, and aerosol and liquid filling businesses.
Various foreign architectural and automotive paint manufacturing and aerosol
filling businesses located in South America were also acquired during the
period. The results of operations of these businesses were not material to
consolidated pro forma results.
 
NOTE 3 -- INVENTORIES
 
     Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined
principally on the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method which provides a better
matching of current costs and revenues. The following presents the effect on
inventories, net income and net income per share had the Company used the
first-in, first-out (FIFO) and average cost methods of inventory valuation
adjusted for income taxes at the statutory rate and assuming no other
adjustments. This information is presented to enable the reader to make
comparisons with companies using the FIFO method of inventory valuation.
 

 
NOTE 4 -- OTHER COSTS AND EXPENSES
 
     A summary of significant items included in Other Costs and Expenses is as
follows:
 

 
     The net expense of financing and investing activities represents the
realized gains or losses associated with disposing of fixed assets, the net gain
or loss associated with the investment of certain long-term asset funds and the
net pre-tax expense associated with the Company's investment in broad-based
corporate owned life insurance.
 

 
     During the year ended December 31, 1996, provisions for environmental
matters reflect the increased estimated costs of environmental remediation at
current, former and third-party sites, and certain additional costs relating to
the early adoption of SOP 96-1 (see Note 1), which were partially offset by a
settlement of $56,000 with certain insurance carriers pertaining to
environmental-related matters. For the years ended December 31, 1995 and 1994,
the provisions for environmental remediation reflect only the increased
estimated environmental remediation costs at such sites.
 
NOTE 5 -- DISPOSITION AND TERMINATION OF OPERATIONS
 
     The Company is continually re-evaluating its operating facilities with
regard to the long-term strategic goals established by management and the board
of directors. Operating facilities which are not expected to sufficiently
contribute to the Company's future plans are closed or sold.
 
     At the time of the decision to close or sell a facility, a provision is
made and the expense included in Other Costs and Expenses to reduce property,
plant and equipment to its estimated net realizable value. Similarly, provisions
are made which reduce all other assets to their estimated net realizable values
and provide for all qualified exit costs such as lease cancellation penalties,
post-closure rent expenses and incremental post-closure expenses, and the
estimated costs of employee termination benefits if management has approved a
termination plan and communicated such plan to the affected employees. The
expenses associated with the provisions for such exit costs and termination
benefits are included in Cost of Goods Sold. Adjustments to all previous
accruals, as closure or disposition occurs, are included in Other Costs and
Expenses.
 
     The provisions made during 1996, charged to current operations, provided
for the reduction to net realizable value of certain assets and exit costs
related to one manufacturing facility and consolidations of certain redundant
distribution and administrative facilities. The 1995 provisions represent the
reduction to net realizable value for certain assets and exit costs associated
with closing certain warehouses due to distribution consolidation. In 1994,
provisions were made for the closing of certain warehouses which were replaced
during 1995 by larger, more efficient facilities.
 
     A summary of the financial data related to the closing or sale of the
facilities is as follows:
 

 
NOTE 6 -- PENSION BENEFITS
 
     Substantially all employees of the Company participate in noncontributory
defined benefit or defined contribution pension plans. Defined benefit plans
covering salaried employees provide benefits that are based primarily on years
of service and employees' compensation. The defined benefit plan covering hourly
employees generally provides benefits of stated amounts for each year of
service. Multi-employer plans are primarily defined benefit plans which provide
benefits of stated amounts for union employees. The Company's funding policy for
defined benefit pension plans is to
 

 
fund at least the minimum annual contribution required by applicable
regulations. Plan assets consist primarily of cash, equity investments and
fixed-income securities. There were 1,938,800 shares of the Company's stock
included in these assets at December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994.
 
     At December 31, 1995, the assumed discount rate was changed due to
decreased rates of high-quality long-term investments, increasing the projected
benefit obligation. The decreased interest rates during 1995 positively impacted
the return on plan assets in the defined benefit pension trusts. The effect of
the change in the assumed discount rate and the increased earnings on plan
assets resulted in a net decrease in the unrecognized net loss, whose
amortization was reduced beginning in 1996 thereby increasing the net pension
credit. A change in the assumed discount rate and rate of return on plan assets
at December 31, 1994 previously increased the unrecognized net loss, whose
amortization in 1995 reduced the net pension credit.
 
     The net pension credit for defined benefit plans and its components was as
follows:
 

 
     Based on the latest actuarial information available, the following table
sets forth the funded status and amounts recognized in the Company's
consolidated balance sheets for the defined benefit pension plans. Certain
defined benefit plans formerly sponsored by Pratt & Lambert United, Inc. and its
subsidiaries are included beginning in 1996.
 

 
     The Company's annual contribution for its defined contribution pension
plans, which is based on a level percentage of compensation for covered
employees, offset the pension credit by $24,730 for
 

 
1996, $20,326 for 1995 and $20,193 for 1994. The cost of multiemployer and
foreign plans charged to income was immaterial for the three years ended
December 31, 1996.
 
NOTE 7 -- BENEFITS OTHER THAN PENSIONS
 
     In addition to providing pension benefits, the Company provides certain
health care and life insurance benefits under company-sponsored plans for active
and retired employees. Beginning in 1996, these plans include certain health
care and postretirement benefit plans formerly sponsored by Pratt & Lambert
United, Inc. and its subsidiaries. The health care plans are contributory and
contain cost-sharing features such as deductibles and coinsurance. There were
16,935, 14,823 and 14,160 active employees entitled to receive benefits under
these plans as of December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively. The cost of
these benefits for active employees is recognized as claims are incurred and
amounted to $44,221, $37,194 and $32,694 for 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.
The Company has a fund, to which it no longer intends to contribute, that
provides for payment of health care benefits of certain qualified employees.
Distributions from the fund amounted to $4,618 in 1996, $5,265 in 1995 and
$4,662 in 1994.
 
     Substantially all employees of the Company who were hired prior to January
1, 1993 and who are not members of a collective bargaining unit are eligible for
certain health care and life insurance benefits upon retirement from active
service with the Company. There were 4,152, 4,008 and 4,093 retired employees
entitled to receive benefits as of December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994,
respectively. The plans are unfunded.
 
     The assumed discount rate used in determining the actuarial present value
of the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation was 7.25% in 1996 and 1995,
and 8.25% in 1994. The change in the assumed discount rate at December 31, 1995,
caused by decreased interest rates of high-quality long-term investments,
increased the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation, the effect of which
increased the unrecognized net loss. The assumed weighted-average annual rate of
increase in the per capita cost of covered benefits (i.e., the health care cost
trend rate) is 7.75 percent for 1997 and decreases gradually to 5.5 percent for
2003 and thereafter. The health care cost trend rate has a significant effect on
the amounts reported. To illustrate, increasing the assumed health care cost
trend rate by one percentage point in each year would increase the accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation as of December 31, 1996 by $10,450 and the
aggregate service and interest cost components of net periodic postretirement
benefit cost for 1996 by $885.
 

 
     Based on the latest actuarial information available, the following table
sets forth the amounts recognized in the Company's consolidated balance sheets
for postretirement benefits other than pensions:
 

 

 
NOTE 8 -- LONG-TERM DEBT
 

 
     Maturities of long-term debt are as follows for the next five years: $3,800
in 1997; $53,805 in 1998; $59,094 in 1999; $5,799 in 2000; and $3,861 in 2001.
 
     Interest expense on long-term debt amounted to $8,602, $2,387 and $2,768
for 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively. There were no interest charges
capitalized during the periods presented.
 
     The Company had other financing arrangements available at December 31, 1996
as outlined below.
 
     Effective August 31, 1995, the Company entered into 364-day and five year
revolving credit agreements with a group of banks to borrow up to an aggregate
of $600,000. There were no outstanding borrowings under these agreements at the
end of 1996 or 1995. In 1997, the Company terminated these agreements and
entered into new revolving credit agreements as more fully explained in Note 16.
 
     Under a shelf registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission
covering $450,000 of unsecured debt securities with maturities greater than nine
months from the date of issue, the Company may issue securities from time to
time in one or more series and will offer the securities on terms determined at
the time of sale. In 1997, the Company issued debt securities under this shelf
registration as more fully explained in Note 16.
 
     Effective January 24, 1996, the Company increased the aggregate principal
amount of unsecured short-term notes which can be issued under its commercial
paper program to $600,000. In 1997, the Company increased the aggregate
principal amount of such notes to $1,450,000 as more fully explained in Note 16.
At December 31, 1996, outstanding borrowings under this program totaled $166,246
and are included in short-term borrowings on the balance sheet. The
weighted-average interest rate related to these borrowings was 5.71% at December
31, 1996.
 
NOTE 9 -- LEASES
 
     The Company leases certain stores, warehouses, office space and equipment.
Renewal options are available on the majority of leases and, under certain
conditions, options exist to purchase some properties. Rental expense for
operating leases was $104,894, $95,536 and $93,637 for 1996, 1995 and 1994,
respectively. Certain store leases require the payment of contingent rentals
based on sales in excess of specified minimums. Contingent rentals included in
rent expense were $9,877 in 1996, $9,102
 

 
in 1995 and $8,985 in 1994. Rental income, as lessor, from real estate leasing
activities and sublease rental income for all years presented was not
significant.
 
     Following is a schedule, by year and in the aggregate, of future minimum
lease payments under noncancellable operating leases having initial or remaining
terms in excess of one year at December 31, 1996:
 

 
NOTE 10 -- OTHER LONG-TERM LIABILITIES
 
     Other long-term liabilities consist of the following:
 

 
     The long-term liability for environmental-related items represents the
Company's provision for the estimated costs associated with environmental
remediation-related activities at some of its current and former sites. Also,
the Company, together with other parties, has been designated a potentially
responsible party under federal and state environmental protection laws for the
remediation of hazardous waste at a number of third-party sites, primarily
Superfund sites. In general, these laws provide that potentially responsible
parties may be held jointly and severally liable for investigation and
remediation costs regardless of fault. The Company provides for, and includes in
long-term liabilities, its estimated potential liability for investigation and
remediation costs with respect to such third-party sites.
 
     The Company initially provides for the estimated cost of certain
environmental-related activities relating to its current, former and third-party
sites when minimum costs can be reasonably estimated. These estimates are
determined based on currently-available facts regarding each site. If the best
estimate of costs can only be identified within a range and no specific amount
within that range can be determined more likely than any other amount within the
range, the minimum of the range is accrued. Actual costs incurred may vary from
these estimates due to the inherent uncertainties involved. The Company
estimates the cost of similar environmental-related activities at sites obtained
through acquisition on the same basis as described above. The Company believes
that any additional liability in excess of amounts provided which may result
from the resolution of such matters will not have a material adverse effect on
the financial condition, liquidity or cash flow of the Company.
 
     The increase in environmental-related liabilities in 1996 reflects
adjustments to previously recorded estimated costs resulting from the ongoing
evaluation of environmental matters at certain current, former and third-party
sites, liabilities recorded relating to certain sites acquired in connection
with 1996 acquisitions, and the accrual of certain additional costs relating to
the early adoption of SOP 96-1 (see Note 1).
 

 
     In addition to the long-term portion of environmental-related accruals
shown above, current accruals for certain environmental-related liabilities are
included in other accruals in current liabilities on the consolidated balance
sheets.
 
     During 1996, taxes associated with acquisitions and other events
significantly increased other long-term liabilities.
 
NOTE 11 -- STOCK PURCHASE PLAN
 
     As of December 31, 1996, 12,373 employees participated through regular
payroll deductions in the Company's Employee Stock Purchase and Savings Plan.
The Company's contribution charged to income amounted to $29,935, $26,795 and
$22,242 for 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively. Additionally, the Company made
contributions on behalf of participating employees, which represent salary
reductions for income tax purposes, amounting to $15,282 in 1996, $12,775 in
1995 and $11,456 in 1994.
 
     At December 31, 1996, there were 26,267,922 shares of the Company's stock
being held by this plan, representing 15.3 percent of the total number of shares
outstanding. Shares of company stock credited to each member's account under the
plan are voted by the trustee under confidential instructions from each
individual plan member. Shares for which no instructions are received are voted
by the trustee in the same proportion as those for which instructions are
received.
 
NOTE 12 -- CAPITAL STOCK
 

 
     An aggregate of 8,686,286, 9,779,730 and 11,327,544 shares of stock at
December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively, were reserved for future
restricted stock grants, the exercise and future grants of stock options, and,
prior to their expiration in February 1995, the conversion of convertible
subordinated debentures. At December 31, 1996, there were 300,000,000 shares of
common stock and 30,000,000 shares of serial preferred stock authorized for
issuance.
 

 
     The Company has a shareholders' rights plan which designates 1,000,000
shares of the authorized serial preferred stock as cumulative redeemable serial
preferred stock which may be issued if the Company becomes the target of
coercive and unfair takeover tactics.
 
NOTE 13 -- STOCK PLAN
 
     The Company's stock plan permits the granting of stock options, stock
appreciation rights and restricted stock to eligible employees. The 1994 Stock
Plan succeeded the 1984 Stock Plan which expired on February 15, 1994. Although
no further grants may be made under the 1984 Stock Plan, all rights granted
under such plan remain. The 1994 Stock Plan authorized an additional 4,000,000
shares to be added to authorized shares of the 1984 Stock Plan which were not
granted as of the 1984 Stock Plan's expiration date. Non-qualified and incentive
stock options have been granted to certain officers and key employees under the
plans at prices not less than fair market value of the shares, as defined by the
plans, at the date of grant. The options generally become exercisable to the
extent of one-third of the optioned shares for each full year of employment
following the date of grant and generally expire ten years after the date of
grant.
 
     Restricted stock grants, with an outstanding balance of 375,000 shares at
December 31, 1996, were awarded to certain officers and key employees which
require four years of continuous employment from the date of grant before
vesting and receiving the shares without restriction. The number of shares to be
received without restriction is based on the Company's performance relative to a
peer group of companies. There were 208,000 shares issued pursuant to these
grants during 1995. No shares were issued during 1996 and 1994. Unamortized
deferred compensation expense with respect to the restricted stock amounted to
$2,962, $4,024 and $1,612 at December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively, and
is being amortized over the four-year vesting period. Deferred compensation
expense aggregated $3,983, $1,563 and $1,416 in 1996, 1995 and 1994,
respectively. No stock appreciation rights have been granted. A summary of
restricted stock granted during 1996 and 1995 is as follows:
 

 
     The Company has elected to follow Accounting Principles Board Opinion No.
25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" (APBO No. 25), and related
interpretations, in accounting for its employee stock options because, as
discussed below, the alternative fair value accounting provided for under
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 "Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation" (SFAS No. 123), requires use of highly subjective assumptions in
option valuation models. Under APBO No. 25, because the exercise price of the
Company's employee stock options is not less than fair market price of the
shares at the date of grant, no compensation expense is recognized in the
financial statements. Pro forma information regarding net income and earnings
per share, determined as if the Company had accounted for its employee stock
options under the fair value method of SFAS No. 123, is required by that
statement for 1996 and 1995. The fair value for these options was estimated at
the date of grant using a Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following
weighted-average assumptions for all options granted in 1996 and 1995:
 

 

 
     The Black-Scholes option pricing model was developed for use in estimating
the fair value of traded options which have no vesting restrictions and are
fully transferable. Because the Company's employee stock options have
characteristics significantly different from those of traded options, and
because changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the
fair value estimate, it is management's opinion that the existing models do not
necessarily provide a reliable single measure of the fair value of its employee
stock options.
 
     The amounts below represent the pro forma information calculated through
use of the Black-Scholes model. For purposes of pro forma disclosures, the
estimated fair value of the options is amortized to expense over the options'
vesting period.
 

 
     Due to the required phase-in provisions, the effects of applying SFAS No.
123 to arrive at the above pro forma amounts are not representative of the
expected effects on pro forma net income or earnings per share in future years.
 
     A summary of the Company's stock option activity, and related information
for the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, is shown in the following
table in accordance with SFAS No. 123 beginning in 1995:
 

 
     Exercise prices for optioned shares outstanding as of December 31, 1996
ranged from $6.28 to $25.63. A summary of these options by range of exercise
prices is shown as follows:
 

 

 
NOTE 14 -- INCOME TAXES
 
     The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 109 (SFAS No. 109), "Accounting for Income
Taxes". Under SFAS No. 109, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined
based on differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and
liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that are
currently in effect.
 
     Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences
between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting
purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components of
the Company's deferred tax liabilities and assets as of December 31, 1996, 1995
and 1994 are as follows:
 

 
     Significant components of the provisions for income taxes are as follows:
 

 
     For financial reporting purposes, income before income taxes include the
following components:
 

 

 
     A reconciliation of the statutory federal income tax rate and the effective
tax rate follows:
 

 
     The provision includes estimated taxes payable on that portion of retained
earnings of foreign subsidiaries expected to be received by the Company. No
provision was made with respect to $9,063 of retained earnings at December 31,
1996 that have been invested by foreign subsidiaries. It is not practicable to
estimate the amount of unrecognized deferred tax liability for the undistributed
foreign earnings.
 
     Included in the Company's deferred tax assets are valuation reserves of
$19,158, $17,784 and $14,021 at December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively,
resulting from the uncertainty as to future recognition of certain foreign net
operating losses and other foreign assets.
 
NOTE 15--SUMMARY OF QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED)
 

 
     Net income during the fourth quarter decreased by $1,176 (no per share
effect) due to net before-tax adjustments of $1,809. Cost of goods sold
decreased by a net of $9,516 ($6,185 after-tax, $.04 per share) as a result of
physical inventory adjustments of $17,380 ($11,297 after-tax, $.07 per share)
which were partially offset by provisions for the closing costs associated with
certain operations of $7,560 ($4,914 after-tax, $.03 per share) and other
year-end adjustments of $304 ($198 after-tax, no per share effect).
Administrative expenses were reduced by $5,623 ($3,655 after-tax, $.02 per
share) due to other year-end adjustments. Other costs and expenses increased
$16,948 ($11,017 after-tax, $.07 per share) due to the provision of $11,621
($7,554 after-tax, $.05 per share) for environmental remediation-related matters
at current, former and third-party sites and to the provision of $5,327 ($3,463
after-tax, $.02 per share) for the adjustment to net realizable value of certain
net fixed assets.
 

 
     Year-end adjustments during the fourth quarter of $1,565 increased net
income by $1,017 (no per share effect). Cost of goods sold decreased by a net of
$8,268 ($5,374 after-tax, $.03 per share) as a result of physical inventory
adjustments of $13,528 ($8,793 after-tax, $.05 per share) which were
 

 
partially offset by certain provisions for the disposition and termination of
operations of $5,260 ($3,419 after-tax, $.02 per share). Administrative expenses
were increased by $60 ($39 after-tax, no per share effect) due to other year-end
adjustments. Other costs and expenses increased $6,643 ($4,318 after-tax, $.03
per share) due to the provisions for environmental-related matters at certain
current, former and third-party sites of $7,136 ($4,638 after-tax, $.03 per
share) which were partially offset by reductions to prior accruals for the
disposition and termination of operations of $493 ($320 after-tax, no per share
effect).
 
NOTE 16 -- SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
 
     Effective January 7, 1997, the Company acquired all outstanding shares of
stock of Thompson Minwax Holding Corp. (Thompson Minwax) pursuant to a
definitive stock purchase agreement dated November 22, 1996 among the Company,
Silver Acquisition Corp. (a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company) and Forstman
Little & Co. and its affiliates. The total amount of funds required to acquire
the shares and pay off certain indebtedness of Thompson Minwax was approximately
$830 million, subject to adjustment based on the closing date shareholders'
equity of Thompson Minwax.
 
     The acquisition was financed with proceeds from the Company's commercial
paper program. Effective January 3, 1997, the Company increased the aggregate
principal amount of unsecured short-term notes which can be issued under this
program to $1,450,000. The Company's commercial paper program is supported by
the following new revolving credit agreements dated January 3, 1997: (1) a
364-day revolving credit agreement with a group of 30 banks, under which the
Company may borrow up to $290,000; and (2) a five-year revolving credit
agreement with the same group of 30 banks, under which the Company may borrow up
to $1,160,000.
 
     Thompson Minwax is a major producer and marketer in the United States of
interior stains and varnishes under the Minwax(R) brand name, exterior water
sealers and stains under the Thompson's(R) brand name, finishing and enamel
coating products under the Formby's(R) and Red Devil(R) brand names, and
high-performance specialty lubricants under the Tri-Flow(TM) brand name. Ronseal
Limited, a subsidiary of Thompson Minwax, is a major producer and seller of
interior and exterior stains in Ireland and the United Kingdom under the
Ronseal(TM) brand name.
 
     The acquisition will be accounted for under the purchase method of
accounting, and the results of operations of Thompson Minwax will be included in
the results of operations of the Company beginning in 1997. The annual sales of
Thompson Minwax during 1996 were approximately $364,000.
 
     On February 10, 1997, the Company issued $400,000 of debt securities under
its shelf registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission consisting of
$100,000 of 6.25% notes due February 1, 2000, $100,000 of 6.5% notes due
February 1, 2002 and $200,000 of 6.85% notes due February 1, 2007. In addition,
on February 10, 1997, the Company issued $150,000 of 7.375% debentures due
February 1, 2027 and $150,000 of 7.45% debentures due February 1, 2097 in a
private offering not registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Each of the notes and debentures are senior unsecured securities of the Company.
The net proceeds from the sale of such notes and debentures were used to
refinance a portion of the Company's commercial paper debt outstanding.
 
NOTE 17 -- STOCK SPLIT
 
     On January 29, 1997, the Company's board of directors declared a
two-for-one common stock split to be effected in the form of a 100 percent stock
dividend to be distributed on or about March 28, 1997 to holders of record on
March 3, 1997. Accordingly, all numbers of common shares and per share data have
been restated to reflect the stock split. The par value of the additional shares
of common stock to be issued in connection with the stock split will be credited
to common stock and a like amount charged to other capital in 1997.
 

 
VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES
(SCHEDULE II)
 
     Changes in the allowance for doubtful accounts are as follows:
 

 
     Activity related to other asset reserves:
 

 
     Charges to expense consist primarily of amortization of goodwill and
intangibles and, in 1994, adjustments to reduce certain assets to their
estimated net realizable values. Other additions (deductions) consist primarily
of actual costs incurred and balance sheet reclassifications and, in 1995,
removal of fully-amortized items.
 

 
                                   SIGNATURES
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, in the City of
Cleveland, and State of Ohio, on the 12th day of March, 1997.
 
THE SHERWIN-WILLIAMS COMPANY
 
By: /s/ L. E. STELLATO
    ------------------------------------
        L. E. Stellato, Secretary
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons in the capacities
indicated on March 12, 1997.
 

 

 

 
* The undersigned, by signing his name hereto, does sign this report on behalf
  of the designated Officers and Directors of The Sherwin-Williams Company
  pursuant to Powers of Attorney executed on behalf of each such Officer and
  Director.
 

 

 
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
 

 

 

 

