
10-K405
EG&G, INC.



                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              WASHINGTON, DC 20549

                                  ------------

                                    FORM 10-K

(MARK ONE)

[x]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
     ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED]

For  the fiscal year ended December 29, 1996 
                           ----------------- 

                                       OR

[ ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]

For the transition period from __________ to __________


                          Commission file number 1-5075
                          -----------------------------

                                   EG&G, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)


Registrant's telephone number, including area code (617) 237-5100
                                                    ----------------------------

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:


Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (g) of the Act: NONE

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes  x   No
                                              ---     --- 

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [x]

The aggregate market value of the common stock, $1 par value, held by
nonaffiliates of the registrant on February 21, 1997, was $1,020,483,522.

As of February 21, 1997, there were outstanding, exclusive of treasury shares,
46,383,953 shares of common stock, $1 par value.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

PORTIONS OF EG&G, INC.'S PROXY STATEMENT FOR 
THE 1997 ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS...........PART III (Items 10, 11 and 12)


                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

GENERAL BUSINESS DESCRIPTION

EG&G, Inc. was incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts
in 1947. EG&G, Inc. (hereinafter referred to as "EG&G", the "Company", or the
"Registrant", which includes the Company's subsidiaries) is a diversified
technology company which provides optoelectronic, mechanical and
electromechanical components and instruments to manufacturers and end-user
customers. These customers exist in varied markets that include aerospace,
automotive, transportation, chemical, petrochemical, environmental, industrial,
medical, photography, security and other global arenas. The Company's services
also extend to technical and managerial support for governmental and industrial
customers. In 1996, the Company had sales of $1.4 billion from continuing
operations.

The Company's continuing operations are classified into four industry segments:
Instruments, Mechanical Components, Optoelectronics and Technical Services.

RECENT DEVELOPMENTS

During 1996, the Company purchased 1.6 million shares of its common stock under
a previously announced program at an aggregate cost of $30.8 million. As of
December 29, 1996, the Company had authorization to purchase 4.1 million
additional shares.

In July 1996, the Company announced that it had purchased a majority interest in
Xian Yong Hua Petrochemical Machinery, a China-based manufacturer of mechanical
seals with petrochemical, aerospace, utility, and general industrial
applications. The resulting joint venture will work with EG&G's Sealol
Industrial Division, which manufactures mechanical seals used by industry
worldwide.

In July 1996, the U.S. Marshals Service awarded EG&G Astrophysics a $6 million
contract to supply state-of-the-art explosives-detection systems for federal
courthouses.

In September 1996, EG&G was selected by the Greater Kelly Development
Corporation to assist in the preparation and implementation of a redevelopment
plan for the privatization and reuse of Kelly Air Force Base, in San Antonio,
Texas.

In November 1996, EG&G Astrophysics and InVision Technologies announced that
they had entered into a strategic alliance to develop and market a new, advanced
explosives detection system. The agreement is aimed at providing customers with
a fully integrated explosives detection system that is expected to be produced
and available for use in airports worldwide by the end of 1997.

In December 1996, EG&G Astrophysics, Lunar Corporation and the University of
Alabama's Birmingham Research Center Foundation reached a settlement relating to
litigation concerning dual-energy baggage security scanners.

In January 1997, Dr. Fred B. Parks announced that he had resigned as President
and Chief Operating Officer of EG&G.

In January 1997, EG&G Washington Analytical Services Center was awarded a $106.5
million, five-year support contract from the U.S. Navy to provide engineering 
and technical services for the Navy's new attack submarine program.

In February 1997, EG&G Dynatrend was awarded a five-year contract to provide
nationwide asset management to the Internal Revenue Service. The contract has an
estimated value of $30.9 million.

INDUSTRY SEGMENTS

Set forth below is a brief summary of each of the Company's four industry
segments together with a description of certain of the more significant or
recently introduced products, services or operations.

                                       -1-






INSTRUMENTS

The Company develops and manufactures instruments and systems for applications
in medical and clinical diagnostics; biochemical, medical and life science
research; industrial and pharmaceutical process measurement; environmental
monitoring; airport and industrial security; and food inspection. The Company's
instruments provide a wide range of measurement capabilities and options through
the use of high-speed signal processing, image enhancement and a broad
utilization of detector technologies, including products which feature the
accurate generation, detection and measurement of various segments of the
electromagnetic spectrum. The Company offers products in this segment under
trade names which include Astrophysics, Flow Technology, Berthold, Ortec and
Wallac. In 1996, this segment represented 23% of the Company's total sales from
continuing operations and 32% of the Company's operating income from continuing
operations before general corporate expenses.

High-performance bioanalytic and diagnostic instruments manufactured by the
Company are used in hospitals, clinics and pharmaceutical and medical research
facilities. These instruments employ time-resolved fluorescence and
chemiluminescence technologies, as well as radioisotopes, to analyze samples.
The advantage of fluorescence and luminescense is that they do not involve the
use of radioactive material, so that concerns about sample transport and waste
disposal are minimized. Among other things, these instruments are used to screen
blood for thyroid dysfunction, fertility-related disorders, fetal defects and
diseases in newborns, and to detect relapse in patients who have been treated
for cancer. The Company manufactures AutoDelfia(R), an automated immunoassay
fluorescence diagnostic system. The Company also sells reagents for use in
connection with certain of these instruments.

Through its Instruments segment, the Company also produces security screening
systems that employ X-ray technology in conjunction with image-enhancing
techniques for non-intrusive inspection of baggage and packages at airport
portals, baggage processing areas, mail rooms, courthouses, schools and
buildings. The Company has introduced two new security screening products: the
Z-Scan(TM) and a portable, large-cargo X-ray screening system. The Z-Scan, which
can process up to 1,800 bags per hour, uses color images, X-rays and proprietary
software to detect explosives, narcotics or contraband in packages and luggage.
The United Kingdom's Department of Transportation has certified the Z-Scan for
detection of drugs and contraband in checked cargo. The large-cargo X-ray
screening system allows non-intrusive inspection of boxes, crates and
containers. It supports the search for contraband, weapons and explosives at
border crossings, ports of entry, warehouses and airports.

Instruments produced by the Company also include process inspection systems that
combine X-ray technology from the Company's Instruments segment and optical
components from the Company's Optoelectronics segment. These systems are used in
food processing and packaging plants to monitor, detect and remove foreign
objects from raw and processed food at various stages of production. Such
systems are also used to check intravenous-medicine bags and automobile oil
filters for leaks, to measure the fat content of meat and to detect and separate
non-biodegradable PVCs from recyclable plastics.

Based on its expertise in nuclear measurements, the Company produces instruments
to detect, characterize and measure radiation, including a complete line of
radiation-protection measuring systems for laboratories, nuclear facilities and
environmental monitoring stations. The Company also offers industrial on-line
level and density measuring instruments for process control and measurement of
liquids, slurries or solids in containers, tanks and pipes.

MECHANICAL COMPONENTS

Through its Mechanical Components segment, the Company produces advanced seals
and bellows products, valves, nozzles, metal ducting, precision aerospace
components, motors and heat management devices for the petrochemical and
chemical processing, transportation, defense and aerospace markets. The Company
offers these products under trade names which include Pressure Science, Rotron
and Sealol. In 1996, this segment represented 19% of the Company's total sales
from continuing operations and 26% of the Company's operating income from
continuing operations before general corporate expenses.

Products sold in this segment include blower systems, power-conversion devices
and other components for locomotives, transit cars and buses and defense product
applications. Many of these products were first developed by the Company for
defense-related purposes and are now marketed and sold for commercial
applications.

                                       -2-


The Company also produces mechanical sealing components and systems, which use
welded metal bellows devices pioneered by the Company for the process
industries. Such industries include pharmaceuticals, food processing, oil
refining and chemical and petrochemical processing. The Company expects that the
market for the Company's advanced zero-leakage gas seals will grow as a result
of environmental legislation, which requires manufacturers to significantly
reduce emissions.

For aerospace applications, the Company produces valves, advanced sealing
components, aircraft exhaust components and ducting.

OPTOELECTRONICS

Through its Optoelectronics segment, the Company offers a broad variety of
components that emit and detect light in the spectrum from ultraviolet through
visible to the far infrared. These components range from simple photocells to
sophisticated imaging systems, light sources that include various types of
flashtubes and laser diodes, and complex devices for weapons' trigger systems.
Applications include light sensors used in automotive and commercial
electronics, sensors used in smoke detectors and medical imaging systems, and
sophisticated arrays for communications and remote sensing of the earth. The
Company expects to make significant research and development and capital
expenditures in this segment over the next several years. This segment offers
products under trade names which include Electro-Optics, Heimann
Optoelectronics, IC Sensors, Reticon, Judson and Vactec. In 1996, this segment
represented 19% of the Company's total sales from continuing operations and 11%
of the Company's operating income from continuing operations before general
corporate expenses.

Products manufactured by this segment also include detectors of visible and
non-visible light, including high-performance silicon photodiodes that detect
and measure light and other optical radiation for industrial, space, military,
analytical and scientific instrumentation. Light detectors are also manufactured
by the Company for a variety of commercial applications. The Company also makes
a wide variety of flashlamps for use in photocopy and reprographic equipment,
photo-typesetting systems, beacons, indicators and laser systems and
accessories. In addition, the Company manufactures power supplies for military
high-frequency electronic applications that are used primarily for precision
controlled switching of electric current in electronic equipment.

The Company is developing amorphous silicon imaging systems for medical and
industrial applications. These X-ray systems incorporate amorphous silicon, 
which replaces film in X-ray systems and translates the rays directly into 
digital pulses that then immediately produce the image on a cathode ray tube.

Through this segment, the Company also produces micromachined sensors, which are
small silicon-wafer-based devices that combine a sensing function with
intelligent signal processing. The Company mass produces these micromachined
infrared sensors for consumer, medical and automotive applications and
manufactures high-performance micromachined silicon sensors for missile-guidance
systems. In a joint venture, the Company is developing more advanced
micromachined electronic accelerometers for automotive and industrial
applications.

TECHNICAL SERVICES

Through its Technical Services segment, the Company supplies engineering,
scientific, environmental, management and technical support services to a broad
range of governmental and industrial customers. These services include: analysis
and testing services for the automotive industry; base operations for the
National Aeronautics and Space Administration ("NASA") at the Kennedy Space
Center ("KSC"); chemical weapons disposal and technical and support services for
the U.S. Department of Defense ("DoD"); seized-property administration for the
U.S. Customs Service; technical support in a joint venture for the National
Science Foundation in Antarctica; consulting services in transportation;
physical security services for government agencies; and services and products
for the environmental market. The Company offers services in this segment under
trade names which include Automotive Research, Dynatrend, Structural Kinematics
and Washington Analytical Services Center. In 1996, this segment represented 39%
of the Company's total sales from continuing operations and 31% of the Company's
operating income from continuing operations before general corporate expenses.

For the automobile, chemical additive and petroleum industries, the Company
provides automobile durability, performance and emissions testing, and tests
fuels, lubricants and chemical additives. The Company performs automobile
durability and performance testing for all major U.S. and a number of foreign
automobile manufacturers.

                                       -3-



As base operations contractor for the KSC, the Company provides institutional,
technical and maintenance support services. In particular, the Company manages
KSC's 600 buildings, structures and facilities; tests new astronaut rescue
procedures and escape systems; fields a force of 200 uniformed security
personnel and a SWAT team; provides fire protection and medical services;
handles all propellant substances; and manages the shuttle landing facility. The
Company has been the base operations contractor at KSC since 1983 and is
currently in the fourth year of a four-year contract that has three two-year
renewal options at the discretion of the government. In 1996, NASA designated
United Space Associates as the single Space Flight Operations contractor. While
it is possible that the Company's contract could be absorbed by the single Space
Flight Operations contract, the Company believes that its contract will be
renewed by NASA and changed to a performance-based contract.

Company contracts with the DoD fall into two general categories: (i) traditional
defense activities, and (ii) decommissioning. The Company's traditional defense
activities focus on such strategic areas as research and engineering analyses in
support of DoD advanced development programs. An example of a decommissioning
project is the operation of the U.S. Army's facility for the disposal of lethal
chemical agents and munitions in Tooele, Utah.

The Company was recently awarded a contract from the Greater Kelly Development
Corporation to assist in the preparation and implementation of a redevelopment
plan for Kelly Air Force Base in San Antonio, Texas. The contract consists of a
one-year planning phase and three three-year renewal options at the discretion
of the customer for implementation activities.

The Company also provides engineering and management services in a variety of
fields, including transportation, physical security and property management for
several government agencies. Government clients include the U.S. Departments of
Transportation, State and Treasury, the U.S. Customs Service and the
Environmental Protection Agency.

In the environmental area, the Company is developing a range of proprietary
technologies with a view toward expanding its presence in the public and
private sector waste minimization and remediation markets.

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

Since its founding, the Company has provided services to the U.S. Department of
Energy ("DOE") and its predecessor organizations. These services related
primarily to nuclear energy research and nuclear weapons production and testing.
As a result of changing procurement and administrative priorities at the DOE, to
continue to provide these services the Company would have been required to
invest significant levels of capital and accept broader liabilities and lower
fees. In 1994, the Company determined that it would not seek renewal of its four
contracts with the DOE and would not seek management and operations contracts at
other DOE sites. Accordingly, the Company is reporting its former DOE Support
segment as discontinued operations. Future sales and income from discontinued
operations will decrease as the remaining DOE contract expires in 1997 and are
dependent upon the negotiated work scope and fee pools. Three of these DOE
contracts expired in 1995. The Rocky Flats contract for the management and
operation of the Rocky Flats Environmental Technology Center near Golden,
Colorado terminated in June 1995. The Reynolds Electrical and Engineering Co.
contract for support and maintenance services for the underground nuclear
weapons test program and its design laboratories at the Nevada Test Site expired
on December 31, 1995. The Energy Measurements contract to provide scientific and
engineering services also relating to the Nevada Test Site expired on December
31, 1995.

The remaining DOE contract, for Mound Applied Technologies at DOE's Miamisburg,
Ohio facility, was scheduled to expire on September 30, 1996. Under this
contract, the Company provides all support services at the facility and is
responsible for the assembly and testing of radioisotopic thermionic generators
for space and special terrestrial power missions. The contract has been extended
by the DOE to June 30, 1997 under existing terms and conditions and could be
extended under three one-month options through September 30, 1997. The Company
also is responsible for the transfer to other DOE facilities of technology
relating to the Mound facility's former mission involving the manufacturing of
components for nuclear weapons.

MARKETING

The Company markets its services and products through its own specialized sales
forces as well as independent foreign and domestic manufacturer representatives
and distributors. In certain foreign countries, the Company has entered into
joint venture and license agreements with local firms to manufacture and market
its products.

                                       -4-



RAW MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES

Raw materials and supplies used by the Company are generally readily available
in adequate quantities from domestic and foreign sources.

PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS

While the Company's patents, trademarks and licenses in the aggregate are
important to its business, the Company does not believe that the loss of any one
patent, trademark or license or group of related patents, trademarks or
licenses would have a materially adverse effect on the overall business of the
Company or on any of its industry segments.

BACKLOG

The approximate dollar value of unfilled orders of continuing operations by
industry segment as of December 29, 1996 and December 31, 1995 is set forth in
the table below.

(In Thousands)                      December 29, 1996      December 31, 1995
                                    -----------------      -----------------


Instruments                                  $ 45,883               $ 50,776
Mechanical Components                         105,762                 95,466
Optoelectronics                               112,759                125,630
Technical Services                            285,170                224,087
                                             --------               --------
Continuing Operations                        $549,574               $495,959
                                             ========               ========

At December 29, 1996, 50% of the backlog represents orders received from U.S.
government agencies, primarily the DoD and NASA. The Company estimates that over
95% of its backlog as of December 29, 1996 will be billed during 1997.

The order backlog for each segment relates differently to future sales based on
different business characteristics, primarily order and delivery lead times and
customer demand requirements. As customer order cycles continue to shorten,
reducing required lead times, many of the Company's businesses operate with
reducing backlogs. While the Company has not generally experienced material
cancellations of orders, orders may be cancelled by customers without financial
penalty, and backlog does not necessarily represent actual future shipments.

Backlog of the former DOE Support segment, which is reported as discontinued
operations and is not reflected above, represents appropriated annual contract
funding and was $53 million at December 29, 1996 and $126 million at December
31, 1995.

GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS

In accordance with government regulations, all of the Company's government
contracts are subject to termination for the convenience of the government.
Costs incurred under cost-reimbursable contracts are subject to audit by the
government. The results of prior audits, which have been completed through 1991,
have not had a material effect on the Company.

CONTINUING OPERATIONS: Sales to U.S. government agencies, which were
predominantly to the DoD and NASA, were $527 million, $537 million and $542
million in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively. In October 1993, the Company was
selected by NASA to continue as the base operations contractor at the KSC. The
award/incentive fee contract contributed sales of $172 million in 1996 and 1995
and $176 million in 1994. The contract expires on October 31, 1997 and has three
two-year renewal options at the discretion of the government.

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS: The EG&G Rocky Flats, Inc. contract terminated in June
1995. The Reynolds Electrical and Engineering Co., Inc. and the EG&G Energy
Measurements, Inc. contracts expired on December 31, 1995. The EG&G Mound
Applied Technologies, Inc. contract, the Company's remaining DOE management and
operations contract, has

                                       -5-



been extended by the DOE to June 30, 1997 under existing terms and conditions
and could be extended for up to an additional three months. Sales and income
from the Mound contract are dependent upon the negotiated work scope and fee
pools. The Mound cost-plus-award-fee contract contributed $141 million of sales
to discontinued operations in 1996. The Company does not anticipate incurring
any material loss on the ultimate completion of the contract.

COMPETITION

Because of the wide range of its products and services, the Company faces many
different types of competition and competitors. Competitors range from large
foreign and domestic organizations that produce a comprehensive array of goods
and services, to small concerns producing a few goods or services for
specialized market segments.

In the Instruments segment, the Company competes with instrument companies, some
large, most small, that serve narrow segments of markets in X-ray and magnetic
security systems, nuclear, industrial, and diagnostic instrumentation, and
instrumentation for exploration and development of oil and gas resources. The
Company competes in these markets on the basis of product performance, product
reliability, service and price. Consolidation of competitors through
acquisitions and mergers and the Company's increasing activity in selected
diagnostics and industrial markets are expected to increase the proportion of
large competitors in this segment.

In the Mechanical Components segment, the Company is a leading supplier of
selected precision aircraft exhaust components, specialized fans and heat
transfer devices, and mechanical seals for industrial applications. Competition
in these areas typically is from small specialized manufacturing companies.

In the Optoelectronics segment, the Company is among the leading suppliers of
specialty flashtubes, silicon photodetectors, avalanche photodiodes, cadmium
sulfide and cadmium selenide detectors, photodiode arrays and switched power
supplies. Typically, competition is from small specialized manufacturing
companies.

The Technical Services segment provides technical services to several agencies
of the federal government, including the DoD and NASA. This business is
typically won through competition with a number of large and small contractors,
many of which are as large or larger than the Company and which, therefore, have
resources and capabilities that are comparable to or greater than those of the
Company. The primary bases for competition in these markets are technical and
management capabilities, current and past performance, and price. Competition is
typically subject to mandated procurement and competitive bidding requirements.
Competition for automotive testing services is primarily from a few specialized
testing companies and from customer-owned testing facilities, and is primarily
based on quality, service, and price.

Within the Mechanical Components, Optoelectronics and Instruments segments,
competition for governmental purchases is subject to mandated procurement
procedures and competitive bidding practices. In these segments, the Company
competes on the basis of product performance, quality, service and price. In
much of the Optoelectronics and Instruments segments and in the specialized fan
and aircraft and marine mechanical seal markets included in the Mechanical
Components segment, advancing technology and research and development are also
important competitive factors.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

During 1996, 1995 and 1994, Company-sponsored research and development
expenditures were approximately $42.8 million, $42.4 million and $38.6 million,
respectively.

ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE

The Company is conducting a number of environmental investigations and remedial
actions at current and former Company locations and, along with other companies,
has been named a potentially responsible party for certain waste disposal sites.
The Company accrues for environmental issues in the accounting period that the
Company's responsibility is established and when the cost can be reasonably
estimated. As of December 29, 1996, the Company had an accrual of $3.2 million
to reflect its estimated liability for environmental remediation. As assessments
and remediation activities progress at each individual site, these liabilities
are reviewed and adjusted to reflect additional information as it becomes
available. There have been no environmental problems to date that have had or
are expected to have a material effect on the Company's financial position or
results of operations. While it is reasonably possible

                                       -6-



that a material loss exceeding the amounts recorded may have been incurred, the
preliminary stages of the investigations make it impossible for the Company to
reasonably estimate the range of potential exposure.

EMPLOYEES

As of March 1, 1997, the Company employed approximately 15,000 persons,
including 1,000 persons in the former DOE Support segment. Certain of the
Company's subsidiaries are parties to contracts with labor unions. The Company
considers its relations with employees to be satisfactory.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INDUSTRY SEGMENTS

Sales and Operating Income (Loss) From Continuing Operations by Industry Segment
For the Five Years Ended December 29, 1996


The operating income (loss) from continuing operations for 1994 included a
goodwill write-down of $40.3 million and restructuring charges of $30.4 million.
The impact of these nonrecurring charges on each segment was as follows:
Instruments - $55.7 million, Mechanical Components - $2.7 million,
Optoelectronics - $9.7 million, Technical Services - $1.6 million and General
Corporate Expenses - $1 million.

                                       -7-



Additional information relating to the Company's operations in the various
industry segments is as follows:




Corporate assets consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, prepaid pension
and taxes, and investments.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT GEOGRAPHIC AREAS

Information relating to geographic areas is as follows:



Transfers between geographic areas were not material.

                                       -8-


ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

As of March 1, 1997, the Company occupied approximately 4,093,500 square feet of
building area, of which approximately 1,611,800 square feet is owned. The
balance is leased. The Company's headquarters occupies 53,350 square feet of
leased space in Wellesley, Massachusetts. The Company's other operations are
conducted in manufacturing and assembly plants, research laboratories,
administrative offices and other facilities located in 26 states, Washington,
D.C., Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands and 25 foreign countries.

Non-U.S. facilities account for approximately 1,154,300 square feet of owned and
leased property, or approximately 28% of the Company's total occupied space.

The Company's leases on property are both short-term and long-term. In
management's opinion, the Company's properties are well-maintained and are
adequate for its present requirements.

Except for operations based on government facilities, substantially all of the
machinery and equipment used by the Company in its other activities is owned by
the Company and the balance is leased or furnished by contractors or customers.

The following table indicates the approximate square footage of real property
owned and leased attributable to each of the Company's industry segments.



ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The Company is subject to various investigations, claims and legal proceedings
covering a wide range of matters that arise in the ordinary course of its
business activities. Each of these matters is subject to various uncertainties,
and it is possible that some of these matters may be resolved unfavorably to the
Company. The Company has established accruals for matters that are probable and
reasonably estimable. Management believes that any liability that may ultimately
result from the resolution of these matters in excess of amounts provided will
not have a material adverse effect on the financial position or results of
operations of the Company.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

Not applicable.

                                       -9-



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

Listed below are the executive officers of the Company as of March 24, 1997. No
family relationship exists between any of the officers.



                                      -10-



Mr. Kucharski joined the Company in 1972. He was elected a Vice President in
1979, a Senior Vice President in 1982 and Executive Vice President in 1985. In
1986 he was elected President and Chief Operating Officer, in 1987 Chief
Executive Officer and was elected Chairman of the Board of Directors in 1988. He
was again elected President in 1997.

Mr. Gross joined the Company in 1971. He was elected Assistant General Counsel
and Assistant Clerk in 1978, Vice President, General Counsel and Clerk in 1990,
and Senior Vice President in 1996.

Mr. Alexander joined the Company in 1982. He was elected Corporate Controller in
1991, a title he retained when named a Vice President in 1995. He was elected
Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President in 1996.

Mr. Castellana joined the Company in 1965. He was elected a Vice President in
1991 and serves as a principal executive in the office of the Chief Operating
Officer.

Mr. Fraser joined the Company in 1961. After holding a number of increasingly
responsible positions, he was appointed General Manager of EG&G Reynolds
Electrical & Engineering Co., Inc. in 1986. He was elected a Vice President of
the Company in 1990.

Mr. Klemmer joined the Company in 1996 as Vice President of Corporate Marketing.
From 1989 to 1996 Mr. Klemmer was General Partner of Quaestus & Company, a
strategic planning and marketing consulting firm.

Ms. Lewis joined the Company in 1970. She managed the Human Resources Department
of EG&G Reynolds Electrical & Engineering Co., Inc. from 1984 until 1995 when
she was elected Vice President of EG&G. Ms. Lewis is responsible for Human
Resources.

Ms. Lorenz joined the Company in 1990. She was elected a Vice President in 1992
and is responsible for Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.

Dr. Peters joined the Company in 1968. He was elected a Vice President in 1987
and is responsible for Planning.

Mr. Rossi joined the Company in 1967. He was elected a Vice President in 1988
and serves as a principal executive in the office of the Chief Operating
Officer.

Mr. Theodores joined the Company in 1986. He was Director of Corporate New
Business Development from 1992 until being elected a Vice President of Mergers
and Acquisitions in 1996.

Mr. Williams joined the Company in 1972. He was elected a Vice President in 1984
and serves as a principal executive in the office of the Chief Operating
Officer.

Mr. Heaney joined the Company in 1980, serving as Manager of Financial Analysis,
Controller of the Technical Services segment from 1989 to 1994 and Director of
Economic Value Added Implementation in 1994-5. He was elected Treasurer in 1995.

Mr. Ribaudo joined the Company in 1996 as Corporate Controller. He had been
associated with Arthur Andersen LLP since 1982, and was elected a partner of
that firm in 1994.

                                      -11-



                                     PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

MARKET PRICE OF COMMON STOCK

                                         1995 Quarters
                                         -------------
                          First       Second         Third       Fourth
                         ------       ------        ------       ------
High                     $15.50       $18.38        $20.00       $24.50
Low                       13.00        15.00         16.38        18.00


                                         1996 Quarters
                                         -------------
                          First       Second         Third       Fourth
                         ------       ------        ------       ------
High                     $25.13       $23.50        $21.38       $21.13
Low                       20.38        19.88         16.88        16.25


DIVIDENDS

                                         1995 Quarters
                                         -------------
                          First       Second         Third       Fourth
                          -----       ------         -----       ------
Cash Dividends
 Per Common Share         $ .14        $ .14         $ .14        $ .14


                                         1996 Quarters
                                         -------------
                          First       Second         Third       Fourth
                          -----       ------         -----       ------
Cash Dividends
 Per Common Share         $ .14        $ .14         $ .14        $ .14


The Company's common stock is listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange.
The number of holders of record of the Company's common stock as of February 21,
1997, was approximately 11,330.

In October 1996, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a regular
quarterly cash dividend of fourteen cents per share of common stock. The
quarterly cash dividend was paid on February 10, 1997, to stockholders of record
at the close of business on January 17, 1997.

                                      -12-



ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION



a)   Included a goodwill write-down of $40.3 million and restructuring charges
     of $30.4 million.
b)   Return on equity before effect of nonrecurring items described in a) was
     11.8%.
c)   Included one-time after-tax charges of $20.5 million, or $.36 per share,
     due to adoption of SFAS Nos. 106 and 109.
d)   Return on equity before cumulative effect of accounting changes was 16.4%.


                                      -13-


ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND
        FINANCIAL CONDITION

OVERVIEW

In 1994, the Company initiated a series of significant actions to reposition its
businesses for future success. These initiatives included withdrawal from the
Department of Energy (DOE) Support business, restructuring the cost model of
continuing operations, improved utilization of working capital, liquidation of
nonstrategic investments and assets, replacing a portion of equity capital with
long-term debt, adoption of Economic Value Added (EVA) as the basis of
measurement and incentive compensation systems and increased investment in
internal development programs. Substantial progress was made in each of these
areas in 1995 and 1996 and is detailed later in this report. The repositioning
continued in 1996 with a realignment of the operating organization to continue
to position the Company for sustained long-term growth. The overall goal of the
effort is to provide greater focus on the end-use customer by consolidating
divisions around common technology, manufacturing processes and markets. As part
of this program, a new corporate office was established to which all division
managers report directly, resulting in the elimination of a management layer.
These programs have resulted in improved financial results since 1994, which are
expected to continue in the future.

1996 COMPARED TO 1995

Sales from continuing operations increased 1% in 1996 compared to 1995,
reflecting a growth in product sales of 8% and a decrease in Technical Services'
sales. Operating income from continuing operations increased 6% in 1996 compared
to 1995. The improvement reflected the impact of higher sales in the Instruments
and Mechanical Components segments and lower costs resulting from the Company's
1994 restructuring plan. Partially offsetting these increases in operating
income were decreases in Optoelectronics caused by significant operational
problems resulting in a loss in the micromachined sensors business and decreases
in Technical Services caused by lower automotive testing services and the
completion of two contracts in 1995. Cost savings under the 1994 restructuring
plan totaled $26 million in 1996, which represents an $11 million increase over
the savings achieved in 1995. Capital expenditures increased 30% in 1996 to $80
million, and outlays for research and development were $43 million. The
Company's program to reduce working capital and to dispose of nonstrategic
assets continued in 1996 with cumulative reductions of over $85 million since
its inception in 1994. Key measures of effectiveness of working capital
management, Days Sales Outstanding and Inventory Turns, improved by 2% and 9%,
respectively, in 1996.

1995 COMPARED TO 1994

Sales from continuing operations increased by $87 million in 1995 to $1.4
billion, and operating income before nonrecurring charges increased by 38% over
1994. Key measures of effectiveness of working capital management, Days Sales
Outstanding and Inventory Turns, improved by 10% and 15%, respectively, in 1995.
Research and development and capital expenditures increased by 10% and 66%,
respectively.


FACTORS AFFECTING FUTURE OPERATING RESULTS

Except for the historical information contained herein, the matters discussed in
this Annual Report are forward-looking statements that involve risks and
uncertainties. Future trends in revenues and operating income will be dependent
both on external factors and on the success of the various programs described in
this report. In Technical Services, future performance will continue to be
impacted by a highly competitive procurement environment, continuing changes in
federal budget priorities and rapidly changing customer requirements. The NASA
contract expires on October 31, 1997 and has three 2-year renewal options at the
discretion of the government. While it is possible that the Company's contract
could be absorbed by the single Space Flight Operations contract, the

                                      -14-


Company believes that its contract will be renewed by NASA. Future performance
in our three product segments will be highly dependent on the technological
success and market acceptance of new program initiatives, including the
amorphous silicon project and the micromachined sensors business. The
Optoelectronics results are also dependent on management's ability to bring the
micromachined sensors business to break-even operations in 1997. Continued
success in improving operational efficiency will be required to offset
increasing price pressure in most of the Company's product offerings. As
customer order cycles continue to shorten, reducing required lead times, many of
our businesses operate with reducing backlogs. As the Company's operations
continue to expand globally, movements in foreign exchange rates could affect
operating results. Effective tax rates in the future could be affected by
changes in the geographical distribution of income, utilization of net operating
loss carryforwards and repatriation costs.


RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The discussion that follows is a summary analysis of the major changes by
industry segment.

INSTRUMENTS

1996 COMPARED TO 1995

The $28.1 million sales increase resulted mainly from higher demand for
explosives detection systems, primarily from U.S. government facilities, and for
diagnostic and medical research products. These increases were partially offset
by decreases totaling $12 million, which resulted from the effect of changes in
foreign exchange rates and the divestiture of two product lines in 1995.
Operating income was 11.3% of sales in 1996 compared to 5.8% in 1995. Operating
income increased $19.3 million, primarily from improved margins on higher sales.
Also contributing, to a lesser extent, were manufacturing and engineering
process improvements, lower costs resulting from the restructuring plan, lower
inventory provisions due to improved inventory management, the favorable impact
of changes in foreign exchange rates, income from the expiration of a grant
liability and a 1995 provision for additional cost reductions. A $4.2 million
provision for a 1996 patent infringement settlement and increased management
incentive accruals partially offset these increases. As part of the settlement,
the Company entered into a royalty agreement covering future sales.

1995 COMPARED TO 1994

The $20.4 million sales increase resulted primarily from higher demand for
diagnostic and security products and the effect of changes in foreign exchange
rates, partially offset by an $11 million decrease due to the divestiture of
three product lines under the restructuring plan. The increase in operating
income of $11.1 million, excluding the 1994 nonrecurring charges of $55.7
million, resulted from cost reductions of $6.9 million from the 1994
restructuring plan, margin on higher sales and the 1994 expense related to the
close-down of a research and development project. The increases were partially
offset by the unfavorable impact on export shipment margins caused by the
strengthening of the Finnish markka against other major currencies, the expenses
associated with the expansion of the food-monitoring business and a provision
for additional cost reductions.

MECHANICAL COMPONENTS

1996 COMPARED TO 1995

Higher demand for aerospace, electromechanical and industrial process sealing
products resulted in 11% sales growth. The 7% increase in operating income
resulted from the margin on higher sales and lower costs from the restructuring
plan, partially offset by provisions for projected excess contract costs and
warranty repairs.

                                      -15-



1995 COMPARED TO 1994

The $16.8 million sales increase was due to improving market conditions,
primarily for industrial process sealing and aerospace products. The $5.8
million increase in operating income, excluding the 1994 restructuring charges
of $2.7 million, resulted primarily from margin on higher sales and $1.5 million
of cost reductions. The 1994 results included a provision for environmental
remediation costs of $1.3 million and increased start-up costs for the
transportation element of the electromechanical business.

OPTOELECTRONICS

1996 COMPARED TO 1995

Sales of new imaging products and higher demand for detectors and accelerometers
for the automotive market, partially offset by decreases caused by lower power
supplies sales and the divestiture of a product line in 1995, resulted in an
increase of $10.2 million. Operating income decreased $7.1 million as
significant operational problems resulted in a loss in the micromachined sensors
business, which had sales of $37 million. To a lesser extent, lower sales and
projected excess contract costs in the power supplies business contributed to
the decrease. Management is implementing corrective actions in the micromachined
sensors business, which are expected to result in break-even operations in 1997.
Partially offsetting these decreases were the margin on the sales of new imaging
products and lower costs resulting from the restructuring plan. The 1996 impact
of the development effort for the amorphous silicon project continued at the $5
million level.

1995 COMPARED TO 1994

Sales increased $46 million, or 22%, primarily due to $28 million of higher
sales of IC Sensors, acquired at the end of the third quarter of 1994, and
higher shipments of flash products. The $1 million operating income increase,
excluding the 1994 nonrecurring charges of $9.7 million, resulted from margin on
higher sales and $2.6 million of cost reductions. The increases were partially
offset by lower margins due to competitive pricing pressures and higher
production costs in one product line and completion of certain government
contracts in 1994. The Company significantly increased research and development
expenses and capital expenditures in 1995 to support the amorphous silicon and
micromachined sensor programs.

TECHNICAL SERVICES

1996 COMPARED TO 1995

The $57.8 million sales reduction was mainly the result of the absence in 1996
of the billings under two large contracts discussed below. Also contributing to
the reduction was a decrease in sales of the automotive operations, primarily
due to continuing lower demand for stationary testing services caused by
customers' budget constraints and mature testing specifications, and completion
of a lubricant testing contract at the end of the first quarter of 1996. The $14
million operating income reduction was the result of the sales reductions
partially offset by the recognition of a productivity incentive fee on the
Kennedy Space Center (KSC) contract and the 1995 estimated provision for a legal
judgment.

1995 COMPARED TO 1994

The $3.8 million sales increase was the net result of billings under two
contracts for communication systems development and water flow control offset by
decreases resulting from continuing reductions in government funding and the
phasedown of the Superconducting Super Collider Laboratory contract. In
addition, demand for stationary automotive testing services was lower in 1995.
Operating income was flat, excluding the 1994 restructuring charges of $1.6
million. The income earned on the two previously described contracts, and an
unfavorable contract adjustment and early retirement costs recorded in 1994 were
offset by several decreases. These decreases included costs incurred in excess

                                      -16-


of contract coverage, an estimated provision for a legal judgment, start-up
costs for the environmental services and systems business and the effect of
lower sales levels in certain government services and the automotive testing
markets.

GENERAL CORPORATE EXPENSES

1996 COMPARED TO 1995

The $4.8 million decrease was primarily due to lower costs resulting from the
restructuring plan and lower management incentive accruals.

1995 COMPARED TO 1994

The $4.6 million decrease, excluding the 1994 restructuring charges of $1
million, resulted from $3.8 million of cost reductions in 1995, and $1 million
of separation costs and $1 million of costs associated with the restructuring
plan recorded in 1994. These decreases in expenses were partially offset by
management incentive accruals.

OTHER

1996 COMPARED TO 1995

The $10.7 million net increase in other expense was due to higher interest
expense reflecting the issuance of $115 million of ten-year notes in October
1995 and lower gains on the disposition of nonstrategic assets. The effective
tax rate of 32.2% for 1996 was lower than the 36.9% rate in 1995 primarily due
to changes in the geographical distribution of income.

1995 COMPARED TO 1994

The $9.6 million increase in other income was due to gains on sales of
investments and nonstrategic assets, higher income generated by joint ventures
and lower investment write-downs. Partially offsetting these factors were higher
interest expense and foreign exchange losses. The effective tax rate for
continuing operations was 36.9% in 1995. The effective tax rate of 87.5% in 1994
was higher than normal as a result of the impact of the goodwill write-down and
the restructuring charges.

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

1996 COMPARED TO 1995

The decrease in income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes,
reflected the expiration of the Rocky Flats and Nevada Test Site contracts in
1995. The Mound contract, the Company's remaining management and operations
contract with the DOE, has been extended to June 30, 1997 under existing terms
and conditions and could be extended by the DOE for up to an additional three
months. Sales and income from the Mound contract are dependent upon the
negotiated work scope and fee pools.

1995 COMPARED TO 1994

Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, was $12.7 million
lower in 1995. The decrease reflected the expiration of the Idaho National
Engineering Laboratory contract in September 1994 and the Rocky Flats contract
in June 1995.

DEPRECIATION CHANGE

In 1995, the Company changed its method of depreciation for certain classes of
plant and equipment purchased after January 1, 1995 from an accelerated method
to the straight-line method for financial

                                      -17-


reporting purposes. The Company believes that the straight-line method more
appropriately reflects the timing of the economic benefits to be received from
these assets, consisting mainly of manufacturing equipment. The Company also
changed its convention for calculating depreciation expense during the year that
an asset is acquired. Previously, the Company used the half-year convention;
starting in 1995, the Company commences depreciation in the month the asset is
placed in service. In 1995, the effect of applying these new methods was to
reduce depreciation expense by $4.3 million, and to increase income from
continuing operations and net income by $2.7 million and net income per share by
$.05.

ENVIRONMENTAL

The Company is conducting a number of environmental investigations and remedial
actions at current and former Company locations and, along with other companies,
has been named a potentially responsible party for certain waste disposal sites.
The Company accrues for environmental issues in the accounting period that the
Company's responsibility is established and when the cost can be reasonably
estimated. As of December 29, 1996, the Company had an accrual of $3.2 million
to reflect its estimated liability for environmental remediation. As assessments
and remediation activities progress at each individual site, these liabilities
are reviewed and adjusted to reflect additional information as it becomes
available. There have been no environmental problems to date that have had or
are expected to have a material effect on the Company's financial position or
results of operations. While it is reasonably possible that a material loss
exceeding the amounts recorded may have been incurred, the preliminary stages of
the investigations make it impossible for the Company to reasonably estimate the
range of potential exposure.


FINANCIAL CONDITION

The Company's cash and cash equivalents decreased $28.4 million in 1996 while
commercial paper borrowings increased $18 million, mainly due to the higher
level of capital expenditures. Net cash provided by operating activities was
$80.2 million in 1996, $150.2 million in 1995 and $95.9 million in 1994. The net
cash provided by continuing operations was lower in 1996 compared to 1995
primarily as a result of increases in accounts receivable and inventories in
1996 compared to decreases in 1995. The accounts receivable increase was mainly
caused by higher sales in the product segments; inventory levels increased
primarily for anticipated sales. The Company's program to reduce working capital
and to dispose of nonstrategic assets continued in 1996 with cumulative
reductions of over $85 million since 1993. The net cash provided by continuing
operations was higher in 1995 compared to 1994 as a result of increased earnings
and a $29.6 million reduction in accounts receivable and inventories, despite
higher sales. The net cash provided by operating activities was used principally
for capital expenditures, stock repurchases, cash dividends and, in 1994, for
acquisitions.

Cash outlays in 1996 under the 1994 restructuring plan were $3.5 million,
bringing the total spent under the plan to $25 million.

Discontinued operations generated cash of $6.9 million in 1996 compared to $26.3
million in 1995, reflecting the expiration of the Rocky Flats and Nevada Test
Site contracts during 1995. Future cash flows from discontinued operations will
continue to decrease due to the expected expiration of the Mound contract at the
end of the second quarter of 1997.

Capital expenditures were $80 million in 1996, an increase of $19 million over
the 1995 level, and are expected to return to approximately the 1995 level in
1997. These expenditures support new product development initiatives primarily
in the Optoelectronics segment, including the amorphous silicon and
micromachined sensor programs and Technical Services segment, including the new
facility for testing light trucks and sports-utility vehicles.

In 1995, the Company issued $115 million of unsecured ten-year notes, of a total
$150 million authorized, at an interest rate of 6.8%. The unissued notes of $35
million are covered by a shelf

                                      -18-



registration statement. The proceeds were used to pay off commercial paper
borrowings that were used mainly to finance repurchases of the Company's common
stock. The Company has two revolving credit agreements totaling $200 million.
These agreements consist of a $100 million, 364-day facility, which expires in
March 1997, and a $100 million, five-year facility, which expires in March 2001.
The Company did not draw down either of these credit facilities during 1996 and
is in the process of negotiating an extension of these agreements.

During 1996, the Company purchased 1.6 million shares of its common stock
through periodic purchases on the open market at a cost of $30.8 million. As of
December 29, 1996, the Company had authorization to purchase 4.1 million
additional shares and, subject to market conditions, plans to maintain
approximately the 1996 level of purchases in 1997.

The Company has limited involvement with derivative financial instruments and
uses forward contracts and options to hedge certain foreign commitments and
transactions denominated in foreign currencies. The notional amount of
outstanding forward exchange contracts was $62 million as of December 29, 1996.
The average contract term is one month, and there are no cash requirements on
forward contracts until maturity. Credit risk is minimal because the contracts
are with very large banks; any market risk is offset by the exposure on the
underlying hedged items. Gains and losses on forward contracts are offset
against foreign exchange gains and losses on the underlying hedged items.


DIVIDENDS

In January 1997, the Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly cash
dividend of 14 cents per share, resulting in an annual rate of 56 cents per
share for 1997. EG&G has paid cash dividends, without interruption, for 32 years
and continues to retain what management believes to be sufficient earnings to
support the funding requirements of its planned growth.



                                      -19-





ITEM 8.           FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET

AS OF DECEMBER 29, 1996 AND DECEMBER 31, 1995


(Dollars in thousands except per share data)              1996            1995
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Current Assets:
 Cash and cash equivalents                           $  47,846      $   76,204
 Accounts receivable (Note 2)                          222,856         211,903
 Inventories (Note 3)                                  119,558         114,199
 Other current assets (Note 12)                         64,451          66,380
                                                     ---------      ----------
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                                   454,711         468,686
                                                     ---------      ----------
Property, Plant and Equipment:
 At cost (Note 5)                                      480,858         417,566
 Accumulated depreciation and amortization            (288,808)       (270,026)
                                                     ---------      ----------
Net Property, Plant and Equipment                      192,050         147,540
                                                     ---------      ----------
Investments (Note 6)                                    16,839          16,072
Intangible Assets (Note 7)                             110,368         123,421
Other Assets (Note 11)                                  48,932          48,196
                                                     ---------      ----------
TOTAL ASSETS                                         $ 822,900      $  803,915
                                                     =========      ==========

Current Liabilities:
 Short-term debt (Note 8)                            $  21,499      $    5,275
 Accounts payable                                       75,749          72,759
 Accrued expenses (Note 10)                            157,558         168,671
 Net liabilities of discontinued operations
  (Note 4)                                               4,990           3,746
                                                     ---------      ----------
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES                              259,796         250,451
                                                     ---------      ----------
Long-Term Debt (Note 8)                                115,104         115,222
Long-Term Liabilities (Notes 11 and 12)                 82,894          71,296
Contingencies (Note 13)
Stockholders' Equity (Note 15):
 Preferred stock - $1 par value, authorized
  1,000,000 shares; none outstanding                         -              -
 Common stock - $1 par value, authorized
  100,000,000 shares; issued 60,102,000 shares          60,102         60,102
 Retained earnings                                     532,043        498,181
 Cumulative translation adjustments                     18,228         28,679
 Net unrealized gain on marketable investments
  (Note 6)                                               1,204            244
 Cost of shares held in treasury; 13,792,000
  shares in 1996 and 12,492,000 shares in 1995        (246,471)      (220,260)
                                                     ---------      ---------
Total Stockholders' Equity                             365,106        366,946
                                                     ---------      ---------
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY           $ 822,900      $ 803,915
                                                     =========      =========

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.

                                      -20-




The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.

                                      -21-


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

FOR THE THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 29, 1996


  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.

                                      -22-





The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.


                                      -23-


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION: The consolidated financial statements include the
accounts of EG&G, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the Company). All material
intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Certain reclassifications have been made to conform prior years' data to the
current format.

SALES: Sales under cost-reimbursement contracts are recorded as costs are
incurred and include applicable income in the proportion that costs incurred
bear to total estimated costs. Other product and service sales are recorded at
the time of shipment for products and at the end of a contract phase for service
contracts. If a loss is anticipated on any contract, provision for the entire
loss is made immediately.

INVENTORIES: Inventories, which include material, labor and manufacturing
overhead, are valued at the lower of cost or market. The majority of inventories
is accounted for using the first-in, first-out method; remaining inventories are
accounted for using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method.

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT: For financial statement purposes, the Company
depreciates plant and equipment over their estimated useful lives, which
generally fall within the following ranges: buildings and special-purpose
structures -- 10 to 25 years; leasehold improvements -- estimated useful life or
remaining term of lease, whichever is shorter; machinery and equipment -- 3 to 7
years; special-purpose equipment -- expensed or depreciated over the life of the
initial related contract. Nonrecurring tooling costs are capitalized, while
recurring costs are expensed. The Company depreciates plant and equipment over
their estimated useful lives using accelerated methods for income tax purposes.

The Company changed its method of depreciation for certain classes of plant and
equipment purchased after January 1, 1995 from an accelerated method to the
straight-line method for financial statement purposes. The Company believes that
the straight-line method more appropriately reflects the timing of the economic
benefits to be received from these assets, consisting mainly of manufacturing
equipment, during their estimated useful lives. The Company also changed its
convention for calculating depreciation expense during the year that an asset is
acquired. Previously, the Company used the half-year convention; starting in
1995, the Company commences depreciation in the month the asset is placed in
service. In 1995, the effect of applying these new methods was to reduce
depreciation expense by $4.3 million, and to increase income from continuing
operations and net income by $2.7 million and net income per share by $.05. The
reductions in depreciation expense represent the differences in current year
depreciation expense between the old and new methods. Most of this difference
occurred in the Optoelectronics segment. Depreciation and amortization was
higher in 1995 than in 1994 because the effect of the changes in methods was
exceeded by the effect of higher capital expenditures and inclusion of IC
Sensors' depreciation for a full year.

PENSION PLANS: The Company's funding policy provides that payments to the U.S.
pension trusts shall at least be equal to the minimum funding requirements of
the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. Non-U.S. plans are accrued
for but generally not funded, and benefits are paid from operating funds.

TRANSLATION OF FOREIGN CURRENCIES: The balance sheet accounts of non-U.S.
operations, exclusive of stockholders' equity, are translated at year-end
exchange rates, and income statement accounts are translated at weighted average
rates in effect during the year; any translation adjustments are made directly
to a component of stockholders' equity. The net transaction gains (losses) were
not material for the years presented.

                                      -24-



INTANGIBLE ASSETS: Intangible assets result from acquisitions accounted for
using the purchase method of accounting and include the excess of cost over the
fair market value of the net assets of the acquired businesses. Substantially
all of these intangible assets are being amortized over periods of up to 20
years. Subsequent to the acquisition, the Company continually evaluates whether
later events and circumstances have occurred that indicate the remaining
estimated useful life of goodwill may warrant revision or that the remaining
balance of goodwill may not be recoverable. See Note 7 for discussion of the
goodwill write-down that occurred in 1994.

Effective January 1, 1996, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards (SFAS) No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of." The adoption of this statement did
not impact the Company's financial statements.

STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION: Effective January 1, 1996, the Company adopted the
provisions of SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation." The
Company has elected to continue to account for stock options at intrinsic value
with disclosure of the effects of fair value accounting on net income and
earnings per share on a pro forma basis.

CASH FLOWS: For purposes of the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the
Company considers all highly liquid instruments with a purchased maturity of
three months or less to be cash equivalents. The carrying amount of cash and
cash equivalents approximates fair value due to the short maturities.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS: The Company accrues for costs associated with the
remediation of environmental pollution when it is probable that a liability has
been incurred and the Company's proportionate share of the amount can be
reasonably estimated. Any recorded liabilities have not been discounted.

2. ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE

Accounts receivable as of December 29, 1996 and December 31, 1995 included
unbilled receivables of $44 million, which were due primarily from U.S.
government agencies. Accounts receivable were net of reserves for doubtful
accounts of $4.2 million and $4.4 million as of December 29, 1996 and December
31, 1995, respectively.

3. INVENTORIES

Inventories as of December 29, 1996 and December 31, 1995 consisted of the
following:


    (In thousands)               1996             1995
                             --------         --------

    Finished goods           $ 31,436         $ 28,540
    Work in process            28,536           28,613
    Raw materials              59,586           57,046
                             --------         --------
                             $119,558         $114,199
                             ========         ========
  
The portion of inventories accounted for using the LIFO method of determining
inventory costs in 1996 and 1995 approximated 23% of total inventories. The
excess of current cost of inventories over the LIFO value was approximately $8
million as of December 29, 1996 and $9 million as of December 31, 1995.


                                      -25-



4. DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

The former DOE Support segment, which has provided services under management and
operations contracts, is presented as discontinued operations in accordance with
Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 30.

The EG&G Rocky Flats, Inc. contract terminated in June 1995. The Reynolds
Electrical and Engineering Co., Inc. and the EG&G Energy Measurements, Inc.
contracts expired on December 31, 1995. The EG&G Mound Applied Technologies,
Inc. contract, the Company's remaining DOE management and operations contract,
has been extended by the DOE to June 30, 1997 under existing terms and
conditions and could be extended for up to an additional three months. Sales and
income from the Mound contract are dependent upon the negotiated work scope and
fee pools.

Summary operating results of the discontinued operations were as follows:



Given the nature of the government contracts, the Company does not anticipate
incurring any material loss on the ultimate completion of the contracts.

Net assets (liabilities) of discontinued operations as of December 29, 1996 and
December 31, 1995 consisted of the following:



5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

Property, plant and equipment, at cost, as of December 29, 1996 and December 31,
1995 consisted of the following:




                                      -26-



6. INVESTMENTS

Investments as of December 29, 1996 and December 31, 1995 consisted of the
following:



Marketable investments consisted of common stocks and trust assets which were
primarily invested in common stocks and fixed-income securities to meet the
supplemental executive retirement plan obligation. The net unrealized holding
gain on marketable investments, net of deferred income taxes, reported as a
separate component of stockholders' equity, was $1.2 million at December 29,
1996, a $1 million increase from the $0.2 million gain at December 31, 1995. In
1996, proceeds and gross realized losses from sales of available-for-sale
securities were $1.2 million and $0.4 million, respectively. Average cost was
the basis for computing the realized losses.

Marketable investments classified as available for sale as of December 29, 1996
and December 31, 1995 consisted of the following:

(In thousands)                              1996
                        -----------------------------------------------

                                               GROSS UNREALIZED HOLDING
                         MARKET                ------------------------
                          VALUE      COST        GAINS         (LOSSES)
                        -------   -------       ------         --------

Common stocks           $ 9,347   $ 7,498       $2,050           $(201)
Fixed-income
  securities              2,712     2,710            2              -
Money market funds          128       128           -               -
Other                       107       105            2              -
                        -------   -------       ------           ----- 
                        $12,294   $10,441       $2,054           $(201)
                        =======   =======       ======           ===== 

(In thousands)                              1995
                        ------------------------------------------------
                                                Gross Unrealized Holding
                         Market                 ------------------------
                          Value      Cost        Gains          (Losses)
                        -------   -------       ------          --------
Common stocks            $6,355    $6,144       $  919            $(708)
Fixed-income
  securities              2,789     2,694           95               -
Money market funds          261       261           -                -
Other                       142        72           70               -
                         ------    ------       ------            ----- 
                         $9,547    $9,171       $1,084            $(708)
                         ======    ======       ======            =====

The market values were based on quoted market prices. As of December 29, 1996,
the fixed-income securities, on average, have maturities of approximately nine
years.

Other investments consisted of nonmarketable investments in venture capital
partnerships and private companies, which are carried at the lower of cost or
net realizable value. The estimated aggregate fair value of other investments
approximated the carrying amount at December 29, 1996 and December 31, 1995. The
fair values of other investments were estimated based on the most recent rounds
of financing and securities transactions and on other pertinent information,
including financial condition and operating results. The Company


                                      -27-



wrote down certain investments by $2.5 million in 1995 and $4.5 million in 1994
to their estimated realizable value due to deterioration in the
company/partnership's financial condition and the decision to liquidate the
Company's position in investments no longer consistent with its strategic
direction.

Joint venture investments are accounted for using the equity method.

7. INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Intangible assets were shown net of accumulated amortization of $51.8 million
and $42.2 million as of December 29, 1996 and December 31, 1995, respectively.
The $13.1 million net decrease in intangible assets resulted primarily from
current year amortization and the effect of translating goodwill denominated in
non-U.S. currencies at current exchange rates.

In 1994, the continued decline in the financial results of the operating
elements of the Company's Berthold business acquired in 1989, the resultant
strategic and operational review and the application of the Company's objective
measurement tests resulted in an evaluation of goodwill for possible impairment.
The underlying factors contributing to the decline in financial results included
changes in the marketplace, delays in customer acceptance of new technologies
and worldwide economic conditions. The Company calculated the present value of
expected cash flows to determine the fair value of the business using a discount
rate of 12%, which represented the Company's weighted average cost of capital.
The evaluation resulted in a $39.2 million write-down of Berthold's $76 million
goodwill balance. The evaluation also led the Company to determine that the
remaining amortization period for the goodwill should be reduced from 36 years
to 16 years based on the factors identified above. The Company also wrote off
$1.1 million of a small Optoelectronics unit's goodwill in 1994.

8. DEBT

Short-term debt at December 29, 1996 consisted primarily of $18 million of
commercial paper borrowings that had maturities of less than 30 days. There were
no commercial paper borrowings outstanding at December 31, 1995. The weighted
average interest rate on commercial paper borrowings was 6.2% at December 29,
1996. Commercial paper borrowings averaged $28 million during 1996 at an average
interest rate of 5.4%, compared to average borrowings of $52.5 million during
1995 at an average interest rate of 6.1%.

During 1996, the Company renewed its credit facilities with the signing of two
revolving credit agreement extensions totaling $200 million. These agreements
consist of a $100 million, 364-day facility, which expires in March 1997, and a
$100 million, five-year facility, which expires in March 2001. These agreements
serve as backup facilities for the commercial paper borrowings. During 1996, the
Company did not draw down either of these credit facilities, and there are no
significant commitment fees. The Company is in the process of negotiating an
extension of these agreements.

At December 29, 1996 and December 31, 1995, long-term debt included $115 million
of unsecured ten-year notes issued in October 1995 at an interest rate of 6.8%.
The total notes authorized were $150 million, and the unissued notes of $35
million are covered by a shelf registration statement. The carrying amount of
the Company's long-term debt approximated the estimated fair value at December
29, 1996 and December 31, 1995 based on a quoted market price.


                                      -28-



9. RESTRUCTURING CHARGES

During the third quarter of 1994, management completed its review of various
operating elements and developed a plan to reposition these businesses to attain
the Company's business goals. The plan resulted in pre-tax restructuring charges
of $30.4 million. The major components of the restructuring charges were $21
million of employee separation costs, $4.9 million of noncash charges to dispose
of certain product lines and assets through sale or abandonment and $4.5 million
of charges to terminate lease and other contractual obligations no longer
required as a result of the restructuring plan. The principal actions in the
restructuring plan included reduction of excess manufacturing capacity, changes
in distribution channels, consolidation and re-engineering of support
infrastructure, disposal of underutilized assets, withdrawal from certain
unprofitable product lines, disposal of excess property and general cost
reductions. The net workforce reduction under the plan was approximately 700
positions. The implementation of this plan commenced during the second half of
1994 and was substantially complete at the end of 1995. Under the 1994
restructuring plan, cash outlays in 1996 were $3.5 million, bringing the total
spent to $25 million.

10. ACCRUED EXPENSES

Accrued expenses as of December 29, 1996 and December 31, 1995 consisted of the
following:

(In thousands)
                                                 1996                  1995
                                             --------              --------
Payroll and incentives                       $ 29,732              $ 28,660
Employee benefits                              44,845                40,178
Federal, non-U.S. and state income taxes       24,186                33,153
Other accrued operating expenses               58,795                66,680
                                             --------              --------
                                             $157,558              $168,671
                                             ========              ========

11. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

SAVINGS PLAN: The Company has a savings plan for the benefit of qualified U.S.
employees. Under this plan, the Company contributes an amount equal to the
lesser of 55% of the amount of the employee's voluntary contribution or 3.3% of
the employee's annual compensation. Savings plan expense was $5.8 million in
1996, $5.7 million in 1995 and $6.2 million in 1994.

PENSION PLANS: The Company has defined benefit pension plans covering
substantially all U.S. employees and non-U.S. pension plans for non-U.S.
employees. The plans provide benefits that are based on an employee's years of
service and compensation near retirement. Assets of the U.S. plan are composed
primarily of corporate equity and debt securities.

Net periodic pension cost included the following components:


The decrease in pension expense for 1995 was caused by changes in the discount
rate and other actuarial assumptions in the U.S. plan.


                                      -29-


The following table sets forth the funded status of the principal U.S. pension
plan and the principal non-U.S. pension plans and the amounts recognized in the
Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 29, 1996 and December 31,
1995:


The non-U.S. accrued pension liability included $32.3 million and $32.5 million
classified as long-term liabilities as of December 29, 1996 and December 31,
1995, respectively. The U.S. pension asset was classified as other noncurrent
assets.

The Company also sponsors a supplemental executive retirement plan to provide
senior management with benefits in excess of normal pension benefits. At
December 29, 1996 and December 31, 1995, the projected benefit obligations were
$11.2 million and $11 million, respectively. Assets with a fair value of $9.1
million and $8.3 million, segregated in a trust, were available to meet this
obligation as of December 29, 1996 and December 31, 1995, respectively. Pension
expense for this plan was approximately $1.5 million in 1996, 1995 and 1994.

POSTRETIREMENT MEDICAL PLANS: The Company provides health care benefits for
eligible retired U.S. employees under a comprehensive major medical plan or
under health maintenance organizations where available. The majority of the
Company's U.S. employees become eligible for retiree health benefits if they
retire directly from the Company and have at least ten years of service.
Generally, the major medical plan pays stated percentages of covered expenses
after a deductible is met and takes into consideration payments by other group
coverages and by Medicare. The plan requires retiree contributions under most
circumstances and has provisions for cost-sharing changes. For employees
retiring after 1991, the Company has capped its medical premium contribution
based on employees' years of service. The Company funds the amount allowable
under a 401(h) provision in the Company's defined benefit pension plan. Assets
of the plan are composed primarily of corporate equity and debt securities.

                                      -30-



Net periodic postretirement medical benefit cost included the following
components:



The following table sets forth the plan's funded status and the amounts
recognized in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 29, 1996 and
December 31, 1995:

(In thousands)                                                 1996        1995
                                                            -------     -------
Actuarial present value of accumulated
 benefit obligations:
  Current retirees                                          $15,699     $15,762
  Active employees eligible to retire                           563         908
  Other active employees                                      4,848       7,171
                                                            -------     -------
                                                             21,110      23,841
Plan assets at fair value                                     8,470       7,342
                                                            -------     -------
Plan assets less than accumulated
 benefit obligations                                         12,640      16,499
Unrecognized net gain                                         4,669         381
                                                            -------     -------
Accrued postretirement medical liability                    $17,309     $16,880
                                                            =======     =======

Actuarial assumptions as of the year-end measurement
 date were:
  Discount rate                                                7.50%       7.25%
  Health care cost trend rate:
   First year                                                 12.00%      13.00%
   Ultimate                                                    6.50%       6.50%
   Years to reach ultimate                                   7 years     8 years
  Long-term rate of return on assets                           9.50%       9.50%

The accrued postretirement medical liability included $16.3 million and $15.9
million classified as long-term liabilities as of December 29, 1996 and December
31, 1995, respectively.

If the health care cost trend rate was increased 1%, the accumulated
postretirement benefit obligations would have increased by approximately $1.3
million at December 29, 1996. The effect of this increase on the annual cost for
1996 would have been approximately $0.1 million.

OTHER: During 1995, the Company adopted an EVA Incentive Compensation Plan, the
purpose of which is to provide incentive compensation to certain key employees,
including all officers, in a form that relates the financial rewards to an
increase in the value of the Company to its shareholders. Awards under this plan
are approved annually by the Board of Directors.

The above information does not include amounts related to benefit plans
applicable to employees associated with contracts with the DOE and NASA because
the Company is not responsible for the current or future funded status of the
plans.

                                      -31-



12. INCOME TAXES

The components of income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes
for financial reporting purposes were as follows:

The components of the provision for income taxes for continuing operations were
as follows:

(In thousands)                              1996
                   -------------------------------------------------------
                                         DEFERRED
                   CURRENT               (PREPAID)                   TOTAL
                   -------               --------                  -------
Federal            $ 4,209                $10,473                  $14,682
State                3,653                    135                    3,788
Non-U.S.             8,545                 (1,141)                   7,404
                   -------               --------                 --------
                   $16,407                $ 9,467                  $25,874
                   =======                =======                  =======

(In thousands)                              1995
                   -------------------------------------------------------
                                         Deferred
                   Current               (Prepaid)                   Total
                   -------               --------                  -------
Federal            $26,268                $(3,411)                 $22,857
State                3,572                   (264)                   3,308
Non-U.S.             5,325                    265                    5,590
                   -------                -------                  -------
                   $35,165                $(3,410)                 $31,755
                   =======                =======                  =======

(In thousands)                              1994
                   -------------------------------------------------------
                                         Deferred
                   Current               (Prepaid)                   Total
                   -------               --------                  -------
Federal            $10,735                $(2,569)                 $ 8,166
State                3,670                    157                    3,827
Non-U.S.             2,834                    157                    2,991
                   -------                -------                  -------
                   $17,239                $(2,255)                 $14,984
                   =======                =======                  =======

The total provision for income taxes included in the consolidated financial
statements was as follows:

(In thousands)                          1996              1995            1994
                                    --------           -------         -------

Continuing operations                $25,874           $31,755         $14,984
Discontinued operations                3,056             7,397          14,243
                                     -------           -------         -------
                                     $28,930           $39,152         $29,227
                                     =======           =======         =======

                                      -32-



The major differences between the Company's effective tax rate for continuing
operations and the federal statutory rate were as follows:

                                             1996           1995          1994
                                            -----           ----         -----

Federal statutory rate                       35.0%          35.0%        (35.0)%
Non-U.S. rate differential, net             (10.1)          (2.5)        (29.7)
State income taxes, net                       3.1            2.5          14.5
Goodwill amortization                         2.4            2.0          10.0
Increase (decrease) in valuation allowance   (1.1)          (2.3)        128.5
Other, net                                    2.9            2.2          (0.8)
                                            -----           ----         -----
Effective tax rate                           32.2%          36.9%         87.5%
                                            =====           ====         =====

The 1994 tax provision and effective rate for continuing operations were
significantly impacted by the goodwill write-down and the restructuring charges.
The Company did not record any tax benefit from the goodwill write-down and
approximately $11 million of the restructuring charges because these charges,
while tax deductible, were incurred in tax jurisdictions where the Company had
existing operating loss carryforwards; therefore, the related tax assets were
offset by a valuation allowance.

The tax effects of temporary differences and carryforwards which gave rise to
prepaid (deferred) income taxes as of December 29, 1996 and December 31, 1995
were as follows:

(In thousands)                                     1996                    1995
                                               --------                --------
Deferred tax assets:
 Inventory reserves                            $  5,738                $  4,902
 Other reserves                                   9,628                  10,983
 Depreciation                                     3,869                   6,020
 Vacation pay                                     6,200                   6,319
 Net operating loss carryforwards                42,932                  45,380
 Postretirement health benefits                   5,077                   5,940
 Restructuring reserve                              616                   1,870
 All other, net                                  25,229                  26,850
                                               --------                --------
Total deferred tax assets                        99,289                 108,264
                                               --------                --------
Deferred tax liabilities:
 Award and holdback fees                         (3,814)                 (3,629)
 Pension contribution                            (9,212)                 (8,301)
 Amortization                                    (8,113)                 (8,896)
 All other, net                                 (14,489)                (11,663)
                                               --------                --------
Total deferred tax liabilities                  (35,628)                (32,489)
                                               --------                --------
Valuation allowance                             (35,250)                (38,227)
                                               --------                --------
Net prepaid taxes                              $ 28,411                $ 37,548
                                               ========                ========

At December 29, 1996, the Company had non-U.S. (primarily from Germany) net
operating loss carryforwards of $92.7 million, of which $2.5 million expire in
the years 1998 through 2002 and $90.2 million of which carry forward
indefinitely. The $35.3 million valuation allowance results primarily from these
carryforwards, for which the Company currently believes it is more likely than
not that they will not be realized.

Current prepaid income taxes of $38.6 million and $40.2 million at December 29,
1996 and December 31, 1995, respectively, were included in other current assets.
Long-term prepaid income taxes of $3.6 million were included in other noncurrent
assets at December 31, 1995. Long-term deferred income taxes of $10.2 million
and $6.3 million were included in long-term liabilities at December 29, 1996 and
December 31, 1995, respectively.

                                      -33-



In general, it is the practice and intention of the Company to reinvest the
earnings of its non-U.S. subsidiaries in those operations. Repatriation of
retained earnings is done only when it is advantageous. Applicable federal taxes
are provided only on amounts planned to be remitted. Accumulated net earnings of
non-U.S. subsidiaries for which no federal taxes have been provided as of
December 29, 1996 were $82.4 million, which does not include amounts that, if
remitted, would result in little or no additional tax because of the
availability of non-U.S. tax credits. Federal taxes that would be payable upon
remittance of these earnings are estimated to be $24.5 million at December 29,
1996.

13. CONTINGENCIES

The Company is subject to various investigations, claims and legal proceedings
covering a wide range of matters that arise in the ordinary course of its
business activities. Each of these matters is subject to various uncertainties,
and it is possible that some of these matters may be resolved unfavorably to the
Company. The Company has established accruals for matters that are probable and
reasonably estimable. Management believes that any liability that may ultimately
result from the resolution of these matters in excess of amounts provided will
not have a material adverse effect on the financial position or results of
operations of the Company.

In addition, the Company is conducting a number of environmental investigations
and remedial actions at current and former Company locations and, along with
other companies, has been named a potentially responsible party for certain
waste disposal sites. The Company accrues for environmental issues in the
accounting period that the Company's responsibility is established and when the
cost can be reasonably estimated. The Company has accrued $3.2 million as of
December 29, 1996 to reflect its estimated liability for environmental
remediation. As assessments and remediation activities progress at each
individual site, these liabilities are reviewed and adjusted to reflect
additional information as it becomes available. There have been no environmental
problems to date that have had or are expected to have a material effect on the
Company's financial position or results of operations. While it is reasonably
possible that a material loss exceeding the amounts recorded may have been
incurred, the preliminary stages of the investigations make it impossible for
the Company to reasonably estimate the range of potential exposure.

During 1994, 1995 and 1996, the Company received notices from the Internal
Revenue Service (IRS) asserting deficiencies in federal corporate income taxes
for the Company's 1985 to 1992 tax years. The total additional tax proposed by
the IRS amounts to $53 million plus interest. The Company has filed petitions in
the United States Tax Court to challenge most of the deficiencies asserted by
the IRS. The Company believes that it has meritorious legal defenses to those
deficiencies and believes that the ultimate outcome of the case will not result
in a material impact on the Company's consolidated results of operations or
financial position.

14. NATURE OF OPERATIONS, RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES

EG&G, Inc. is a broad-based technology company that provides an array of
products and technical services to manufacturers and end-users in medical,
aerospace, photography, automotive and other ground transportation,
environmental, industrial and government markets worldwide. The Company's
industry segments are Instruments, Mechanical Components, Optoelectronics and
Technical Services. Based on sales, Technical Services is the largest segment,
representing approximately 40% of the Company's sales; each of the other
segments accounts for approximately 20% of sales. The Instruments segment
develops and manufactures hardware and associated software for applications in
medical diagnostics, biochemical and medical research, materials analyses,
environmental monitoring, industrial process measurement, food monitoring, and
airport and industrial security worldwide. Mechanical Components provides
products to four worldwide markets. Mechanical seals and

                                      -34-



bellows products are designed and manufactured for the chemical and
petrochemical industries. Fans, blowers, ducting, components, seals and metallic
parts/valves are supplied to the aerospace market. Motors and power supplies are
sold to the transportation market. Regenerative blower and biofiltration systems
are used in the environmental remediation market. The Optoelectronics segment
designs and manufactures optical sensors, flashlamps and laser diodes.
Electronic components are provided for industrial, consumer, medical and
photography applications, and defense and energy programs. Micromachined sensors
are used for a variety of applications, such as pressure sensors and
accelerometers for the medical and automotive industries. Optoelectronics is
designing medical imaging devices based on amorphous silicon technology.
High-reliability power supplies are manufactured. This segment's products are
distributed worldwide, and its future results are dependent on management's
ability to bring the micromachined sensors business to break-even operations in
1997. The Technical Services segment supplies engineering, scientific,
environmental, management and skilled support services primarily to U.S.
government agencies. Analysis and testing services are provided primarily to the
U.S. automotive and petroleum industries.

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and
the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.

In 1996, 37% of the Company's sales from continuing operations were to U.S.
government agencies, predominantly to the Department of Defense and NASA. In
accordance with government regulations, all of the Company's government
contracts are subject to termination for the convenience of the government.
Costs incurred under cost-reimbursable contracts are subject to audit by the
government. The results of prior audits, complete through 1991, have not had a
material effect on the Company.

The Company's award/incentive-fee contract with NASA at the KSC, which
contributed sales of $172 million in 1996, expires on October 31, 1997 and has
three 2-year renewal options at the discretion of the government. While it is
possible that the Company's contract could be absorbed by the single Space
Flight Operations contract, the Company believes that its contract will be
renewed by NASA and changed to a performance-based contract. The Company has
been the base operations contractor at the KSC for 14 years and recently
received its highest grades.

Given the nature of the DOE contracts, which are presented as discontinued
operations, the Company does not anticipate incurring any material loss on the
ultimate completion of the contracts.

For information concerning various investigations, claims, legal proceedings,
environmental investigations and remedial actions, and notices from the IRS, see
Note 13.

15. STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

At December 29, 1996, six million shares of the Company's common stock were
reserved for employee benefit plans.

The Company has nonqualified and incentive stock option plans for officers and
key employees. Under these plans, options may be granted at prices not less than
100% of the

                                      -35-



fair market value on the date of grant. All options expire ten years from the
date of grant. Options granted since 1994 become exercisable, in ratable
installments, over a period of five years from the date of grant. In other
years, options became exercisable at the date of grant. The Stock Option
Committee of the Board of Directors, at its sole discretion, may also include
stock appreciation rights in any option granted. There are no stock appreciation
rights outstanding under these plans.

A summary of certain stock option information is as follows:



During 1996, the Board of Directors granted 650,000 options in January and
728,000 options in December at exercise prices of $21.75 and $19.75 per share,
respectively.

Effective January 1, 1996, the Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 123,
"Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation." The Company has elected to continue
to account for stock options at intrinsic value with disclosure of the effects
of fair value accounting on net income and earnings per share on a pro forma
basis. Had compensation costs for the stock option plans been determined using
the fair value method, the Company's 1996 pro forma net income and earnings per
share from continuing operations would have been $54 million and $1.14,
respectively. Consistent with SFAS No. 123, pro forma net income and earnings
per share have not been calculated for options granted prior to January 1, 1995.
There are no pro forma disclosures for 1995 because the options granted were
insignificant. Pro forma compensation cost may not be representative of that to
be expected in future years.

The fair value of each option was $6.68 for the options granted in January 1996
and $6.20 for the options granted in December 1996. The values were estimated on
the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the 
following weighted-average assumptions used for grants in January and December 
1996, respectively: risk-free interest rates of 5.5% and 6.3%, expected dividend
yields of 2% for both periods, expected lives of seven years for both periods
and expected volatilities of 25% and 24%.

On January 25, 1995, the Board of Directors adopted a new Shareholder Rights
Plan. Under the plan, preferred stock purchase rights were distributed on
February 8, 1995 as a dividend at the rate of one right for each share of common
stock outstanding. Each right, when exercisable, entitles a stockholder to
purchase one one-thousandth of a share of a new series of junior participating
preferred stock at a price of $60. The rights become exercisable only if a
person or group acquires 20% or more or announces a tender or exchange offer for
30% or more of the Company's common stock. This preferred stock is nonredeemable
and will have 1,000 votes per share. The rights are nonvoting, expire in 2005
and may be redeemed prior to becoming exercisable. The Company has reserved
70,000 shares of preferred stock, designated as Series C Junior Participating
Preferred Stock, for issuance upon exercise of such rights. If a person (an
"Acquiring Person") acquires or obtains the

                                     -36-



right to acquire 20% or more of the Company's outstanding common stock (other
than pursuant to certain approved offers), each right (other than rights held by
the Acquiring Person) will entitle the holder to purchase shares of common stock
of the Company at one-half of the current market price at the date of occurrence
of the event. In addition, in the event that the Company is involved in a merger
or other business combination in which it is not the surviving corporation or in
connection with which the Company's common stock is changed or converted, or it
sells or transfers 50% or more of its assets or earning power to another person,
each right that has not previously been exercised will entitle its holder to
purchase shares of common stock of such other person at one-half of the current
market price of such common stock at the date of the occurrence of the event. In
connection with the adoption of the plan, the Company redeemed the rights issued
pursuant to the Company's January 28, 1987 Rights Agreement at a redemption
price of $.01 per right to shareholders of record as of February 8, 1995.

16. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of
credit risk consist principally of temporary cash investments and accounts
receivable. The Company had no significant concentrations of credit risk as of
December 29, 1996.

The Company has limited involvement with derivative financial instruments and
uses forward contracts and options to hedge certain foreign commitments and
transactions denominated in foreign currencies. The notional amount of
outstanding forward contracts was $62.4 million as of December 29, 1996 and
$57.4 million as of December 31, 1995. The carrying value as of December 29,
1996 and December 31, 1995, which approximated fair value, was not significant.
The average contract term is one month, and there are no cash requirements on
forward contracts until maturity. Credit risk is minimal because the contracts
are with very large banks; any market risk is offset by the exposure on the
underlying hedged items. When forward contracts are closed, the Company enters
into spot transactions to fulfill the contract obligations. Gains and losses on
forward contracts are offset against foreign exchange gains and losses on the
underlying hedged items. Transactions covered by hedge contracts primarily
include collection of receivables from third-party customers, collection of
intercompany receivables, payments to third-party suppliers and payment of
intercompany payables.

See Notes 1, 6 and 8 for disclosures about fair values, including methods and
assumptions, of other financial instruments.

17. LEASES

The Company leases certain property and equipment under operating leases. Rental
expense charged to earnings for 1996, 1995 and 1994 amounted to $17.2 million,
$18.7 million and $19.3 million, respectively. Minimum rental commitments under
noncancelable operating leases are as follows: $14.5 million in 1997, $10.8
million in 1998, $7.3 million in 1999, $3.9 million in 2000, $3.2 million in
2001 and $6.5 million after 2001. The above information does not include amounts
related to leases covered by contracts with the DOE and NASA because the costs
are reimbursable under the contracts.

                                      -37-



18. OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)



Other consists mainly of gains on the sale of operating assets, income from
joint ventures and foreign exchange losses.

19. EARNINGS (LOSS) PER SHARE

Earnings (loss) per common share was computed by dividing net income (loss) by
the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. The number of shares
issuable upon the exercise of stock options had no material effect on earnings
(loss) per share. The weighted average number of shares used in the earnings
(loss) per share computations were 47,298,000 for 1996, 51,483,000 for 1995 and
55,271,000 for 1994.

20. INDUSTRY SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA INFORMATION

The Company's continuing operations are classified into four industry segments:
Technical Services, Instruments, Mechanical Components and Optoelectronics. The
products and services of these segments are described in Note 14 and elsewhere
in the Annual Report. Sales and operating income (loss) from continuing
operations by industry segment are shown in the Sales and Operating Income by
Industry Segment section of this report; such information with respect to 1996,
1995 and 1994 is considered an integral part of this note.

Sales to U.S. government agencies, which were predominantly to the Department of
Defense and NASA, were $527 million, $537 million and $542 million in 1996, 1995
and 1994, respectively. In October 1993, the Company was selected by NASA to
continue as the base operations contractor at the KSC. The award/incentive fee
contract contributed sales of $172 million in 1996 and 1995 and $176 million in
1994. The contract expires on October 31, 1997 and has three 2-year renewal
options at the discretion of the government.


                                      -38-



Additional information relating to the Company's operations in the various
industry segments is as follows:


                                               Identifiable
(In thousands)                                    Assets
                                    -------------------------------
                                        1996        1995       1994
                                    --------    --------   --------
Instruments                         $221,831    $225,358   $220,232
Mechanical Components                110,276     100,363     93,721
Optoelectronics                      235,969     200,719    193,302
Technical Services                   117,340     113,901    129,995
Corporate and Other                  137,484     163,574    155,879
                                   ---------    --------   --------
                                    $822,900    $803,915   $793,129
                                    ========    ========   ========

Corporate assets consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, prepaid pension
and taxes, and investments.

Information relating to geographic areas is as follows:



(In thousands)   
                              Identifiable Assets
                     --------------------------------------
                         1996            1995          1994
                     --------        --------      --------
U.S.                 $380,080        $353,130      $341,725
Germany                86,881          89,834       100,650
Other Non-U.S.        218,455         197,377       194,875
Corporate and
  Other               137,484         163,574       155,879
                     --------        --------      --------
                     $822,900        $803,915      $793,129
                     ========        ========      ========

Transfers between geographic areas were not material.


                                      -39-




21. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)

Selected quarterly financial information follows:



a)   The sum of the quarterly earnings per share does not equal the year's
     earnings per share. This is due to changes in weighted average shares of
     common stock outstanding resulting from share repurchases in 1995.



                                      -40-





REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS


TO THE STOCKHOLDERS OF EG&G, INC.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of EG&G, Inc. (a
Massachusetts corporation) and subsidiaries as of December 29, 1996 and December
31, 1995, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders'
equity and cash flows for the years ended December 29, 1996, December 31, 1995
and January 1, 1995. These financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of EG&G, Inc. and
subsidiaries as of December 29, 1996 and December 31, 1995, and the results of
their operations and their cash flows for the years ended December 29, 1996,
December 31, 1995 and January 1, 1995, in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles.

As explained in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, effective
January 2, 1995, the Company changed its method of accounting for depreciation
of certain plant and equipment.


/s/ Arthur Andersen LLP
- -----------------------
Arthur Andersen LLP
Boston, Massachusetts
January 21, 1997

                                      -41-



ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

a) DIRECTORS

The information required by this Item with respect to Directors is contained on
Pages 2 through 7 of the Company's 1997 Proxy Statement under the captions
"Election of Directors" and "Information Relative to the Board of Directors and
Certain of its Committees" and is herein incorporated by reference.

b) EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

The information required by this item with respect to Executive Officers is
contained in Part I of this Report.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required to be disclosed by this Item is contained in Pages 14 -
20 of the Company's 1997 Proxy Statement from under the caption "Summary
Compensation Table" up to and including "Aggregated Option Exercises in Last
Fiscal Year and Fiscal Year-End Value Option Table" and Notes thereto, and is
herein incorporated by reference.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The information required by this Item is contained on Pages 8 - 9 of the
Company's 1997 Proxy Statement under the captions "Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners" and "Security Ownership of Management" and is herein
incorporated by reference.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

Not applicable.

                                      -42-



                                     PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a) DOCUMENTS FILED AS PART OF THIS REPORT:

     1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

        Included in Part II, Item 8:

               Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 29, 1996 and December
               31, 1995

               Consolidated Statement of Operations for the Three Years Ended
               December 29, 1996

               Consolidated Statement of Stockholders' Equity for the Three
               Years Ended December 29, 1996

               Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the Three Years Ended
               December 29, 1996

               Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

               Report of Independent Public Accountants

     2. FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

        Report of Independent Public Accountants on Financial Statement
        Schedules

        Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

        Financial statement schedules, other than those above, are omitted
        because of the absence of conditions under which they are required or
        because the required information is given in the financial statements
        or notes thereto.

        Separate financial statements of the Registrant are omitted
        since it is primarily an operating company, and since all
        subsidiaries included in the consolidated financial statements
        being filed, in the aggregate, do not have minority equity
        interests and/or indebtedness to any person other than the
        Registrant or its consolidated subsidiaries in amounts which
        together exceed five percent of total consolidated assets.

     3. EXHIBITS

        3.1 The Company's Restated Articles of Organization, as filed with the
        Massachusetts Secretary of the Commonwealth on July 31, 1995, were
        filed with the Commission on September 21, 1995 as Exhibit 4(i) to the
        Company's Registration Statement on Form S-8 and are herein
        incorporated by reference.

                                      -43-




        3.2 The Company's By-Laws as amended by the Board of Directors
        on May 3, 1995, were filed with the Commission on September
        21, 1995, as Exhibit 4(ii) to the Company's Registration
        Statement on Form S-8, and are herein incorporated by
        reference.

        4.1 The form of certificate used to evidence ownership of EG&G
        Common Stock, $1 par value, was filed as Exhibit 4(a) to
        EG&G's Registration Statement on Form S-3, File No. 2-69642
        and is herein incorporated by reference.

        4.2 Form of Indenture dated June 28, 1995 between the Company
        and the First National Bank of Boston, as Trustee was filed
        with the Commission as Exhibit 4.1 to EG&G's Registration
        Statement on Form S-3, File No. 33-59675 and is herein
        incorporated by reference.

        *10.1 EG&G, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan
        revised as of April 19, 1995 was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to
        EG&G's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
        December 31, 1995, and is herein incorporated by reference.

        *10.2  EG&G, Inc. Economic Value Added Plan as amended and restated
        by the EG&G, Inc. Board of Directors on April 23, 1996.

        10.3 3-Year Competitive Advance and Revolving Credit Facility
        Agreement ("3-Year Agreement") dated as of March 21, 1994
        among EG&G, Inc., the Lenders Named Herein and Chemical Bank
        as Administrative Agent; Amendment No. 1 to 3-Year Agreement
        dated as of March 15, 1995; and Amendment No. 2 to 3-Year
        Agreement dated as of March 14, 1996 was filed as Exhibit 10.3
        to EG&G's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
        ended December 31, 1995, and are herein incorporated by
        reference. Amendment No. 3 to 3-Year Agreement dated as of
        March 7, 1997 is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.3.

        10.4 364-Day Competitive Advance and Revolving Credit Facility
        Agreement ("364- Day Agreement") dated as of March 21, 1994
        among EG&G, Inc., the Lenders Named Herein and Chemical Bank
        as Administrative Agent; Amendment No. 1 to 364-Day Agreement
        dated as of March 15, 1995; and Amendment No. 2 to 364-Day
        Agreement dated as of March 14, 1996 was filed as Exhibit 10.4
        to EG&G's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
        ended December 31, 1995, and are herein incorporated by
        reference. Amendment No. 3 to 364-day Agreement dated as of
        March 7, 1997 is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.4.

        *10.5 Employment Contracts:

        (1)  Employment contract between John M. Kucharski and EG&G dated
             November 1, 1993.

        (2)  Employment contract between Murray Gross and EG&G dated
             November 1, 1993.

        (3)  Employment contract between John F. Alexander, II and EG&G dated
             November 1, 1993.

        (4)  Employment contract between Angelo Castellana and EG&G dated
             November 1, 1993.

                                          -44-



        (5)  Employment contract between Dale L. Fraser and EG&G dated November
             1, 1993.

        (6)  Employment contract between Daniel T. Heaney and EG&G dated June 1,
             1995.

        (7)  Employment contract between Anthony L. Klemmer and EG&G dated
             January 1,1997.

        (8)  Employment contract between E. Lavonne Lewis and EG&G dated June 1,
             1995.

        (9)  Employment contract between Deborah S. Lorenz and EG&G dated
             November 1, 1993.

        (10) Employment contract between Donald H. Peters and EG&G dated
             November 1, 1993.

        (11) Employment contract between William J. Ribaudo and EG&G dated 
             March 29, 1996.
           
        (12) Employment contract between Luciano Rossi and EG&G
             dated November 1, 1993.

        (13) Employment contract between Theodore P. Theodores and EG&G dated
             April 23, 1996.

        (14) Employment contract between C. Michael Williams and EG&G dated
             November 1, 1993.


Except for the name of the officer in the employment contracts identified by
numbers 3 through and including 14, the form of said employment contracts is
identical in all respects. The employment contracts identified by numbers 1 and
2 are identical to each other and are virtually identical to the contracts
identified by numbers 3 through 14 except that they provide for a longer
contract term, three years as opposed to one year. The employment contract
between John F. Alexander, II and EG&G is representative of the employment
contracts of the executive officers and is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.5.

        *10.6 The EG&G, INC. 1978 NON-QUALIFIED STOCK OPTION PLAN as
        amended by the Board of Directors on January 26, 1988, was
        filed with the Commission as Exhibit 14(a)3.(v) to EG&G's
        Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending January
        3, 1988, and is herein incorporated by reference.

        *10.7 The EG&G, INC. 1982 INCENTIVE STOCK OPTION PLAN as
        amended by the Board of Directors on January 24, 1990, was
        filed with the Commission as Exhibit B on pages 37-42 of the
        Company's 1990 Proxy Statement and is herein incorporated by
        reference.

        *10.8 The EG&G, Inc. 1992 STOCK OPTION PLAN was filed as Exhibit 4(v) to
        EG&G's Registration Statement on Form S-8, File No. 33-49898 and is
        herein incorporated by reference.



                                             -45-


        21 Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

        23 Consent of Independent Public Accountants.

        24 Power of Attorney (appears on signature page).

        27 Financial Data Schedule.

*This exhibit is a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement
required to be filed as an Exhibit pursuant to Item 14(c) of Form 10-K.

   (b)  REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

        A report on Form 8-K was filed with the Commission on December 18,
        1996 regarding a $4.2 million patent infringement judgment against
        EG&G Astrophysics and its parent, EG&G, Inc.

   (c)  PROXY STATEMENT

EG&G's 1997 Proxy Statement, in definitive form, was filed electronically on
March 6, 1997, with the Securities and Exchange Commission in Washington, D.C.
pursuant to the Commission's Rule 14a-6.

                                      -46-





                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
                                  ON SCHEDULES

To EG&G, Inc.:

     We have audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards,
the consolidated financial statements of EG&G, Inc. included in this Form 10-K
and have issued our report thereon dated January 21, 1997. Our audit was made
for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic financial statements taken as
a whole. Schedule II is the responsibility of the Company's management and is
presented for purposes of complying with the Securities and Exchange
Commission's rules and is not part of the basic financial statements. The
schedule has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audit of
the basic financial statements and, in our opinion, fairly states in all
material respects the financial data required to be set forth therein in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole.

/s/ Arthur Andersen LLP
- -----------------------
Arthur Andersen LLP
Boston, Massachusetts
January 21, 1997

                                      -47-



                                                            -48-



                    CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

As independent public accountants, we hereby consent to the incorporation by
reference of our reports dated January 21, 1997, included in this Form 10-K,
into Registration Statements previously filed by EG&G, Inc. on, respectively,
Form S-8, File No. 2-61241; Form S-8, File No. 2-98168; Form S-8, File No.
33-36082; Form S-8, File No. 33-35379; Form S-8, File No. 33-49898; Form S-8,
File No. 33-57606; Form S-8, File No. 33-54785; Form S-8, File No. 33-62805;
Form S-8, File No. 33-8811 and Form S-3, File No. 33-59675.

/s/Arthur Andersen LLP
- ----------------------
Arthur Andersen LLP
Boston, Massachusetts
March 27, 1997


                                POWER OF ATTORNEY

We, the undersigned officers and directors of EG&G, Inc., hereby severally
constitute John M. Kucharski, and Murray Gross, and each of them singly, our
true and lawful attorneys with full power to them, and each of them singly, to
sign for us and in our names, in the capacities indicated below, this Annual
Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments to said Annual Report on Form
10-K, and generally to do all such things in our name and behalf in our
capacities as officers and directors to enable EG&G, Inc. to comply with the
provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and all requirements of the
Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby rectifying and confirming signed by
our said attorneys, and any and all amendments thereto.

Witness our hands on the date set forth below.

                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                           EG&G, Inc.


March 18, 1997             By:/s/John M. Kucharski
                           -----------------------
                           John M. Kucharski
                           Chairman of the Board, President
                           and Chief Executive Officer
                           (Principal Executive Officer)


March 18, 1997             By:/s/John F. Alexander, II
                           ---------------------------
                           John F. Alexander, II
                           Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
                           (Principal Financial Officer)

March 18, 1997             By:/s/William J. Ribaudo
                           ------------------------
                           William J. Ribaudo
                           Corporate Controller
                           (Principal Accounting Officer)

                          -49-





Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and
in the capacities and on the date indicated:

By:  /s/John M. Kucharski
     --------------------
     John M. Kucharski, Director
Date:  March 18, 1997

By:  /s/Tamara J. Erickson
     ---------------------
     Tamara J. Erickson, Director
Date:  March 20, 1997

By:  /s/Robert F. Goldhammer
     -----------------------
     Robert F. Goldhammer, Director
Date:  March 24, 1997

By:  /s/John B. Gray
     ---------------
     John B. Gray, Director
Date:  March 18, 1997

By:  /s/Kent F. Hansen
     ----------------- 
     Kent F. Hansen, Director
Date:  March 18, 1997

By:  /s/Nicholas A. Lopardo
     ----------------------
     Nicholas A. Lopardo, Director
Date:  March 19, 1997

By: /s/Greta E. Marshall
    --------------------
     Greta E. Marshall, Director
Date:  March 26, 1997

By: 
    ----------------
    Fred B. Parks, Director
Date:  March __, 1997

By: /s/William F. Pounds
    --------------------
    William F. Pounds, Director
Date:  March 26, 1997

By:  /s/John Larkin Thompson
     -----------------------
     John Larkin Thompson, Director
Date:  March 18, 1997

By:  /s/G. Robert Tod
     ----------------
     G. Robert Tod, Director
Date:  March 26, 1997


                                      -50-


                                  EXHIBIT INDEX


Exhibit                            Exhibit Name
Number                             ------------
- ------                                  

10.2 EG&G, Inc. Economic Value Added Plan as amended and restated by the EG&G,
     Inc. Board of Directors on April 23, 1996.

10.3 Amendment No. 3 dated as of March 7, 1997 to 3-Year Competitive Advance and
     Revolving Credit Facility Agreement dated as of March 21, 1994 among EG&G,
     Inc., the Lenders Named Herein and The Chase Manhattan Bank (as successor
     to Chemical Bank) as Administrative Agent.

10.4 Amendment No. 3 dated as of March 7, 1997 to 364-Day Competitive Advance
     and Revolving Credit Facility Agreement dated as of March 21, 1994 among
     EG&G, Inc., the Lenders Named Herein and The Chase Manhattan Bank (as
     successor to Chemical Bank) as Administrative Agent.

10.5 Employment Contract between John F. Alexander, II and EG&G, Inc.

21   Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

27   Financial Data Schedule.

                                      -51-





