
10-K
EG&G, INC.





                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              WASHINGTON, DC 20549

                                  ------------

                                    FORM 10-K

(MARK ONE)

[x]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
     ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED]

For the fiscal year ended DECEMBER 28, 1997
                                       OR
[ ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]

For the transition period from __________ to __________

                          Commission file number 1-5075
                          ------------------------------

                                   EG&G, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

        MASSACHUSETTS                                    04-2052042
- ----------------------------------         ------------------------------------
(State or other jurisdiction of            (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
incorporation or organization)

  45 WILLIAM STREET, WELLESLEY,
         MASSACHUSETTS                                      02181
- ----------------------------------         ------------------------------------
(Address of Principal Executive Offices)                  (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code (781) 237-5100
                                                   --------------

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

   TITLE OF EACH CLASS                NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE ON WHICH REGISTERED
   -------------------                -----------------------------------------
 COMMON STOCK, $1 PAR VALUE                 NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE, INC.

PREFERRED SHARE PURCHASE RIGHTS             NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE, INC.
- ---------------------------------     -----------------------------------------

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (g) of the Act:    NONE
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X No

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

The aggregate market value of the common stock, $1 par value, held by
nonaffiliates of the registrant on February 20, 1998, was $1,189,213,909.

As of February 20, 1998, there were outstanding, exclusive of treasury shares,
45,328,812 shares of common stock, $1 par value.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

PORTIONS OF EG&G, INC.'S PROXY STATEMENT FOR THE 1998
ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS...................PART III (Items 10, 11 and 12)



                                      -1-




                                     PART I

ITEM 1.              BUSINESS

GENERAL BUSINESS DESCRIPTION

EG&G, Inc. was incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts
in 1947. EG&G, Inc. (hereinafter referred to as "EG&G", the "Company", or the
"Registrant", which includes the Company's subsidiaries) is a diversified
technology company that provides optoelectronic, mechanical and
electromechanical components and instruments to manufacturers and end-user
customers. These customers exist in varied markets that include aerospace,
automotive, transportation, environmental, industrial, medical, photography,
security and other global arenas. The Company's services also extend to
technical and managerial support for governmental and industrial customers. In
1997 the Company had sales of $1.5 billion from continuing operations.

The Company's continuing operations are classified into four industry segments:
Instruments, Mechanical Components, Optoelectronics and Technical Services.

RECENT DEVELOPMENTS

During 1997, the Company purchased 1.3 million shares of its common stock
under a previously announced program at an aggregate cost of $28.1 million. As
of December 28, 1997, the Company had authorization to purchase 2.8 million
additional shares.

In February 1997, EG&G Astrophysics introduced the PakScan(TM) X-ray food
inspection system that detects plastic anD foreign objects in packaged foods and
then removes the contaminated package from production lines.

In April 1997, EG&G acquired exclusive worldwide rights to manufacture, market
and sell a bulk cargo X-ray inspection system.

In June 1997, EG&G's high-performance X-ray screening systems were selected to
provide security at the Hong Kong changeover ceremonies.

In August 1997, EG&G received a $3.2 million order from the U.S. Federal
Aviation Administration for ten advanced explosive detection systems, the
Z-Scan(R). The order includes an option for ten additional systems.

In August 1997, EG&G Amorphous Silicon signed an agreement with GE Medical
Systems to produce a first-of-its-kind multi-purpose digital X-ray detector.
EG&G has exclusive rights to manufacture the detector, which has the potential
to provide quicker and more cost effective X-ray examinations for patients.

In August 1997, NASA's Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsville, Alabama,
awarded EG&G a support services contract for a period of up to five years. If
all options are exercised, the contract could be worth approximately $77.8
million.

In September 1997, EG&G concluded a joint-venture agreement to manage operation
of the new Daimler-Benz automotive test site, the Papenburg Proving Ground, in
Emsland, Germany. The agreement is with a wholly owned Daimler-Benz subsidiary,
Mercedes-Benz technology (MBtech).

In October 1997, EG&G received a $20 million order from the Dutch Airport
Authority for two large-cargo security inspection systems for Schiphol Airport
in Amsterdam.

In December 1997, EG&G was awarded a one-year contract with an estimated value
of between $18 million and $30 million from the Defense Logistics Agency to
privatize its distribution depot at Kelly Air Force Base, San Antonio.
The contract has three option years.

In December 1997, EG&G entered into an agreement to sell its Sealol Industrial
Seals Division to TI Group, plc for $100 million, while simultaneously
purchasing TI Group's Belfab Division for $45 million.

In December 1997, EDN Magazine selected EG&G Amorphous Silicon as a finalist in
its "Innovation of the Year" competition. The EG&G division was recognized for
development of amorphous silicon detector technology.

                                      -2-


In January 1998, Gregory L. Summe, formerly President of AlliedSignal's
Automotive Products Group, was appointed President and Chief Operating Officer
of EG&G. Mr. Summe was subsequently elected to the Company's Board of Directors.

In January 1998, EG&G completed the sale of Rotron, a manufacturer of fans,
blowers and motors, to AMETEK, Inc., for approximately $103 million.

INDUSTRY SEGMENTS

Set forth below is a brief summary of each of the Company's four industry
segments together with a description of certain of the more significant or
recently introduced products, services or operations.

INSTRUMENTS

The Company develops and manufactures instruments and systems for applications
in: medical and clinical diagnostics; biochemical, medical and life science
research; environmental monitoring; airport and industrial security; and food
inspection. The Company's instruments provide a wide range of measurement
capabilities and options through the use of high-speed signal processing, image
enhancement and a broad utilization of detector technologies, including products
that feature the accurate generation, detection and measurement of various
segments of the electromagnetic spectrum. The Company offers products in this
segment under trade names which include Astrophysics, Berthold, ORTEC and
Wallac. In 1997, this segment represented 21% of the Company's total sales from
continuing operations and 29% of the Company's operating income from continuing
operations before an impairment charge and general corporate expenses.

High-performance bioanalytic and diagnostic instruments manufactured by the
Company are used in hospitals, clinics and pharmaceutical and medical research
facilities. These instruments employ time-resolved fluorescence and
chemiluminescence technologies, as well as radioisotopes, to analyze samples.
The advantage of fluorescence and luminescense is that they do not involve the
use of radioactive material, so that concerns about sample transport and waste
disposal are minimized. Among other things, these instruments are used to screen
blood for thyroid dysfunction, fertility-related disorders, fetal defects and
diseases in newborns, and to detect relapse in patients who have been treated
for cancer. The Company manufactures AutoDelfia(TM), an automated immunoassay
fluorescence diagnostiC system. The Company also sells reagents for use in
connection with certain of these instruments.

Through its Instruments segment, the Company also produces security screening
systems that employ X-ray technology in conjunction with image-enhancing
techniques for non-intrusive inspection of baggage and packages at airport
portals, baggage processing areas, mail rooms, courthouses, schools and
buildings. New security screening products introduced by the Company include the
Z-Scan(R) and a portable, large-cargo X-ray screening system. The Z-Scan, which
can process up to 1,800 bags per hour, uses color images, X-rays and proprietary
software to detect explosives, narcotics or contraband in packages and luggage.
The United Kingdom's Department of Transportation has certified the Z-Scan for
detection of drugs and contraband in checked cargo. The large-cargo X-ray
screening system allows non-intrusive inspection of boxes, crates and
containers. It supports the search for contraband, weapons and explosives at
border crossings, ports of entry, warehouses and airports.

Instruments produced by the Company also include process inspection systems that
combine X-ray technology from the Company's Instruments segment and optical
components from the Company's Optoelectronics segment. As an example, EG&G's
PakScan(TM) is used in food processing and packaging plants to monitor, detect
and remove foreigN objects from raw and processed food at various stages of
production. Such systems are also used to check intravenous-medicine bags and
automobile oil filters for leaks, to measure the fat content of meat and to
detect and separate non-biodegradable PVCs from recyclable plastics.

Based on its expertise in nuclear measurements, the Company produces instruments
to detect, characterize and measure radiation, including a complete line of
radiation-protection measuring systems for laboratories, nuclear facilities and
environmental monitoring stations.

MECHANICAL COMPONENTS

Through its Mechanical Components segment, the Company produces advanced seals
and bellows products, valves, nozzles, metal ducting and precision aerospace
components. The Company offers these products under trade names which include
Pressure Science, Sealol, Wright Components, KT Aerofab and Missouri Metals. In
1997, this segment

                                      -3-




represented 20% of the Company's total sales from continuing operations and 31%
of the Company's operating income from continuing operations before an
impairment charge and general corporate expenses.

The Company also produces as part of its Mechanical Components segment
mechanical sealing components and systems that use welded metal bellows devices
pioneered by the Company for the process industries. Industries served include
pharmaceuticals, food processing, power generation and semi-conductor chip
manufacturing. The Company expects that the market for the Company's advanced
zero-leakage gas seals will grow as a result of environmental legislation, which
requires manufacturers to significantly reduce emissions.

For aerospace applications, the Company produces valves, advanced sealing
components, aircraft exhaust components and ducting.

OPTOELECTRONICS

Through its Optoelectronics segment, the Company offers a broad variety of
components that emit and detect light in the spectrum from ultraviolet through
visible to the far infrared. These components range from simple photocells to
sophisticated imaging systems, light sources that include various types of
flashtubes and laser diodes, and complex devices for weapons' trigger systems.
Applications include light sensors used in automotive and commercial
electronics, sensors used in smoke detectors and medical imaging systems, and
sophisticated arrays for communications and remote sensing of the earth. The
Company expects to make significant research and development and capital
expenditures in this segment over the next several years. This segment offers
products under trade names which include Electro-Optics, Heimann
Optoelectronics, IC Sensors, Reticon, Judson and Vactec. In 1997, this segment
represented 18% of the Company's total sales from continuing operations and 8%
of the Company's operating income from continuing operations before an
impairment charge and general corporate expenses.

Products manufactured by this segment also include detectors of visible and
non-visible light, including high-performance silicon photodiodes that detect
and measure light and other optical radiation for industrial, space, military,
analytical and scientific instrumentation. Light detectors are also manufactured
by the Company for a variety of commercial applications. The Company also makes
a wide variety of flashlamps for use in photocopy and reprographic equipment,
photo-typesetting systems, beacons, indicators and laser systems and
accessories. In addition, the Company manufactures power supplies for military
high-frequency electronic applications that are used primarily for precision
controlled switching of electric current in electronic equipment.

The Company is developing amorphous silicon detectors for imaging systems for
medical and industrial applications. These X-ray systems incorporate amorphous
silicon, which replaces film in X-ray systems and translates the rays into
digital pulses that can then be used to immediately produce the image on a
cathode ray tube. In 1997, G.E. Medical Systems and the Company signed an
agreement which provides the Company with exclusive rights to manufacture this
amorphous silicon detector.

Through this segment, the Company also produces micromachined sensors, which are
small silicon-wafer-based devices that combine a sensing function with
intelligent signal processing. The Company mass produces these micromachined
infrared sensors for consumer, medical and automotive applications and
manufactures high-performance micromachined silicon sensors for missile-guidance
systems. In a joint venture, the Company is developing more advanced
micromachined electronic accelerometers for automotive and industrial
applications.

TECHNICAL SERVICES

Through its Technical Services segment, the Company supplies engineering,
scientific, environmental, management and technical support services to a broad
range of governmental and industrial customers. These services include: analysis
and testing services for the automotive industry; base operations for the
National Aeronautics and Space Administration ("NASA") at the Kennedy Space
Center ("KSC"); chemical weapons disposal and technical and support services for
the U.S. Department of Defense ("DoD"); seized-property administration for the
U.S. Customs Service; technical support in a joint venture for the National
Science Foundation in Antarctica; consulting services in transportation;
physical security services for government agencies; and a support services
contract at NASA's Marshall Space Flight Center. The Company has offered
services in this segment under trade names which include Automotive Research and
Structural Kinematics, as well as Dynatrend and Washington Analytical Services
Center. Many of these services are now provided through EG&G Services. In 1997,
this segment represented 41% of the Company's total sales from continuing
operations and 32% of the Company's operating income from continuing operations
before an impairment charge and general corporate expenses.


                                      -4-


For the automobile, chemical additive and petroleum industries, the Company
provides automobile durability, performance and emissions testing, and tests
fuels, lubricants and chemical additives. The Company performs automobile
durability and performance testing for all major U.S. and a number of foreign
automobile manufacturers. In 1997, EG&G began providing operational services to
the new Daimler-Benz test track in Elmsland, Germany.

As base operations contractor for the KSC, the Company provides institutional,
technical and maintenance support services. In particular, the Company manages
KSC's 600 buildings, structures and facilities; tests new astronaut rescue
procedures and escape systems; fields a force of 200 uniformed security
personnel and a SWAT team; provides fire protection and medical services;
handles all propellant substances; and manages the shuttle landing facility. The
Company has been the base operations contractor at KSC since 1983 and is
currently working pursuant to a contract that will expire on September 30, 1998.
NASA and the Air Force are consolidating and recompeting the base operations
contracts at the KSC, Cape Canaveral Air Station and certain functions at
Patrick Air Force Base in an effort to eliminate duplication and reduce costs.
It is anticipated that the resulting contract would be effective October 1,
1998. The Company is participating in the recompetition for the new contract as
part of a joint venture with Johnson Controls.

The Company's contracts with the DoD fall into two general categories: (i)
traditional defense activities, and (ii) decommissioning. The Company's
traditional defense activities focus on such strategic areas as research and
engineering analyses in support of DoD advanced development programs. An example
of a decommissioning project is the operation of the U.S. Army's facility for
the disposal of lethal chemical agents and munitions in Tooele, Utah.

The Company was recently awarded a contract from the Greater Kelly Development
Corporation to assist in the implementation of a redevelopment plan for Kelly
Air Force Base in San Antonio, Texas. The contract is for three years with two
three-year renewal options at the discretion of the customer for additional
implementation activities.

The Company also provides engineering and management services in a variety of
fields, including transportation, physical security and property management for
several government agencies. Government clients include the U.S. Departments of
Transportation, State and Treasury, the U.S. Customs Service and the
Environmental Protection Agency.

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

The Company has provided services under management and operations contracts to
the U.S. Department of Energy ("DOE") and reports its former DOE Support segment
as discontinued operations. Three of these DOE contracts expired in 1995. The
Rocky Flats contract for the management and operation of the Rocky Flats
Environmental Technology Center near Golden, Colorado terminated in June 1995.
The Reynolds Electrical and Engineering Co. contract for support and maintenance
services for the underground nuclear weapons test program and its design
laboratories at the Nevada Test Site expired on December 31, 1995. The Energy
Measurements contract to provide scientific and engineering services also
relating to the Nevada Test Site expired on December 31, 1995.

The EG&G Mound Applied Technologies, Inc. contract, the Company's last DOE
management and operations contract, expired on September 30, 1997. Under this
contract, the Company provided all support services at the DOE's Miamisburg,
Ohio facility and was responsible for the assembly and testing of radioisotopic
thermionic generators for space and special terrestrial power missions. The
Company also was responsible for the transfer to other DOE facilities of
technology relating to the Mound facility's former mission involving the
manufacturing of components for nuclear weapons.

The Company is in the process of negotiating contract closeouts and does not
anticipate incurring any material loss in connection with such contracts in
excess of previously established reserves.

MARKETING

The Company markets its services and products through its own specialized sales
forces as well as independent foreign and domestic manufacturer representatives
and distributors. In certain foreign countries, the Company has entered into
joint venture and license agreements with local firms to manufacture and market
its products.

RAW MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES

Raw materials and supplies used by the Company are generally readily available
in adequate quantities from domestic and foreign sources.


                                      -5-




PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS

While the Company's patents, trademarks and licenses in the aggregate are
important to its business, the Company does not believe that the loss of any one
patent, trademark or license or group of related patents, trademarks or licenses
would have a materially adverse effect on the overall business of the Company or
on any of its industry segments. EG&G(R), as well as certain product names, are
registered trademarks of the Company.

BACKLOG

The approximate dollar value of unfilled orders of continuing operations by
industry segment as of December 28, 1997 and December 29, 1996 is set forth in
the table below.

(In Thousands)               DECEMBER 28, 1997           DECEMBER 29, 1996
                             -----------------           -----------------


Instruments                           $ 57,722                    $ 45,883
Mechanical Components                  129,078                     105,762
Optoelectronics                        126,752                     112,759
Technical Services                     225,243                     285,170
                                      --------                    --------
CONTINUING OPERATIONS                 $538,795                    $549,574
                                      ========                    ========

At December 28, 1997, 41% of the backlog represented orders received from U.S.
government agencies, primarily the DoD and NASA. The Company estimates that over
89% of its backlog as of December 28, 1997 will be billed during 1998. The
Mechanical Components segment includes backlog related to the Company's Rotron
division, which was sold in January 1998. Rotron's backlog was approximately $33
million as of December 28, 1997 and $23 million as of December 29, 1996.

The order backlog for each segment relates differently to future sales based on
different business characteristics, primarily order and delivery lead times,
customer demand requirements and government funding. While the Company has not
generally experienced material cancellations of orders, orders may be cancelled
by customers without financial penalty, and backlog does not necessarily
represent actual future shipments.

The Company's last DOE management and operations contract, which is reported as
discontinued operations, expired on September 30, 1997.

GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS

In accordance with government regulations, all of the Company's government
contracts are subject to termination for the convenience of the government.
Costs incurred under cost-reimbursable contracts are subject to audit by the
government. The results of prior audits, which have been completed through 1993,
have not had a material effect on the Company.

CONTINUING OPERATIONS: Sales to U.S. government agencies, which were
predominantly to the DoD and NASA, were $537 million, $527 million and $537
million in 1997, 1996, and 1995, respectively. The Company's base operations
contract with NASA at the KSC contributed sales of $168 million in 1997 and $172
million in 1996 and 1995 and was extended by NASA through September 30, 1998.
NASA and the Air Force are consolidating and recompeting the base operations
contracts at the KSC, Cape Canaveral Air Station and certain functions at
Patrick Air Force Base in an effort to eliminate duplication and reduce costs.
It is anticipated that the resulting contract would be effective October 1,
1998. The Company is participating in the recompetition for the new contract as
part of a joint venture with Johnson Controls.

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS: The EG&G Rocky Flats, Inc. contract terminated in June
1995. The Reynolds Electrical and Engineering Co., Inc. and the EG&G Energy
Measurements, Inc. contracts expired on December 31, 1995. The EG&G Mound
Applied Technologies, Inc. contract expired on September 30, 1997. The Mound
cost-plus-award-fee contract contributed $80 million of sales to discontinued
operations in 1997. The Company is in the process of negotiating contract
closeouts and does not anticipate incurring any material loss in connection with
such contracts in excess of previously established reserves.


                                      -6-




COMPETITION

Because of the wide range of its products and services, the Company faces many
different types of competition and competitors. Competitors range from large
foreign and domestic organizations that produce a comprehensive array of goods
and services, to small concerns producing a few goods or services for
specialized market segments.

In the Instruments segment, the Company competes with instrument companies, some
large, most small, that serve narrow segments of markets in X-ray and magnetic
security systems, nuclear, industrial, and diagnostic instrumentation. The
Company competes in these markets primarily on the basis of product performance,
product reliability, service and price. Consolidation of competitors through
acquisitions and mergers and the Company's increasing activity in selected
diagnostics and industrial markets are expected to increase the proportion of
large competitors in this segment.

In the Mechanical Components segment, the Company is a leading supplier of
selected precision aircraft exhaust components, and various types of seals for
high-technology applications. Competition in these areas typically is from small
specialized manufacturing companies.

In the Optoelectronics segment, the Company is among the leading suppliers of
specialty flashtubes, silicon photodetectors, avalanche photodiodes, cadmium
sulfide and cadmium selenide detectors, photodiode arrays and switched power
supplies. Typically, competition is from small specialized manufacturing
companies.

The Technical Services segment provides technical services to several agencies
of the federal government, including the DoD and NASA. This business is
typically won through competition with a number of large and small contractors,
many of which are as large or larger than the Company and which, therefore, have
resources and capabilities that are comparable to or greater than those of the
Company. The primary bases for competition in these markets are technical and
management capabilities, current and past performance, and price. Competition is
typically subject to mandated procurement and competitive bidding requirements.
Competition for automotive testing services is primarily from a few specialized
testing companies and from customer-owned testing facilities, and is primarily
based on quality, service, and price.

Within the Mechanical Components, Optoelectronics and Instruments segments,
competition for governmental purchases is subject to mandated procurement
procedures and competitive bidding practices. In these segments, the Company
competes primarily on the basis of product performance, quality, service and
price. In much of the Optoelectronics and Instruments segments and in the
aircraft and marine mechanical seal markets included in the Mechanical
Components segment, advancing technology and research and development are also
important competitive factors.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

During 1997, 1996 and 1995, Company-sponsored research and development
expenditures were approximately $44.9 million, $42.8 million and $42.4 million,
respectively.

ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE

The Company is conducting a number of environmental investigations and remedial
actions at current and former Company locations and, along with other companies,
has been named a potentially responsible party for certain waste disposal sites.
The Company accrues for environmental issues in the accounting period that the
Company's responsibility is established and when the cost can be reasonably
estimated. As of December 28, 1997, the Company had an accrual of $5.7 million
to reflect its estimated liability for environmental remediation. As assessments
and remediation activities progress at each individual site, these liabilities
are reviewed and adjusted to reflect additional information as it becomes
available. There have been no environmental problems to date that have had or
are expected to have a material effect on the Company's financial position or
results of operations. While it is reasonably possible that a material loss
exceeding the amounts recorded may be incurred, the preliminary stages of the
investigations make it impossible for the Company to reasonably estimate the
range of potential exposure.

EMPLOYEES

As of March 1, 1998, the Company employed approximately 14,000 persons. Certain
of the Company's subsidiaries are parties to contracts with labor unions. The
Company considers its relations with employees to be satisfactory.


                                      -7-




FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INDUSTRY SEGMENTS

SALES AND OPERATING INCOME FROM
CONTINUING OPERATIONS BY INDUSTRY SEGMENT
For the Five Years Ended December 28, 1997




1 The operating income from continuing operations for 1997 included a $28.2
million non-cash asset impairment charge. The impact of this charge was $26.7
million on the Optoelectronics segment and $1.5 million on the Technical
Services segment.

2 The operating income (loss) from continuing operations for 1994 included a
goodwill write-down of $40.3 million and restructuring charges of $30.4 million.
The impact of these nonrecurring charges on each segment was as follows:
Instruments-$55.7 million, Mechanical Components-$2.7 million,
Optoelectronics-$9.7 million, Technical Services-$1.6 million and General
Corporate Expenses-$1 million.


                                      -8-




Additional information relating to the Company's operations in the various
industry segments is as follows:




Corporate assets consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, prepaid pension
and prepaid taxes.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT GEOGRAPHIC AREAS

Information relating to geographic areas is as follows:





Transfers between geographic areas were not material.


                                      -9-





ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

As of March 1, 1998, the Company occupied approximately 3,789,700 square feet of
building area, of which approximately 1,488,000 square feet is owned. The
balance is leased. The Company's headquarters occupies 53,350 square feet of
leased space in Wellesley, Massachusetts. The Company's other operations are
conducted in manufacturing and assembly plants, research laboratories,
administrative offices and other facilities located in 28 states, Washington,
D.C., Puerto Rico and 26 foreign countries.

Non-U.S. facilities account for approximately 1,170,800 square feet of owned and
leased property, or approximately 31% of the Company's total occupied space.

The Company's leases on property are both short-term and long-term. In
management's opinion, the Company's properties are well-maintained and are
adequate for its present requirements.

Except for operations based on government facilities, substantially all of the
machinery and equipment used by the Company is owned by the Company and the
balance is leased or furnished by contractors or customers.

The following table indicates the approximate square footage of real property
owned and leased attributable to each of the Company's industry segments.




ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The Company is subject to various investigations, claims and legal proceedings
covering a wide range of matters that arise in the ordinary course of its
business activities. Each of these matters is subject to various uncertainties,
and it is possible that some of these matters may be resolved unfavorably to the
Company. The Company has established accruals for matters that are probable and
reasonably estimable. Management believes that any liability that may ultimately
result from the resolution of these matters in excess of amounts provided will
not have a material adverse effect on the financial position or results of
operations of the Company.

The Company has received notices from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS)
asserting deficiencies in federal corporate income taxes for the Company's 1985
to 1993 tax years. The total additional tax proposed by the IRS amounts to $66
million plus interest. The Company has filed petitions in the United States Tax
Court to challenge most of the deficiencies asserted by the IRS. The Company
believes that it has meritorious legal defenses to those deficiencies and
believes that the ultimate outcome of the case will not result in a material
impact on the Company's consolidated results of operations or financial
position.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

Not applicable.


                                      -10-




EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

Listed below are the executive officers of the Company as of March 23, 1998. No
family relationship exists between any of the officers.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Name                         Position                                  Age
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    John M. Kucharski            Chairman of the Board                     62
                                 and Chief Executive Officer

    Gregory L. Summe             President and Chief Operating Officer     41

    John F. Alexander, II        Senior Vice President                     41
                                 and Chief Financial Officer

    Murray Gross                 Senior Vice President,                    61
                                 General Counsel and Clerk

    Angelo D. Castellana         Senior Vice President                     56

    Dr. Amitava Datta            Vice President and Chief
                                 Technology Officer                        52

    Deborah S. Lorenz            Vice President                            48

    Donald H. Peters             Vice President                            57

    Theodore P. Theodores        Vice President                            62

    Daniel T. Heaney             Treasurer                                 44

    William J. Ribaudo           Controller                                38


                                      -11-




Mr. Kucharski joined the Company in 1972. He was elected a Vice President in
1979, a Senior Vice President in 1982 and Executive Vice President in 1985. In
1986 he was elected President and Chief Operating Officer, in 1987 Chief
Executive Officer and was elected Chairman of the Board of Directors in 1988.

Mr. Summe joined the Company in 1998 as President and Chief Operating Officer.
Until late  1997, he was President of AlliedSignal's Automotive Products Group.
Prior to being appointed President of AlliedSignal's Automotive Products Group
in 1997, Mr. Summe served as President of Aerospace Engines from 1995 to 1997
and as President of General Aviation Avionics from 1993 to 1995. He was
previously general manager of commercial motors at General Electric from 1992 to
1993.

Mr. Alexander joined the Company in 1982. He was elected Corporate Controller in
1991, a title he retained when named a Vice President in 1995. He was elected
Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President in 1996.

Mr. Gross joined the Company in 1971. He was elected Assistant General Counsel
and Assistant Clerk in 1978, Vice President, General Counsel and Clerk in 1990,
and Senior Vice President in 1996.

Mr. Castellana joined the Company in 1965. He was elected a Vice President in
1991, a Senior Vice President in 1997, and serves as a principal executive in
the Office of the Chief Operating Officer.

Dr. Datta joined the Company in 1985 as Director of R&D for the Mechanical
Components Group and was elected Vice President of EG&G Sealol, Inc. in 1989.
For the last five years he has managed internal development efforts for the
Company. He was elected Vice President and Chief Technology Officer of the
Company in 1997.

Ms. Lorenz joined the Company in 1990. She was elected a Vice President in 1992
and is responsible for Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.

Dr. Peters joined the Company in 1968. He was elected a Vice President in 1987
and is responsible for Planning.

Mr. Theodores joined the Company in 1986. He was Director of Corporate New
Business Development from 1992 until being elected a Vice President in 1996 and
is responsible for Business Development.

Mr. Heaney joined the Company in 1980, serving as Manager of Financial Analysis,
Controller of the Technical Services segment from 1989 to 1994 and Director of
Economic Value Added Implementation in 1994-5. He was elected Treasurer in 1995.

Mr. Ribaudo joined the Company in 1996 as Controller. He had been associated
with Arthur Andersen LLP since 1982, and was elected a partner of that firm in
1994.


                                      -12-




                                     PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

MARKET PRICE OF COMMON STOCK







DIVIDENDS






The Company's common stock is listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange.
The number of holders of record of the Company's common stock as of February 20,
1998, was approximately 10,300.

In October 1997, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a regular
quarterly cash dividend of fourteen cents per share of common stock. The
quarterly cash dividend was paid on February 6, 1998, to stockholders of record
at the close of business on January 16, 1998.


                                      -13-




ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
For the Five Years Ended December 28, 1997


(1) Included an asset impairment charge of $28.2 million, $23.5 million
after-tax ($.51 earnings per share).
(2) Return on equity before effect of asset impairment charge was 16.0%.
(3) Included a goodwill write-down of $40.3 million and restructuring charges of
$30.4 million.
(4) Return on equity before effect of goodwill write-down and restructuring
charges was 11.8%.
(5) Included one-time after-tax charges of $20.5 million, or $.36 per share, due
to adoption of SFAS Nos. 106 and 109.
(6) Return on equity before cumulative effect of accounting changes was 16.4%.


                                      -14-


ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND
        FINANCIAL CONDITION

OVERVIEW

In 1997, the transformation of the Company continued. Progress was made in a
number of growth areas and new products were introduced. The Company continued
the realignment of its operating organization to continue to position the
Company for sustained long-term growth. The overall goal of the effort is to
provide greater focus on the end-use customer by consolidating divisions around
common technology, manufacturing processes and markets. As part of this program,
since November 1996 all division managers report directly to corporate,
eliminating a management layer. The Company is entering 1998 with fifteen
operating divisions compared to forty operating divisions in 1994. The
realignment includes the divestiture of businesses serving markets that do not
meet our growth criteria or strategic direction. The resulting gains from these
divestitures in 1997 allowed the Company to fund improvements and accelerate
investments in its remaining divisions, which included planned costs in
connection with the consolidation and restructuring initiatives. In 1998, the
Company will use the proceeds from two divestitures to: accelerate some
consolidation programs; invest in acquisitions in strategic growth areas and
replace the revenue lost through divestitures; invest in information technology;
and continue the stock purchase program. The withdrawal from the Department of
Energy (DOE) Support business was finalized during 1997 as the last contract
expired. During 1997, the Company formed an exclusive partnership with GE
Medical Systems to manufacture a first-of-its-kind filmless multipurpose digital
X-ray detector for high-end medical applications. New medical products were
introduced in 1997, and automotive testing services were expanded.

1997 COMPARED TO 1996

Sales from continuing operations increased 2% in 1997 compared to 1996.
Excluding the effects of currency translation and completed 1997 divestitures,
sales increased 5%. Operating income from continuing operations was $59.6
million in 1997 and included a $28.2 million non-cash asset impairment charge,
primarily associated with the IC Sensors business. The after-tax effect of this
charge was $23.5 million ($.51 loss per share). Excluding the asset impairment
charge, operating income in 1997 was $87.8 million, approximately equal to the
prior year. The 1997 operating income included gains of $10.6 million from the
divestitures of businesses in the Instruments and Mechanical Components
segments. These gains were offset by planned costs of $8.2 million incurred in
connection with the consolidation and restructuring initiatives and a charge of
$2.8 million resulting from a cash deficit in an employee benefit plan. The
gains and costs were included in selling, general and administrative expenses.
Research and development expenses were $44.9 million in 1997, an increase of
$2.1 million over the 1996 level.

1996 COMPARED TO 1995

Sales from continuing operations increased 1% in 1996 compared to 1995,
reflecting a growth in product sales of 8% and a decrease in Technical Services
sales. Operating income from continuing operations increased 6% in 1996 compared
to 1995. The improvement reflected the impact of higher sales in the Instruments
and Mechanical Components segments and lower costs resulting from the Company's
1994 restructuring plan. Partially offsetting these increases in operating
income were decreases in Optoelectronics caused by significant operational
problems resulting in a loss in the micromachined sensors business and decreases
in Technical Services caused by lower automotive testing services and the
completion of two contracts in 1995. Cost savings under the 1994 restructuring
plan totaled $26 million in 1996, which represents an $11 million increase over
the savings achieved in 1995. Capital expenditures increased 30% in 1996 to $80
million, and outlays for research and development were $43 million. The
Company's program to reduce working capital and to dispose of nonstrategic
assets continued in 1996 with cumulative reductions of over $85 million since
its inception in 1994. Key measures of effectiveness of working capital
management, Days Sales Outstanding and Inventory Turns, improved by 2% and 9%,
respectively, in 1996.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The discussion that follows is a summary analysis of the major changes by
industry segment.


                                      -15-




INSTRUMENTS

1997 COMPARED TO 1996

Instruments sales decreased $15.1 million. Excluding the effects of the stronger
U.S. dollar on non-U.S. dollar denominated sales ($13.7 million currency
translation) and the divestiture of two businesses ($11.1 million), sales
increased $9.7 million. The increase was mainly due to sales of a new medical
research instrument and consumables related to the placement of an increasing
number of diagnostic instruments. These increases were partially offset by
decreases caused by reduced European government funding in the research area and
delays in product improvements. Operating income decreased $1.4 million. The
Instruments results included gains of $6.3 million on the divestiture of two
businesses and a $3.4 million net reduction in patent infringement costs. These
increases were partially offset by restructuring and integration costs of $2.9
million, the absence of income ($1.1 million) from the expiration of a grant
liability in 1996 and loss of divested businesses' income of $1.8 million.
Excluding these items, Instruments income decreased $5.4 million as a result of
start-up costs and difficulties resulting from geographic expansion of medical
distribution organizations, price reductions due to continued competitive
pressure on conventional explosives-detection systems and lower sales
experienced by some businesses. These decreases were partially offset by the
income earned on the higher sales of medical research instruments and
consumables. The Berthold business, while profitable, performed below
expectations and its progress is being reviewed.

1996 COMPARED TO 1995

The $28.1 million sales increase resulted mainly from higher demand for
explosives-detection systems, primarily from U.S. government facilities, and
from diagnostic and medical research products. These increases were partially
offset by decreases totaling $12 million, which resulted from the effect of
changes in foreign exchange rates and the divestiture of two product lines in
1995. Operating income was 11.3% of sales in 1996 compared to 5.8% in 1995.
Operating income increased $19.3 million, primarily from improved margins on
higher sales. Also contributing, to a lesser extent, were manufacturing and
engineering process improvements, lower costs resulting from the restructuring
plan, lower inventory provisions due to improved inventory management, the
favorable impact of changes in foreign exchange rates, income from the
expiration of a grant liability and a 1995 provision for additional cost
reductions. A $4.2 million provision for a 1996 patent infringement settlement
and increased management incentive accruals partially offset these increases. As
a part of the settlement, the Company entered into a royalty agreement covering
future sales.

MECHANICAL COMPONENTS

1997 COMPARED TO 1996

Sales increased $16.3 million (6%) due to higher demand for aerospace products,
reflecting continued strength in that market, new products and higher demand for
electromechanical products. These increases were partially offset by lower sales
resulting from the divestiture of a business. Income increased $7.7 million as
the result of the gain of $4.3 million on the divestiture, income on higher
sales and improved contract margin. These increases were partially offset by
costs associated with the consolidation and relocation of manufacturing
facilities and warranty costs. The ducting business, while profitable, continued
to perform below expectations.

As part of its strategy to focus resources upon larger business units better
positioned to take advantage of growing demand, the Company sold its Rotron
division in January 1998 for $103 million. Rotron's 1997 sales were $70 million
and its operating income was $11.9 million ($.16 earnings per share). In
December of 1997, the Company entered into an agreement to sell its Sealol
Industrial Seals division to TI Group, plc. for $100 million, while
simultaneously purchasing TI Group's Belfab division for $45 million. Belfab's
1997 sales were $30 million. Subject to regulatory and other approvals, these
transactions are expected to close in the first half of 1998. Sealol Industrial
Seals division's 1997 sales were $88 million and its operating income was $11.4
million ($.21 earnings per share). The Company expects to realize after-tax
gains of approximately $90 million from these divestitures.

1996 COMPARED TO 1995

Higher demand for aerospace, electromechanical and industrial process sealing
products resulted in 11% sales growth. The 7% increase in operating income
resulted from the margin on higher sales and lower costs from the restructuring
plan, partially offset by provisions for projected excess contract costs and
warranty repairs.


                                      -16-




OPTOELECTRONICS

1997 COMPARED TO 1996

Sales decreased $8.2 million due to loss of market share to a competitor's lower
cost automotive accelerometers, the effects of currency translation and the
completion of contracts in 1996 in the camera and power supplies businesses.
These decreases were partially offset by the sales resulting from the
introduction of new thermopile products. The $29.4 million decrease in income
resulted primarily from the non-cash asset impairment charge of $26.7 million.
Excluding the impairment charge, operating income decreased $2.7 million as a
result of lower sales, higher operating losses at IC Sensors and higher
development costs for the advanced micromachined sensors technology. Products
incorporating the advanced micromachined sensors technology have been delivered
to key customers for evaluation. Market acceptance and technical feasibility are
expected to be determined in the first quarter of 1998. The 1997 cost of the
development effort for the amorphous silicon project continued at the $4.5
million level, while the development effort for the advanced micromachined
sensor technology cost $5.3 million.

IC SENSORS ASSET IMPAIRMENT CHARGE

As a result of IC Sensors' inability to achieve the improvements specified in
its corrective action plan including new product orders, improved manufacturing
yields, cost reductions and attraction and retention of critical personnel, it
continued operating at a loss in the second quarter of 1997, triggering an
impairment review of its long-lived assets. A revised operating plan was
developed to restructure and stabilize the business. The revised projections by
product line provided the basis for measurement of the asset impairment charge.
Accordingly, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $26.7 million in the
second quarter for a write-down of goodwill of $13.6 million and fixed assets of
$13.1 million. The after-tax effect of this charge was $22 million ($.48 loss
per share). The impairment charge reduces future depreciation and amortization
by approximately $3 million annually. For 1997, IC Sensors lost $7.5 million,
excluding the asset impairment charge. IC Sensors' performance in the second
half of 1997 was consistent with its revised operating plan. The Company
continues to evaluate performance against the revised operating plan and will
continue to monitor the realizability of the remaining assets if the operation
fails to meet this plan.

1996 COMPARED TO 1995

Sales of new imaging products and higher demand for detectors and accelerometers
for the automotive market, partially offset by decreases caused by lower power
supplies sales and the divestiture of a product line in 1995, resulted in an
increase of $10.2 million. Operating income decreased $7.1 million as
significant operational problems resulted in a loss in the micromachined sensors
business, which had sales of $37 million. To a lesser extent, lower sales and
projected excess contract costs in the power supplies business contributed to
the decrease. Partially offsetting these decreases were the margin on the sales
of new imaging products and lower costs resulting from the restructuring plan.
The 1996 impact of the development effort for the amorphous silicon project
continued at the $5 million level.

TECHNICAL  SERVICES

1997 COMPARED TO 1996

Sales increased $40.6 million (7%), primarily reflecting final shipments under a
contract for the development and installation of communication systems ($20
million), higher automotive testing sales ($10.9 million) due primarily to the
start-up of the new light-truck structural testing facility, and higher billings
under government contracts. After a goodwill write-down of $1.5 million related
to the environmental services business, operating income increased $2.4 million.
Excluding the goodwill write-down, operating income increased $3.9 million
primarily due to higher sales levels.

Future performance could be affected by the NASA and Air Force decision to
consolidate and recompete the base operations contracts at the Kennedy Space
Center, Cape Canaveral Air Station and certain functions at Patrick Air Force
Base in an effort to eliminate duplication and reduce costs. It is anticipated
that the resultant contract would be effective October 1, 1998. The Company is
participating in the recompetition for the new contract as part of a joint
venture with Johnson Controls. The NASA contract at the Kennedy Space Center
contributed sales of $168 million in 1997.

1996 COMPARED TO 1995

The $57.8 million sales reduction was mainly the result of the absence in 1996
of the billings under two large contracts. Also contributing to the reduction
was a decrease in sales of the automotive operations, primarily due to
continuing lower


                                      -17-


demand for stationary testing services caused by customers' budget constraints
and mature testing specifications, and completion of a lubricant testing
contract at the end of the first quarter of 1996. The $14 million operating
income reduction was the result of the sales reductions, partially offset by the
recognition of a productivity incentive fee on the Kennedy Space Center contract
and the 1995 estimated provision for a legal judgment.

GENERAL CORPORATE EXPENSES

1997 COMPARED TO 1996

The $7.3 million increase was primarily due to a $2.8 million charge resulting
from a cash deficit in an employee benefit plan, $2.6 million in costs
associated with restructuring and realignment, and costs of new program
initiatives.

1996 COMPARED TO 1995

The $4.8 million decrease was primarily due to lower costs resulting from the
restructuring plan and management incentive accruals.

OTHER

1997 COMPARED TO 1996

The $1.7 million net decrease in other expense was mainly due to a $3.4 million
reimbursement relating to a joint development program, which was partially
offset by lower interest income. The 1997 effective tax rate of 43.3% was
significantly affected by the non-deductible goodwill write-down of IC Sensors
and the Environmental Services divisions. Excluding the impairment charge, the
effective tax rate for 1997 was 34.1% compared to 32.2% in 1996. The increase in
the rate was primarily due to changes in the geographical distribution of
income. The 1998 effective tax rate may increase to approximately 36% as a
result of changes in the geographical distribution of income due to
divestitures.

1996 COMPARED TO 1995

The $10.7 million net increase in other expense was due to higher interest
expense reflecting the issuance of $115 million of ten-year notes in October
1995 and lower gains on the disposition of nonstrategic assets. The effective
tax rate of 32.2% for 1996 was lower than the 36.9% rate in 1995 primarily due
to changes in the geographical distribution of income.

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

1997 COMPARED TO 1996

The decrease in income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes,
reflected the expiration in September 1997 of the Mound contract, which was the
Company's last management and operations contract with the DOE. The Company is
in the process of negotiating contract closeouts and does not anticipate
incurring a material loss in excess of previously established reserves.

1996 COMPARED TO 1995

The decrease in income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes,
reflected the expiration of the Rocky Flats and Nevada Test Site contracts in
1995.

ENVIRONMENTAL

The Company is conducting a number of environmental investigations and remedial
actions at current and former Company locations and, along with other companies,
has been named a potentially responsible party for certain waste disposal sites.
The Company accrues for environmental issues in the accounting period that the
Company's responsibility is established and when the cost can be reasonably
estimated. As of December 28, 1997, the Company had an accrual of $5.7 million
to reflect its estimated liability for environmental remediation. As assessments
and remediation activities progress at each individual site, these liabilities
are reviewed and adjusted to reflect additional information as it becomes
available. There have been no environmental problems to date that have had or
are expected to have a material effect on the Company's financial position or
results of operations. While it is reasonably possible that a material loss
exceeding the amounts recorded may be incurred, the preliminary stages of the
investigations make it impossible for the


                                      -18-


Company to reasonably estimate the range of potential exposure. During 1997, the
Company adopted the provisions of Statement of Position 96-1, Environmental
Remediation Liabilities. Its adoption did not have a material effect on results
of operations.

FINANCIAL CONDITION

The Company's cash and cash equivalents increased $10.1 million in 1997 while
commercial paper borrowings increased $27.9 million. Net cash provided by
continuing operations was $32.1 million in 1997, $73.2 million in 1996 and
$123.8 million in 1995. The net cash provided by continuing operations was lower
in 1997 compared to 1996 primarily as a result of a greater increase in accounts
receivable and higher funding of the U.S. pension and postretirement medical
benefit plans. The accounts receivable increase was mainly the result of higher
sales across all segments. The net cash provided by continuing operations was
lower in 1996 compared to 1995 primarily as a result of increases in accounts
receivable and inventories in 1996 compared to decreases in 1995. The accounts
receivable increase was mainly caused by higher sales in the product segments.
Inventory levels increased primarily for anticipated sales.

Capital expenditures were $48.7 million in 1997, a decrease of $31.8 million
from the 1996 level, and are expected to increase to $60-70 million in 1998.
These expenditures support new product development initiatives throughout the
Company, including the amorphous silicon and micromachined sensor programs. In
1997, the Company received a $30 million payment related to a joint development
program for the amorphous silicon project, of which $27 million constituted
reimbursement for previously invested capital. During 1997, the Company had
proceeds of $23 million from the sale of three businesses in the Instruments and
Mechanical Components segments. The Company expects to realize gross proceeds of
$203 million in 1998 from the sale of Rotron and the expected sale of the Sealol
Industrial Seals division, of which $45 million will be used to purchase TI
Group's Belfab division. The remaining proceeds will be used to: accelerate some
consolidation programs; invest in acquisitions in strategic growth areas and
replace the revenue lost through divestitures; invest in information technology;
and continue our stock purchase program.

In 1995, the Company issued $115 million of unsecured ten-year notes, of a total
$150 million authorized, at an interest rate of 6.8%. The unissued notes of $35
million are covered by a shelf registration statement. The proceeds were used to
pay off commercial paper borrowings that were used mainly to finance purchases
of the Company's common stock. The Company has two revolving credit agreements
totaling $200 million, which were extended for one year in 1997. These
agreements consist of a $100 million, 364-day facility, which was extended in
March 1998 to March 1999, and a $100 million facility, which expires in March
2002. The Company did not draw down either of these credit facilities during
1997.

During 1997, the Company purchased 1.3 million shares of its common stock
through periodic purchases on the open market at a cost of $28 million. As of
December 28, 1997, the Company had authorization to purchase 2.8 million
additional shares and, subject to market conditions, plans to increase its level
of purchases in 1998.

The Company has limited involvement with derivative financial instruments and
uses forward contracts to mitigate the effect of foreign currency movements on
transactions denominated in foreign currencies. The contracts generally have
maturities that do not exceed one month and have no cash requirements until
maturity. Credit risk and market risk are minimal because the contracts are with
very large banks and gains and losses are offset against foreign exchange gains
and losses on the underlying hedged transactions. The notional amount of
outstanding forward contracts was $75.8 million as of December 28, 1997.

During 1997, the economic and financial crisis in portions of Asia did not have
a material effect on the Company's results of operations or financial position.
Sales into and exported from the region, as well as net assets in the region,
are not material.

Discontinued operations generated cash of $2.7 million in 1997 compared to $6.9
million in 1996, reflecting the expiration of the Mound contract during 1997.
All contracts with the DOE are now completed. The Company is in the process of
negotiating contract closeouts and does not anticipate incurring a material loss
in excess of previously established reserves.

OTHER MATTERS

The Company utilizes software and related technologies throughout its business
that will be affected by the Year 2000 problem, which is common to most
corporations. The problem relates to the inability of microprocessors and data
dependent software to correctly handle the year 2000 and beyond. The Company is
addressing the effect of the Year 


                                      -19-

2000 problem on its Enterprise Resource Planning systems as part of its overall
process improvement program and believes it will be able to modify or replace
its affected systems in time to minimize any detrimental effects on operations.
Based on current plans, the Company expects that such costs will not be material
to the Company's results of operations in any year and will not have a material
adverse impact on the liquidity or financial position of the Company.

DIVIDENDS

In January 1998, the Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly cash
dividend of 14 cents per share, resulting in an annual rate of 56 cents per
share for 1998. EG&G has paid cash dividends, without interruption, for 33 years
and continues to retain what management believes to be sufficient earnings to
support the funding requirements of its planned growth.

FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION

All statements contained herein that refer to a time after December 28, 1997,
including the words will, will be, estimated to be, could be, expect, believe,
will continue, expected to, and plan, or statements referring to goals, the
future or future actions, continuing actions, trends, strategies, initiatives,
challenges or opportunities, or which otherwise are not purely historical, are
forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and involve risks and uncertainties. There are a
number of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially
from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, including the factors
set forth below.

FACTORS AFFECTING FUTURE PERFORMANCE

In the Instruments, Mechanical Components and Optoelectronics industry segments,
future performance will be highly dependent on the technological success, market
acceptance, competitive position of our businesses, product performance and
ability to reach cost targets of new program initiatives, including the
amorphous silicon project and the advanced micromachined sensors technology
platform. Improved operational efficiency will be required to offset increasing
price pressures in many of the Company's product offerings. Other factors that
may impact future earnings performance include the absence of sales and earnings
contributed by divestitures, potential issues related to economic and financial
difficulties arising in Asia and difficulty in attracting and retaining key
personnel in certain areas. The future results of the Optoelectronics segment
are also dependent on management's ability to restore IC Sensors to break-even
in the near term, the successful introduction of new products, improvement in
manufacturing yields and implementation of cost reductions, including the
successful transfer of assembly activities to lower-cost geographic locations.

In the Technical Services segment, the Company operates in a highly competitive
procurement environment in the automotive testing and government services
businesses. The automotive testing business is dependent on the success of its
new marketing initiatives. The income generated by many of our government
contracts is dependent on performance criteria. In accordance with government
regulations, all of the Company's government contracts are subject to
termination for the convenience of the government. NASA and the Air Force have
decided to consolidate and recompete the base operations contracts at the
Kennedy Space Center, Cape Canaveral Air Station and certain functions at
Patrick Air Force Base in an effort to eliminate duplication and reduce costs.
It is anticipated that any resultant contract would be effective October 1,
1998. The Company is participating in the recompetition for the new contract as
part of a joint venture with Johnson Controls.

Movements in foreign exchange rates could affect operating results. Effective
tax rates in the future could be affected by changes in the geographical
distribution of income, utilization of non-U.S. net operating loss
carryforwards, repatriation costs, resolution of outstanding tax audit issues
and changes in the portfolio of businesses.


                                      -20-




ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTAL DATA

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
As of December 28, 1997 and December 29, 1996


The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.


                                      -21-




CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
For the Three Years Ended December 28, 1997


The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.


                                      -22-




CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
For the Three Years Ended December 28, 1997


The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.


                                      -23-

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
For the Three Years Ended December 28, 1997



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.

                                      -24-




NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. NATURE OF OPERATIONS AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Nature of Operations: EG&G, Inc. is a global, diversified technology company
that provides optoelectronic, mechanical and electromechanical components and
instruments to manufacturers and end-user customers in aerospace, automotive,
environmental, industrial, medical, photography, security and other markets. The
Company also delivers technical and managerial support services to government
and industrial customers. The Company's industry segments are Instruments,
Mechanical Components, Optoelectronics and Technical Services. Based on sales,
Technical Services is the largest segment, representing approximately 40% of the
Company's sales; each of the other segments accounts for approximately 20% of
sales. The Instruments segment develops and manufactures products for a wide
range of detection and measurement applications worldwide, ranging from medical
diagnostics and food monitoring to airport, cargo and industrial security. The
Mechanical Components segment designs and manufactures highly reliable,
high-performance seals and fluid containment and control products for aerospace,
semiconductor, power generation, chemical and petrochemical markets worldwide.
The Optoelectronics segment designs and manufactures optical and silicon
micromachined sensors, light sources and optoelectronic components for
industrial, consumer and medical applications worldwide and large-scale
amorphous silicon X-ray detectors. The Technical Services segment supplies
management, engineering, scientific, technical and operations support services
primarily to U.S. government agencies. The segment also provides analysis and
testing services to the petroleum and automotive industries worldwide.

Principles of Consolidation: The consolidated financial statements include the
accounts of EG&G, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the Company). All material
intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Certain reclassifications have been made to conform prior years' data to the
current format.

Use of Estimates: The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Sales: Sales under cost-reimbursement contracts are recorded as costs are
incurred and include applicable income in the proportion that costs incurred
bear to total estimated costs. Other product and service sales are recorded at
the time of shipment for products and at the end of a contract phase for service
contracts. If a loss is anticipated on any contract, provision for the entire
loss is made immediately.

Inventories: Inventories, which include material, labor and manufacturing
overhead, are valued at the lower of cost or market. The majority of inventories
is accounted for using the first-in, first-out method; remaining inventories are
accounted for using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method.

Property, Plant and Equipment: For financial statement purposes, the Company
depreciates plant and equipment using the straight-line method over their
estimated useful lives, which generally fall within the following ranges:
buildings and special-purpose structures -- 10 to 25 years; leasehold
improvements -- estimated useful life or remaining term of lease, whichever is
shorter; machinery and equipment -- 3 to 7 years; special-purpose equipment --
expensed or depreciated over the life of the initial related contract.
Nonrecurring tooling costs are capitalized, while recurring costs are expensed.
For income tax purposes, the Company depreciates plant and equipment over their
estimated useful lives using accelerated methods.

Pension Plans: The Company's funding policy provides that payments to the U.S.
pension trusts shall at least be equal to the minimum funding requirements of
the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. Non-U.S. plans are accrued
for, but generally not funded, and benefits are paid from operating funds.

Translation of Foreign Currencies: The balance sheet accounts of non-U.S.
operations, exclusive of stockholders' equity, are translated at year-end
exchange rates, and income statement accounts are translated at weighted-average
rates in effect during the year; any translation adjustments are made directly
to a component of stockholders' equity . The net transaction gains (losses) were
not material for the years presented.

Intangible Assets: Intangible assets result mainly from acquisitions accounted
for using the purchase method of accounting and include the excess of cost over
the fair market value of the net assets of the acquired businesses.
Substantially all of these intangible assets are being amortized over periods of
up to 20 years. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(SFAS) No. 121, Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for
Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed Of, the Company reviews long-lived assets and
the related intangible assets for impairment whenever events 


                                      -25-




or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of such assets may not
be recoverable. Recoverability of these assets is determined by comparing the
forecasted undiscounted net cash flows of the operation to which the assets
relate, to the carrying amount including associated intangible assets of such
operation. If the operation is determined to be unable to recover the carrying
amount of its assets, then intangible assets are written down first, followed by
the other long-lived assets of the operation, to fair value. Fair value is
determined based on discounted cash flows or appraised values, depending upon
the nature of the assets. (See Note 7 for discussion of the write-down that
occurred in 1997.)

Stock-Based Compensation: Effective January 1, 1996, the Company adopted the
provisions of SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation. The Company
has elected to continue to account for stock options at intrinsic value with
disclosure of the effects of fair value accounting on net income and earnings
per share on a pro forma basis.

Cash Flows: For purposes of the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the
Company considers all highly liquid instruments with a purchased maturity of
three months or less to be cash equivalents. The carrying amount of cash and
cash equivalents approximates fair value due to the short maturities.

Environmental Matters: The Company accrues for costs associated with the
remediation of environmental pollution when it is probable that a liability has
been incurred and the Company's proportionate share of the amount can be
reasonably estimated. Any recorded liabilities have not been discounted.

Earnings Per Share: In the fourth quarter of 1997, the Company adopted the
provisions of SFAS No. 128, Earnings Per Share, which is effective for financial
statements for periods ending after December 15, 1997. SFAS No. 128 requires
replacement of primary earnings per share (EPS) with basic EPS, which is
computed by dividing income available to common shareholders by the
weighted-average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted EPS, which gives
effect to all dilutive potential common shares outstanding, is also required.
While all prior-period EPS data presented are required to be restated, there was
no impact on previously reported EPS from adopting SFAS No. 128.

Other Accounting Pronouncements: The Financial Accounting Standards Board issued
two new statements in June 1997. SFAS No. 130, Reporting Comprehensive Income,
establishes standards for reporting and display of comprehensive income and its
components. SFAS No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and
Related Information, establishes standards for the way that public business
enterprises report information and operating segments in annual financial
statements and requires reporting of selected information in interim financial
reports. Both statements are effective for fiscal years beginning after December
15, 1997. The required disclosures for SFAS No. 130 will be included in the
Company's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the first quarter of 1998. The
required disclosures for SFAS No. 131 will be included in the Company's 1998
annual report on Form 10-K.

2. ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE

Accounts receivable as of December 28, 1997 and December 29, 1996 included
unbilled receivables of $48 million and $44 million, respectively, which were
due primarily from U.S. government agencies. Accounts receivable were net of
reserves for doubtful accounts of $4.8 million and $4.2 million as of December
28, 1997 and December 29, 1996, respectively.

3. INVENTORIES

Inventories as of December 28, 1997 and December 29, 1996 consisted of the
following:

(In thousands)                          1997                  1996
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Finished goods                      $ 31,570              $ 31,436
Work in process                       24,810                28,536
Raw materials                         56,495                59,586
                                    --------              --------
                                    $112,875              $119,558
                                    ========              ========

The portion of inventories accounted for using the LIFO method of determining
inventory costs in 1997 and 1996 approximated 25% and 23%, respectively, of
total inventories. The excess of current cost of inventories over the LIFO value
was approximately $8 million as of December 28, 1997 and December 29, 1996.


                                      -26-




4. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

Property, plant and equipment, at cost, as of December 28, 1997 and December 29,
1996 consisted of the following:

(In thousands)                                             1997             1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Land                                                   $ 12,712         $ 12,324
Buildings and leasehold improvements                    114,698          123,575
Machinery and equipment                                 354,972          344,959
                                                       --------         --------
                                                       $482,382         $480,858
                                                       ========         ========

Capital expenditures were $48.7 million in 1997 and were offset by dispositions
($19 million), the effect of translating assets denominated in non-U.S.
currencies at current exchange rates ($16 million) and the write-down associated
with the IC Sensors business ($13 million). (See Note 7 for discussion of the
write-down that occurred in 1997.)

5. INVESTMENTS

Investments as of December 28, 1997 and December 29, 1996 consisted of the
following:

(In thousands)                                            1997           1996
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Marketable investments                                 $11,197        $12,294
Joint venture investments                                5,591          4,363
Other investments                                          343            558
                                                       -------        -------
                                                        17,131         17,215
Investments classified as other current assets            (401)          (376)
                                                       -------        -------
                                                       $16,730        $16,839
                                                       =======        =======

Marketable investments consisted of common stocks and trust assets which were
primarily invested in common stocks and fixed-income securities to meet the
supplemental executive retirement plan obligation. The market values were based
on quoted market prices. As of December 28, 1997, the fixed-income securities,
on average, had maturities of approximately eight years. The net unrealized
holding gain on marketable investments, net of deferred income taxes, reported
as a separate component of stockholders' equity, was $0.5 million at December
28, 1997 and $1.2 million at December 29, 1996. In 1997, proceeds from sales of
available-for-sale securities were $1 million, which approximated average cost.

Marketable investments classified as available for sale as of December 28, 1997
and December 29, 1996 consisted of the following:

                                                           Gross Unrealized
                                                               Holding
                              Market                     --------------------
(In thousands)                 Value          Cost        Gains      (Losses)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Common stocks                $ 7,521       $ 6,766       $1,017        $(262)
Fixed-income securities        3,543         3,495           48           --
Other                            133           132            1           --
                             -------       -------       ------        -----
                             $11,197       $10,393       $1,066        $(262)
                             =======       =======       ======        =====
Common stocks                $ 9,347       $ 7,498       $2,050        $(201)
Fixed-income securities        2,712         2,710            2           --
Other                            235           233            2           --
                             -------       -------       ------        -----
                             $12,294       $10,441       $2,054        $(201)
                             =======       =======       ======        =====

Joint venture investments are accounted for using the equity method.


                                      -27-





6. INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Intangible assets were shown net of accumulated amortization of $48.7 million
and $51.8 million as of December 28, 1997 and December 29, 1996, respectively.
The $31.1 million decrease in intangible assets resulted primarily from
write-downs associated with the IC Sensors and Environmental Services businesses
($15 million), the effect of translating goodwill denominated in non-U.S.
currencies at current exchange rates ($9 million) and current year amortization
($8 million).

7. ASSET IMPAIRMENT CHARGE

As a result of IC Sensors' inability to achieve the improvements specified in
its corrective action plan, including new product orders, improved manufacturing
yields, cost reductions, and attraction and retention of critical personnel, the
division continued operating at a loss in 1997, which triggered an impairment
review of its long-lived assets. A revised operating plan was developed to
restructure and stabilize the business. The revised projections by product line
provided the basis for measurement of the asset impairment charge. The Company
calculated the present value of expected cash flows of IC Sensors' product lines
to determine the fair value of the assets. Accordingly, in the second quarter of
1997, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $26.7 million in the
Optoelectronics segment, for a write-down of goodwill of $13.6 million and fixed
assets of $13.1 million.

The Company also recorded a $1.5 million impairment charge in 1997 to write off
the goodwill of the Environmental Services division in the Technical Services
segment.

8. DEBT

Short-term debt at December 28, 1997 and December 29, 1996, consisted primarily
of commercial paper borrowings of $45.8 million and $18 million, respectively,
that had maturities of 30 days or less. The weighted-average interest rate on
commercial paper borrowings was 6.1% at December 28, 1997 and 6.2% at December
29, 1996. Commercial paper borrowings averaged $47 million during 1997 at an
average interest rate of 5.6%, compared to average borrowings of $28 million
during 1996 at an average interest rate of 5.4%.

During 1997, the Company renewed its credit facilities with the signing of two
revolving credit agreement extensions totaling $200 million. These agreements
consist of a $100 million, 364-day facility, which was extended in March 1998 to
March 1999, and a $100 million facility, which expires in March 2002. These
agreements serve as backup facilities for the commercial paper borrowings.
During 1997, the Company did not draw down either of these credit facilities,
and there are no significant commitment fees. 

At December 28, 1997 and December 29, 1996, long-term debt included $115 million
of unsecured ten-year notes issued in October 1995 at an interest rate of 6.8%,
which mature in 2005. The total notes authorized were $150 million, and the
unissued notes of $35 million are covered by a shelf registration statement. The
carrying amount of the Company's long-term debt approximated the estimated fair
value at December 28, 1997 and December 29, 1996 based on a quoted market price.

9. ACCRUED EXPENSES

Accrued expenses as of December 28, 1997 and December 29, 1996 consisted of the
following:

(In thousands)                                             1997             1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Payroll and incentives                                 $ 24,473         $ 29,732
Employee benefits                                        48,936           44,845
Federal, non-U.S. and state income taxes                 22,352           24,186
Other accrued operating expenses                         70,327           63,785
                                                       --------         --------
                                                       $166,088         $162,548
                                                       ========         ========


10. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

Savings Plan: The Company has a savings plan for the benefit of qualified U.S.
employees. Under this plan, the Company contributes an amount equal to the
lesser of 55% of the amount of the employee's voluntary contribution or 3.3% of
the employee's annual compensation. Savings plan expense was $6.5 million in
1997, $5.8 million in 1996 and $5.7 million in 1995.




                                      -28-




Pension Plans: The Company has defined benefit pension plans covering
substantially all U.S. employees and non-U.S. pension plans for non-U.S.
employees. The plans provide benefits that are based on an employee's years of
service and compensation near retirement. Assets of the U.S. plan are composed
primarily of equity and debt securities.

Net periodic pension cost included the following components:

(In thousands)                           1997             1996             1995
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Service cost-
    benefits earned
    during the period                $  9,081         $  9,248         $  9,073
Interest cost on
    projected benefit
    obligations                        18,126           17,335           16,733
Actual return
    on plan assets                    (43,630)         (32,287)         (42,992)
Net amortization
    and deferral                       21,599           13,116           24,310
                                     --------         --------         --------
                                     $  5,176         $  7,412         $  7,124
                                     ========         ========         ========

The following table sets forth the funded status of the principal U.S. pension
plan and the principal non-U.S. pension plans and the amounts recognized in the
Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 28, 1997 and December 29,
1996:



The non-U.S. accrued pension liability included $30.2 million and $32.3 million
classified as long-term liabilities as of December 28, 1997 and December 29,
1996, respectively. The U.S. pension asset was classified as other noncurrent
assets.

The Company also sponsors a supplemental executive retirement plan to provide
senior management with benefits in excess of normal pension benefits. At
December 28, 1997 and December 29, 1996, the projected benefit obligations were
$11.9 million and $11.2 million, respectively. Assets with a fair value of $10.2
million and $9.1 million, segregated in a trust, were available to meet this
obligation as of December 28, 1997 and December 29, 1996, respectively. Pension
expense for this plan was approximately $1.3 million in 1997, and $1.5 million
in 1996 and 1995.

Postretirement Medical Plans: The Company provides health care benefits for
eligible retired U.S. employees under a comprehensive major medical plan or
under health maintenance organizations where available. The majority of the
Company's U.S. employees become eligible for retiree health benefits if they
retire directly from the Company and have at least ten years of service.
Generally, the major medical plan pays stated percentages of covered expenses
after a deductible is met and takes into consideration payments by other group
coverages and by Medicare. The plan requires retiree contributions under most
circumstances and has provisions for cost-sharing changes. For employees
retiring after 1991, the Company has capped its medical premium contribution
based on employees' years of service. The Company 



                                      -29-




funds the amount allowable under a 401(h) provision in the Company's defined
benefit pension plan. Assets of the plan are composed primarily of equity and
debt securities.

Net periodic postretirement medical benefit cost (credit) included the following
components:

(In thousands)                    1997             1996             1995
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
Service cost-
    benefits earned
    during the period          $   317          $   349          $   391
Interest cost on
    accumulated
    benefit obligations          1,237            1,459            1,697
Actual return on
    plan assets                 (1,592)          (1,128)          (1,001)
Net amortization
    and deferral                  (360)             296              544
                               -------          -------          -------
                               $  (398)         $   976          $ 1,631
                               =======          =======          =======

The net credit in 1997 resulted from the amortization of previously unrecognized
gains.

The following table sets forth the plan's funded status and the amounts
recognized in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 28, 1997 and
December 29, 1996:

(In thousands)                                       1997           1996
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
Actuarial present value of
    accumulated benefit obligations:
Current retirees                                  $11,448        $15,699
Active employees eligible to retire                   565            563
Other active employees                              5,032          4,848
                                                  -------        -------
                                                   17,045         21,110
Plan assets at fair value                          13,839          8,470
                                                  -------        -------
Plan assets less than
    accumulated benefit obligations                 3,206         12,640
Unrecognized net gain                               8,594          4,669
                                                  -------        -------
Accrued postretirement
    medical liability                             $11,800        $17,309
                                                  =======        =======

Actuarial assumptions as of the 
    year-end measurement date:
Discount rate                                         7.0%           7.5%
Health care cost trend rate:
First year                                           10.0%          12.0%
Ultimate                                              5.5%           6.5%
Time to reach ultimate                            6 years        7 years
Long-term rate of return on assets                    9.0%           9.5%

The accrued postretirement medical liability included $11.3 million and $16.3
million classified as long-term liabilities as of December 28, 1997 and December
29, 1996, respectively.

If the health care cost trend rate was increased 1%, the accumulated
postretirement benefit obligations would have increased by approximately $0.8
million at December 28, 1997. The effect of this increase on the annual cost for
1997 would have been approximately $0.1 million.

Other: The Company has an EVA (R) Incentive Compensation Plan, the purpose of
which is to provide incentive compensation to certain key employees, including
all officers, in a form that relates the financial rewards to an increase in the
value of the Company to its shareholders. Awards under this plan are approved
annually by the Board of Directors. (EVA (R) is a registered trademark of Stern
Stewart & Co.)



                                      -30-




The preceding information does not include amounts related to benefit plans
applicable to employees associated with the NASA contract because the Company is
not responsible for the current or future funded status of the plans.

During 1997, the Company incurred a charge of $2.8 million resulting from a cash
deficit in an employee benefit plan.

11. INCOME TAXES

The components of income from continuing operations before income taxes for
financial reporting purposes were as follows:

(In thousands)                          1997              1996              1995
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
U.S.                                 $12,079           $36,235           $53,264
Non-U.S                               41,947            44,119            32,795
                                     -------           -------           -------
                                     $54,026           $80,354           $86,059
                                     =======           =======           =======

The components of the provision for income taxes for continuing operations were
as follows:

                                                      Deferred
(In thousands)                     Current           (Prepaid)             Total
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal                            $16,359            $(5,607)           $10,752
State                                3,527               (121)             3,406
Non-U.S                              7,028              2,195              9,223
                                   -------            -------            -------
                                   $26,914            $(3,533)           $23,381
                                   =======            =======            =======
Federal                            $ 4,209            $10,473            $14,682
State                                3,653                135              3,788
Non-U.S                              8,545             (1,141)             7,404
                                   -------            -------            -------
                                   $16,407            $ 9,467            $25,874
                                   =======            =======            =======
Federal                            $26,268            $(3,411)           $22,857
State                                3,572               (264)             3,308
Non-U.S                              5,325                265              5,590
                                   -------            -------            -------
                                   $35,165            $(3,410)           $31,755
                                   =======            =======            =======

The total provision for income taxes included in the consolidated financial
statements was as follows:

(In thousands)                        1997               1996               1995
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Continuing operations              $23,381            $25,874            $31,755
Discontinued operations              1,640              3,056              7,397
                                   -------            -------            -------
                                   $25,021            $28,930            $39,152
                                   =======            =======            =======

The major differences between the Company's effective tax rate for continuing
operations and the federal statutory rate were as follows:

                                     1997               1996               1995
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal statutory rate               35.0%              35.0%              35.0%
Non-U.S. rate                                                          
    differential, net               (14.2)             (10.1)              (2.5)
State income taxes, net               4.1                3.1                2.5
Goodwill amortization                 3.3                2.4                2.0
Goodwill write-downs                  9.7                 --                 --
Increase (decrease) in                                                 
     valuation allowance              5.5               (1.1)              (2.3)
Other, net                           (0.1)               2.9                2.2
                                    -----              -----               ----
Effective tax rate                   43.3%              32.2%              36.9%
                                    =====              =====               ====


                                      -31-




The 1997 tax provision and effective rate for continuing operations were
significantly impacted by the non-deductible goodwill write-downs of IC Sensors
and the Environmental Services division. Excluding the impairment charge, the
effective rate was 34.1% in 1997.

The tax effects of temporary differences and carryforwards which gave rise to
prepaid (deferred) income taxes as of December 28, 1997 and December 29, 1996
were as follows:

(In thousands)                                          1997               1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Deferred tax assets:
Inventory reserves                                  $  5,569           $  5,738
Other reserves                                        10,425              9,628
Reimbursement of invested capital                      8,635                 --
Vacation pay                                           6,958              6,200
Depreciation                                           1,701              3,869
Net operating loss carryforwards                      32,113             32,088
Postretirement health benefits                         4,373              5,077
Restructuring reserve                                    343                616
All other, net                                        26,116             25,230
                                                    --------           --------
Total deferred tax assets                             96,233             88,446
                                                    --------           --------
Deferred tax liabilities:
Award and holdback fees                               (1,756)            (3,814)
Pension contribution                                 (12,837)            (9,212)
Amortization                                          (7,310)            (8,113)
All other, net                                       (15,514)           (14,489)
                                                    --------           --------
Total deferred tax liabilities                       (37,417)           (35,628)
                                                    --------           --------
Valuation allowance                                  (25,626)           (24,407)
                                                    --------           --------
Net prepaid taxes                                   $ 33,190           $ 28,411
                                                    ========           ========

At December 28, 1997, the Company had non-U.S. (primarily from Germany) net
operating loss carryforwards of $69.8 million, $0.9 million of which expire in
the years 1998 through 2001 and $68.9 million of which carry forward
indefinitely. The $25.6 million valuation allowance results primarily from these
carryforwards, for which the Company currently believes it is more likely than
not that they will not be realized.

Current prepaid income taxes of $44.3 million and $38.6 million were included in
other current assets at December 28, 1997 and December 29, 1996, respectively.
Long-term deferred income taxes of $11.1 million and $10.2 million were included
in long-term liabilities at December 28, 1997 and December 29, 1996,
respectively.

In general, it is the practice and intention of the Company to reinvest the
earnings of its non-U.S. subsidiaries in those operations. Repatriation of
retained earnings is done only when it is advantageous. Applicable federal taxes
are provided only on amounts planned to be remitted. Accumulated net earnings of
non-U.S. subsidiaries for which no federal taxes have been provided as of
December 28, 1997 were $90.1 million, which does not include amounts that, if
remitted, would result in little or no additional tax because of the
availability of U.S. tax credits for non-U.S. taxes. Federal taxes that would be
payable upon remittance of these earnings are estimated to be $27.8 million at
December 28, 1997.

12. REIMBURSEMENT OF INVESTED CAPITAL

In the third quarter of 1997, the Company received a $30.4 million payment as
part of the negotiation of a joint development contract. This payment
represented a $27 million reimbursement of previously invested capital, which
will be amortized to income over the estimated life of the related assets, and a
$3.4 million reimbursement of cost of capital, which was included in other
income. The reimbursement, net of accumulated amortization, included in
long-term liabilities was $24.7 million as of December 28, 1997.

13. CONTINGENCIES

The Company is subject to various investigations, claims and legal proceedings
covering a wide range of matters that arise in the ordinary course of its
business activities. Each of these matters is subject to various uncertainties,
and it is possible that some of these matters may be resolved unfavorably to the
Company. The Company has established accruals for matters that are probable and
reasonably estimable. Management believes that any liability that may 


                                      -32-




ultimately result from the resolution of these matters in excess of amounts
provided will not have a material adverse effect on the financial position or
results of operations of the Company.

In addition, the Company is conducting a number of environmental investigations
and remedial actions at current and former Company locations and, along with
other companies, has been named a potentially responsible party for certain
waste disposal sites. The Company accrues for environmental issues in the
accounting period that the Company's responsibility is established and when the
cost can be reasonably estimated. The Company has accrued $5.7 million as of
December 28, 1997 to reflect its estimated liability for environmental
remediation. As assessments and remediation activities progress at each
individual site, these liabilities are reviewed and adjusted to reflect
additional information as it becomes available. There have been no environmental
problems to date that have had or are expected to have a material effect on the
Company's financial position or results of operations. While it is reasonably
possible that a material loss exceeding the amounts recorded may have been
incurred, the preliminary stages of the investigations make it impossible for
the Company to reasonably estimate the range of potential exposure.

The Company has received notices from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS)
asserting deficiencies in federal corporate income taxes for the Company's 1985
to 1993 tax years. The total additional tax proposed by the IRS amounts to $66
million plus interest. The Company has filed petitions in the United States Tax
Court to challenge most of the deficiencies asserted by the IRS. The Company
believes that it has meritorious legal defenses to those deficiencies and
believes that the ultimate outcome of the case will not result in a material
impact on the Company's consolidated results of operations or financial
position.

14. RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES

During 1997, the economic and financial crisis in portions of Asia did not have
a material effect on the Company's results of operations or financial position.
Sales into and exported from the region, as well as net assets in the region,
are not material.

Optoelectronics' future results are dependent on management's ability to restore
IC Sensors to break-even in the near term, successful introduction of new
products, improvements in manufacturing yields and implementation of cost
reductions.

In 1997, 37% of the Company's sales from continuing operations were to U.S.
government agencies, predominantly to the Department of Defense and NASA. In
accordance with government regulations, all of the Company's government
contracts are subject to termination for the convenience of the government. Cost
incurred under cost-reimbursable contracts are subject to audit by the
government. The results of prior audits, complete through 1993, have not had a
material effect on the Company.

Future performance could be impacted by the NASA and Air Force decision to
consolidate and recompete the base operations contracts at the Kennedy Space
Center, Cape Canaveral Air Station and certain functions at Patrick Air Force
Base in an effort to eliminate duplication and reduce costs. It is anticipated
that the resultant contract would be effective October 1, 1998. The Company is
participating in the recompetition for the new contract as part of a joint
venture with Johnson Controls. The NASA contract at the Kennedy Space Center
contributed sales of $168 million in 1997.

The Company's management and operations contracts with the DOE are presented as
discontinued operations. The Company's last DOE management and operations
contract expired on September 30, 1997. The Company is in the process of
negotiating contract closeouts and does not anticipate incurring any material
loss in excess of previously established reserves.

For information concerning various investigations, claims, legal proceedings,
environmental investigations and remedial actions, and notices from the IRS, see
Note 13.

15. STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

At December 28, 1997, 6.5 million shares of the Company's common stock were
reserved for employee benefit plans.

The Company has nonqualified and incentive stock option plans for officers and
key employees. Under these plans, options may be granted at prices not less than
100% of the fair market value on the date of grant. All options expire ten years
from the date of grant. Options granted since 1994 become exercisable, in
ratable installments, over a period of five years from the date of grant. In
other years, options became exercisable at the date of grant. The Stock Option



                                      -33-




Committee of the Board of Directors, at its sole discretion, may also include
stock appreciation rights in any option granted. There are no stock appreciation
rights outstanding under these plans.

A summary of certain stock option information is as follows:



In December 1997, 927,000 options were granted at an exercise price of $19.19
per share. In 1996, the Board of Directors granted 650,000 options in January
and 728,000 options in December at exercise prices of $21.75 and $19.75 per
share, respectively.

The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at
December 28, 1997 (shares in thousands):



During 1996, the Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 123, Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation. The Company has elected to continue to account for
stock options at intrinsic value with disclosure of the effects of fair value
accounting on net income and earnings per share on a pro forma basis.

The following table reflects pro forma net income and earnings per share had the
Company elected to adopt the fair value approach of SFAS No. 123:

     (Dollars in thousands except per share data)           1997            1996
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Income from continuing operations:
     As reported                                         $30,645         $54,480
     Pro forma                                            29,844          53,986
     Earnings per share:
     As reported                                             .67            1.15
     Pro forma                                               .65            1.14

Consistent with SFAS No. 123, pro forma net income and earnings per share have
not been calculated for options granted prior to January 1, 1995. There are no
pro forma disclosures for 1995 because the options granted were insignificant.
Pro forma compensation cost may not be representative of that to be expected in
future years since the estimated fair value of stock options is amortized to
expense over the vesting period, and additional options may be granted in future
years.


                                      -34-




The fair value of each option was $6.14 for options granted in 1997, $6.20 for
the options granted in December 1996 and $6.68 for the options granted in
January 1996. The values were estimated on the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes option pricing model. The following weighted-average assumptions
were used in the model:

                                        December        December   January
                                            1997            1996      1996
     -----------------------------------------------------------------------
     Risk-free interest rate                5.9%           6.3%       5.5%
     Expected dividend yield                  2%             2%         2%
     Expected lives                      7 years        7 years    7 years
     Expected stock volatility               26%           24%        25%

On January 25, 1995, the Board of Directors adopted a new Shareholder Rights
Plan. Under the plan, preferred stock purchase rights were distributed on
February 8, 1995 as a dividend at the rate of one right for each share of common
stock outstanding. Each right, when exercisable, entitles a stockholder to
purchase one one-thousandth of a share of a new series of junior participating
preferred stock at a price of $60. The rights become exercisable only if a
person or group acquires 20% or more or announces a tender or exchange offer for
30% or more of the Company's common stock. This preferred stock is nonredeemable
and will have 1,000 votes per share. The rights are nonvoting, expire in 2005
and may be redeemed prior to becoming exercisable. The Company has reserved
70,000 shares of preferred stock, designated as Series C Junior Participating
Preferred Stock, for issuance upon exercise of such rights. If a person (an
"Acquiring Person") acquires or obtains the right to acquire 20% or more of the
Company's outstanding common stock (other than pursuant to certain approved
offers), each right (other than rights held by the Acquiring Person) will
entitle the holder to purchase shares of common stock of the Company at one-half
of the current market price at the date of occurrence of the event. In addition,
in the event that the Company is involved in a merger or other business
combination in which it is not the surviving corporation or in connection with
which the Company's common stock is changed or converted, or it sells or
transfers 50% or more of its assets or earning power to another person, each
right that has not previously been exercised will entitle its holder to purchase
shares of common stock of such other person at one-half of the current market
price of such common stock at the date of the occurrence of the event. In
connection with the adoption of the plan, the Company redeemed the rights issued
pursuant to the Company's January 28, 1987 Rights Agreement at a redemption
price of $.01 per right to shareholders of record as of February 8, 1995.

16. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of
credit risk consist principally of temporary cash investments and accounts
receivable. The Company had no significant concentrations of credit risk as of
December 28, 1997.

The Company has limited involvement with derivative financial instruments. In
the ordinary course of business, the Company enters into foreign exchange
forward contracts for periods consistent with its committed exposures to
mitigate the effect of foreign currency movements on transactions denominated in
foreign currencies. Transactions covered by hedge contracts include intercompany
and third-party receivables and payables. The contracts are primarily in
European currencies, generally have maturities that do not exceed one month and
have no cash requirements until maturity. Credit risk and market risk are
minimal because the forward contracts are with very large banks and gains and
losses are offset against foreign exchange gains and losses on the underlying
hedged transactions. The notional amount of outstanding forward contracts was
$75.8 million as of December 28, 1997 and $62.4 million as of December 29, 1996.
The carrying value as of December 28, 1997 and December 29, 1996, which
approximated fair value, was not significant.

See Notes 1, 5 and 8 for disclosures about fair values, including methods and
assumptions, of other financial instruments.

17. LEASES

The Company leases certain property and equipment under operating leases. Rental
expense charged to earnings for 1997, 1996 and 1995 amounted to $15.6 million,
$17.2 million and $18.7 million, respectively. Minimum rental commitments under
noncancelable operating leases are as follows: $13 million in 1998, $8.4 million
in 1999, $5.8 million in 2000, $4.1 million in 2001, $2.7 million in 2002 and
$6.8 million after 2002. The above information does not include amounts related
to leases covered by certain government contracts because costs, including
future commitments, are reimbursable under the terms of the contracts, even if
the contracts are terminated.


                                      -35-






18. OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)

Other income (expense), net, consisted of the following:

(In thousands)                             1997            1996           1995
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Interest income                        $  1,969        $  3,879        $ 4,930
Interest expense                        (12,482)        (13,427)        (8,514)
Gains on investments, net                   711           1,714          2,047
Other                                     4,230             558          4,923
                                       --------        --------        -------
                                       $ (5,572)       $ (7,276)       $ 3,386
                                       ========        ========        =======

Gains on investments, net, included a $2.5 million charge in 1995 to write down
certain investments to their estimated realizable value. Other consists mainly
of income from joint ventures, foreign exchange losses and, in 1997, a $3.4
million cost of capital reimbursement relating to a joint development program.
(See Note 12.)

19. DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

The former DOE Support segment, which has provided services under management and
operations contracts, is presented as discontinued operations in accordance with
Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 30.

The EG&G Rocky Flats, Inc. contract terminated in June 1995. The Reynolds
Electrical and Engineering Co., Inc. and the EG&G Energy Measurements, Inc.
contracts expired on December 31, 1995. The EG&G Mound Applied Technologies,
Inc. contract, the Company's last DOE management and operations contract,
expired on September 30, 1997.

Summary operating results of the discontinued operations were as follows:

(In thousands)                             1997            1996            1995
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Sales                                   $79,795        $141,181        $659,852
Costs and expenses                       75,108         132,449         638,719
                                        -------        --------        --------
Income from discontinued
    operations before
    income taxes                          4,687           8,732          21,133
Provision for income taxes                1,640           3,056           7,397
                                        -------        --------        --------
Income from discontinued
    operations, net of
    income taxes                        $ 3,047        $  5,676        $ 13,736
                                        =======        ========        ========

The Company is in the process of negotiating contract closeouts and does not
anticipate incurring any material loss in excess of previously established
reserves.

20. EARNINGS PER SHARE

Basic earnings per share was computed by dividing net income by the
weighted-average number of common shares outstanding. The weighted-average
shares used in the basic earnings per share computations were 45,757,000 for
1997, 47,298,000 for 1996 and 51,483,000 for 1995. Diluted earnings per share
was computed by giving effect to all dilutive potential common shares
outstanding. The weighted-average shares used in the diluted earnings per share
computations were 45,898,000 for 1997, 47,472,000 for 1996 and 51,573,000 for
1995. These shares include shares issuable upon the exercise of stock options
using the treasury stock method. Basic EPS equals diluted EPS for all periods
presented due to the immaterial effect of stock options.

21. INDUSTRY SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA INFORMATION

The Company's continuing operations are classified into four industry segments:
Instruments, Mechanical Components, Optoelectronics and Technical Services. The
products and services of these segments are described in Note 1 and elsewhere in
the Annual Report. Sales and operating income from continuing operations by
industry segment are shown in the Sales and Operating Income by Industry Segment
section of this report; such information with respect to 1997, 1996 and 1995 is
considered an integral part of this note.



                                      -36-





Sales to U.S. government agencies, which were predominantly to the Department of
Defense and NASA, were $537 million, $527 million and $537 million in 1997, 1996
and 1995, respectively. NASA and the Air Force have decided to consolidate and
recompete the base operations contracts at the Kennedy Space Center, Cape
Canaveral Air Station and certain functions at Patrick Air Force Base in an
effort to eliminate duplication and reduce costs. It is anticipated that the
resultant contract would be effective October 1, 1998. The Company is
participating in the recompetition for the new contract as part of a joint
venture with Johnson Controls. The NASA contract at the Kennedy Space Center
contributed sales of $168 million in 1997 and $172 million in 1996 and 1995.

Additional information relating to the Company's operations in the various
industry segments is as follows:



Corporate assets consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, prepaid pension
and prepaid taxes.

Information relating to geographic areas is as follows:



Transfers between geographic areas were not material.

                                      -37-






22. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)

Selected quarterly financial information follows:




(1) Included an asset impairment charge of $28.2 million, $23.5 million
    after-tax ($.51 earnings per share).

23. DIVESTITURES, RESTRUCTURING AND INTEGRATION/REALIGNMENT COSTS

During 1997, the Company sold its Chandler, Flow and Birtcher divisions for
gains of $10.6 million. The proceeds from the divestitures were $23 million. As
part of a plan to reposition its operations, the Company recorded restructuring
charges of $4.9 million, which were mainly related to employee separation costs.
The Company also incurred integration costs of $3.3 million as part of its
consolidation effort. These gains and costs were included in selling, general
and administrative expenses in 1997.

24. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

In early January 1998, the Company sold its Rotron division, which manufactures
fans, blowers and motors, to Ametek, Inc. for approximately $103 million. In
1997, Rotron's sales were $70 million, and its operating income was $11.9
million ($.16 earnings per share).

In December 1997, the Company signed an agreement to sell its Sealol Industrial
Seals division to TI Group, plc., for $100 million and to simultaneously
purchase TI Group's Belfab division for $45 million. Belfab's 1997 sales were
$30 million. These transactions are subject to regulatory and other approvals
and are expected to close in the first half of 1998. Sealol Industrial Seals'
1997 sales were $88 million, and its operating income was $11.4 million ($.21
earnings per share).

The after-tax gain on the divestitures is expected to be approximately $90
million.



                                      -38-




REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

TO THE STOCKHOLDERS OF EG&G, INC.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of EG&G, Inc. (a
Massachusetts corporation) and subsidiaries as of December 28, 1997 and December
29, 1996, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders'
equity and cash flows for the years ended December 28, 1997, December 29, 1996
and December 31, 1995. These financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of EG&G, Inc. and
subsidiaries as of December 28, 1997 and December 29, 1996, and the results of
their operations and their cash flows for the years ended December 28, 1997,
December 29, 1996 and December 31, 1995, in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles.



/s/ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
- ----------------------
ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS
JANUARY 20, 1998



                                      -39-






ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

a)   DIRECTORS

The information required by this Item with respect to Directors is contained on
Pages 2 through 8 of the Company's 1998 Proxy Statement under the captions
"Election of Directors" and "Information Relative to the Board of Directors and
Certain of its Committees" and is herein incorporated by reference.

b)   EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

The information required by this item with respect to Executive Officers is
contained in Part I of this Report.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required to be disclosed by this Item is contained in Pages 15 -
21 of the Company's 1998 Proxy Statement from under the caption "Summary
Compensation Table" up to and including "Aggregated Option Exercises in Last
Fiscal Year and Fiscal Year-End Value Option Table" and Notes thereto, and is
herein incorporated by reference.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The information required by this Item is contained on Pages 9 - 10 of the
Company's 1998 Proxy Statement under the captions "Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners" and "Security Ownership of Management" and is herein
incorporated by reference.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

Not applicable.



                                      -40-







                                     PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)  DOCUMENTS FILED AS PART OF THIS REPORT:

     1.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

         Included in Part II, Item 8:

               Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 28, 1997 and 
               December 29, 1996

               Consolidated Statement of Operations for the Three Years Ended
               December 28, 1997

               Consolidated Statement of Stockholders' Equity for the Three
               Years Ended December 28, 1997

               Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the Three Years Ended
               December 28, 1997

               Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

               Report of Independent Public Accountants

     2.  FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

         Report of Independent Public Accountants on Financial Statement 
         Schedules

         Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

         Financial statement schedules, other than those above, are omitted
         because of the absence of conditions under which they are required or
         because the required information is given in the financial statements
         or notes thereto.

         Separate financial statements of the Registrant are omitted since it is
         primarily an operating company, and since all subsidiaries included in
         the consolidated financial statements being filed, in the aggregate, do
         not have minority equity interests and/or indebtedness to any person
         other than the Registrant or its consolidated subsidiaries in amounts
         which together exceed five percent of total consolidated assets.

     3.  EXHIBITS

         3.1 The Company's Restated Articles of Organization, as filed with the
         Massachusetts Secretary of the Commonwealth on July 31, 1995, were
         filed with the Commission on September 21, 1995 as Exhibit 4(i) to the
         Company's Registration Statement on Form S-8 and are herein
         incorporated by reference.

         3.2 The Company's By-Laws as amended and restated by the Board of
         Directors on December 17,1997.

         4.1 The form of certificate used to evidence ownership of EG&G Common
         Stock, $1 par value, was filed as Exhibit 4(a) to EG&G's Registration
         Statement on Form S-3, File No. 2-69642 and is herein incorporated by
         reference.

         4.2 Form of Indenture dated June 28, 1995 between the Company and the
         First National Bank of Boston, as Trustee, was filed with the
         Commission as Exhibit 4.1 to EG&G's Registration Statement on Form S-3,
         File No. 33-59675 and is herein incorporated by reference.


                                      -41-






         *10.1 EG&G, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan revised as of
         April 19, 1995 was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to EG&G's Annual Report on
         Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995, and is herein
         incorporated by reference.

         *10.2 EG&G, Inc. Economic Value Added Plan as amended and restated by
         the EG&G, Inc. Board of Directors on December 17, 1997.

         10.3 3-Year Competitive Advance and Revolving Credit Facility Agreement
         ("3-Year Agreement") dated as of March 21, 1994 among EG&G, Inc., the
         Lenders Named Herein and Chemical Bank as Administrative Agent;
         Amendment No. 1 to 3-Year Agreement dated as of March 15, 1995; and
         Amendment No. 2 to 3-Year Agreement dated as of March 14, 1996 were
         filed as Exhibit 10.3 to EG&G's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
         fiscal year ended December 31, 1995, and are herein incorporated by
         reference. Amendment No. 3 to 3-Year Agreement dated as of March 7,
         1997 was filed as Exhibit 10.3 to EG&G's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
         the fiscal year ended December 29, 1996 and is herein incorporated by
         reference.

         10.4 Termination, Replacement and Restatement Agreement dated as of
         March 6, 1998 among EG&G, Inc., the Lenders Named Herein and The Chase
         Manhattan Bank (as successor to Chemical Bank) as Administrative Agent
         is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.4. The 364-Day Competitive Advance and
         Revolving Credit Facility Agreement ("364-Day Agreement") dated as of
         March 21, 1994 among EG&G, Inc., the Lenders Named Herein and Chemical
         Bank as Administrative Agent; Amendment No. 1 to 364-Day Agreement
         dated as of March 15, 1995 and Amendment No. 2 to 364-Day Agreement
         dated as of March 14, 1996 were filed as Exhibit 10.4 to EG&G's Annual
         Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995, and
         are herein incorporated by reference. Amendment No. 3 to 364-Day
         Agreement dated as of March 7, 1997 was filed as Exhibit 10.4 to EG&G's
         Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 1996
         and is herein incorporated by reference. 

         *10.5 Employment Contracts:

         (1)   Employment contract between John M. Kucharski and EG&G dated
               November 1, 1993.

         (2)   Employment contract between Murray Gross and EG&G dated 
               November 1, 1993.

         (3)   Employment contract between John F. Alexander, II and EG&G dated
               November 1, 1993.

         (4)   Employment contract between Angelo Castellana and EG&G dated
               November 1, 1993.

         (5)   Employment contract between Dr. Amitava Datta and EG&G dated
               April 22, 1997.

         (6)   Employment contract between Daniel T. Heaney and EG&G dated 
               June 1, 1995.

         (7)   Employment contract between Deborah S. Lorenz and EG&G dated
               November 1, 1993.

         (8)   Employment contract between Donald H. Peters and EG&G dated
               November 1, 1993.

         (9)   Employment contract between William J. Ribaudo and EG&G dated
               March 29, 1996.

         (10)  Employment contract between Theodore P. Theodores and EG&G dated
               April 23, 1996.

Except for the name of the officer in the employment contracts identified by
numbers 3 through and including 10, the form of said employment contracts is
identical in all respects. The employment contracts identified by numbers 1 and
2 are identical to each other and are virtually identical to the contracts
identified by numbers 3 through 10 except that they 


                                      -42-




provide for a longer contract term, three years as opposed to one year. The
employment contract between John F. Alexander, II and EG&G is representative of
the employment contracts of the executive officers and is attached hereto as
Exhibit 10.5.


         *10.6 The EG&G, INC. 1982 INCENTIVE STOCK OPTION PLAN was filed as
         Exhibit 4(v) to EG&G's Registration Statement on Form S-8, File No.
         33-36082 and is herein incorporated by reference.

         *10.7 The EG&G, Inc. 1992 STOCK OPTION PLAN was filed as Exhibit 4(vi)
         to EG&G's Registration Statement on Form S-8, File No. 333-32059 and is
         herein incorporated by reference.

         21    Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

         23    Consent of Independent Public Accountants.

         24    Power of Attorney (appears on signature page).

         27    Financial Data Schedule.

*This exhibit is a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement
required to be filed as an Exhibit pursuant to Item 14(c) of Form 10-K.

     (b) REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

A report on Form 8-K was filed with the Commission on October 24, 1997 regarding
a press release containing the Company's financial results for the quarter ended
September 28, 1997.

A report on Form 8-K was filed with the Commission on December 23, 1997
regarding an agreement to sell the business and assets of the company's
Industrial Seals Division to TI Group, plc., and to simultaneously purchase TI
Group's Belfab Division.

     (c) PROXY STATEMENT

EG&G's 1998 Proxy Statement, in definitive form, was filed electronically on
March 4, 1998, with the Securities and Exchange Commission in Washington, D.C.
pursuant to the Commission's Rule 14a-6.

                                      -43-






                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
                                  ON SCHEDULES

To EG&G, Inc.:

         We have audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards, the consolidated financial statements of EG&G, Inc. included in this
Form 10-K and have issued our report thereon dated January 20, 1998. Our audit
was made for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic financial statements
taken as a whole. Schedule II is the responsibility of the Company's management
and is presented for purposes of complying with the Securities and Exchange
Commission's rules and is not part of the basic financial statements. The
schedule has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audit of
the basic financial statements and, in our opinion, fairly states in all
material respects the financial data required to be set forth therein in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole.

/s/ Arthur Andersen LLP
- -----------------------
Arthur Andersen LLP
Boston, Massachusetts
January 20, 1998



                                      -44-







                                   SCHEDULE II

                           EG&G, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                        VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

                   FOR THE THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 28, 1997





                                      -45-






                    CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

As independent public accountants, we hereby consent to the incorporation by
reference of our reports dated January 20, 1998, included in this Form 10-K,
into Registration Statements previously filed by EG&G, Inc. on, respectively,
Form S-8, File No. 2-98168; Form S-8, File No. 33-36082; Form S-8, File No.
33-35379; Form S-8, File No. 33-49898; Form S-8, File No. 33-57606; Form S-8,
File No. 33-54785; Form S-8, File No. 33-62805; Form S-8, File No. 333-8811;
Form S-8, File No. 333-32059; Form S-8, File No. 333-32463 and Form S-3, File
No. 33-59675.

/s/Arthur Andersen LLP
- ----------------------
Arthur Andersen LLP
Boston, Massachusetts

March 23, 1998

                                POWER OF ATTORNEY

We, the undersigned officers and directors of EG&G, Inc., hereby severally
constitute John M. Kucharski, and Murray Gross, and each of them singly, our
true and lawful attorneys with full power to them, and each of them singly, to
sign for us and in our names, in the capacities indicated below, this Annual
Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments to said Annual Report on Form
10-K, and generally to do all such things in our name and behalf in our
capacities as officers and directors to enable EG&G, Inc. to comply with the
provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and all requirements of the
Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby rectifying and confirming signed by
our said attorneys, and any and all amendments thereto.

Witness our hands on the date set forth below.

                                   SIGNATURES

PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED ON ITS
BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED.

                                               EG&G, INC.


MARCH 23, 1998                                 BY: /s/ JOHN M. KUCHARSKI
                                               ---------------------------------
                                               JOHN M. KUCHARSKI
                                               CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD
                                               AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
                                               (PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER)

MARCH 23, 1998                                 BY: /s/ JOHN F. ALEXANDER, II
                                               ---------------------------------
                                               JOHN F. ALEXANDER, II
                                               SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF 
                                                FINANCIAL OFFICER
                                               (PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER)

MARCH 23, 1998                                 BY: /s/ WILLIAM J. RIBAUDO
                                               ---------------------------------
                                               WILLIAM J. RIBAUDO
                                               CORPORATE CONTROLLER
                                               (PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING OFFICER)


                                      -46-






PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS REPORT
HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE REGISTRANT AND
IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE DATE INDICATED:

BY: /s/ JOHN M. KUCHARSKI
    -----------------------------------
    JOHN M. KUCHARSKI, DIRECTOR
DATE: MARCH 23, 1998

BY: /s/ TAMARA J. ERICKSON
    -----------------------------------
    TAMARA J. ERICKSON, DIRECTOR
DATE: MARCH 12, 1998

BY: /s/ JOHN B. GRAY
    -----------------------------------
   JOHN B. GRAY, DIRECTOR
DATE: MARCH 23, 1998

BY: /s/ KENT F. HANSEN
    -----------------------------------
    KENT F. HANSEN, DIRECTOR
DATE: MARCH 12, 1998

BY: /s/ JOHN F. KEANE
    -----------------------------------
    JOHN F. KEANE, DIRECTOR
DATE: MARCH 11, 1998

BY: /s/ NICHOLAS A. LOPARDO
    -----------------------------------
    NICHOLAS A. LOPARDO, DIRECTOR
DATE: MARCH 11, 1998

BY: /s/ GRETA E. MARSHALL
    -----------------------------------
    GRETA E. MARSHALL, DIRECTOR
DATE: MARCH 12, 1998

BY: /s/ MICHAEL C. RUETTGERS
    -----------------------------------
    MICHAEL C. RUETTGERS, DIRECTOR
DATE: MARCH 23, 1998

BY: /s/ GREGORY L. SUMME
    -----------------------------------
    GREGORY L. SUMME, DIRECTOR
DATE: MARCH 23, 1998

BY: /s/ JOHN LARKIN THOMPSON
    -----------------------------------
    JOHN LARKIN THOMPSON, DIRECTOR
DATE: MARCH 23, 1998

BY: /s/ G. ROBERT TOD
    -----------------------------------
    G. ROBERT TOD, DIRECTOR
DATE: MARCH 23, 1998



                                      -47-





                                 EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit
Number                                   Exhibit Name
- -------                                  ------------


3.2               EG&G, Inc. By-Laws as amended and restated by the EG&G, Inc.
                  Board of Directors on December 17, 1997.

10.2              EG&G, Inc. Economic Value Added Plan as amended and restated
                  by the EG&G, Inc. Board of Directors on December 17, 1997.

10.4              Termination, Replacement and Restatement Agreement dated as of
                  March 6, 1998 among EG&G, Inc., the Lenders Named Herein and
                  The Chase Manhattan Bank (as successor to Chemical Bank) as
                  Administrative Agent.

10.5              Employment Contract between John F. Alexander, II and EG&G,
                  Inc.

21                Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

27                Financial Data Schedule.




                                      -48-






