
10-K405
EG&G, INC.



 
                                                                  1998 Form 10-K
 
[EG&G LOGO]
                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              WASHINGTON, DC 20549

                                ---------------
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
(MARK ONE)
 
[X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
     ACT OF 1934
 
For the fiscal year ended January 3, 1999
 
                                       OR
 
[ ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
For the transition period from  __________ to  __________
 
                         Commission file number 1-5075
             ------------------------------------------------------
 
                                   EG&G, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 

 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code (781) 237-5100
                                                   --------------
 
SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:
 

 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (g) of the Act:     NONE
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  x   No  _
 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.   [X]
 
The aggregate market value of the common stock, $1 par value, held by
nonaffiliates of the registrant on February 26, 1999, was $1,186,230,736.
 
As of February 26, 1999, there were outstanding, exclusive of treasury shares,
44,994,317 shares of common stock, $1 par value.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
PORTIONS OF EG&G, INC.'S PROXY STATEMENT FOR THE 1999
ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS.......PART III (Items 10, 11 and 12)

 
                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1.  BUSINESS
 
GENERAL BUSINESS DESCRIPTION
 
     EG&G, Inc. (hereinafter referred to as "EG&G", the "Company", or the
"Registrant", which terms include the Company's subsidiaries) is a global
technology company that designs, manufactures and markets optoelectronic,
mechanical and electromechanical components and instruments for manufacturers
and end-user customers. The Company's continuing operations are classified into
five operating segments: Life Sciences, Optoelectronics, Instruments, Engineered
Products, and Technical Services. EG&G sells its products in a wide variety of
markets, including the medical, telecom, aerospace, automotive, transportation,
bioanalytical, semiconductor, photographic and security markets. The Company
also delivers skilled support services to government and industrial customers.
In 1998 the Company had sales of $1.4 billion from continuing operations. The
Company was incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts in
1947.
 
RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
 
     In March 1999, the Company announced that it plans to acquire
Perkin-Elmer's Analytical Instruments Division, a leading producer of high
quality analytical testing instruments, for a purchase price of approximately
$425 million. The transaction is expected to close during the second quarter of
1999 and is subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory
approval. Perkin-Elmer Analytical Instruments generated 1998 fiscal year sales
of $569 million and its systems are widely used for various applications,
including among others, to achieve product uniformity in drugs and medicines,
ensure the purity of food and water, protect the environment, and to measure and
test the structural integrity of many different materials.
 
     The Company also announced in March 1999 that it will explore strategic
alternatives for its Technical Services segment and that it has engaged Goldman,
Sachs & Co. to conduct the review. In 1999, EG&G anticipates Technical Services
will have a sales level of approximately $450 million.
 
OPERATING SEGMENTS
 
     Set forth below is a brief summary of each of the Company's five operating
segments together with a description of certain of their more significant or
recently introduced products, services or operations.
 
  Life Sciences
 
     Through its Life Sciences segment, the Company designs, manufactures and
markets high-performance bioanalytic and diagnostic instrument systems for use
in hospitals, clinics and pharmaceutical and medical research facilities. These
instrument systems have applications in pharmaceutical development, high
throughput screening and clinical screening applications. The Company also sells
reagents and consumables for use in connection with certain of these systems.
Customers of the Life Sciences segment include large hospitals, medical
laboratories, the pharmaceutical industry and academic research facilities. In
1998, this segment had sales of $148 million, representing 11% of the Company's
total sales and 13% of the Company's operating profit before nonrecurring items
and "Divestitures and Other" (which for the purpose of this filing includes (i)
the results of operations from businesses which the Company has divested for the
respective period presented, (ii) the related gain, as applicable, on the
respective divestiture, (iii) certain allocations of corporate level expenses
and provisions of the Company and (iv) a contribution by the Company to its
charitable foundation for 1998.) The strategy of the Life Sciences segment is to
aggressively develop new products and applications by building on its core
technology base, expand direct market access by building its sales and field
support, and continue to penetrate emerging markets in
 

 
Latin America and Asia. The Life Sciences segment also plans to continue to seek
potential acquisition candidates in the bioanalytical research and clinical
diagnostic screening markets.
 
     Principal products of the Life Sciences segment include the AutoDELFIA(TM)
diagnostic system which employs fluorescence and luminescence technologies to
screen samples for a wide range of genetic diseases and other disorders. These
technologies do not involve the use of radioactive material, and thereby
minimize many sample transport and waste disposal concerns. The AutoDELFIA(TM)
diagnostic system is used for blood screening for thyroid dysfunction,
fertility-related disorders, fetal defects and diseases in newborns and the
detection of relapse in patients who have been treated for cancer.
 
     The Company's VICTOR(TM) multi-label counter is the world's first
bioanalytic assay instrument to combine luminescence, absorbance, fluorescence
and time-resolved fluorescence. The product is used in biotechnology and
pharmaceutical research instrumentation. EG&G Wallac recently launched
VICTOR(2)(TM), which is designed to support the future demands of clinical
diagnostics and research laboratories by accommodating a wide range of tests and
offering compatibility with other diagnostic tests currently used in clinical
laboratories.
 
     The Life Sciences segment offers its products under various names,
including Wallac and Berthold.
 
     In February 1998 the Company acquired Ohio-based Isolab, Inc., a company
specializing in the manufacture of instrument systems for clinical diagnostic
screening. In December 1998, the Company acquired Life Science Resources Ltd. of
Cambridge, United Kingdom, a leading developer and supplier of biotechnology,
biomedical and clinical research instrumentation using micro and macro imaging
technology.
 
  Optoelectronics
 
     Through its Optoelectronics segment, the Company offers a broad variety of
light sources, silicon-based sensor products, imaging technology and specially
designed component assemblies. The Optoelectronics segment's products include
micromachined sensors for use in medical and scientific applications, amorphous
silicon detector panels for X-ray imaging, flashlamps for use in photocopy and
reprographic equipment, specialty lighting, beacons, laser systems and flash
tubes used in light sourcing applications, CCD arrays for imaging products and
complex devices for weapons' trigger systems. Customers of the Optoelectronics
segment include Kodak, Litton, Philips, Lockheed Martin, Boeing and Siemens. In
1998, this segment had sales of $269 million, representing 19% of the Company's
total sales and 17% of the Company's operating profit before nonrecurring items
and Divestitures and Other. The strategy of the Optoelectronics segment is to
integrate recently acquired businesses, including Lumen Technologies, Inc.
discussed below, in a timely, cost-effective manner, continue to develop its
global sales organization, improve cost productivity through the implementation
of production enhancement methodologies, consolidate its wafer fabrication
operations and increase low-cost production at its Asian facilities.
 
     The Optoelectronics segment manufactures a variety of unique silicon-based
sensor products, including micromachined pressure transducers and
accelerometers, thermopiles and large-area photodetectors. The Optoelectronics
segment's product offerings include airbag accelerometers, pressure sensors,
flow-control products and an assortment of custom-designed sensors for specific
customers and applications, such as ear thermometers that instantly measure body
temperature. Optoelectronics sensors are used in automotive, medical, scientific
monitoring and other applications that demand durability, reliability and
precision in a variety of operating environments.
 
     The Company is developing an amorphous silicon detector for medical and
industrial imaging systems. These systems are being designed to provide
real-time images, eliminating the time-delay involved in developing film. The
Company believes that amorphous silicon technology will offer
 

 
larger, higher-quality imaging capabilities than are currently available with
conventional systems. The Company also believes that amorphous silicon
technology is more precise than existing electronic X-ray imaging techniques,
will be easier to maintain and operate, and will be less expensive. The Company
expects the amorphous silicon detector to replace bulky image intensifiers and
the film in conventional X-ray systems. In 1997, the Company obtained from G.E.
Medical Systems the exclusive right to manufacture amorphous silicon detectors
for use in high-end medical systems applications.
 
     This Optoelectronics segment offers its products under various names which
include Electro-Optics, Heimann Optoelectronics, IC Sensors, Reticon, Judson and
Vactec.
 
     In December 1998, the Company successfully completed its tender offer to
purchase shares of Lumen Technologies, Inc., a maker of high-tech specialty
light sources, for approximately $253 million in cash and assumed debt. The
Optoelectronics segment operates substantially all of the Lumen businesses,
including ILC Technology, ORC Technologies, and Wolfram Electric. Products
manufactured by Lumen include specialty discharge lamps for medical fiberoptic
illumination and cinema projection and stage and studio lighting. Lumen's
products are used in a variety of applications, including high-intensity
illumination systems and mini-systems that incorporate lamps, optics and
electronic systems in the medical, aerospace, entertainment, semiconductor and
military industries.
 
  Instruments
 
     Through its Instruments segment, the Company designs, manufactures and
markets products for detection, measurement and testing applications. These
products provide a wide range of measurement capabilities and options through
the use of high-speed signal processing and image enhancement and a broad
utilization of detector technologies. The products are used in medical
diagnostics, automotive durability, food monitoring, and airport, cargo and
industrial security applications. The Company's instruments include products
that feature the accurate generation, detection and measurement of various
segments of the electromagnetic spectrum. Customers of the Instruments segment
include the Federal Aviation Administration, major airlines, Hoechst, BASF, Los
Alamos National Engineering Laboratory, Lubrizol, General Motors and
Daimler-Chrysler. In 1998, this segment had sales of $247 million, representing
18% of the Company's total sales and 24% of the Company's operating profit
before nonrecurring items and Divestitures and Other. The strategy of the
Instruments segment is to broaden its product offerings in the photolithography
and food inspection applications, by both increasing sales in existing product
lines and by adding new product lines, and to grow its range of after-market
services offered to its existing customer base.
 
     Principal products of the Instruments segment include EG&G's PakScan(R)
food screening system, which is used in food processing and packaging plants.
PakScan's copyrighted intelligent software penetrates metallic pouches, vacuum
packaging, waxed paper cartons and plastic trays to monitor and detect foreign
objects in raw and processed food at various stages of production. The PakScan
system removes contaminated packages from production lines.
 
     EG&G's Z-Scan(R) luggage screening system can identify the chemical and
physical signatures of explosives and drugs with great accuracy and at speeds of
up to 1,200 bags per hour. In March 1998, EG&G Astrophysics received an order of
more than $3 million for its Z-Scan automatic explosives and contraband
detection systems to be installed at San Francisco International Airport. In
addition to Z-Scan, the Company's security-scanning products screen large cargo
shipments at airports and customs check points, as well as baggage and packages
in mail rooms, courthouses and schools.
 
     For the automobile, chemical additive and petroleum industries, the
Company's Instruments segment provides automobile durability, performance and
emissions testing, and tests fuels, lubricants and chemical additives. The
Company performs automobile durability and performance testing for all major
domestic, and a number of foreign, automobile manufacturers. Through a joint


 
venture with a subsidiary of Daimler-Chrysler the Company provides operational
services to the recently opened Daimler-Chrysler automotive test track in
Elmsland, Germany since 1997.
 
     The Instruments segment offers its products under various names which
include Astrophysics, ORTEC, Automotive Research and Structural Kinematics.
 
  Engineered Products
 
     Through its Engineered Products segment, the Company produces static and
dynamic seals, sealing systems, solenoid valves, bellows devices, advanced
pneumatic components, systems and valves and sheet metal-formed products for
market-leading OEMs and end users. Typical applications for these products are
in the aerospace, semiconductor and power generation equipment markets.
Customers of the Engineered Products segment include Boeing, AlliedSignal,
United Technologies, and Applied Materials. In 1998, this segment had sales of
$168 million, representing 12% of the Company's total sales and 15% of the
Company's operating profit before nonrecurring items and Divestitures and Other.
The strategy of the Engineered Products segment is to sell its existing
products, product extensions and product service capabilities in new markets
such as the aerospace aftermarket and the ground and aero turbine markets, and
leverage its existing strength in the aerospace market. In addition, the
Engineered Products segment plans to continue its efforts to improve and
streamline its manufacturing processes.
 
     The principal products of the Engineered Products segment include metal
bellows seals that hold the medication in pain reduction implants in patients,
valves that provide propulsion and directional control on major satellites and
bellows devices that safely contain dangerous dielectric fluids contained in
locomotive cooling systems. The Engineered Products segment's brush seals and
flexible, metallic C- and E-Seals(TM) minimize leakage and improve both
efficiency and fuel consumption in power generation engines.
 
     The Engineered Products segment recently developed a family of ultra-high
vacuum seals, called Alpha-C(R) and Beta-C(R) seals, for use in the increasingly
harsh environments in which semiconductor processing and vacuum equipment
operate. Integrating these seals into existing equipment to replace earlier
generations of seals enables manufacturers to upgrade their capabilities to meet
the demanding new requirements in these environments.
 
     The Engineered Products segment offers its products under various names,
including Pressure Science, Wright Components, KT Aerofab and Belfab.
 
     In April 1998, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets of the
Belfab Division of the TI Group, a Florida-based leading designer and
manufacturer of bellows devices for the semiconductor process industry. Belfab
supplies edge-welded bellows assemblies to semiconductor manufacturers for use
in wafer and equipment positioning devices within process tools, as well as
dynamic seals used in vacuum equipment. In November 1998, Belfab was awarded a
major three-year contract to supply welded bellows products and
electro-mechanical assemblies to Applied Materials, Inc. This contract
represents the single largest award for metal bellows products in the Company's
history.
 
  Technical Services
 
     Through its Technical Services segment, the Company provides engineering,
scientific, management and technical support services to a broad range of
governmental and industrial customers. The types of services provided and
relevant customers include: technical and support services and chemical weapons
disposal for the U.S. Department of Defense ("DoD"); seized-property
administration for the U.S. Customs Service and Internal Revenue Service;
consulting services for the U.S. Department of Transportation; science and
engineering services for a variety of customers such as the U.S. Department of
Energy (DOE), Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and the National Aeronautic and Space
Administration
 

 
(NASA); management services for the Greater Kelly Development Corporation in
connection with the privatization of Kelly Air Force Base in San Antonio, Texas;
physical security services for a variety of government agencies; operational and
support services for NASA and the U.S. Air Force and technical support in a
joint venture for the National Science Foundation in Antarctica. In 1998, this
segment had sales of $554 million, representing 39% of the Company's total sales
and 31% of the Company's operating profit before nonrecurring items and
Divestitures and Other. The strategy of the Technical Services segment is to
continue to develop its expertise in logistics management and privatization of
government facilities, partner with other qualified vendors on government
contracts, and deploy commercial practices designed to enhance quality and
performance in the public contracting sector.
 
     The Company now offers many of the services in this segment through its
EG&G Services division. In May 1998, EG&G Services was awarded a $113 million
contract from the U.S. Navy to provide technical and support services at the
Naval Surface Warfare Center, Crane, Indiana. In June of 1998, the U.S. Navy
awarded the Company additional support services work totaling $54 million.
 
     In March 1998, the Company began operating the first Defense Logistics
Agency (DLA) materials depot to be outsourced by DoD, located at Kelly Air Force
Base, San Antonio, Texas. In July 1998, EG&G Services, the U.S. Customs
Service's prime contractor for seized property management, was presented with
the "Large Business Partner of the Year Award" from the U.S. Treasury
Department.
 
     In September 1998, EG&G Services was awarded a contract that could total
approximately $40 million over five years to provide logistics and support
services for the U.S. Marine Corps' Advanced Amphibious Assault Vehicle, and a
separate contract that could total approximately $144 million over five years to
support the U.S. Navy's Fleet Technical Support Center.
 
     The Company is in the second year of a three-year contract with the Greater
Kelly Development Corporation to assist in the implementation of a redevelopment
plan for Kelly Air Force Base. The contract also has two three-year renewal
options at the discretion of the Greater Kelly Development Corporation to
provide additional activities related to the privatization of the base.
 
     In August 1998, the Company announced that its joint venture with Johnson
Controls was unsuccessful in its bid to provide support services to NASA and the
Air Force at Florida's Kennedy Space Center, Cape Canaveral Air Station and
Patrick Air Force Base.
 
     The Company's recent announcement regarding its decision to undertake a
strategic review of its Technical Services segment is discussed above under
"Recent Developments".
 
  Discontinued Operations
 
     The Company had provided services under management and operations contracts
to DOE and reports its former DOE Support segment as discontinued operations.
Three of these DOE contracts expired in 1995, and a fourth expired in 1997. The
Company is in the process of negotiating contract closeouts and does not
anticipate incurring any material loss in connection with such contracts in
excess of previously established reserves.
 
MARKETING
 
     Life Sciences, Optoelectronics, Instruments and Engineered Products, the
Company's four product-based operating segments, market their products and
services through their own specialized sales forces as well as through
independent foreign and domestic manufacturer representatives and distributors.
In certain foreign countries, these operating segments have entered into joint
venture and license agreements with local firms to manufacture and market their
products.
 
     The Company's Technical Services operating segment, which provides
technical and management support services to government and industrial
customers, focuses its marketing activities on
 

 
identifying and bidding on competitively bid procurements through its internal
business development staff. For certain procurements, this segment markets its
services through a joint venture or teaming arrangement with other qualified
vendors.
 
RAW MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
 
     Raw materials and supplies used by the Company are generally readily
available in adequate quantities from domestic and foreign sources. The Company
does not believe that the loss of any one raw material or source of supply would
have a materially adverse impact on the overall business of the Company or on
any of its operating segments.
 
PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS
 
     While the Company's patents, trademarks and licenses in the aggregate are
important to its business, the Company does not believe that the loss of any one
patent, trademark or license or group of related patents, trademarks or licenses
would have a materially adverse effect on the overall business of the Company or
on any of its operating segments. EG&G(R), as well as certain product names, are
registered trademarks of the Company.
 
BACKLOG
 
     At January 3, 1999, the Company's backlog of unfilled orders was
approximately $458 million, compared to $539 million at December 28, 1997. The
decrease was primarily due to divestitures and the expiration of the Company's
NASA contract. At January 3, 1999, approximately 34% of the backlog represented
orders received from U.S. government agencies, primarily in the Technical
Services segment. The Company estimates that 94% of its backlog as of January 3,
1999 will be billed during 1999. Because of possible changes in delivery
schedules, possible cancellation of orders and potential delays in product
shipments, the Company's backlog as of any particular date may not necessarily
be representative of actual sales for any succeeding period.
 
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS
 
     In accordance with government regulations, all of the Company's government
contracts are subject to termination for the convenience of the government.
Costs incurred under cost-reimbursable contracts are subject to audit by the
government. The results of prior audits, which have been completed through 1993,
have not had a material effect on the Company.
 
     CONTINUING OPERATIONS:  Sales to U.S. government agencies, which were
predominantly to the DoD and NASA, were $524 million, $537 million and $527
million in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. In August 1998, the Company
announced that its joint venture with Johnson Controls was unsuccessful in its
bid to provide support services to NASA and the Air Force at Florida's Kennedy
Space Center, Cape Canaveral Air Station and Patrick Air Force Base. The NASA
contract at the Kennedy Space Center contributed sales of $134 million in 1998,
$168 million in 1997 and $172 million in 1996. The Company recorded a charge of
$2.3 million in 1998 in connection with the closeout of this contract.
 
COMPETITION
 
     Because of the wide range of its products and services, the Company faces
many different types of competition and competitors. In many markets, the
Company faces strong competition, which affects its ability to sell its products
and services and the prices at which such products and services are sold.
Competitors range from large foreign and domestic organizations that produce a
comprehensive array of goods and services and that may have greater financial
and other resources than the Company, to small concerns producing a small number
of goods or services for specialized market segments.
 

 
     In the Life Sciences segment, the Company competes with manufacturers of
bioanalytical research devices and clinical diagnostic equipment. Size of the
competition ranges from large multinational companies with a broad range of
products to specialized firms that in some cases have well established positions
in their markets. The Company competes in these markets on the basis of
innovative technologies, product differentiation and quality. The continued
consolidation of competitors through acquisitions and mergers is expected to
increase the proportion of large competitors in this segment.
 
     In the Optoelectronics segment, the Company competes with specialized
manufacturing companies in the manufacture and sale of specialty flashtubes,
certain photodetectors and photodiodes, and switched power supplies. This
segment competes on the basis of price, technological innovation and operational
efficiency. With the addition of the Lumen businesses, the Company will face
additional competition based on product reliability and quality.
 
     In the Instruments segment, the Company competes with instrument companies
that serve narrow segments of markets in X-ray and magnetic security systems and
nuclear and industrial instrumentation. The Company competes in these markets
primarily on the basis of product performance, product reliability, service and
price. Competition for automotive testing services is primarily from a few
specialized testing companies and from customer-owned testing facilities, and is
primarily based on quality, service, and price.
 
     In the Engineered Products segment, competition is typically based on
product innovation, quality, service and price. No single competitor competes
directly with this segment across its full product range. In a few markets,
competitors are large organizations such as BTR Rexnord and Senior. Most of the
Company's competitors, however, are small specialized manufacturing companies
offering fewer product lines, such as Stein, Voss, Valve Research and Advanced
Products.
 
     Contracts in the Technical Services segment are typically won through
competition with a number of large and small contractors, many of which are as
large or larger than the Company and which, therefore, have resources and
capabilities that are comparable to or greater than those of the Company. The
primary bases for competition in these markets are technical and management
capabilities, current and past performance, and price.
 
     Within all operating segments of the Company, competition for governmental
purchases of both products and services is subject to mandated procurement
procedures and competitive bidding practices. The Company competes primarily on
the basis of product performance, technological innovation, service and price.
 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
 
     During 1998, 1997 and 1996, Company-sponsored research and development
expenditures were approximately $46 million, $44.9 million and $42.8 million,
respectively. These expenditures were incurred primarily in the Company's Life
Sciences and Optoelectronics operating segments.
 
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE
 
     The Company is conducting a number of environmental investigations and
remedial actions at current and former Company locations and, along with other
companies, has been named a potentially responsible party (PRP) for certain
waste disposal sites. The Company accrues for environmental issues in the
accounting period that the Company's responsibility is established and when the
cost can be reasonably estimated. The Company has accrued $9.5 million as of
January 3, 1999, representing management's estimate of the total cost of
ultimate disposition of known environmental matters. Such amount is not
discounted and does not reflect any recovery of any amounts through insurance or
indemnification arrangements. These cost estimates are subject to a number of
variables, including the stage of the environmental investigations, the
magnitude of the
 

 
possible contamination, the nature of the potential remedies, possible joint and
several liability, the timeframe over which remediation may occur and the
possible effects of changing laws and regulations. For sites where the Company
has been named a PRP, management does not currently anticipate any additional
liability to result from the inability of other significant named parties to
contribute. The Company expects that such accrued amounts could be paid out over
a period of up to five years. As assessments and remediation activities progress
at each individual site, these liabilities are reviewed and adjusted to reflect
additional information as it becomes available. There have been no environmental
problems to date that have had or are expected to have a material effect on the
Company's financial position or results of operations. While it is reasonably
possible that a material loss exceeding the amounts recorded may have been
incurred, the preliminary stages of the investigations make it impossible for
the Company to reasonably estimate the range of potential exposure.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
     As of March 1, 1999, the Company employed approximately 13,000 persons.
Certain of the Company's subsidiaries are parties to contracts with labor
unions. The Company considers its relations with employees to be satisfactory.
 

 
                 FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT OPERATING SEGMENTS
 
                SALES AND OPERATING PROFIT BY OPERATING SEGMENT
                    FOR THE FIVE YEARS ENDED JANUARY 3, 1999
 
     The Company's businesses are reported as five reportable segments, which
reflect the Company's management methodology and structure under five strategic
business units (SBUs). A brief summary of each of the Company's five business
segments is presented in Note 24 in the footnotes to the accompanying financial
statements. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those
described in the footnotes to the accompanying consolidated financial
statements. The Company evaluates performance based on operating profit of the
respective segments.
 
     Summarized financial information covering the Company's reportable segments
is shown in the table below. A detailed discussion of nonrecurring items as
defined herein and as footnoted below is presented in the Management's
Discussion and Analysis section of this document.
 

 
- ---------------
(1) The operating profit for 1998 reflected restructuring charges of $54.5
    million. The impact of these charges on each segment was as follows: Life
    Sciences -- $4.6 million, Optoelectronics -- $20.3 million,
    Instruments -- $11.3 million, Engineered Products -- $9.9 million, Technical
    Services -- $4.5 million and Divestitures and Other -- $3.9 million.
    Optoelectronics' 1998 operating loss included an in-process research and
    development charge of $2.3 million. Instruments' 1998 operating profit
    reflected a $7.4 million asset impairment charge. Engineered Products' 1998
    operating profit reflected integration costs of $0.6 million. Technical
    Services' 1998 operating profit reflected contract closeout costs of $2.3
    million. The 1998 operating profit
 

 
    for Divestitures and Other included gains on dispositions of $125.8 million
    and a charitable contribution of $3 million.
 
(2) The operating profit for 1997 reflected a $28.2 million asset impairment
    charge. The impact of this charge was $26.7 million on the Optoelectronics
    segment and $1.5 million on Divestitures and Other.
 
(3) The operating loss for 1994 included a goodwill write-down of $40.3 million
    and restructuring charges of $30.4 million. The impact of these nonrecurring
    charges on each segment was as follows: Life Sciences -- $0.3 million,
    Optoelectronics -- $9.7 million, Instruments -- $54.4 million, Engineered
    Products -- $2.3 million, Technical Services -- $1 million and Divestitures
    and Other -- $3 million.
 
     See Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements for additional
information on operating segments.
 
     Additional information relating to the Company's operations in the various
operating segments is as follows:
 

 

 
     Divestitures and Other total assets consisted primarily of cash and cash
equivalents, prepaid pension, prepaid taxes and, in 1997, receivables and
inventories of operations divested in 1998.
 

 
FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT GEOGRAPHIC AREAS
 
     The following geographic area information includes sales based on location
of external customer and net property, plant and equipment based on physical
location:
 

 

 
ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES
 
     As of March 1, 1999, the Company occupied approximately 7,842,200 square
feet of building area, of which approximately 1,696,200 square feet is owned by
the Company. The balance is leased. The Company's headquarters occupies 53,350
square feet of leased space in Wellesley, Massachusetts. The Company's other
operations are conducted in manufacturing and assembly plants, research
laboratories, administrative offices and other facilities located in 27 states,
Washington, D.C., Puerto Rico and 23 foreign countries.
 
     Non-U.S. facilities account for approximately 970,200 square feet of owned
and leased property, or approximately 12% of the Company's total occupied space.
 
     The Company's leases on property are both short-term and long-term. In
management's opinion, the Company's properties are well-maintained and are
adequate for its present requirements.
 
     Except for operations based on government facilities, substantially all of
the machinery and equipment used by the Company is owned by the Company and the
balance is leased or furnished by contractors or customers.
 
     The following table indicates the approximate square footage of real
property owned and leased attributable to each of the Company's industry
segments.
 

 

 
ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
     The Company is subject to various claims and legal proceedings covering a
wide range of matters that arise in the ordinary course of its business
activities. Each of these matters is subject to various uncertainties, and it is
possible that some of these matters may be resolved unfavorably to the Company.
The Company has established accruals for matters that are probable and
reasonably estimable. Management believes that any liability that may ultimately
result from the resolution of these matters in excess of amounts provided will
not have a material adverse effect on the financial position or results of
operations of the Company.
 
     The Company has received notices from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS)
asserting deficiencies in federal corporate income taxes for the Company's 1985
to 1994 tax years. The total additional tax proposed by the IRS amounts to $74
million plus interest. The Company has filed petitions in the United States Tax
Court to challenge most of the deficiencies asserted by the IRS. The Company
believes that it has meritorious legal defenses to those deficiencies and
believes that the ultimate outcome of the case will not result in a material
impact on the Company's consolidated results of operations or financial
position.
 
     The Company and its subsidiary, EG&G Idaho, Inc., were named as defendants
in a lawsuit filed in the United States District Court for the District of Idaho
and served in November 1998. The suit was filed under the Civil False Claims Act
by two former employees of EG&G Idaho, and names as defendants nine entities
which were formerly, or currently are, prime or subcontractors to the Department
of Energy at the Idaho National Engineering and Environmental Laboratory. The
suit alleges that the defendants submitted false claims to the government for
reimbursement of environmental activities which they knew or should have known
were improperly performed or not performed at all. The damages claimed have not
been quantified by the plaintiffs. The Company intends to defend itself
vigorously in this matter and believes that its ultimate disposition will not
have a material impact on the Company's consolidated results of operations or
financial position.
 
ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
     Not applicable.
 

 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
     Listed below are the executive officers of the Company as of March 1, 1999.
No family relationship exists between any of the officers.
 

 
     Mr. Kucharski joined the Company in 1972. He was elected a Vice President
in 1979, a Senior Vice President in 1982, an Executive Vice President in 1985,
and President and Chief Operating Officer in 1986. Mr. Kucharski served as Chief
Executive Officer from 1987 through 1998, and has been Chairman of the Board of
Directors since 1988.
 
     Mr. Summe joined the Company in 1998 as President and Chief Operating
Officer, and was elected President and Chief Executive Officer in December 1998.
Until late 1997, he was President of AlliedSignal's Automotive Products Group.
AlliedSignal Inc. is a $15 billion multi-product company, which has operations
in aerospace, automotive and engineered materials businesses. Prior to being
appointed President of AlliedSignal's Automotive Products Group in 1997, Mr.
Summe served as President of AlliedSignal's Aerospace Engines from 1995 to 1997
and as President of AlliedSignal's General Aviation Avionics from 1993 to 1995.
 
     Mr. Friel joined the Company in 1999 as Senior Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer. From 1997 to 1999 he was Corporate Vice President and
Treasurer of AlliedSignal Inc. Prior to that he was Vice President, Finance and
Administration of AlliedSignal Engines from 1992 to 1996.
 
     Mr. Gross joined the Company in 1971. He was elected Assistant General
Counsel and Assistant Clerk in 1978, Vice President, General Counsel and Clerk
in 1990, and Senior Vice President in 1996.
 
     Mr. Castellana joined the Company in 1965. He was elected a Vice President
in 1991 and a Senior Vice President in 1997 and serves as a principal executive
in the Office of the Chief Executive Officer, overseeing the Optoelectronics and
Instruments operating segments.
 
     Mr. Walsh joined the Company in July 1998 as Senior Vice President of Human
Resources. From 1989 to 1998, he served as Senior Vice President of Human
Resources of ABB Americas, Inc., the U.S. based subsidiary of an international
engineering company.
 
     Mr. Barrett serves as Vice President of the Company and President of the
Engineered Products Strategic Business Unit, positions he has held since January
1997 and May 1998, respectively. From 1990 to 1997, he served as President and
General Manager of EG&G Pressure Science, Inc.
 
     Mr. DeFalco serves as Vice President of Strategic Planning and Business
Development of the Company, a position he has held since September 1998. From
1996 to 1998, he worked at United
 

 
Technologies, a provider of technology related products and services, as
Director of Strategic Planning and subsequently at their subsidiary Carrier
Corporation as the Vice President of Strategic Planning. From 1988 to 1996, he
served with McKinsey & Co., a consulting company, most recently as Senior
Engagement Manager, assisting high technology companies in the development of
business strategies.
 
     Mr. Johnson serves as Vice President of the Company and President of the
Technical Services Strategic Business Unit, positions he has held since 1998.
Prior to 1998, he served as Chief Operating Officer of the Credit Union National
Association (a national affiliation of credit unions) from 1997 to 1998, as
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Greater Kelly Development
Corporation (a quasi-public agency established to oversee the privatization of
Kelly Air Force Base, San Antonio, Texas) from 1995 to 1997, and as Vice
Chairman of the Board of Directors of USAA Capital Corporation (a provider of
diversified financial services) from 1993 to 1995.
 
     Mr. Klemets is Vice President of the Company and President of the Life
Sciences Segment Business Unit, positions he has held since May 1998. From 1991
to 1998, he served as Managing Director of Wallac Oy, a subsidiary of the
Company. Mr. Klemets is a citizen of Finland.
 
     Ms. Lorenz joined the Company in 1990. She was elected a Vice President in
1992 and is responsible for Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.
 
     Mr. Heaney joined the Company in 1980, serving as Manager of Financial
Analysis, Controller of the Technical Services segment from 1989 to 1994 and
Director of Economic Value Added Implementation from 1994 to 1995. He was
elected Treasurer in 1995.
 
     Mr. Perry joined the Company in September 1998 as Controller. From 1997 to
1998, he served as Chief Financial Officer of AlliedSignal's Automotive Products
Group and as Chief Financial Officer of AlliedSignal's Fram and Autolite Units.
Prior to 1997, he served as Vice President, Finance of GE Medical Systems Europe
from 1994 to 1997, and served as Manager in charge of business development for
GE Motors from 1991 to 1994.
 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
 
MARKET PRICE OF COMMON STOCK
 

 

 
DIVIDENDS
 

 

 

 
     The Company's common stock is listed and traded on the New York Stock
Exchange. The number of holders of record of the Company's common stock as of
February 26, 1999, was approximately 9,400.
 
     In October 1998, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a regular
quarterly cash dividend of fourteen cents per share of common stock. The
quarterly cash dividend was paid on February 6, 1999, to stockholders of record
at the close of business on January 22, 1999.
 
ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
                         SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
                    FOR THE FIVE YEARS ENDED JANUARY 3, 1999
 

 

 

 
- ---------------
(1) Included net nonrecurring income items totaling $55.7 million, $37.8 million
    after-tax ($.83 basic earnings per share, $.82 diluted earnings per share);
    nonrecurring items as defined herein and as discussed in the accompanying
    consolidated financial statements and related footnotes are more fully
    discussed in the Management's Discussion and Analysis section of the Annual
    Report on Form 10-K.
 
(2) Included the nonrecurring items in Note 1 above and an investment gain of
    $4.3 million, $2.7 million after-tax ($.06 basic and diluted per share).
 
(3) Return on equity before effects of nonrecurring items was 17.9%.
 
(4) Reflected an asset impairment charge of $28.2 million, $23.5 million
    after-tax ($.51 basic and diluted loss per share).
 
(5) Reflected the asset impairment charge in Note 4 above and a cost of capital
    reimbursement of $3.4 million, $2.3 million after-tax ($.05 basic and
    diluted earnings per share).
 
(6) Return on equity before effects of nonrecurring items was 15.4%.
 
(7) Included a goodwill write-down of $40.3 million and restructuring charges of
    $30.4 million, $64 million after-tax ($1.16 basic and diluted loss per
    share).
 
(8) Included the nonrecurring items in Note 7 above and an investment write-down
    of $2.1 million, $1.4 million after-tax ($.03 basic and diluted loss per
    share).
 
(9) Return on equity before effects of nonrecurring items was 12.1%.
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND
        FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
OVERVIEW
 
     During 1998, the Company implemented various initiatives for sustainable
profitability and earnings per share growth. The Company achieved important
milestones to restructure and rebalance its portfolio into 1999 and beyond. The
Company divested certain non-core operations during the year and utilized the
proceeds to accelerate certain consolidation programs, and completed four
strategic acquisitions.
 
     Acquisitions in early 1998 included Isolab in our Life Sciences segment and
Belfab in our Engineered Products segment. The Company accelerated its growth
initiative with fourth quarter 1998 acquisitions of Lumen Technologies, Inc.
(Lumen) and Life Sciences Resources, Ltd. (LSR) in our Optoelectronics and Life
Sciences segments, respectively. On December 16, 1998, the Company completed its
acquisition of Lumen, a maker of high-technology specialty light sources, at a
purchase price of approximately $253 million, including approximately $75
million of assumed debt. Lumen will be reported primarily as a component of the
Company's Optoelectronics segment. Also in December, 1998, the Company acquired
LSR, a developer of biotechnology, biomedical and clinical research
instrumentation, at a purchase price of approximately $11 million. LSR will be
reported in the Life Sciences segment of the Company. Due to the timing of the
transactions, the financial results of Lumen and LSR were not material to the
Company's consolidated results of operations for 1998.
 

 
     Base operations results of operations exclude certain nonrecurring items
which are presented in the table below. Reference to nonrecurring items herein
relates to the items presented below.
 
     A reconciliation of reported operating income to base operating income
results for 1998 compared to 1997 is as follows:
 

 
     In March, 1999, the Company announced that it had entered into an agreement
to acquire Perkin-Elmer's Analytical Instruments Division, a leading producer of
high quality analytical testing instruments, for a purchase price of
approximately $425 million. The Company plans to finance the transaction with a
combination of existing cash and equivalents, borrowings under its existing
credit facilities and other financing, as required. The closing of the
acquisition is subject to certain customary closing conditions including
regulatory approval. The transaction is expected to close during the second
quarter of 1999. Perkin-Elmer Analytical Instruments generated 1998 fiscal year
sales of $569 million. Its systems are widely used to achieve product uniformity
in drugs and medicines, ensure the purity of food and water, protect the
environment, measure and test the structural integrity of many different
materials and various other applications. The division sells to traditional
analytical instruments and life sciences markets. The Company also announced
that it will explore strategic alternatives for its Technical Services business
unit and has engaged Goldman, Sachs & Co. to conduct the review. In 1999, EG&G
anticipates Technical Services will have a sales level of approximately $450
million.
 
DISCUSSION OF CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS -- 1998 COMPARED TO 1997
 
     Sales, excluding the effect of divested operations of $22.7 million and
$175.4 million in 1998 and 1997, respectively, increased 8% in 1998 versus 1997.
Reported sales decreased $52.9 million, or 4%, in 1998 compared to 1997 due
primarily to the absence of revenues from divested operations and lower revenues
from the Company's NASA contract which expired at the end of the third quarter
of 1998. Decreases in revenues from divested operations and the Company's NASA
contract were $152.8 million and $37.5 million, respectively, and were offset by
increases in base sales, excluding 1998 acquisitions, of approximately $113.6
million.
 
     1998 results included an in-process research and development charge of $2.3
million related to the fourth quarter acquisitions of Lumen and LSR and also
included contract closeout costs of $2.3 million in Technical Services related
to the termination of the Kennedy Space Center Contract. Restructuring charges
recorded during 1998 were $54.5 million. The impact of these charges on each
segment was as follows: Life Sciences-$4.6 million, Optoelectronics-$20.3
million, Instruments-$11.3 million, Engineered Products-$9.9 million, Technical
Services-$4.5 million, and Divestitures and Other-$3.9 million. Also included in
1998 operating income was a $7.4 million asset impairment charge related to the
Instruments segment and a $3 million charitable contribution recorded in
selling, general and administrative expenses. Gains of $125.8 million on
dispositions of businesses were included in 1998 operating income in
Divestitures and Other. Beginning in 1998, the Company began reporting on the
basis of five business segments in accordance with the
 

 
requirements of SFAS No. 131. The prior period results herein have been
reclassed between segments for comparability and the basis of presentation has
been revised to conform to the 1998 format.
 
     The operating income from continuing operations in 1997 included an asset
impairment charge of $28.2 million. The impact of this charge was $26.7 million
in the Optoelectronics segment and $1.5 million in Divestitures and Other.
 
     Base operating income excludes certain nonrecurring items which are
discussed herein and a summary of the respective 1998 nonrecurring items is as
follows:
 

 
     Reported operating income from continuing operations for 1998 was $155.5
million, an increase of 161% from 1997. Base operating income of $97.6 million
increased 58% compared to 1997 due primarily to higher gross profit across most
businesses. A reconciliation of reported operating income in 1998 and 1997
versus base operating income is presented in the preceding table in the Overview
section of Management's Discussion and Analysis. Discussion of segment results
of operations during 1998 versus 1997 is presented below.
 
DISCUSSION OF CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS -- 1997 COMPARED TO 1996
 
     Sales from continuing operations increased 2% in 1997 compared to 1996.
Excluding the effects of currency translation and results of divested
operations, sales increased 5%. Operating income from continuing operations was
$59.6 million in 1997 and included a $28.2 million non-cash asset impairment
charge, primarily associated with the IC Sensors business. The after-tax effect
of this charge was $23.5 million ($.51 loss per share). Excluding the asset
impairment charge, operating income in 1997 was $87.8 million, approximately
equal to the prior year. The 1997 operating income included gains of $10.6
million from the divestitures of businesses. These gains were offset by $11.1
million of planned integration and other costs consisting of $8.3 million
incurred in connection with the consolidation, integration and restructuring
initiatives and a charge of $2.8 million resulting from a cash deficit in an
employee benefit plan. The gains and costs were included in selling, general and
administrative expenses. Research and development expenses were $44.9 million in
1997, an increase of $2.1 million over 1996.
 
SEGMENT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
     The Company's businesses are reported as five reportable segments, which
reflect the Company's management methodology and structure under five SBUs as
discussed above. A brief summary of each of the Company's five business segments
is presented in Note 24 in the footnotes to the accompanying consolidated
financial statements. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as
those described in the footnotes to the accompanying consolidated financial
statements. The Company evaluates performance based on operating profit of the
respective segments. The discussion that
 

 
follows is a summary analysis of the primary changes in operating results by
segment for 1998 versus 1997 and 1997 versus 1996.
 
  Life Sciences
 
     1998 Compared to 1997
 
     Sales for 1998 were $148.1 million compared to $125.4 million for 1997,
which represents a $22.7 million, or 18%, increase. Higher sales volumes from
certain base businesses, revenues from recently developed products and the
Isolab acquisition revenues of $6.5 million were the primary reasons for the
increase during 1998. The higher volumes during 1998 primarily related to the
diagnostic and bioanalytical business.
 
     Reported operating profit for 1998 was $9.0 million compared to $10.1
million for 1997 which represents a $1.1 million, or 11%, decrease.
Restructuring charges of $4.6 million recorded in the first half of fiscal 1998
contributed to this decrease. 1998 base operating profit was $13.7 million
compared to $10.3 million for 1997, which represents a $3.4 million, or 33%,
increase. The increase was due primarily to the higher revenues discussed above
and improved gross margins from most businesses resulting from a more favorable
product mix.
 
     1997 Compared to 1996
 
     Sales for 1997 were $125.4 million which represented a $13.6 million, or
12%, increase compared to the prior year. The increase was mainly due to sales
of a new medical research instrument and consumables related to the placement of
an increasing number of diagnostic instruments. These increases were partially
offset by government funded research revenue decreases and delays in certain
product improvements.
 
     Base operating income increased 54% versus the prior year to $10.3 million
for 1997. Higher sales discussed above contributed to the increase combined with
the effects of increased profitability from an enhanced product offering and an
improved sales mix.
 
  Optoelectronics
 
     1998 Compared to 1997
 
     Sales for 1998 were $268.6 million compared to $261.3 million for 1997,
which represents a $7.3 million, or 3%, increase. Slight increases in sales
across most businesses were partially offset by lower 1998 printer circuit board
assembly sales versus 1997.
 
     Reported operating loss for 1998 was $5.5 million compared to a loss of
$23.1 million for 1997 which represents an increase of $17.6 million, or 76%.
Restructuring charges of $20.3 million were recorded in the first half of fiscal
1998 and a fourth quarter charge of $2.3 million was recorded for an in-process
research and development charge related to the Lumen acquisition; each
contributed to the 1998 operating loss. 1998 base operating profit was $17.2
million compared to $5.3 million for 1997, which represents an $11.9 million, or
225%, increase. Higher gross margins across most businesses, favorable product
mix, and various operational improvement initiatives to lower production costs
were the primary contributors to this increase.
 
     1997 Compared to 1996
 
     Sales decreased $8.2 million due to loss of market share to a competitor's
lower cost automotive accelerometers, the effects of currency translation and
the completion of contracts in 1996 in the camera and power supplies businesses.
These decreases were partially offset by the sales resulting from the
introduction of new thermopile products. The $30.3 million decrease in reported
income resulted primarily from the noncash asset impairment charge of $26.7
million.
 

 
Excluding the impairment charge, operating income decreased $3.6 million as a
result of lower sales, higher operating losses at IC Sensors and higher
development costs for the advanced micromachined sensors technology. The 1997
cost of the development effort for the amorphous silicon project continued at
the $4.5 million level, while the development effort for the advanced
micromachined sensor technology cost $5.3 million.
 
  Instruments
 
     1998 Compared to 1997
 
     Sales for 1998 were $247.4 million compared to $236.8 million for 1997,
which represents a $10.6 million, or 4%, increase. This was due primarily to the
effects of a $4.5 million increase in automotive business revenues and $4
million of royalty and licensing fees from a multi-year agreement consummated in
the fourth quarter of 1998. These increases were partially offset by a 6%
decrease in 1998 X-Ray revenues due to an overall softening in the security
markets. Delays of certain international shipments during the fourth quarter of
1998 also contributed to lower 1998 sales.
 
     Reported operating profit for 1998 was $6.7 million compared to $18.0
million for 1997, which represents a decrease of $11.3 million, or 63%.
Restructuring charges of $11.3 million and an asset impairment charge of $7.4
million were recorded in the first half of 1998 and contributed to this
decrease. 1998 base operating profit was $25.3 million compared to $20.6 million
for 1997 which represents a $4.7 million, or 23%, increase. Base operating
income in 1998 increased versus 1997 due primarily to the royalty and licensing
fees, which contributed $3.1 million to operating income, and a $2 million
refund of sales and use taxes which were offset in part by customer contract
provisions.
 
     1997 Compared to 1996
 
     Instruments sales decreased $6.7 million, and operating income decreased $8
million. The Instruments results included a $3.4 million net reduction in patent
infringement costs. This increase was offset by restructuring and integration
costs of $2.7 million and the absence of income ($1.1 million) from the
expiration of a grant liability in 1996, start-up costs, price reductions due to
continued competitive pressure on conventional explosives-detection systems and
lower sales experienced by some businesses.
 
  Engineered Products
 
     1998 Compared to 1997
 
     Sales for 1998 were $167.6 million compared to $127.1 million for 1997,
which represents a $40.5 million, or 32%, increase. Modest strength in the
Company's aerospace business partially contributed to the increase and was
offset in part by continued declining sales from the semiconductor business. The
Belfab acquisition completed in the second quarter contributed $17.2 million
while most other segment businesses recorded higher 1998 sales compared to 1997.
Excluding the acquisition, revenues in 1998 increased approximately 18% compared
to 1997.
 
     Reported operating profit for 1998 was $5.2 million compared to $8.8
million for 1997 which represents a decrease of $3.6 million, or 41%.
Restructuring charges of $9.9 million recorded in the first half of 1998 and
$0.6 million of integration costs recorded in the third quarter of 1998
contributed to this decrease. 1998 base operating profit was $15.7 million
compared to $9.3 million for 1997, which represents an increase of $6.4 million,
or 69%. Higher gross margins driven primarily by higher sales levels and certain
manufacturing cost improvements across most businesses within the segment
contributed to this increase. Belfab did not contribute to operating profit
during 1998.
 

 
     1997 Compared to 1996
 
     Sales increased $14.3 million, or 13%, due to higher demand for aerospace
products, reflecting continued strength in that market. Operating income
increased $3.6 million as the result of income on higher sales and improved
contract margins. These increases were partially offset by costs associated with
the consolidation and relocation of manufacturing facilities and warranty costs.
 
  Technical Services
 
     1998 Compared to 1997
 
     Sales for 1998 were $553.5 million compared to $533.3 million for 1997,
which represents a $20.2 million, or 4%, increase. At the end of the third
quarter of 1998, the Company announced that its joint venture with Johnson
Controls was unsuccessful in its bid to provide support services to NASA and the
U.S. Air Force at Florida's Kennedy Space Center, Cape Canaveral and Patrick Air
Force Base (the "Florida contract"). The Florida contract contributed sales of
approximately $134 million and $168 million in 1998 and 1997, respectively. The
overall increase in 1998 sales versus 1997 was due primarily to privatization
sector contributions, and increased sales for the Defense Materials and Services
units, offset by lower fourth quarter 1998 sales as a result of the loss of the
Florida contract.
 
     Reported operating profit for 1998 was $24.9 million compared to $22.8
million for 1997, which represents a $2.1 million, or 9.2%, increase.
Restructuring charges of $4.5 million were recorded in the first half of fiscal
1998 and $2.3 million of contract closeout costs were recorded in the third
quarter of 1998. 1998 base operating profit was $31.7 million compared to $23.5
million for 1997, which represents a $8.2 million, or 35%, increase. The
increase in operating profit was due primarily to higher revenues discussed
above and improved gross margins from most businesses. This revenue increase was
due primarily to higher base sales levels discussed above, improved grades on
the chemical weapons disposal contract and the shutdown of an environmental
services business which incurred a 1997 loss. Base operating profit as a
percentage of sales increased due in part to the loss of the Florida contract, a
low margin contributor.
 
     1997 Compared to 1996
 
     Sales increased $34.4 million (7%), primarily reflecting final shipments
under a contract for the development and installation of communication systems
and higher billings under government contracts. Base operating income in 1997
increased 1% compared to the prior year.
 
RESTRUCTURING AND INTEGRATION CHARGES
 
     The Company developed restructuring plans during 1998 to integrate and
consolidate its businesses. The Company recorded restructuring charges in the
first and second quarters of 1998, which are discussed separately below. These
restructuring plans were points in the continuing transformation of the Company
that began in 1994 and continued into 1998 with the addition of new leadership
and new management, changes in the organization of the businesses and the
realignment and consolidation of operations. Further details of the actions are
presented below.
 
     In connection with the Company's continued transformation of its portfolio
of companies, during the first quarter of 1998, management developed a plan to
restructure certain businesses. A discussion of the businesses affected within
each segment is presented below. The plan resulted in pre-tax restructuring
charges totaling $31.4 million. The principal actions in the restructuring plan
include close-down or consolidation of a number of offices and facilities,
transfer of assembly activities to lower cost geographic locations, disposal of
underutilized assets, withdrawal from
 

 
certain product lines and general cost reductions. The restructuring charges
were broken down as follows by operating segment:
 

 
     The headcount reduction, by function, resulting in the Employee Separation
Costs detailed above is as follows:
 

 
     Further details of the actions are presented below. Specific businesses
within each segment which were affected by the restructuring actions are as
follows: The Engineered Products business affected primarily manufactures
mechanical components and systems. The Optoelectronics businesses affected
produce various lighting and sensor components and systems. The Instruments
restructuring relates primarily to its X-ray imaging business which produces
security screening equipment, as well as its Instruments for Research and
Applied Science business which produces particle detector equipment.
 
          Close-down of certain facilities: Costs have been accrued for the
     closing down of facilities. These costs relate to the affected businesses
     discussed above within the Engineered Products and Optoelectronics
     segments.
 
          Transfer of assembly activities: The Company plans to relocate certain
     activities, primarily in its Optoelectronics segment, to lower cost
     geographic areas such as Indonesia and China. The costs included in the
     restructuring charges relate to costs associated with exiting the previous
     operations. Actual costs to physically relocate are charged to operations
     as incurred.
 
          Disposal of underutilized assets: The Company plans to dispose of
     underutilized assets either through sale or abandonment, primarily in its
     Instruments and Optoelectronics segments.
 
          Withdrawal from certain product lines: The Company has made a
     strategic decision to discontinue certain unprofitable product-lines
     discussed above, primarily in its Instruments and Optoelectronics segments.
 
     During the second quarter of 1998, the Company expanded its continuing
effort to restructure certain businesses to further improve performance. The
plan resulted in additional pre-tax restructuring charges of $23.1 million. The
principal actions in this restructuring plan included the
 

 
integration of current operating divisions into five strategic business units,
close-down or consolidation of a number of production facilities and general
cost reductions. Details are provided following the table presented below.
 
     The restructuring charges were broken down as follows by operating segment:
 

 
     The headcount reduction, by function, resulting in the Employee Separation
Costs detailed above is as follows:
 

 
     Integration of Current Operating Divisions and Consolidation of Certain
Production Facilities
 
     As part of the Company's second quarter restructuring plan, management
reorganized its current operating divisions into five strategic business units
(SBUs). This resulted in termination of employees as well as the integration and
consolidation of certain facilities and product lines. This effort is
company-wide and affects all five SBUs. The major components within the
Optoelectronics plan consisted of a development program and the closing of two
wafer fab production facilities.
 
     The total restructuring charges in 1998 included $10.3 million for
termination of leases and other contractual obligations. This amount includes
approximately $7.0 million for termination of facility leases and other
lease-related costs, $1.5 million for termination of distributor arrangements
and $1.8 million for various other commitments. The facility leases have
remaining terms ranging from six months to five years. The amount accrued
reflects the Company's best estimate of actual costs to buy out the leases in
certain cases or the net cost to sublease the properties in other cases.
 
     Approximately 300 employees of the total of 900 employees expected to be
terminated as part of the two restructuring plans had been severed as of January
3, 1999. The plans will be mainly implemented by the segments by mid-1999,
except for the SBU consolidation, which will occur by the end of 1999. Cash
outlays, primarily for employee separation costs, were $10.2 million in 1998.
The Company expects to incur approximately $32 million of cash outlays in
connection with its restructuring plans throughout 1999. These funds will come
primarily from operating cash flows or borrowings from existing credit
facilities. Pre-tax cost savings under these restructuring plans, due primarily
to reduced depreciation and lower employment costs, totaled approximately $6.8
million during 1998, or $.09 per share. Fiscal year 2000 will reflect a full
year's savings from the restructuring plans, and pre-tax annual savings are
anticipated to be approximately $24 million, or $.33 per share.
 
     In 1997, as part of a plan to reposition its operations, the Company
recorded $8.3 million of integration costs which included $4.9 million related
to employee separation costs and $3.4 million
 

 
related to its consolidation effort. These costs were included in selling,
general and administrative expenses.
 
     The components of the restructuring charges met the criteria set forth in
Emerging Issues and Task Force Issue (EITF) 94-3, Liability Recognition for
Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity
(including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring). The charges do not
include additional costs associated with the restructuring plans, such as
training, consulting, purchase of equipment and relocation of employees and
equipment. These costs will be charged to operations or capitalized, as
appropriate, when incurred.
 
ASSET IMPAIRMENT CHARGES
 
     During the second quarter of 1998, the Company recorded a $7.4 million
noncash impairment charge related to a light truck testing facility that is part
of the Instruments segment. The impairment charge resulted from projected
changes in the principal customer's demand for future services. The charge
applied to fixed assets and will reduce future depreciation by approximately
$1.4 million annually.
 
     During the second quarter of 1997, the Company recorded a noncash
impairment charge of $28.2 million, with $26.7 million related to IC Sensors in
the Optoelectronics segments and $1.5 million related to the goodwill of an
environmental services business in Divestitures and Other. As a result of IC
Sensors' inability to achieve the improvements specified in its corrective
action plan, it continued operating at a loss in the second quarter of 1997,
triggering an impairment review of its long-lived assets. The Company developed
a revised operating plan to restructure and stabilize the business. The revised
projections by product line provided the basis for measurement of the asset
impairment charge. The Company calculated the present value of expected cash
flows of IC Sensors' product lines to determine the fair value of the assets.
Accordingly, in the second quarter of 1997, the Company recorded an impairment
charge of $26.7 million, for the write-down of goodwill of $13.6 million and
fixed assets of $13.1 million. The components of the revised operating plan
included hiring a new general manager, transferring assembly and test operations
to a lower cost environment (Batam, Indonesia), introducing new products and
reviewing manufacturing processes to improve production yields. All of these
components were implemented during 1997 and 1998.
 
DIVESTITURES AND OTHER
 
     In January 1998, the Company sold its Rotron business unit for proceeds of
$103 million. In April 1998, the Company sold its Sealol Industrial Seals
operation for proceeds of $100 million, of which $45 million was utilized for
the Belfab acquisition. The Company realized gains of $125.8 million on the
dispositions.
 
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
 
     Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, in 1997 reflected
the results of the Mound contract for the Department of Energy (DOE), which
expired in September 1997. All contracts with the DOE are now completed.
 
OTHER
 
  1998 Compared to 1997
 
     Other income was $0.6 million for 1998 versus other expense reported in
1997 of $5.6 million. This net decrease of $6.2 million in other expense in 1998
was due primarily to the impact of higher interest income on increased cash
balances resulting from the 1998 dispositions and lower interest expense on
reduced debt levels during most of 1998. Included in 1998 other income was a
$4.3 million gain on investment. Other expense in 1997 included income of $3.4
million for a cost of
 

 
capital reimbursement. The 1998 effective tax rate of 34.6% was impacted by the
tax consequences of the gains on dispositions and restructuring charges.
Excluding these items and their related tax effects, the 1998 effective tax rate
was higher than the 1997 base effective tax rate of 34.1%, due primarily to the
changes in the geographical distribution of income resulting from the
divestiture of the Sealol Industrial Seals business unit.
 
  1997 Compared to 1996
 
     The $1.7 million net decrease in other expense was mainly due to a $3.4
million reimbursement relating to a joint development program, which was
partially offset by lower interest income. The 1997 effective tax rate of 43.3%
before nonrecurring items was significantly affected by the non-deductible
goodwill write-down of IC Sensors and the Environmental Services divisions.
Excluding the impairment charge, the effective tax rate for 1997 was 34.1%
compared to 32.2% in 1996. The increase in the rate was primarily due to changes
in the geographical distribution of income.
 
FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
     In March 1999, two of the Company's $100 million credit facilities were
renewed and increased to a $250 million credit facility that expires in March
2000. The Company has an additional revolving credit agreement for $100 million
that expires in March 2002. The Company had no borrowings outstanding under its
credit facilities at the end of fiscal 1998. These facilities are used primarily
as back up for the Company's commercial paper program. In addition to financing
ongoing operations, the Company plans to utilize its commercial paper program to
fund a portion of anticipated acquisitions as they occur in 1999 and beyond.
Debt at year end 1998 consisted of $150 million of short-term debt which
represents commercial paper borrowings, $115 million of unsecured long-term
notes and approximately $22 million of debt assumed in connection with the Lumen
acquisition.
 
     On December 16, 1998, Lighthouse Weston Corp. ("Lighthouse"), a wholly
owned subsidiary of the Company, completed its tender offer for shares of common
stock of Lumen for a purchase price of $253 million, including $75 million of
assumed debt. Lighthouse acquired approximately 92.3% of Lumen's common stock
pursuant to the tender offer. On January 4, 1999, Lumen became a wholly owned
subsidiary of the Company, as a result of the merger of Lighthouse with and into
Lumen. The acquisition of Lumen by the Company was accounted for as a purchase.
The Company financed the transaction with a combination of available cash and
short-term debt. Debt assumed in connection with the Lumen transaction was
approximately $75 million on the date of the acquisition. The Company paid down
this debt to approximately $22 million by year-end.
 
     In January 1999, the Company filed a shelf registration statement with the
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to register $465 million of securities.
This registration statement, together with the $35 million of securities covered
by a previously filed registration statement, will provide the Company with
financing flexibility to offer up to $500 million aggregate principal amount of
common stock, preferred stock, depository shares, debt securities, warrants,
stock purchase contracts and/or stock purchase units. The Company expects to use
the net proceeds from the sale of the securities for general corporate purposes,
which may include, among other things: the repayment of outstanding
indebtedness, working capital, capital expenditures, the repurchase of shares of
common stock and acquisitions. The precise amount and timing of the application
of such proceeds will depend upon the Company's funding requirements and the
availability and cost of other funds.
 
     Cash and cash equivalents increased by $37.6 million and were $95.6 million
at 1998 year-end. Net cash provided by continuing operations was $69.8 million
in 1998 versus $32.1 million in 1997. This increase was due primarily to the
collection of receivables offset in part by lower base operations' accounts
payable and accrued expenses and the effects of certain deferred tax assets
which increased prepaid expenses and other assets. Capital expenditures were
$46.5 million for 1998, slightly below 1997 levels. Capital expenditures for
1999 are not expected to exceed $50 million. The Company realized gross proceeds
of over $200 million from divestitures of non-
 

 
core operations during 1998 and $28.3 million of cash was realized from issuance
of common stock for options exercised. The proceeds were utilized to accelerate
certain consolidation programs, to fund a portion of the purchase price for four
1998 strategic acquisitions, to fund share repurchases during 1998 and fund
domestic and international operations, as required.
 
     The Company plans to fund the Perkin-Elmer transaction with a combination
of existing cash and equivalents, borrowings under its existing credit
facilities and other financing, as required.
 
     During 1998, the Company purchased 1.8 million shares of its common stock
through periodic purchases on the open market at a cost of $41.2 million. As of
January 3, 1999, the Company had authorization to purchase 5.9 million
additional shares.
 
     The Company has limited involvement with derivative financial instruments
and uses forward contracts to mitigate the effect of foreign currency movements
on transactions denominated in foreign currencies. The contracts generally have
maturities that do not exceed one month and have no cash requirements until
maturity. Credit risk and market risk are minimal because the contracts are with
large banks and gains and losses are offset against foreign exchange gains and
losses on the underlying hedged transactions. The notional amount of outstanding
forward contracts was $41.6 million as of January 3, 1999.
 
     Demand for certain of our products has been adversely affected by the
economic problems in Asia and Brazil. In addition, the Asian economic problems
have weakened the currencies of some Asian countries, making products of our
competitors who are located in Asia more price competitive. However, during
1998, the economic and financial crisis in portions of Asia and Brazil did not
have a material effect on the Company's results of operations or financial
position.
 
DIVIDENDS
 
     In January 1999, the Company's Board of Directors declared a regular
quarterly cash dividend of 14 cents per share, resulting in an annual rate of 56
cents per share for 1999. EG&G has paid cash dividends, without interruption,
for 34 years and continues to retain what management believes to be sufficient
earnings to support the funding requirements of the Company's planned growth.
 
ENVIRONMENTAL
 
     The Company is conducting a number of environmental investigations and
remedial actions at current and former Company locations and, along with other
companies, has been named a potentially responsible party (PRP) for certain
waste disposal sites. The Company accrues for environmental issues in the
accounting period that the Company's responsibility is established and when the
cost can be reasonably estimated. The Company has accrued $9.5 million as of
January 3, 1999, representing management's estimate of the total cost of
ultimate disposition of known environmental matters. Such amount is not
discounted and does not reflect any recovery of any amounts through insurance or
indemnification arrangements. These cost estimates are subject to a number of
variables, including the stage of the environmental investigations, the
magnitude of the possible contamination, the nature of the potential remedies,
possible joint and several liability, the timeframe over which remediation may
occur and the possible effects of changing laws and regulations. For sites where
the Company has been named a PRP, management does not currently anticipate any
additional liability to result from the inability of other significant named
parties to contribute. The Company expects that such accrued amounts could be
paid out over a period of up to five years. As assessments and remediation
activities progress at each individual site, these liabilities are reviewed and
adjusted to reflect additional information as it becomes available. There have
been no environmental problems to date that have had or are expected to have a
material effect on the Company's financial position or results of operations.
While it is reasonably possible that a material loss exceeding the amounts
recorded may have been incurred, the preliminary stages of the investigations
make it impossible for the Company to reasonably estimate the range of potential
 

 
exposure. The Company adopted the provisions of Statement of Position 96-1,
Environmental Remediation Liabilities in 1997. Its adoption did not have a
material effect on results of operations.
 
                              THE YEAR 2000 ISSUE
 
     The following Year 2000 statements constitute a Year 2000 Readiness
Disclosure within the meaning of the Year 2000 Readiness and Disclosure Act of
1998.
 
     The operations of the Company rely on various computer technologies which,
as is common to most corporations, may be affected by what is commonly referred
to as the Year 2000 ("Y2K") issue. The Y2K issue is the result of computer
programs that were written using two digits rather than four to define the
applicable year. Computer equipment and software, as well as devices with
embedded technology that are time-sensitive, may recognize a date using "00" as
the year 1900 rather than the year 2000. This could result in system failure or
miscalculations causing disruption of operations and normal business activities.
 
                        THE COMPANY'S STATE OF READINESS
 
OVERVIEW
 
     The Company has an extensive worldwide program in place to assess and
minimize its exposure to the Y2K issue. The Company began addressing the Y2K
issue on a Company-wide basis in late 1997. The Company's Y2K program is
designed to assess, prioritize, correct, monitor and report on certain key
elements of the Company's business and operations, which may be adversely
affected by the Y2K issue. This program is organized, structured and implemented
around six areas of potential risk related to the Y2K issue:
- ---------------
     -  Factory and shopfloor control
 
     -  Facilities
 
     -  Information technology (IT) systems and related applications
 
     -  Products of the Company
 
     -  Suppliers, vendors and service providers
 
     -  Customers
 
PHASES OF THE COMPANY'S Y2K PROGRAM
 
     The Company's Y2K program, which it implements Company-wide and at each of
its Strategic Business Units ("SBU") consists of five phases. A description of
each phase is presented below:
 
Phase 1 -- Inventory
 
          The purpose of this phase was to identify, collect, analyze and
     prioritize Y2K compliance information on components, systems, software and
     other devices containing program logic. As part of this process, a physical
     inventory was conducted focusing on four areas of each SBU: factory/plant,
     facilities, IT and products. Each inventoried item was assigned an internal
     business risk rating of high, medium or low risk. The Company also
     identified key and sole source suppliers to whom Y2K compliance
     questionnaires and surveys were sent.
 
Phase 2 -- Assessment
 
          The purpose of this phase was to compile and review the inventoried
     information gathered during Phase 1, assess potential Y2K risks and prepare
     compliance initiatives. The Y2K status
 

 
     of each inventoried item was determined through compliance statements,
     direct communication with vendors and on-site item testing at each Company
     location.
 
Phase 3 -- Remediation Planning
 
          The purpose of this phase was to develop remediation plans for
     inventoried items that were identified in Phase 2 as Y2K non-compliant.
     Remediation plans were developed for each non-compliant item including a
     detailed timetable with completion milestones and target dates based on the
     business risk priority rating of the item. The Remediation Planning Phase
     also included the evaluation and development of contingency plans at the
     SBU and operating unit level. Each Y2K segment team is developing a
     contingency plan intended to mitigate potential adverse effects from the
     Y2K issue in the event that the remediation plan for "high" business impact
     items previously identified fails or is delayed beyond schedule.
 
Phase 4 -- Remediation Plan Execution
 
          The purpose of this phase is to execute the remediation and
     contingency plans developed in Phase 3. Each item in the remediation plan
     is allotted a timeframe for completion, and percentage of completion is
     monitored and discussed regularly. All SBUs of the Company have targeted
     mid-1999 for the completion of all remediation activities.
 
Phase 5 -- Final Testing
 
          The purpose of this phase is to perform follow-up testing of
     previously non-compliant items that have been corrected through the
     implementation of Phase 4. This phase is scheduled to commence in mid-1999
     and continue until completion later in the year.
 
     A progress chart for the Company's Y2K program as of January 3, 1999 is set
forth below. Percentages in the table reflect the Company's best estimate of
progress completed to date in each risk area by phase as a percentage of the
total estimated time to complete the respective phase.
 

 
- ---------------
(a) Scheduled to begin in mid-1999 and continue until completion later in the
    year.
 
(b) Planned completion in Q2 1999.
 
     State of Readiness by SBU
 
     The Company has various worldwide operations. It has planned and continues
to execute its Y2K Program utilizing a strategic business unit and critical and
key operational unit focus. All of the SBUs have developed Y2K programs to
address the critical and primary risks assessed based on each SBU's Y2K risk
assessment and remediation processes. The primary areas of overall risk
assessment, including material third party risk, at the Life Sciences,
Optoelectronics, Engineering Products and Instruments SBUs of the Company
include but are not limited to:
 
     -  Raw materials availability and procurement,
 
     -  Factory/plant manufacturing systems,
 
     -  Continuity of heat, light, power and fuel sources for manufacturing and
        office functionality,
 
     -  IT for financial reporting and accounting, and
 

 
     -  Internal and external telecommunications and network systems to support
communication and business with vendors, suppliers and customers.
 
     Year 2000 risks for the Company's Technical Services SBU include risks
noted above, other than the risks associated with raw materials procurement and
purchase; this is not a major area of risk for this SBU based on the nature of
the business. On an SBU basis, the Life Sciences, Optoelectronics and Engineered
Products SBUs are making significant progress along the various phases of the
program, and the Company does not expect any significant Y2K exposures. The most
significant areas of risk identified relate to two operational units within the
Instruments and Technical Services SBUs. The Instruments SBU has developed an
aggressive remediation plan for its Automotive business unit and expects to
complete it and related contingency plans by mid-1999. A governmental services
unit of the Company's Technical Services SBU is awaiting government direction on
how to proceed with remediation activities. This SBU has developed a contingency
plan which will ensure safe shutdowns of the facilities to minimize operational
and environmental exposures related to chemical weapons disposal operations.
Further remediation for these units will be developed and implemented as
necessary. A shutdown of this unit, if it occurs, is not anticipated to have a
material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated results of operations or
financial position.
 
     Third Party Review
 
     As part of its Y2K program, the Company has sought to assess the effect on
the Company of the Y2K compliance of its significant customers, vendors,
suppliers, raw materials suppliers, primary service suppliers, and financial
institutions. The Company has followed a strategy of identification of risks,
risk assessment, continuous material third party monitoring and evaluation, and
contingency planning. The Company did not use or engage outside firms for the
purpose of independent verification and validation of the reliability of third
party risks assessed and cost estimates related thereto under the Company's Y2K
program.
 
     The Company has identified critical third parties and performed risk
assessments using structured questionnaires and other procedures to estimate the
potential monetary and operational impact to the Company. Questionnaires and
surveys were sent out to approximately 6,000 key vendors and suppliers that
comprise approximately 30% of the Company's vendor/supplier population. The
responses received comprised approximately an 82% response rate. Approximately
92% of those who responded confirmed they were Y2K compliant. For those who were
not compliant or who did not respond, the Company developed or is in the process
of developing contingency plans in the event that these material third parties
are non-compliant. A complete discussion of the Company's contingency plans for
critical areas is discussed in this Year 2000 discussion and follows below. The
Company plans to send out questionnaires and surveys to approximately 1,000 key
customers in Q2 1999. The Company also plans to perform on-site readiness
reviews for certain key customers.
 
     Company Products
 
     Although the Company has reviewed the Y2K compliance of a substantial
number of its material third parties, it is currently unable to predict the
final readiness of all of its material third parties. Certain of the Company's
products are used in conjunction with products of other companies in
applications that may be critical to the operations of its customers. Any
Company product's Y2K non-compliance, whether standing alone or used in
conjunction with the products of other companies, may expose the Company to
claims from its customers, material third parties or others, and could impair
market acceptance of the Company's products or services, increase service and
warranty costs, or result in payment of damages, which in turn could materially
adversely affect the results of operations and financial position of the
Company. While the Company expects such material third parties to address the
Y2K issue based on the representations made by such third parties to the
Company, it cannot guarantee that these systems will be made Y2K compliant in a

 
timely manner and cannot guarantee that it will not experience a material
adverse effect as a result of such non-compliance.
 
THE COSTS TO ADDRESS THE YEAR 2000 ISSUE
 
     The Company has estimated costs for it's Y2K Program based on internal
estimates and independent quotes for IT and non-IT corrective actions, products
and services, as applicable, in each phase of the Company's Y2K program. The
following table sets forth the estimated costs incurred by the Company through
January 3, 1999 to address the Y2K issue. These amounts include the costs to
lease, purchase or expense new software and equipment needed to achieve Year
2000 compliance and enhance existing systems, as well as internal costs related
to this effort.
 

 
     Amounts expended for remediation activities during 1998 were outside of and
incremental to the Company's IT budget for ongoing operational projects. With
the exception of new hardware or software which qualify for capitalization under
generally accepted accounting principles, the Company expenses all costs
associated with the Y2K program. Funding requirements for the Company's Y2K
Program activities during 1999 are estimated to be approximately $3 million and
have been incorporated into the Company's 1999 capital and operating plans. The
Company will utilize cash and equivalents and cash flows from operations to fund
remaining Y2K program costs during 1999. None of the Company's other IT projects
have been deferred due to its Y2K efforts.
 
                                 RISK ANALYSIS
 
Reasonably Likely Worst Case Scenario
 
     Although no reasonable assurance can be made, the Company believes that due
to the diversity of the Company's business portfolio, there is no single event
or one likely worst case scenario, short of a major national infrastructure
catastrophe, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company's results
of operations or financial condition. The most reasonably likely worst case
scenario is that a short-term disruption will occur with a small number of
customers or suppliers, requiring an appropriate response. In the event of an
internal system failure caused by a Y2K problem, the Company could have trouble
accessing accurate internal data, processing transactions and maintaining
accurate books and records. Accordingly, the Company might be unable to prepare
its financial statements for the fourth quarter of 1999 or periods thereafter.
Additionally, the Company's manufacturing operating systems and other
applications could be impaired resulting in the Company's inability to
manufacture and sell its products to customers.
 
     The Company believes its current products, with any applicable updates, are
well-prepared for Y2K date issues, and the Company plans to support these
products for date issues that may arise related to the Y2K issue. However, there
can be no guarantee that one or more of the Company's current products do not
contain Y2K date issues that may result in material costs to the Company.
 

 
The outcome of litigation, if any, resulting from the Company's products that
are proven to be noncompliant for Y2K cannot be determined at this time.
 
     The Company could also experience a slowdown or reduction of sales if
customers are adversely affected by Y2K. If the vendors of the Company's most
important goods and services, or the suppliers of the Company's necessary
energy, telecommunications and transportation needs, fail to provide the Company
with (1) the materials and services necessary to produce, distribute and sell
its products, (2) the electrical power and other utilities necessary to sustain
it operations, or (3) reliable means of transporting products and supplies, such
failure could result in the Company's inability to manufacture and sell its
products to customers. The Company's contingency plans, when complete, will
include steps to pre-order and build up raw materials and finished goods as
appropriate to avoid stock-outs that would have a negative impact on the
Company's ability to manufacture and sell its products.
 
     Additionally, the Company's operations are dependent on infrastructures
within all countries in which it operates and therefore a failure of any one of
those infrastructures related to Y2K could have a material adverse effect on the
Company's operations. The Company is not currently able to estimate the
financial impact of the Y2K failures addressed above as they relate to lost
revenues or additional resources that would be required to address such
failures.
 
                               CONTINGENCY PLANS
 
     The Company believes that the IT and non-IT which support its critical
functions will be ready for the transition to the Year 2000. There can be no
assurance, however, that similar unforeseen issues for key commercial partners
(including utilities, financial services, building services and transportation
services) will not cause a material adverse effect on the Company. To address
these risks, and to address a risk that its own IT and non-IT will not perform
as expected during the Y2K transition, the Company has begun to develop
appropriate Y2K contingency plans. These plans will be established and revised
as necessary during the course of 1999. During the second quarter of 1999,
on-site readiness reviews will be conducted by the Company at its most critical
vendor and supplier locations. For the Company's material, key and sole source
vendors / suppliers whom cannot be classified or certified as Y2K compliant,
contingency plans include, but are not limited to: (i) replacing the vendor /
supplier with one that is Y2K compliant, (ii) pre-ordering raw material where
applicable, (iii) pre-building product or products, or (iv) pre-shipping product
where practicable. These contingency plans are expected to be finalized during
the third quarter of 1999. The Company believes that its contingency plans are
sufficient to address any material business disruption in a reasonable period of
time to minimize the effects of an adverse impact to the operations of the
Company. If the contingency plans fail, or if the Company is for some unforeseen
reason "not ready" for the Y2K issue at a key level of the operations of the
business or a contingency plan cannot be implemented in a timely manner, the
Company will rely on alternative means of communications, alternative power
generation sources for the manufacture of key products, and other manual or
backup systems and processes on an interim basis until the Y2K issues can be
corrected.
 
EURO CONVERSION
 
     On January 1, 1999, eleven of the fifteen member countries of the European
Union established fixed conversion rates between their existing sovereign
currencies and the new common legal currency, the "euro", which was adopted on
that date. There is a transition period between January 1, 1999 and January 1,
2002, during which the euro will be adopted into the operations. During 1998,
the Company formed a cross-functional task force to assess the potential impact
to the Company that may result from the euro conversion. Areas of assessment
include the following: cross-border price transparencies and the resulting
competitive impact; adaptation of information technology and other system
requirements to accommodate euro transactions; the impact on currency exchange
rate risk; the impact on existing contracts; and taxation and accounting. The
 

 
Company's assessment is that the anticipated impact of the euro conversion on
the Company's operations will not be material.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION AND FACTORS AFFECTING FUTURE PERFORMANCE
 
     This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains "forward-looking statements." For
this purpose, any statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that
are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking
statements. Words such as "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "expects," "will"
and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
There are a number of important factors that could cause the results of EG&G to
differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements
including among others, the factors set forth below.
 
     The following important factors affect our business and operations
generally or affect multiple segments of our business and operations:
 
     -  We face strong competition in many of the markets that we serve, which
     affects our ability to sell our products and services and the prices that
     we obtain. Certain of our competitors are larger than we are and have
     greater financial and other resources.
 
     -  We need to successfully implement the restructuring plans that we have
     adopted. If we are unable to do so, we will not be able to achieve
     anticipated cost savings, our ability to produce and deliver the products
     and services may be adversely affected and we may lose key personnel.
 
     -  Our business plan depends on our ability to continue to innovate, to
     develop new products and services based on such innovations and to
     introduce these new products and services successfully into the market. If
     we are unable to successfully implement this business plan, it could have a
     material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, financial
     condition and liquidity.
 
     -  Our business plan depends on our ability to acquire attractive
     businesses on favorable terms and integrate these businesses into our other
     operations. We have begun the process of integrating Lumen Technologies,
     which we acquired in December 1998. In addition, in March 1999, we entered
     into an agreement to acquire the analytical instruments division of
     Perkin-Elmer. The acquisition is subject to customary closing conditions,
     including regulatory approval. If we are unable to successfully implement
     this business plan or integrate these acquisitions, it could have a
     material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, financial
     condition and liquidity.
 
     -  In many of our segments, we serve as a supplier of components to other
     businesses. As a result, our success depends on the business success of our
     customers.
 
     -  We need to be able to continue to access the capital markets to fund our
     growth.
 
     -  Our product businesses can be affected by currency risks.
 
     -  We need to achieve satisfactory results in connection with certain
     litigation to which we are a party, particularly the tax litigation with
     the Internal Revenue Service.
 
     -  We need to attract and retain key management, operational and technical
     personnel.
 
     -  We are affected by general economic conditions. In particular, demand
     for certain of our products has been adversely affected by the economic
     problems in Asia. In addition, the Asian economic problems have weakened
     the currencies of some Asian countries, making products of our competitors
     who are located in Asia more price competitive.
 
     -  We could be impacted by unanticipated issues associated with Year 2000
     software problems.
 

 
     -  Effective tax rates in the future could be affected by changes in the
     geographical distribution of income, utilization of non-U.S. net operating
     loss carryforwards, repatriation costs, resolution of outstanding tax audit
     issued and changes in the portfolio of businesses.
 
     There are certain important factors that affect our particular business
segments, including the following:
 
  Life Sciences
 
     -  We will implement a new enterprise software system for this business
     segment in early 1999. We need this implementation to be effected in a
     manner that does not disrupt operations.
 
     -  Our business plan for this segment is significantly dependent upon the
     successful introduction of products currently under development as well as
     the expansion of the geographic markets for this segment's products.
 
     -  Many of our products in this segment are subject to regulation by the
     Food and Drug Administration and other regulatory bodies.
 
  Optoelectronics
 
     -  We need to complete the development of our amorphous silicon technology
     and successfully introduce products based on this technology to the market.
 
     -  In our IC Sensors business, we need to develop new products for both
     existing customers and new markets that we desire to access. We also need
     to successfully shift the production of certain products of this business
     to our manufacturing facilities that are in lower cost locations in order
     to compete more effectively.
 
  Instruments
 
     -  Our ability to obtain Federal Aviation Administration certification of
     our Z scan system for screening of checked baggage on a timely basis will
     affect this segment's success.
 
     -  We need to successfully complete construction/installation and obtain
     customer acceptance of certain major cargo screening projects that are in
     process.
 
  Engineered Products
 
     -  A key market for certain of this segment's products is manufacturers of
     equipment used in semiconductor production. As a result, the success of
     this segment's operations is dependent in part upon a recovery of economic
     conditions in the semiconductor industry.
 
     -  We are in the process of implementing new lower cost manufacturing
     processes for certain of this segment's products. The success of this
     segment's operations depends in part upon our successfully implementing
     these new manufacturing processes.
 
     -  A key market for the products that we produce in this segment is
     manufacturers of air frames and engines for regional and business jets. As
     a result, the success of this segment is dependent in part on the growth of
     the regional and business jet market.
 
     -  The success of our operations in this segment depends in part on
     entering into long-term contracts for the sale of seals to major engine
     manufacturers on favorable terms.
 
  Technical Services
 
     -  Our operations in this segment are materially affected by our ability to
     win new service contracts and to compete successfully for renewals of
     existing contracts.
 

 
     -  We need to comply with contractually specified performance criteria on
     an ongoing basis. Our compliance affects both the grades that we receive
     from the government, and therefore the level of contract payments, as well
     as our ability to win new contracts.
 
     -  Our contracts with the U.S. government are subject to early termination
     for the convenience of the government.
 
MARKET RISK
 
     The Company is exposed to the impact of interest rate changes, foreign
currency fluctuations and changes in the market values of its investments.
 
     In the normal course of business, the Company employs established policies
and procedures to manage its exposure to changes in interest rates and
fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies.
 
     The Company's objective in managing the exposure to foreign currency
fluctuations is to reduce earnings and cash flow volatility associated with
foreign exchange rate changes to allow management to focus its attention on its
core business issues and challenges. Accordingly, the Company enters into
various forward contracts that change in value as foreign exchange rates change
to protect the value of its existing foreign currency assets, liabilities,
commitments and anticipated foreign currency revenues. The principal currencies
hedged are the Finnish marka, Singapore dollar, Canadian dollar, British pound,
German mark, French franc, and Japanese yen. In those currencies where there is
a liquid, cost-effective forward market, the Company maintains hedge coverage
between minimum and maximum percentages of its anticipated transaction exposure
for periods not to exceed one year. The gains and losses on these contracts
offset changes in the value of the related exposure.
 
     It is the Company's policy to enter into foreign currency and interest rate
transactions only to the extent considered necessary to meet its objectives as
stated above. The Company does not enter into foreign currency or interest rate
transactions for speculative purposes.
 

 
ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTAL DATA
 
                         CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS
                   FOR THE THREE YEARS ENDED JANUARY 3, 1999
 

 
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.

 
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                  AS OF JANUARY 3, 1999 AND DECEMBER 28, 1997
 

 
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.

 
                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                   FOR THE THREE YEARS ENDED JANUARY 3, 1999
 

 
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.

 
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                   FOR THE THREE YEARS ENDED JANUARY 3, 1999
 

 
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.

 
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
1.  NATURE OF OPERATIONS AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
     Principles of Consolidation:  The consolidated financial statements include
the accounts of EG&G, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the Company). All material
intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
 
     Nature of Operations:  The Company designs, manufactures and markets
optoelectronic, mechanical and electromechanical components and instruments for
manufacturers and end-user customers. The Company sells its products in a wide
variety of markets, including the medical, telecom, aerospace, automotive,
transportation, bioanalytical, semiconductor, photographic and security markets.
The Company also delivers skilled support services to government and industrial
customers. The Company's operating segments are Life Sciences, Optoelectronics,
Instruments, Engineered Products and Technical Services.
 
     Use of Estimates:  The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
     Sales:  The Company currently has outstanding cost-reimbursement contracts
for operations, management and engineering services in a variety of fields
including defense, transportation, physical security and property management.
These contracts are all with governmental agencies including the U.S.
Departments of Defense, Transportation, State and Treasury, the U.S. Customs
Service and the Environmental Protection Agency. These contracts include both
cost plus fixed fee contracts and cost plus award fee contracts based on
performance. Sales under cost-reimbursement contracts are recorded as costs are
incurred and include applicable income in the proportion that costs incurred
bear to total estimated costs.
 
     Product sales are recorded at the time of shipment. Other service sales are
generally recorded as the services are rendered or, in the case of certain
contracts, as milestones are achieved. If a loss is anticipated on any contract,
provision for the entire loss is made immediately.
 
     Inventories:  Inventories, which include material, labor and manufacturing
overhead, are valued at the lower of cost or market. The majority of inventories
is accounted for using the first-in, first-out method; remaining inventories are
accounted for using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method.
 
     Property, Plant and Equipment:  For financial statement purposes, the
Company depreciates plant and equipment using the straight-line method over
their estimated useful lives, which generally fall within the following ranges:
buildings and special-purpose structures -- 10 to 25 years; leasehold
improvements -- estimated useful life or remaining term of lease, whichever is
shorter; machinery and equipment -- 3 to 7 years; special-purpose equipment --
expensed or depreciated over the life of the initial related contract.
Nonrecurring tooling costs are capitalized, while recurring costs are expensed.
For income tax purposes, the Company depreciates plant and equipment over their
estimated useful lives using accelerated methods.
 
     Pension Plans:  The Company's funding policy provides that payments to the
U.S. pension trusts shall at least be equal to the minimum funding requirements
of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. Non-U.S. plans are
accrued for, but generally not funded, and benefits are paid from operating
funds.
 
     Translation of Foreign Currencies:  The balance sheet accounts of non-U.S.
operations, exclusive of stockholders' equity, are translated at year-end
exchange rates, and income statement accounts are translated at weighted-average
rates in effect during the year; any translation
 

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
adjustments are made directly to a component of stockholders' equity. The net
transaction gains (losses) were not material for the years presented.
 
     Intangible Assets:  In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards (SFAS) No. 121, Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and
for Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed Of, and Accounting Principles Board Opinion
No. 17, Intangible Assets, the Company reviews long-lived assets and all
intangible assets (including goodwill) for impairment whenever events or changes
in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of such assets may not be
recoverable. Recoverability of these assets is determined by comparing the
forecasted undiscounted net cash flows of the operation to which the assets
relate, to the carrying amount including associated intangible assets of such
operation. If the operation is determined to be unable to recover the carrying
amount of its assets, then intangible assets are written down first, followed by
the other long-lived assets of the operation, to fair value. Fair value is
determined based on discounted cash flows or appraised values, depending upon
the nature of the assets. (See Note 4 for further discussion of asset impairment
charges.)
 
     Stock-Based Compensation:  In accordance with SFAS No. 123, Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation, the Company has elected to continue to account for
stock options at intrinsic value with disclosure of the effects of fair value
accounting on net income and earnings per share on a pro forma basis.
 
     Cash Flows:  For purposes of the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, the
Company considers all highly liquid instruments with a purchased maturity of
three months or less to be cash equivalents. The carrying amount of cash and
cash equivalents approximates fair value due to the short maturities.
 
     Environmental Matters:  The Company accrues for costs associated with the
remediation of environmental pollution when it is probable that a liability has
been incurred and the Company's proportionate share of the amount can be
reasonably estimated. Any recorded liabilities have not been discounted.
 
     Earnings Per Share:  In the fourth quarter of 1997, the Company adopted the
provisions of SFAS No. 128, Earnings Per Share, which is effective for financial
statements for periods ending after December 15, 1997. SFAS No. 128 requires
replacement of primary earnings per share (EPS) with basic EPS, which is
computed by dividing income available to common shareholders by the
weighted-average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted EPS, which gives
effect to all dilutive potential common shares outstanding, is also required.
While all prior-period EPS data presented are required to be restated, there was
no impact on previously reported EPS from the adoption of SFAS No. 128.
 
     Comprehensive Income:  In the first quarter of 1998, the Company adopted
the provisions of SFAS No. 130, Reporting Comprehensive Income, which
established standards for reporting and display of comprehensive income and its
components. Comprehensive income is the total of net income and all other
nonowner changes in stockholders' equity.
 
     Segments and Related Information:  In the fourth quarter of 1998, the
Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an
Enterprise and Related Information. The statement established standards for the
way that public business enterprises report information and operating segments
in annual financial statements and requires reporting of selected information in
interim financial reports.
 
     Derivative Instruments and Hedging:  The Financial Accounting Standards
Board issued SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities, in June 1998. The new statement is effective for fiscal years
beginning after June 15, 1999; earlier adoption is allowed. The statement
requires companies to record derivatives on the balance sheet as assets or
liabilities,

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
measured at fair value. Gains or losses resulting from changes in the values of
those derivatives would be accounted for depending on the use of the derivative
and whether it qualifies for hedge accounting. The Company currently expects
that, due to its relatively limited use of derivative instruments, the adoption
of SFAS No. 133 will not have a material effect on the Company's results of
operations or financial position.
 
     Start-up Activities:  During 1998, the American Institute of Certified
Public Accountants issued Statement of Position 98-5, Reporting on the Costs of
Start-up Activities (SOP 98-5). This Statement requires a change in the method
of accounting for start-up costs on major projects to expense these costs as
incurred. Prior to this accounting change, these costs could be capitalized. The
effect of this accounting change does not have a material effect on the
Company's results of operations or financial position.
 
     Reclassifications:  Certain amounts from prior years have been reclassified
to conform to the 1998 financial statement presentation.
 
2.  ACQUISITIONS
 
     On December 16, 1998, the Company acquired substantially all of the
outstanding common stock and options of Lumen Technologies, Inc. (Lumen), a
maker of high-technology specialty light sources. The purchase price of
approximately $253 million, which included $75 million of assumed debt, was
funded with existing cash and commercial paper borrowings. The acquisition was
accounted for as a purchase under Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 16
(APB No. 16). In accordance with APB No. 16, the Company allocated the purchase
price of Lumen based on the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities
assumed. Portions of the purchase price, including intangible assets, were
identified by independent appraisers utilizing proven valuation procedures and
techniques. These intangible assets include approximately $2.3 million for
acquired in-process research and development (in-process R&D) for projects that
did not have future alternative uses. This allocation represents the estimated
fair value based on risk-adjusted cash flows related to the in-process R&D
projects. At the date of the acquisition, the development of these projects had
not yet reached technological feasibility, and the R&D in progress had no
alternative future uses. Accordingly, these costs were expensed in the fourth
quarter of 1998. Acquired intangibles totaling $11.8 million included the fair
value of trade names, trademarks and patents. These intangibles are being
amortized over their estimated useful life of ten years. Goodwill resulting from
the Lumen acquisition is being amortized over 30 years. Approximately $5 million
has been recorded as accrued restructuring charges in connection with the
acquisition. The restructuring plans include initiatives to integrate the
operations of the Company and Lumen, and reduce overhead. The primary components
of these plans relate to: (a) the transfer of certain manufacturing activities
to lower cost facilities, (b) integration of the sales and marketing
organization and (c) the termination of certain contractual obligations. The
Company expects that these actions will result in a reduction in workforce of
approximately 200 individuals. Management is in the process of finalizing its
restructuring plans related to Lumen, and accordingly, the amounts recorded are
based on management's current estimates of those costs. The Company will
finalize these plans during 1999, and the majority of the restructuring actions
are expected to occur by 1999-2000.
 

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     The components of the purchase price and preliminary allocation are as
follows:
 

 
     As indicated earlier, some allocations are based on studies and valuations
which are currently being finalized. Management does not believe that the final
purchase price allocation will produce materially different results than those
reflected herein.
 
     In December 1998, the Company acquired Life Science Resources Limited
(LSR), a U.K.-based developer and supplier of biotechnology, biomedical and
clinical research instrumentation, for $11 million. In April 1998, in connection
with the divestiture of the Sealol Industrial Seals division, the Company
purchased Belfab, the advanced metal bellows division of John Crane, Inc. for
$45 million in cash. In February 1998, the Company acquired Isolab, Inc., a
supplier of systems for clinical diagnostic screening, for $10 million. These
acquisitions were accounted for using the purchase method. While the Company has
not yet finalized the Belfab purchase price allocation, the excess of the cost
over the fair market value of the net assets acquired is estimated to be $33
million, which is being amortized over 20 years using a straight-line method.
The Company does not expect that the final allocation of purchase price for
Belfab will produce materially different results from those reflected herein.
The results of operations of the acquisitions are included in the consolidated
results of the Company from the date of each respective acquisition.
 
     Unaudited pro forma operating results for the Company, assuming the
acquisition of Lumen occurred on December 29, 1996, are as follows:
 

 
     The pro forma amounts in the table above exclude the $2.3 million
in-process R&D charge. Pro forma amounts for the other 1998 acquisitions are not
included as their effect is not material to the Company's financial statements.
 

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
3.  RESTRUCTURING AND INTEGRATION CHARGES
 
     The Company developed restructuring plans during 1998 to integrate and
consolidate its businesses. The Company recorded restructuring charges in the
first and second quarters of 1998, which are discussed separately below. These
restructuring plans were points in the continuing transformation of the Company
that began in 1994 and continued into 1998 with the addition of new leadership
and new management, changes in the organization of the businesses and the
realignment and consolidation of operations. Further details of the actions are
presented below.
 
     In connection with the Company's continued transformation of its portfolio
of companies, during the first quarter of 1998, management developed a plan to
restructure certain businesses. A discussion of the businesses affected within
each segment is presented below. The plan resulted in pre-tax restructuring
charges totaling $31.4 million. The principal actions in the restructuring plan
include close-down or consolidation of a number of offices and facilities,
transfer of assembly activities to lower cost geographic locations, disposal of
underutilized assets, withdrawal from certain product lines and general cost
reductions. The restructuring charges were broken down as follows by operating
segment:
 

 
     The headcount reduction, by function, resulting in the Employee Separation
Costs detailed above is as follows:
 

 
     Further details of the actions are presented below. Specific businesses
within each segment which were affected by the restructuring actions are as
follows: The Engineered Products business affected primarily manufactures
mechanical components and systems. The Optoelectronics businesses affected
produce various lighting and sensor components and systems. The Instruments
restructuring relates primarily to its X-ray imaging business which produces
security screening equipment, as well as its Instruments for Research and
Applied Science business which produces particle detector equipment.
 
     Close-down of certain facilities:  Costs have been accrued for the closing
down of facilities. These costs relate to the affected businesses discussed
above within the Engineered Products and Optoelectronics segments.
 

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     Transfer of assembly activities:  The Company plans to relocate certain
activities, primarily in its Optoelectronics segment, to lower cost geographic
areas such as Indonesia and China. The costs included in the restructuring
charges related to costs associated with exiting the previous operations. Actual
costs to physically relocate are charged to operations as incurred.
 
     Disposal of underutilized assets:  The Company plans to dispose of
underutilized assets either through sale or abandonment, primarily in its
Instruments and Optoelectronics segments.
 
     Withdrawal from certain product lines:  The Company has made a strategic
decision to discontinue certain unprofitable product lines discussed above,
primarily in its Instruments and Optoelectronics segments.
 
     During the second quarter of 1998, the Company expanded its continuing
effort to restructure certain businesses to further improve performance. The
plan resulted in additional pre-tax restructuring charges of $23.1 million. The
principal actions in this restructuring plan included the integration of current
operating divisions into five strategic business units, close-down or
consolidation of a number of production facilities and general cost reductions.
Details are provided following the table presented below.
 
     The restructuring charges were broken down as follows by operating segment:
 

 
     The headcount reduction, by function, resulting in the Employee Separation
Costs detailed above is as follows:
 

 
     Integration of Current Operating Divisions and Consolidation of Certain
Production Facilities
 
     As part of the Company's second quarter restructuring plan, management
reorganized its current operating divisions into five strategic business units
(SBUs). This resulted in termination of employees as well as the integration and
consolidation of certain facilities and product lines. This effort is
company-wide and affects all five SBUs. The major components within the
Optoelectronics plan consisted of the closing of two wafer fab production
facilities and a development program.
 
     The total restructuring charges in 1998 include $10.3 million for
termination of leases and other contractual obligations. This amount included
approximately $7.0 million for termination of facility
 

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
leases and other lease-related costs, $1.5 million for termination of
distributor arrangements and $1.8 million for various other commitments. The
facility leases have remaining terms ranging from six months to five years. The
amount accrued reflects the Company's best estimate of actual costs to buy out
the leases in certain cases or the net cost to sublease the properties in other
cases.
 
     Approximately 300 employees of the total of 900 employees expected to be
terminated as part of the two restructuring plans have been severed as of
January 3, 1999. The plans will be mainly implemented by the segments by
mid-1999, except for the SBU consolidation, which will occur by the end of 1999.
Cash outlays, primarily for employee separation costs, were $10.2 million in
1998. The Company expects to incur approximately $32 million of cash outlays in
connection with its restructuring plans throughout 1999. These funds will come
primarily from operating cash flows or borrowings from existing credit
facilities.
 
     In 1997, as part of a plan to reposition its operations, the Company
recorded $8.3 million of integration costs which included $4.9 million related
to employee separation costs and $3.4 million related to its consolidation
effort. These costs were included in selling, general and administrative
expenses.
 
     The components of the restructuring charges met the criteria set forth in
Emerging Issues and Task Force Issue (EITF) 94-3, Liability Recognition for
Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity
(including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring). The charges do not
include additional costs associated with the restructuring plans, such as
training, consulting, purchase of equipment and relocation of employees and
equipment. These costs will be charged to operations or capitalized, as
appropriate, when incurred.
 
     The following table summarizes restructuring activity for the two years
ended January 3, 1999:
 

 
4.  ASSET IMPAIRMENT CHARGES
 
     During the second quarter of 1998, the Company recorded a $7.4 million
noncash impairment charge related to an automotive testing facility in the
Instruments segment. The impairment charge applied to fixed assets and resulted
from projected changes in the principal customer's demand for services. The
Company calculated the present value of expected cash flows of the testing
facility to determine the fair value of the assets.
 
     During the second quarter of 1997, the Company recorded a noncash
impairment charge of $28.2 million, with $26.7 million related to IC Sensors in
the Optoelectronics segment and $1.5 million related to the goodwill of an
environmental services business in Divestitures and Other. As a result of IC
Sensors' inability to achieve the improvements specified in its corrective
action plan, it continued operating at a loss in the second quarter of 1997,
triggering an impairment review of its long-lived assets. A revised operating
plan was developed to restructure and stabilize the business. The revised
projections by product line provided the basis for measurement of the asset
impairment
 

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
charge. The Company calculated the present value of expected cash flows of IC
Sensors' product lines to determine the fair value of the assets. Accordingly,
in the second quarter of 1997, the Company recorded an impairment charge of
$26.7 million, for a write-down of goodwill of $13.6 million and fixed assets of
$13.1 million. The components of the revised operating plan included hiring a
new general manager, transferring assembly and test operations to a lower cost
environment (Batam, Indonesia), introducing new products and reviewing
manufacturing processes to improve production yields. All of these components
were implemented during 1997 and 1998.
 
5.  GAINS ON DISPOSITIONS
 
     In April 1998, the Company sold its Sealol Industrial Seals division for
cash of $100 million, resulting in a pre-tax gain of $58.3 million. The
after-tax gain of this divestiture was $42.6 million, or $.93 diluted earnings
per share. Sealol Industrial Seals, which manufactured mechanical seals, had
1997 sales of $88 million and operating income of $11.4 million ($.21 diluted
earnings per share). In January 1998, the Company sold its Rotron division for
$103 million in cash, resulting in a pre-tax gain of $64.4 million. During the
first quarter of 1998, the Company also sold a small product line for $4 million
in cash, resulting in a pre-tax gain of $3.1 million. The after-tax gain of
these divestitures was $45.2 million, or $.99 diluted earnings per share.
Rotron, which manufactured fans, blowers and motors, had 1997 sales of $70
million and operating income of $11.9 million ($.16 diluted earnings per share).
The Company has deferred gain recognition of approximately $16 million of sales
proceeds from these divestitures pending the resolution in 1999 of certain
events and contingencies related to the sales.
 
     In 1997, the Company sold its Chandler, Flow and Birtcher divisions for $23
million, resulting in pre-tax gains of $10.6 million. These gains were recorded
in selling, general and administrative expenses.
 
6.  OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)
 
     Other income (expense), net, consisted of the following:
 

 
     Other consists mainly of income from joint ventures, foreign exchange
losses and, in 1997, a $3.4 million cost of capital reimbursement relating to a
joint development program. (See Note 18.)
 
7.  INCOME TAXES
 
     The components of income from continuing operations before income taxes for
financial reporting purposes were as follows:
 

 

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     The components of the provision for income taxes for continuing operations
were as follows:
 

 
     The total provision for income taxes included in the consolidated financial
statements was as follows:
 

 
     The major differences between the Company's effective tax rate for
continuing operations and the federal statutory rate were as follows:
 

 
     The 1997 tax provision and effective rate for continuing operations were
significantly impacted by non-deductible goodwill write-downs. Excluding the
impairment charge and its related tax effect, the effective tax rate was 34.1%
in 1997.
 

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     The tax effects of temporary differences and carryforwards which gave rise
to prepaid (deferred) income taxes as of January 3, 1999 and December 28, 1997
were as follows:
 

 
     At January 3, 1999, the Company had non-U.S. (primarily from Germany) net
operating loss carryforwards of $68.1 million, substantially all of which carry
forward indefinitely. The $32.6 million valuation allowance results primarily
from these carryforwards, for which the Company currently believes it is more
likely than not that they will not be realized.
 
     Current prepaid income taxes of $82.3 million and $44.3 million were
included in other current assets at January 3, 1999 and December 28, 1997,
respectively. Long-term deferred income taxes of $32.5 million and $11.1 million
were included in long-term liabilities at January 3, 1999 and December 28, 1997,
respectively.
 
     In general, it is the practice and intention of the Company to reinvest the
earnings of its non-U.S. subsidiaries in those operations. Repatriation of
retained earnings is done only when it is advantageous. Applicable federal taxes
are provided only on amounts planned to be remitted. In connection with current
year divestitures, certain proceeds will not be permanently reinvested in those
operations, and, accordingly, federal taxes in the amount of $10 million have
been provided in connection with those earnings. Accumulated net earnings of
non-U.S. subsidiaries for which no federal taxes have been provided as of
January 3, 1999 were $94.5 million, which does not include amounts that, if
remitted, would result in little or no additional tax because of the
availability of U.S. tax credits for non-U.S. taxes. Federal taxes that would be
payable upon remittance of these earnings are estimated to be $30.1 million at
January 3, 1999.
 
8.  DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
 
     The former DOE Support segment, which provided services under management
and operations contracts, is presented as discontinued operations in accordance
with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 30. The EG&G Mound Applied
Technologies contract, the Company's last DOE
 

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
management and operations contract, expired on September 30, 1997. The Company
is in the process of negotiating contract closeouts and does not anticipate
incurring any material loss in excess of previously established reserves.
 
     Summary operating results of the discontinued operations were as follows:
 

 
9.  EARNINGS PER SHARE
 
     Basic earnings per share was computed by dividing net income by the
weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the year. Diluted
earnings per share was computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average
number of common shares outstanding plus all potentially dilutive common shares
outstanding, primarily shares issuable upon the exercise of stock options using
the treasury stock method. The following table reconciles the number of shares
utilized in the earnings per share calculations:
 

 
     Options to purchase 92,000, 1,477,000 and 1,724,000 shares of common stock
were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share for 1998,
1997 and 1996, respectively, because the options' exercise prices were greater
than the average market price of the common shares and their effect would have
been antidilutive.
 
10.  ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE
 
     Accounts receivable as of January 3, 1999 and December 28, 1997 included
unbilled receivables of $38 million and $48 million, respectively, which were
due primarily from U.S. government agencies. Accounts receivable were net of
reserves for doubtful accounts of $4.6 million and $4.8 million as of January 3,
1999 and December 28, 1997, respectively.
 
11.  INVENTORIES
 
     Inventories as of January 3, 1999 and December 28, 1997 consisted of the
following:
 

 

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     Due to the divestitures in 1998, the portion of total inventories accounted
for using the LIFO method of determining inventory costs dropped from 25% in
1997 to 12% in 1998. The excess of current cost of inventories over the LIFO
value was approximately $5 million as of January 3, 1999 and $8 million as of
December 28, 1997.
 
12.  PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
 
     Property, plant and equipment, at cost, as of January 3, 1999 and December
28, 1997 consisted of the following:
 

 
     The increase in property, plant and equipment was primarily due to the
acquisition of Lumen ($53 million) and capital expenditures ($46.5 million) in
1998. These increases were partially offset by the Rotron and Sealol Industrial
Seals divestitures ($50 million).
 
13.  INVESTMENTS
 
     Investments as of January 3, 1999 and December 28, 1997 consisted of the
following:
 

 
     Joint venture investments are accounted for using the equity method.
Marketable investments consisted of common stocks and trust assets which were
primarily invested in common stocks and fixed-income securities to meet the
supplemental executive retirement plan obligation. The market values were based
on quoted market prices. As of January 3, 1999, the fixed-income securities, on
average, had maturities of approximately nine years. The net unrealized holding
gain on marketable investments, net of deferred income taxes, reported as a
component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in stockholders'
equity, was $0.4 million at January 3, 1999 and $0.5 million at December 28,
1997.
 

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     Marketable investments classified as available for sale as of January 3,
1999 and December 28, 1997 consisted of the following:
 

 
14.  INTANGIBLE ASSETS
 
     Intangible assets consist mainly of goodwill from acquisitions accounted
for using the purchase method of accounting representing the excess of cost over
the fair market value of the net assets of the acquired businesses. Goodwill is
being amortized over periods of 10-30 years. Other identifiable intangible
assets from acquisitions include patents, trademarks, trade names and developed
technology. Approximately $11.8 million was allocated to trade names, trademarks
and patents in connection with the Lumen acquisition and will be amortized over
ten years. Intangible assets were shown net of accumulated amortization of $57.3
million and $48.7 million as of January 3, 1999 and December 28, 1997,
respectively. The increase resulted primarily from goodwill and other
intangibles related to the Lumen, Belfab, LSR and Isolab acquisitions in 1998.
 
15.  DEBT
 
     Short-term debt at January 3, 1999 and December 28, 1997 consisted
primarily of commercial paper borrowings of $150 million and $45.8 million,
respectively, that had maturities of 60 days or less. The weighted-average
interest rate on commercial paper borrowings was 5.4% at January 3, 1999 and
6.1% at December 28, 1997. Commercial paper borrowings averaged $23 million
during 1998 at an average interest rate of 5.5%, compared to average borrowings
of $47 million during 1997 at an average interest rate of 5.6%. At January 3,
1999, short-term debt also included $6.2 million outstanding under a revolving
credit agreement, bearing interest at 9%, assumed by the Company in connection
with the Lumen acquisition.
 
     In March 1999, two of the Company's $100 million credit facilities were
renewed and increased to a $250 million credit facility that expires in March
2000. The Company has an additional revolving credit agreement for $100 million
that expires in March 2002. These agreements serve as backup facilities for the
commercial paper borrowings. During 1998, the Company did not draw down its
credit facilities; there are no significant commitment fees.
 
     At January 3, 1999 and December 28, 1997, long-term debt included $115
million of unsecured ten-year notes issued in October 1995 at an interest rate
of 6.8%, which mature in 2005. The carrying amount approximated the estimated
fair value at January 3, 1999 and December 28, 1997 based on a quoted market
price. The total notes authorized were $150 million, and the unissued notes of
$35 million are covered by a shelf registration statement. At January 3, 1999,
long-term
 

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
debt also included $14.8 million assumed by the Company in connection with the
Lumen acquisition. This debt consisted of unsecured notes of $12.4 million at 8%
due in 2002, which were retired at a premium in February 1999, and a $2.4
million term loan at prime plus 1.75% due in 2000.
 
16.  ACCRUED EXPENSES
 
     Accrued expenses as of January 3, 1999 and December 28, 1997 consisted of
the following:
 

 
     The increase in other accrued operating expenses resulted primarily from
accruals related to the Lumen acquisition ($47 million) and deferred gain
recognition related to dispositions ($16 million).
 
17.  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS
 
     Savings Plan:  The Company has a savings plan for the benefit of qualified
U.S. employees. Under this plan, the Company contributes an amount equal to the
lesser of 55% of the amount of the employee's voluntary contribution or 3.3% of
the employee's annual compensation. Savings plan expense was $6.2 million in
1998, $6.5 million in 1997 and $5.8 million in 1996.
 
     Pension Plans:  The Company has defined benefit pension plans covering
substantially all U.S. employees and non-U.S. pension plans for non-U.S.
employees. The plans provide benefits that are based on an employee's years of
service and compensation near retirement. Assets of the U.S. plan are composed
primarily of equity and debt securities.
 
     Net periodic pension cost included the following components:
 

 

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     The following table sets forth the changes in the funded status of the
principal U.S. pension plan and the principal non-U.S. pension plans and the
amounts recognized in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets as of January 3,
1999 and December 28, 1997:
 

 
     The non-U.S. accrued pension liability included $33.8 million and $30.2
million classified as long-term liabilities as of January 3, 1999 and December
28, 1997, respectively. The U.S. pension asset was classified as other
noncurrent assets.
 
     The Company also sponsors a supplemental executive retirement plan to
provide senior management with benefits in excess of normal pension benefits. At
January 3, 1999 and December 28, 1997, the projected benefit obligations were
$13.8 million and $11.9 million, respectively. Assets with a fair value of $10.1
million and $10.2 million, segregated in a trust, were available to meet this
obligation as of January 3, 1999 and December 28, 1997, respectively.
 

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
Pension expense for this plan was approximately $1.4 million in 1998, $1.3
million in 1997 and $1.5 million in 1996.
 
     Postretirement Medical Plans:  The Company provides health care benefits
for eligible retired U.S. employees under a comprehensive major medical plan or
under health maintenance organizations where available. The majority of the
Company's U.S. employees become eligible for retiree health benefits if they
retire directly from the Company and have at least ten years of service.
Generally, the major medical plan pays stated percentages of covered expenses
after a deductible is met and takes into consideration payments by other group
coverages and by Medicare. The plan requires retiree contributions under most
circumstances and has provisions for cost-sharing changes. For employees
retiring after 1991, the Company has capped its medical premium contribution
based on employees' years of service. The Company funds the amount allowable
under a 401(h) provision in the Company's defined benefit pension plan. Assets
of the plan are composed primarily of equity and debt securities.
 
     Net periodic postretirement medical benefit cost (credit) included the
following components:
 

 
     The following table sets forth the changes in the postretirement medical
plan's funded status and the amounts recognized in the Company's Consolidated
Balance Sheets at January 3, 1999 and December 28, 1997:
 

 

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 

 
     The accrued postretirement medical liability included $11 million and $11.3
million classified as long-term liabilities as of January 3, 1999 and December
28, 1997, respectively.
 
     If the health care cost trend rate was increased 1%, the accumulated
postretirement benefit obligations would have increased by approximately $1
million at January 3, 1999. The effect of this increase on the annual cost for
1998 would have been approximately $0.1 million. If the health care cost trend
rate was decreased 1%, the accumulated postretirement benefit obligations would
have decreased by approximately $0.8 million at January 3, 1999. The effect of
this decrease on the annual cost for 1998 would have been approximately $0.1
million.
 
     Deferred Compensation Plans:  During 1998, the Company implemented certain
nonqualified deferred compensation programs that provide benefits payable to
officers and certain key employees or their designated beneficiaries at
specified future dates, upon retirement or death. Benefit payments under these
plans are funded by a combination of contributions from participants and the
Company.
 
     Employee Stock Purchase Plan:  In May 1998, the Company's Board of
Directors adopted an Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP), whereby the Company is
authorized to issue up to 2.5 million shares of its common stock to its
employees who participate in the ESPP. Under the Plan, participating employees
will have the right to purchase common stock at a price equal to the lesser of
90% of the closing price on either the first day of the offering period or the
last day of the offering period. The first offering period began on September 1,
1998 and ends on June 30, 1999. The number of shares which an employee may
purchase, subject to certain aggregate limits, is determined by the employee's
voluntary contribution which may not exceed 10% of base compensation.
 
     Other:  The Company has an EVA(R) Incentive Compensation Plan, the purpose
of which is to provide incentive compensation to certain key employees,
including all officers, in a form that relates the financial rewards to an
increase in the value of the Company to its shareholders. Awards under this plan
are approved annually by the Board of Directors. (EVA(R) is a registered
trademark of Stern Stewart & Co.)
 
     The preceding information does not include amounts related to benefit plans
applicable to employees associated with the NASA contract because the Company is
not responsible for the current or future funded status of the plans.
 
     The Company incurred a $2.8 million charge in 1997 related to a cash
deficit in an employee benefit plan.
 

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
18.  REIMBURSEMENT OF INVESTED CAPITAL
 
     In 1997, the Company received a $30.4 million payment as part of the
negotiation of a joint development contract. This payment represented a $27
million reimbursement of previously invested capital, which will be amortized to
income over the estimated life of the related assets, and a $3.4 million
reimbursement of cost of capital, which was included in other income. The
reimbursement, net of accumulated amortization, included in long-term
liabilities was $20.4 million as of January 3, 1999 and $24.7 million as of
December 28, 1997.
 
19.  CONTINGENCIES
 
     The Company is subject to various claims, legal proceedings and
investigations covering a wide range of matters that arise in the ordinary
course of its business activities. Each of these matters is subject to various
uncertainties, and it is possible that some of these matters may be resolved
unfavorably to the Company. The Company has established accruals for matters
that are probable and reasonably estimable. Management believes that any
liability that may ultimately result from the resolution of these matters in
excess of amounts provided will not have a material adverse effect on the
financial position or results of operations of the Company.
 
     In addition, the Company is conducting a number of environmental
investigations and remedial actions at current and former Company locations and,
along with other companies, has been named a potentially responsible party (PRP)
for certain waste disposal sites. The Company accrues for environmental issues
in the accounting period that the Company's responsibility is established and
when the cost can be reasonably estimated. The Company has accrued $9.5 million
as of January 3, 1999, representing management's estimate of the total cost of
ultimate disposition of known environmental matters. Such amount is not
discounted and does not reflect any recovery of any amounts through insurance or
indemnification arrangements. These cost estimates are subject to a number of
variables, including the stage of the environmental investigations, the
magnitude of the possible contamination, the nature of the potential remedies,
possible joint and several liability, the timeframe over which remediation may
occur and the possible effects of changing laws and regulations. For sites where
the Company has been named a PRP, management does not currently anticipate any
additional liability to result from the inability of other significant named
parties to contribute. The Company expects that such accrued amounts could be
paid out over a period of up to five years. As assessments and remediation
activities progress at each individual site, these liabilities are reviewed and
adjusted to reflect additional information as it becomes available. There have
been no environmental problems to date that have had or are expected to have a
material effect on the Company's financial position or results of operations.
While it is reasonably possible that a material loss exceeding the amounts
recorded may have been incurred, the preliminary stages of the investigations
make it impossible for the Company to reasonably estimate the range of potential
exposure. The Company adopted the provisions of Statement of Position 96-1,
Environmental Remediation Liabilities, in 1997. Its adoption did not have a
material effect on results of operations.
 
     The Company has received notices from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS)
asserting deficiencies in federal corporate income taxes for the Company's 1985
to 1994 tax years. The total additional tax proposed by the IRS amounts to $74
million plus interest. The Company has filed petitions in the United States Tax
Court to challenge most of the deficiencies asserted by the IRS. The Company
believes that it has meritorious legal defenses to those deficiencies and
believes that the ultimate outcome of the case will not result in a material
impact on the Company's consolidated results of operations or financial
position.
 

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
20.  RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
 
     During 1998, demand for certain products was adversely affected by problems
in Asia. In addition, the Asian economic problems have weakened the currencies
of some Asian countries, making products of competitors located in Asia more
price competitive.
 
     Optoelectronics' future results are dependent on integration of the Lumen
acquisition and completion of the development of amorphous silicon technology
and successful market introduction of products based on this technology. In the
IC Sensors business, new product development and shifting production to lower
cost locations will be required in order to compete more effectively.
 
     In 1998, 37% of the Company's sales were to U.S. government agencies,
predominantly to the Department of Defense and NASA. In accordance with
government regulations, all of the Company's government contracts are subject to
termination for the convenience of the government. Cost incurred under
cost-reimbursable contracts are subject to audit by the government. The results
of prior audits, complete through 1993, have not had a material effect on the
Company. In August 1998 the Company announced that its joint venture with
Johnson Controls was unsuccessful in its bid to provide support services to NASA
and the Air Force at Florida's Kennedy Space Center, Cape Canaveral Air Station
and Patrick Air Force Base. The Company recorded a charge of $2.3 million in
1998 in connection with the closeout of this contract. The NASA contract at the
Kennedy Space Center contributed sales of $134 million in 1998.
 
     The Company's management and operations contracts with the DOE are
presented as discontinued operations. The Company's last DOE management and
operations contract expired on September 30, 1997. The Company is in the process
of negotiating contract closeouts and does not anticipate incurring any material
loss in excess of previously established reserves.
 
     For information concerning various investigations, claims, legal
proceedings, environmental investigations and remedial actions, and notices from
the IRS, see Note 19. For information concerning factors affecting future
performance, see Management's Discussion and Analysis.
 
21.  STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
     At January 3, 1999, 8.7 million shares of the Company's common stock were
reserved for employee benefit plans.
 
     In 1998, the Company awarded 65,000 shares of common stock to two officers.
Sale of 35,000 shares is restricted for one year from the date of grant, and
sale of the remaining 30,000 shares is restricted for two years.
 
     The Company has nonqualified and incentive stock option plans for officers
and key employees. Under these plans, options may be granted at prices not less
than 100% of the fair market value on the date of grant. All options expire 10
years from the date of grant. Options granted since 1994 become exercisable, in
ratable installments, over periods of 3-5 years from the date of grant. The
Stock Option Committee of the Board of Directors, at its sole discretion, may
also include stock appreciation rights in any option granted. There are no stock
appreciation rights outstanding under these plans.
 

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     A summary of certain stock option information is as follows:
 

 
     In January 1998, the Board of Directors granted 400,000 options to an
officer at an exercise price of $21.19 per share; 200,000 options were granted
pursuant to the EG&G, Inc. 1992 Stock Option Plan, and 200,000 options were
granted pursuant to a plan other than the 1992 Stock Option Plan. In addition,
167,500 options were granted pursuant to the 1992 Plan at various dates in 1998
at exercise prices ranging from $23.13 per share to $30.25 per share. In
December 1997, 927,000 options were granted at an exercise price of $19.19 per
share. In 1996, the Board of Directors granted 650,000 options in January and
728,000 options in December at exercise prices of $21.75 and $19.75 per share,
respectively.
 
     The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding
at January 3, 1999:
 

 
     In connection with the acquisition of Lumen Technologies, Lumen options
were converted into 429,000 EG&G stock options, effective January 5, 1999. These
options have an average exercise price of $14.47 per share and are fully vested.
Also in January 1999, the Board of Directors granted 1,235,000 options at an
exercise price of $27.25 per share. These options have not been reflected in the
preceding tables.
 
     During 1996, the Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 123, Accounting
for Stock-Based Compensation. The Company has elected to continue to account for
stock options at intrinsic value with disclosure of the effects of fair value
accounting on net income and earnings per share on a pro forma basis.
 

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     The following table reflects pro forma net income from continuing
operations and diluted earnings per share had the Company elected to adopt the
fair value approach of SFAS No. 123:
 

 
     Pro forma compensation cost may not be representative of that to be
expected in future years since the estimated fair value of stock options is
amortized to expense over the vesting period, and additional options may be
granted in future years.
 
     The weighted-average fair value of options at their grant dates during 1998
was $6.83. The fair value of each option was $6.14 for options granted in 1997,
$6.20 for the options granted in December 1996 and $6.68 for the options granted
in January 1996. The values were estimated on the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes option pricing model. The following weighted-average assumptions
were used in the model:
 

 
     Under a Shareholder Rights Plan, preferred stock purchase rights were
distributed on February 8, 1995 as a dividend at the rate of one right for each
share of common stock outstanding. Each right, when exercisable, entitles a
stockholder to purchase one one-thousandth of a share of a new series of junior
participating preferred stock at a price of $60. The rights become exercisable
only if a person or group acquires 20% or more or announces a tender or exchange
offer for 30% or more of the Company's common stock. This preferred stock is
nonredeemable and will have 1,000 votes per share. The rights are nonvoting,
expire in 2005 and may be redeemed prior to becoming exercisable. The Company
has reserved 70,000 shares of preferred stock, designated as Series C Junior
Participating Preferred Stock, for issuance upon exercise of such rights. If a
person (an Acquiring Person) acquires or obtains the right to acquire 20% or
more of the Company's outstanding common stock (other than pursuant to certain
approved offers), each right (other than rights held by the Acquiring Person)
will entitle the holder to purchase shares of common stock of the Company at
one-half of the current market price at the date of occurrence of the event. In
addition, in the event that the Company is involved in a merger or other
business combination in which it is not the surviving corporation or in
connection with which the Company's common stock is changed or converted, or it
sells or transfers 50% or more of its assets or earning power to another person,
each right that has not previously been exercised will entitle its holder to
purchase shares of common stock of such other person at one-half of the current
market price of such common stock at the date of the occurrence of the event.
 

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     The components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) were as
follows:
 

 
     The tax effects related to each component of other comprehensive income
(loss) were as follows:
 

 
22.  FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
     Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to
concentrations of credit risk consist principally of temporary cash investments
and accounts receivable. The Company had no significant concentrations of credit
risk as of January 3, 1999.
 
     The Company has limited involvement with derivative financial instruments.
In the ordinary course of business, the Company enters into foreign exchange
forward contracts for periods consistent with its committed exposures to
mitigate the effect of foreign currency movements on
 

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Transactions covered by hedge
contracts include intercompany and third-party receivables and payables. The
contracts are primarily in European currencies, generally have maturities that
do not exceed one month and have no cash requirements until maturity. Credit
risk and market risk are minimal because the forward contracts are with very
large banks and gains and losses are offset against foreign exchange gains and
losses on the underlying hedged transactions. The notional amount of outstanding
forward contracts was $41.6 million as of January 3, 1999 and $75.8 million as
of December 28, 1997. The carrying value as of January 3, 1999 and December 28,
1997, which approximated fair value, was not significant.
 
     See Notes 1, 13 and 15 for disclosures about fair values, including methods
and assumptions, of other financial instruments.
 
23.  LEASES
 
     The Company leases certain property and equipment under operating leases.
Rental expense charged to earnings for 1998, 1997 and 1996 amounted to $19.4
million, $15.6 million and $17.2 million, respectively. Minimum rental
commitments under noncancelable operating leases are as follows: $17.8 million
in 1999, $15.6 million in 2000, $11.1 million in 2001, $7.6 million in 2002,
$3.7 million in 2003 and $11.5 million after 2003. The above information does
not include amounts related to leases covered by certain government contracts
because costs, including future commitments, are reimbursable under the terms of
the contracts, even if the contracts are terminated.
 
24.  INDUSTRY SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA INFORMATION
 
     In 1998, the Company adopted SFAS No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an
Enterprise and Related Information, which changes the way the Company reports
information about its operating segments. Information for prior years has been
restated in order to conform to the 1998 presentation. The Company's businesses
are reported as five reportable segments which reflect the Company's management
and structure under five SBUs.
 
     The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as those
described in Note 1. The Company evaluates the performance of its operating
segments based on operating profit. Intersegment sales and transfers are not
significant.
 
     The operating segments and their principal products or service areas are:
 
          Life Sciences:  High-performance bioanalytic and diagnostic
     instruments for use in hospitals, clinics and pharmaceutical and medical
     research facilities. The Company also sells reagents and consumables for
     use in connection with certain of these instruments.
 
          Optoelectronics:  A broad variety of components that emit and detect
     light, including photocells, imaging systems, light sources with various
     types of flashtubes and laser diodes, and devices for weapons' trigger
     systems. Products included micromachined detectors, amorphous silicon
     detector panels, flashlamps, specialty lighting, CCDs, X-ray tubes,
     detectors, photodiodes and high-intensity specialty discharge lamps.
 
          Instruments:  Instruments and systems for X-ray imaging, security
     screening, food screening, process measurement, nuclear, electro-chemical
     and photolithography applications. The Company also conducts lubricant and
     structural testing simulations for the transportation industry.
 
          Engineered Products:  Static and dynamic sealing, bellows devices,
     advanced pneumatic components, systems and valves for use in the aerospace,
     power generation and semiconductor industries.
 

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
          Technical Services:  Engineering, scientific, environmental,
     management and technical support services for a broad range of governmental
     and industrial customers.
 
     Sales and operating profit by segment are shown in the Sales and Operating
Profit by Operating Segment section of this report; such information with
respect to 1998, 1997 and 1996 is considered an integral part of this note.
 
     Sales to U.S. government agencies, which were predominantly to the
Department of Defense and NASA in the Technical Services segment, were $524
million, $537 million and $527 million in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. In
August 1998, the Company announced that its joint venture with Johnson Controls
was unsuccessful in its bid to provide support services to NASA and the Air
Force at Florida's Kennedy Space Center, Cape Canaveral Air Station and Patrick
Air Force Base. The NASA contract at the Kennedy Space Center contributed sales
of $134 million in 1998, $168 million in 1997 and $172 million in 1996.
 
     Additional information relating to the Company's operations in the various
operating segments is as follows:
 

 

 
     Divestitures and Other total assets consisted primarily of cash and cash
equivalents, prepaid pension, prepaid taxes and, in 1997, receivables and
inventories of operations divested in 1998.
 

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     The following geographic area information includes sales based on location
of external customer and net property, plant and equipment based on physical
location:
 

 

 
25.  QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)
 
     Selected quarterly financial information follows:
 

 

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 

 
26.  SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
 
  Shelf Registration
     In January 1999, the Company filed a shelf registration statement with the
SEC to register $465 million of securities. This registration statement,
together with $35 million of securities covered by a previously filed
registration statement, will provide the Company with financing flexibility to
offer up to $500 million aggregate principal amount of common stock, preferred
stock, depository shares, debt securities, warrants, stock purchase contacts
and/or stock purchase units. The Company expects to use the net proceeds from
the sale of the securities for general corporate purposes, which may include,
among other things: the repayment of outstanding indebtedness, working capital,
capital expenditures, the repurchase of shares of common stock and acquisitions.
The precise amount and timing of the application of such proceeds will depend
upon our funding requirements and the availability and cost of other funds.
 
  Acquisition
     In March 1999, the Company announced that it had entered into an agreement
to acquire Perkin-Elmer's Analytical Instruments Division, a leading producer of
high quality analytical testing instruments, for a purchase price of
approximately $425 million. The Company plans to finance the transaction with a
combination of existing cash and equivalents, borrowings under existing credit
facilities and other financing, as required. Under the current terms of the
agreement, the Company will also assume a long-term pension liability of
approximately $65 million. The closing of the acquisition is subject to certain
customary closing conditions, including regulatory approval. The transaction is
expected to close during the second quarter of 1999. Perkin-Elmer Analytical
Instruments generated 1998 fiscal year sales of $569 million. Its systems are
widely used to achieve product uniformity in drugs and medicines, ensure the
purity of food and water, protect the environment, measure and test the
structural integrity of many different materials and various other applications.
The division sells to traditional analytical instruments and life sciences
markets. The Company expects to incur a charge for acquired in-process R&D in
the quarter the transaction closes. The amount of such charge has not yet been
determined. The Company also announced that it will explore strategic
alternatives for its Technical Services business unit and has engaged Goldman,
Sachs & Co. to conduct the review.
 

 
                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
 
To the Stockholders of EG&G, Inc.:
 
     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of EG&G, Inc.
(a Massachusetts corporation) and subsidiaries as of January 3, 1999 and
December 28, 1997, and the related consolidated statements of income,
stockholders' equity and cash flows for the years ended January 3, 1999,
December 28, 1997 and December 29, 1996. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
 
     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
     In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of EG&G, Inc.
and subsidiaries as of January 3, 1999 and December 28, 1997, and the results of
their operations and their cash flows for the years ended January 3, 1999,
December 28, 1997 and December 29, 1996 in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles.
 
/s/ ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
- ------------------------------------------------------
Arthur Andersen LLP
Boston, Massachusetts
January 23, 1999 (except with
respect to the matters
discussed in Note 26, for which
the date is March 8, 1999)
 

 
ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
     None.
 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
     (a) DIRECTORS
 
     The information required by this Item with respect to Directors is
contained in part under the caption "Executive Officers of the Registrant" in
Part I of this Report, and the remainder is contained in the Company's 1999
Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on April 27,
1999 (the "1999 Proxy Statement") under the captions "Election of Directors" and
"Information Relative to the Board of Directors and Certain of its Committees"
and is herein incorporated by reference. The Company expects to file the 1999
Proxy Statement within 120 days after the close of the fiscal year ended January
3, 1999.
 
     (b) EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
 
     The information required by this item with respect to Executive Officers is
contained in Part I of this Report.
 
ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
     The information required by this Item is contained under the captions
"Summary Compensation Table" up to and including "Aggregated Option Exercises in
Last Fiscal Year and Fiscal Year-End Value Option Table" and Notes thereto in
the 1999 Proxy Statement, and is herein incorporated by reference.
 
ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
     The information required by this Item is contained under the captions
"Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners" and "Security Ownership of
Management" in the 1999 Proxy Statement, and is herein incorporated by
reference.
 
ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
     Not applicable.
 

 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
     (a) DOCUMENTS FILED AS PART OF THIS REPORT:
 
        1.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
             Included in Part II, Item 8:
 
               Consolidated Income Statements for the Three Years Ended January
               3, 1999
 
               Consolidated Balance Sheets as of January 3, 1999 and December
               28, 1997
 
               Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the Three
               Years Ended January 3, 1999
 
               Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Three Years Ended
               January 3, 1999
 
               Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
               Report of Independent Public Accountants
 
        2.  FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
 
           Report of Independent Public Accountants on Financial Statement
           Schedules
 
           Schedule II -- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
 
           Financial statement schedules, other than those above, are omitted
           because of the absence of conditions under which they are required or
           because the required information is given in the financial statements
           or notes thereto.
 
           Separate financial statements of the Registrant are omitted since it
           is primarily an operating company, and since all subsidiaries
           included in the consolidated financial statements being filed, in the
           aggregate, do not have minority equity interests and/or indebtedness
           to any person other than the Registrant or its consolidated
           subsidiaries in amounts which together exceed five percent of total
           consolidated assets.
 
        3.  EXHIBITS
 

 


 


 
- ---------------
* This exhibit is a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement
  required to be filed as an Exhibit pursuant to Item 14(c) of Form 10-K.
 
     (b) REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
     A report on Form 8-K was filed with the Commission on October 23, 1998
regarding a press release issued on October 21, 1998 reporting on the Company's
financial results for the third quarter of 1998.
 
     A report on Form 8-K was filed with the Commission on November 4, 1998
regarding the Company's announcement that it had entered into a definitive
agreement to acquire Lumen Technologies, Inc., a maker of high-technology
specialty light sources, for cash and assumed debt totaling approximately $250
million.
 
     A report on Form 8-K was filed with the Commission on November 5, 1998
regarding the Company's announcement on October 22, 1998 that it had received
authorization from the Company's Board of Directors to purchase up to 5 million
shares of the Company's Common Stock.
 
     A report on Form 8-K was filed with the Commission on December 29, 1998
regarding a press release announcing that the Company's Board of Directors had
elected Gregory L. Summe to assume the position of Chief Executive Officer,
effective January 1, 1999.
 
     A report on Form 8-K was filed with the Commission on December 30, 1998
regarding the completion of the Company's tender offer for shares of common
stock of Lumen Technologies, Inc.
 
     (c) PROXY STATEMENT
 
     EG&G's 1999 Proxy Statement, in definitive form, will be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission in Washington, D.C. pursuant to the
Commission's Rule 14a-6 within 120 days after the close of the fiscal year ended
January 3, 1999.
 

 
                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
                                  ON SCHEDULES
 
To EG&G, Inc.:
 
     We have audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards,
the consolidated financial statements of EG&G, Inc. included in this Form 10-K
and have issued our report thereon dated January 23, 1999 (except with respect
to the matters discussed in Note 26, for which the date is March 8, 1999). Our
audit was made for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic financial
statements taken as a whole. Schedule II is the responsibility of the Company's
management and is presented for purposes of complying with the Securities and
Exchange Commission's rules and is not part of the basic financial statements.
The schedule has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audit
of the basic financial statements and, in our opinion, fairly states in all
material respects the financial data required to be set forth therein in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole.
 
/s/ ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
- ------------------------------------------------------
Arthur Andersen LLP
Boston, Massachusetts
January 23, 1999
 

 
                                  SCHEDULE II
 
                          EG&G, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                   FOR THE THREE YEARS ENDED JANUARY 3, 1999
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)
 

 
- ---------------
(a) Includes reserves of $1,371 related to companies acquired in 1998.
 
(b) Represents accrued restructuring costs of $5,000 related to a company
    acquired in 1998.
 

 
                   CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
 
     As independent public accountants, we hereby consent to the incorporation
by reference of our reports dated January 23, 1999 (except with respect to the
matters discussed in Note 26, for which the date is March 8, 1999), included in
this Form 10-K, into Registration Statements previously filed by EG&G, Inc. on,
respectively, Form S-8, File No. 2-98168; Form S-8, File No. 33-36082; Form S-8,
File No. 33-35379; Form S-8, File No. 33-49898; Form S-8, File No. 33-57606;
Form S-8, File No. 33-54785; Form S-8, File No. 33-62805; Form S-8, File No.
333-8811; Form S-8, File No. 333-32059; Form S-8, File No. 333-32463; Form S-3,
File No. 33-59675; Form S-8, File No. 333-50953; Form S-8, File No. 333-56921;
Form S-8, File No. 333-58517; Form S-8, File No. 333-61615; Form S-8, File No.
333-65367; Form S-8, File No. 333-69115; Form S-8, File No. 333-70977 and Form
S-3, File No. 333-71069.
 
/s/ ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
- ------------------------------------------------------
Arthur Andersen LLP
Boston, Massachusetts
March 30, 1999
 
                               POWER OF ATTORNEY
 
     We, the undersigned officers and directors of EG&G, Inc., hereby severally
constitute Gregory L. Summe, and Murray Gross, and each of them singly, our true
and lawful attorneys with full power to them, and each of them singly, to sign
for us and in our names, in the capacities indicated below, this Annual Report
on Form 10-K and any and all amendments to said Annual Report on Form 10-K, and
generally to do all such things in our name and behalf in our capacities as
officers and directors to enable EG&G, Inc. to comply with the provisions of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and all requirements of the Securities and
Exchange Commission, hereby rectifying and confirming signed by our said
attorneys, and any and all amendments thereto.
 
     Witness our hands on the date set forth below.
 
                                   SIGNATURES
 
     PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED ON
ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED.
 
                                   EG&G, INC.
 

 

 
     PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS
REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE
REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE DATE INDICATED:
 

 

 
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
 

 

