
10-K
APACHE CORPRATION - DATED DECEMBER 31, 1999




- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K

(MARK ONE)
[X]               ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999,

                                       OR

[ ]             TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM        TO

                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-4300

                               APACHE CORPORATION



                              ONE POST OAK CENTRAL
                       2000 POST OAK BOULEVARD, SUITE 100
                           HOUSTON, TEXAS 77056-4400
                        TELEPHONE NUMBER (713) 296-6000

          Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:



        Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: NONE

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes [X]  No [ ]

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  [ ]



                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:

     Portions of registrant's proxy statement relating to registrant's 2000
annual meeting of stockholders have been incorporated by reference into Part III
hereof.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                               
                                  DESCRIPTION



     All defined terms under Rule 4-10(a) of Regulation S-X shall have their
statutorily prescribed meanings when used in this report. Quantities of natural
gas are expressed in this report in terms of thousand cubic feet (Mcf), million
cubic feet (MMcf) or billion cubic feet (Bcf). Oil is quantified in terms of
barrels (bbls); thousands of barrels (Mbbls) and millions of barrels (MMbbls).
Natural gas is compared to oil in terms of barrels of oil equivalent (boe) or
million barrels of oil equivalent (MMboe). Oil and natural gas liquids are
compared with natural gas in terms of million cubic feet equivalent (MMcfe) and
billion cubic feet equivalent (Bcfe). One barrel of oil is the energy equivalent
of six Mcf of natural gas. Daily oil and gas production is expressed in terms of
barrels of oil per day (b/d) and thousands or millions of cubic feet of gas per
day (Mcf/d and MMcf/d, respectively) or millions of British thermal units per
day (MMBtu/d), respectively. Gas sales volumes may be expressed in terms of one
million British thermal units (MMBtu), which is approximately, equal to one Mcf.
With respect to information relating to the Company's working interest in wells
or acreage, "net" oil and gas wells or acreage is determined by multiplying
gross wells or acreage by the Company's working interest therein. Unless
otherwise specified, all references to wells and acres are gross.


                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

GENERAL

     Apache Corporation (Apache or the Company), a Delaware corporation formed
in 1954, is an independent energy company that explores for, develops and
produces natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids. In North America,
Apache's exploration and production interests are focused on the Gulf of Mexico,
the Anadarko Basin, the Permian Basin, the Gulf Coast and the Western
Sedimentary Basin of Canada. Outside of North America, Apache has exploration
and production interests offshore Western Australia and in Egypt and exploration
interests in Poland and offshore The People's Republic of China (China). Apache
common stock, par value $1.25 per share, has been listed on the New York Stock
Exchange since 1969, and on the Chicago Stock Exchange since 1960.

     Apache holds interests in many of its U.S., Canadian and international
properties through operating subsidiaries, such as Apache Canada Ltd., DEK
Energy Company (DEKALB, formerly known as DEKALB Energy Company), Apache Energy
Limited (formerly known as Hadson Energy Limited), Apache International, Inc.,
and Apache Overseas, Inc. Properties referred to in this document may be held by
those subsidiaries. Apache treats all operations as one line of business.

1999 RESULTS

     In 1999, Apache had record net income attributable to common stock of
$186.4 million, or $1.73 per share, on total revenues of $1.3 billion. Net cash
provided by operating activities during 1999 was $638.2 million, a 35 percent
increase from 1998.

     Apache reported its 22nd consecutive year of production growth (up 17
percent) and 12th consecutive year of oil and gas reserves growth (up 32
percent) in 1999. Apache's average daily production was 95 Mbbls of oil and
natural gas liquids and 656 MMcf of natural gas for the year. Giving effect to
1999 production, acquisitions, dispositions, revisions and drilling activity,
the Company's estimated proved reserves increased by 194 MMboe in 1999 over the
prior year to 807 MMboe, of which approximately 49 percent was natural gas.
Based on 613 MMboe reported at year-end 1998, Apache's reserve additions
(including revisions) during the year reflect replacement of 416 percent of the
Company's 1999 production. Apache's drilling and production-enhancement program
yielded 190 new producing wells out of 252 attempts and involved 579 major North
American workover and recompletion projects during the year.

     At December 31, 1999, Apache held interests in approximately 4,307 net oil
and gas wells and 2,148,620 net developed acres of oil and gas properties
worldwide. In addition, the Company had approximately 977,292 net undeveloped
acres under North American leases and 18,755,419 net undeveloped acres under
international exploration and production rights.

APACHE'S GROWTH STRATEGY

     Apache's growth strategy is to increase oil and gas reserves, production,
cash flow and earnings through a combination of exploratory drilling,
development of its inventory of existing projects, and property acquisitions
meeting defined financial parameters. The Company's drilling program emphasizes
reserve additions through low to moderate-risk drilling primarily on its North
American interests, and exploratory and subsequent development drilling
primarily on its international interests. The Company also emphasizes reducing
operating costs per unit produced and selling marginal and non-strategic
properties in order to enhance its profit margins.

     Apache's international exploration activities are an emerging component of
its long-term growth strategy. In addition to active, low to moderate-risk
drilling and exploration activities in Apache's North American focus areas,
higher-risk international exploration offers potential for greater rewards and
significant reserve additions. Apache directed its international efforts in 1999
toward development of certain discoveries offshore Western Australia and in
Egypt and toward further exploration efforts in those areas and on its
concessions in



Poland. Apache believes that reserve additions in these international areas are
likely to continue through higher-risk exploration and through appraisal and
development drilling of prior exploratory discoveries.

     For Apache, property acquisition is only one phase in a continuing cycle of
business growth. Apache's aim is to follow each acquisition with a cycle of
reserve enhancement, property consolidation and cash flow acceleration,
facilitating asset growth and debt reduction. This approach requires a well
planned and carefully executed property development program and, where
appropriate, a selective program of property dispositions. It motivates Apache
to target acquisitions that have ascertainable additional reserve potential and
to apply an active drilling, workover and recompletion program to realize the
potential of the acquired undeveloped and partially developed properties. Apache
prefers to operate its properties so that it can best influence their
development; as a result, the Company operates properties accounting for 82
percent of its production.

1999 ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSITIONS

     On February 1, 1999, the Company acquired oil and gas properties located in
the Gulf of Mexico from Petsec Energy Inc. (Petsec) for an adjusted purchase
price of $67.7 million. The Petsec transaction included estimated proved
reserves of approximately 10.2 MMboe as of the acquisition date.

     On May 18, 1999, Apache acquired from Shell Offshore Inc. and affiliated
Shell entities (Shell Offshore) its interest in 22 producing fields and 16
undeveloped blocks located in the Gulf of Mexico. The transaction also included
certain production-related assets and proprietary 2-D and 3-D seismic data
covering approximately 1,000 blocks in the Gulf of Mexico. The purchase price
was $687.7 million in cash and one million shares of Apache common stock (valued
at $28.125 million). The Shell Offshore acquisition included approximately 123.2
MMboe of proved reserves as of the acquisition date.

     On June 18, 1999, Apache acquired a 10 percent interest in the East Spar
Joint Venture and an 8.4 percent interest in the Harriet Joint Venture, both
located in the Carnarvon Basin (offshore Western Australia), from British-Borneo
Oil and Gas Plc (British-Borneo) for $83.6 million cash and working interests in
11 leases in the Gulf of Mexico. The British-Borneo transaction included
approximately 16.8 MMboe of proved reserves as of the acquisition date.

     On November 30, 1999, Apache acquired from Shell Canada Limited (Shell
Canada) producing properties and other assets for C$761 million (US$517.8
million). The producing properties consisted of 150,400 net acres and comprised
20 fields with an average working interest of 55 percent and proved reserves of
87.2 MMboe as of the acquisition date. Apache also acquired 294,294 net acres of
undeveloped leaseholdings, a 100 percent interest in a gas processing plant with
a potential throughput capacity of 160 MMcf per day, and 52,700 square miles of
2-D seismic and 884 square miles of 3-D seismic.

     In 1999, the Company also completed tactical regional acquisitions for cash
consideration totaling $17.7 million. These acquisitions added approximately 8.8
MMboe to the Company's proved reserves.

     On September 3, 1999, Apache sold its holdings in the Ivory Coast by
selling its wholly owned subsidiary, Apache Cote d'Ivoire Petroleum LDC, for a
total sales price of $46.1 million to a consortium consisting of Mondoil Cote
d'Ivoire LLC and Saur Energie Cote d'Ivoire. The sale consisted of 13.7 MMboe of
proved reserves and a gain was recorded to other revenues in the accompanying
statement of consolidated operations. Also, during 1999, Apache sold 27.9 MMboe
of proved reserves in several transactions from largely marginal North American
properties for $110 million.

EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION

     The Company's North American exploration and production activities are
diversified among four operating regions: Offshore, Midcontinent, Southern and
Canada. In July 1999, the Company combined its former Western region and the
onshore properties from its former Gulf region to form the new Southern region,
leaving its offshore properties in the renamed Offshore region. Approximately 73
percent of the Company's proved reserves are located in these North American
regions. Egypt and Australia are the Company's most important international
regions. The Company's Egyptian operations are headquartered in Cairo, and
Apache conducts its Australian exploration and production operations from Perth.
Information concerning the amount of revenue, operating income (loss) and total
assets attributable to U.S., Canadian and


international operations is set forth in Note 12 to the Company's consolidated
financial statements under Item 8 below.

     Offshore. The Offshore region comprises the Company's interests in the Gulf
of Mexico, offshore Louisiana and Texas. In 1999, the Offshore region was
Apache's leading region for production and production revenues contributing
approximately $346.2 million in revenues from production of 21.3 MMboe for the
year. The Company performed 110 workover and recompletion operations during 1999
in the offshore region and participated in drilling 24 wells, 16 of which were
completed as producers. As of December 31, 1999, the region encompassed 482,204
net acres, and accounted for 146.8 MMboe, or 18 percent, of the Company's
year-end 1999 total estimated proved reserves.

     Midcontinent. Apache's Midcontinent region operates in Oklahoma, eastern
and northern Texas, Arkansas and northern Louisiana. The region has focused
operations on its sizable position in the Anadarko Basin of western Oklahoma.
Apache has drilled and operated in the Anadarko Basin for over four decades,
developing an extensive database of geologic information and a substantial
acreage position. In 1999, the Midcontinent region had approximately 10.5 MMboe
of production generating $143.7 million in revenue for the Company.

     At December 31, 1999, Apache held an interest in 391,935 net acres in the
region, which accounted for approximately 88.1 MMboe, or 11 percent, of Apache's
total estimated proved reserves. Apache participated in drilling 48 wells in the
Midcontinent region during the year, 40 of which were completed as producing
wells. The Company performed 50 workover and recompletion operations in the
region during 1999.

     Southern. The Southern region includes assets in the Permian Basin of
western Texas and New Mexico, the San Juan Basin of New Mexico, Central Texas,
and the Texas and Louisiana coasts. In 1999, the Southern region produced
approximately 14.1 MMboe and generated $212.3 million in production revenue. At
December 31, 1999, the Company held 626,241 net acres in the region, which
accounted for 206.3 MMboe, or 26 percent, of the Company's total estimated
proved reserves. Apache participated in drilling 58 wells in the Southern
region, 52 of which were productive wells. Apache performed 350 workovers and
recompletions in the Southern region during the year.

     Canada. Exploration and development activity in the Canadian region is
concentrated in the Provinces of Alberta and British Columbia. The region
produced approximately 7.4 MMboe and generated $86.9 million in production
revenue in 1999. Apache participated in drilling 49 wells in this region during
the year, 32 of which were completed as producers. The Company performed 69
workovers and recompletions on operated wells during 1999. At December 31, 1999,
the region encompassed approximately 896,701 net acres, and accounted for 150.9
MMboe, or 19 percent, of the Company's year-end 1999 total estimated proved
reserves.

     Egypt. At year end, Apache held 11,803,569 net acres in Egypt with 65.1
MMboe of estimated proved reserves or eight percent of Apache's total estimated
proved reserves. In 1999, Apache had 12.6 MMboe of production in Egypt, which
generated $235.9 million in production revenues. Apache owns a 75 percent
interest in the Qarun Block and a 40 percent interest in the Khalda Block, both
located in the Western Desert of Egypt. Production of gas from Khalda is
delivered for sale to the Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation (EGPC) at a
point west of Alexandria, Egypt, via a 34-inch gas pipeline, construction of
which commenced in 1997 and was completed in August 1999. Additional gas will be
delivered via a southern line expected to be completed mid-year 2000. The costs
of building the pipeline were borne by Apache, the other Khalda participants,
and the owners of a neighboring block and are recoverable from oil and gas
production from the Khalda Block.

     In addition to the Qarun and Khalda Blocks, Apache holds interests in the
East Beni Suef and Asyout Blocks to the south of the Qarun Block, and three
other blocks in the Western Desert of Egypt, the North East Abu Gharadig Block,
the East Bahariya Block, and the West Mediterranean Block No. 1 (partly onshore
and partly offshore). Apache also acquired interests in the Ras El Hekma and Ras
Kanayes concessions from Repsol Exploracion Egipto S.A. in December 1997.



     On November 30, 1999 Apache acquired from Amoco Egypt 100 percent of the
working interest in the WD-19 area in the Western Desert. This area has produced
oil in the past, but is currently inactive. Apache intends to drill additional
wells and, if successful, to tie them into adjoining Qarun facilities.

     Both the Khalda and Qarun Concession Agreements provide that Apache and its
partners in the concessions will pay all of the operating and capital costs for
developing the concessions, while the production will be split between EGPC and
the partners. Up to 40 percent of the oil and gas produced from each of the
concessions is available to the Company and its partners to recover operating
and capital costs for the applicable concession. To the extent eligible costs
exceed 40 percent of the oil and gas produced and sold from a concession in any
given quarter, such excess costs may be carried into future quarters without
limit. The remaining 60 percent of all oil and gas produced from the concessions
is divided between EGPC and Apache and its partners, with the percentage
received by Apache and its partners reducing as the gross daily average of oil
and gas produced on a quarterly basis increases. Under the Khalda Agreement,
capital costs are amortized over four years, while the Qarun agreement provides
for a five-year amortization.

     Australia. Western Australia became an important region for Apache after
the 1993 acquisition of Hadson Energy Resources Corporation (subsequently known
as Apache Energy Resources Corporation). In 1999, natural gas production in the
region increased by 51 percent from the prior year to approximately 76 MMcf/d.
Apache acts as operator for most of its Western Australian properties through
its wholly-owned subsidiary, Apache Energy Limited (AEL). During 1999, Apache
had 8.5 MMboe of production generating $118.5 million of production revenue.
Estimated proved reserves in Australia increased by 13 percent to 150.1 MMboe,
or 19 percent of the Company's year-end total estimated proved reserves. The
increase reflects, among other matters, the 1999 acquisition from British-Borneo
of holdings in the East Spar and Harriet fields. As of December 31, 1999, Apache
held 259,240 net developed acres and 1,664,440 net undeveloped acres offshore
Western Australia. Through AEL and its subsidiaries, Apache also operates the
Varanus Island gas hub with a throughput capacity of 240 MMcf/d and two 60-mile
(12-inch and 16-inch) pipelines from Varanus Island to connections with the
Dampier to Bunbury and Goldfields Gas Transmission pipelines. See "1999
Acquisitions and Dispositions" and "Oil and Natural Gas Marketing."

     Other International Operations. Outside of Canada, Egypt and Australia,
Apache currently has exploration interests in Poland and offshore China.

     Apache obtained its first properties in Poland on April 16, 1997, when the
Company assumed operatorship and a 50 percent interest in over 5.5 million acres
in Poland located near Lublin, southeast of Warsaw, from FX Energy, Inc. (FX
Energy). The Company has since acquired additional acreage in Poland, including
approximately 1.8 million acres in the Carpathian area near the southern border
of Poland and participation in a further 2.275 million acres in the Pomeranian
area of northwest Poland, giving Apache interests in 11,468,335 total gross
undeveloped acres and 5,734,169 net undeveloped acres as of December 31, 1999.
Apache is obligated to drill at least ten wells and to shoot at least 1,250
miles of seismic data in Poland. At year end, drilling operations on the first
five exploratory wells had been completed, and all were determined to be
exploratory dry holes. Subsequent to year end, a sixth well, known as the Wilga
well, tested at a combined rate of 16.9 MMcf of gas and 570 barrels of
condensate per day. The well is located on Block 255 of the Vistula Concession
in the Lublin basin. Apache and FX Energy plan to enter into further exploration
and production agreements with the Polish Oil and Gas Company (POGC), the
national oil company of Poland. Apache's operations in Poland are headquartered
in Warsaw.

     Apache is also the operator, with a 50 percent interest, of the Zhao Dong
Block in Bohai Bay, offshore China. In 1994 and 1995, discovery wells tested at
rates between 1,300 and 4,000 b/d of oil. The Company elected to proceed with
the second exploration phase, commencing in May 1996, which involved a
commitment to drill two additional exploratory wells. In early 1997, one well
tested at rates up to 11,571 b/d of oil and another tested at rates up to 15,359
b/d. An overall development plan for the C and D Fields in the Zhao Dong Block
was submitted to Chinese authorities in late 1997 and is awaiting approval.

     On May 28, 1999, Apache China Corporation LDC (Apache China, an indirect
wholly owned subsidiary of the Company) sent a notice of default to XCL-China,
Ltd. (XCL-China), a participant with Apache China in the Zhao Dong Block
offshore the People's Republic of China, and its parent company, XCL, Ltd.,


for the failure to pay approximately $10 million of costs pursuant to the
agreements governing the project. Prior to the expiration of the cure period,
XCL-China and XCL, Ltd. filed petitions initiating arbitration proceedings
against Apache China. The actions seek to disallow approximately $17 million in
costs expended by Apache China related to developing the Zhao Dong Block,
including the $10 million in costs billed by Apache China to XCL-China that have
not been paid. In addition, XCL-China has advised Apache China of XCL-China's
intent to seek the removal of Apache China as operator of the Block. Apache
China has denied the allegations made by XCL-China in its petition and is
vigorously contesting them. On November 30, 1999 the arbitration proceedings
were stayed in connection with the bankruptcy proceeding described below.

     On June 25, 1999, Apache China filed a petition in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Opelousas, Louisiana, to place XCL-China into involuntary bankruptcy under
Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code on account of XCL-China's failure to pay its
share of costs related to development of the Zhao Dong Block. On December 21,
1999, the holders of XCL, Ltd.'s senior secured notes, acting through their
Trustee, exercised their remedial rights under their indenture and removed the
existing Board of Directors of XCL-China, electing a new Board. The new Board of
Directors of XCL-China voted to withdraw XCL-China's opposition to Apache
China's Chapter 7 bankruptcy petition filed against XCL-China and on December
22, 1999 obtained an order of the Court converting the proceeding into a
voluntary Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding.

     Apache China has entered into negotiations with the Chinese authorities
concerning the terms and conditions of the development of the Zhao Dong Block
including, among other things the portion of XCL-China's future development
costs to be paid by the Chinese. Apache China is prepared to move forward as
soon as these negotiations are satisfactorily concluded.

     In September 1999, Apache sold its interests in the Ivory Coast as detailed
in "1999 Acquisitions and Dispositions" above.

OIL AND NATURAL GAS MARKETING

     On October 27, 1995, wholly owned affiliates of each of Apache, Oryx Energy
Company and Parker & Parsley Petroleum Company (Parker & Parsley) formed
Producers Energy Marketing LLC (ProEnergy), a Delaware limited liability
company. ProEnergy became fully operational on April 1, 1996, and marketed
substantially all of its members' domestic natural gas pursuant to member gas
purchase agreements having an initial term of 10 years, subject to early
termination following specified events. The price of gas purchased by ProEnergy
from its members was based upon agreed to published indexes. Effective January
1, 1998, Parker & Parsley withdrew from ProEnergy. In June 1998, Apache sold its
interest in ProEnergy to Cinergy Corp. (Cinergy) and formed a strategic alliance
with Cinergy to market substantially all the Company's natural gas production
from North America. ProEnergy, renamed Cinergy Marketing & Trading, LLC in June
1999, will continue to market Apache's North American natural gas production for
10 years, with an option to terminate after six years, under an amended and
restated gas purchase agreement effective July 1, 1998. During this period,
Apache is generally obligated to deliver most of its North American gas
production to Cinergy and, under certain circumstances, may have to make
payments to Cinergy if certain gas throughput thresholds are not met.

     Separate from its arrangements with Cinergy, Apache is also delivering
natural gas under several long-term supply agreements with terms greater than
one year.

     Apache assumed its own U.S. crude oil marketing operations in 1992. Most of
Apache's U.S. crude oil production is sold through lease-level marketing to
refiners, traders and transporters, generally under 30 day contracts that renew
automatically until canceled. Oil produced from Canadian properties is sold to
crude oil purchasers or refiners at market prices, which depend on worldwide
crude prices adjusted for transportation and crude quality. Natural gas produced
from Canadian properties is sold to major aggregators of natural gas, gas
marketers and direct users under long-term and short-term contracts. The oil and
gas contracts provide for sales at specified prices, or at prices that are
subject to change due to market conditions.

     The Company diversifies the markets for its Canadian gas production not
presently committed to Cinergy by selling directly or indirectly to customers
through aggregators and brokers in the United States and Canada.



Apache transports natural gas via the Company's firm transportation contracts to
California (12 MMcf/d) and to the Province of Ontario, Canada (four MMcf/d)
through end-users' firm transportation contracts. Pursuant to an agreement
entered into in 1994, the Company is also selling five MMcf/d of natural gas to
the Hermiston Cogeneration Project, located in the Pacific Northwest of the
United States. In 1996, the Company entered into an agreement with Westcoast Gas
Services, Inc. for the sale of 5,000 MMBtu/d for delivery in the United States
for a 10 year term.

     In Australia, the Company entered into two gas sales contracts during 1999,
bringing its total to 18 contracts, with terms of four to 12 years to deliver
323 Bcf of AEL's gas from its Harriet and East Spar fields for mining, power
generation, nickel refining, ammonia production and other industrial and
domestic uses. Under these contracts AEL is required to deliver its gas at
contract rates of approximately 111 MMcf/day increasing to 135 MMcf/d by mid
2000, with take or pay provisions, net to AEL, of approximately 28 Bcf/year
increasing to 49 Bcf/year by the end of 2001. Apache operates both the Harriet
and East Spar Joint Ventures, holding a 68.5 percent interest in Harriet and a
55 percent interest in East Spar.

     In Egypt, oil from the Qarun Block is delivered by pipeline to tanks owned
by the Company and its partners in the Qarun Concession at the Dashour pumping
station northeast of the Qarun Block or by truck to the Tebbin refinery south of
Alexandria, Egypt. At the discretion of the operator of the pipelines, oil from
the Qarun Block is put into the two 42-inch diameter SUMED pipelines, which
transport significant quantities of Egyptian and other crude oil from the Gulf
of Suez to Sidi Kherir, west of Alexandria, Egypt, on the Mediterranean Coast.
All Qarun and Khalda crude oil is currently sold to EGPC. In 1996, the Company
and its partners in the Khalda Block entered into a take or pay contract with
EGPC, which obligates EGPC to pay for 75 percent of 200 MMcf/d of future
production of gas from the Khalda Block. Sales of gas under the contract began
in 1999 upon completion of a gas pipeline from the Khalda Block. In late 1997,
the same sellers entered into a supplement to the contract with EGPC to sell an
additional 50 MMcf/d through a southern gas line being constructed by the
Company and its partners from the Khalda Block to a point near the Qarun Block
to tie into an existing gas pipeline. This southern line is expected to complete
tie-in in mid-year 2000.

OIL AND NATURAL GAS PRICES

     Natural gas prices remained volatile during 1999, with Apache's realized
prices ranging from $1.60 per Mcf in March to $2.74 per Mcf in November.
Fluctuations are largely due to market perceptions about natural gas supply and
demand. Apache's average realized gas price of $2.16 per Mcf for 1999 was up 13
percent from the prior-year average of $1.92 per Mcf, and its 1998 average
realized natural gas price was 16 percent lower than the 1997 average price of
$2.28 per Mcf.

     As a result of minimum price contracts which escalate at an average of 80
percent of the Australian consumer price index, AEL's natural gas production in
Western Australia is not subject to price volatility as is Apache's U.S. and
Canadian gas production; however, natural gas sales under such Australian
minimum price contracts represented approximately 10.3 percent of the Company's
total natural gas sales at the end of 1999. Total Australian gas sales in 1999,
including long-term contracts and spot sales averaged $1.51 per Mcf, equal to
the 1998 average.

     In Egypt, all oil production from the East Beni Suef, Khalda, West
Mediterranean and Qarun Blocks is currently sold to EGPC on a spot basis at a
"Western Desert" price, which is applied to virtually all production from the
area and is announced periodically by EGPC. In 1999, the average price was
$18.63 per barrel. Discussions with EGPC regarding the possibility of exporting
Qarun oil production are continuing. Gas sales from the Khalda Block commenced
in 1999 based on a contract price that is equivalent to 85 percent of the price
of Suez Blend crude oil, FOB Mediterranean.

     Oil prices remained subject to unpredictable political and economic forces
during 1999 and experienced fluctuations similar to those seen in natural gas
prices for the year, but showing a significant upward trend. Apache believes
that oil prices will continue to fluctuate in response to changes in the
policies of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), demand
from Asian countries, events in the Middle East and other factors associated
with the world political and economic environment. As a result of the many


uncertainties associated with levels of production maintained by OPEC and other
oil producing countries, the availabilities of worldwide energy supplies and the
competitive relationships and consumer perceptions of various energy sources,
the Company is unable to predict what changes will occur in crude oil and
natural gas prices.

     In 1999, Apache's realized worldwide crude oil price ranged from $10.09 per
barrel in February to $24.11 per barrel in December. The average crude oil price
of $18.43 per barrel in 1999 was up 46 percent from the average price of $12.66
per barrel in 1998, and four percent lower than the average price of $19.20 per
barrel in 1997. The Company's average crude oil price for its Australian
production was $19.70 per barrel in 1999, 51 percent more than the average price
in 1998.

     From time to time, Apache buys or sells contracts to hedge a limited
portion of its future oil and gas production against exposure to spot market
price changes. See Note 9 to the Company's consolidated financial statements
under Item 8 below.

     The Company's business has been and will continue to be affected by future
worldwide changes in oil and gas prices and the relationship between the prices
of oil and gas. No assurance can be given as to the trend in, or level of,
future oil and gas prices.

WRITE-DOWNS UNDER THE FULL COST CEILING TEST RULES

     Under the full cost accounting rules of the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC), the Company reviews the carrying value of its proved oil and
gas properties each quarter on a country-by-country basis. Under these rules,
capitalized costs of proved oil and gas properties, net of accumulated
depreciation, depletion and amortization, and deferred income taxes, may not
exceed the present value of estimated future net cash flows from proved oil and
gas reserves, discounted at 10 percent, plus the lower of cost or fair value of
unproved properties included in the costs being amortized, net of related tax
effects. These rules generally require pricing future oil and gas production at
the unescalated oil and gas prices in effect at the end of each fiscal quarter
and require a write-down if the "ceiling" is exceeded, even if prices declined
for only a short period of time. The Company recorded a write-down in 1998, but
had no write-downs due to ceiling test limitations in 1999. Given the volatility
of oil and gas prices, it is reasonably possible that the Company's estimate of
discounted future net cash flows from proved oil and gas reserves could change
in the near term. If oil and gas prices decline significantly in the future,
even if only for a short period of time, it is possible that additional
write-downs of oil and gas properties could occur. Write-downs required by these
rules do not impact cash flow from operating activities.

VOLATILE PRICES CAN MATERIALLY AFFECT THE COMPANY

     The Company continually analyzes, forecasts and updates its estimates of
energy prices for its internal use in planning, budgeting, and estimating and
valuing reserves. The Company's future financial condition and results of
operations will depend upon the prices received for the Company's oil and
natural gas production and the costs of acquiring, finding, developing and
producing reserves. Prices for oil and natural gas are subject to fluctuations
in response to relatively minor changes in supply, market uncertainty and a
variety of additional factors that are beyond the control of the Company. These
factors include worldwide political instability (especially in the Middle East
and other oil-producing regions), the foreign supply of oil and gas, the price
of foreign imports, the level of drilling activity, the level of consumer
product demand, government regulations and taxes, the price and availability of
alternative fuels and the overall economic environment. A substantial or
extended decline in oil and gas prices would have a material adverse effect on
the Company's financial position, results of operations, quantities of oil and
gas that may be economically produced, and access to capital. Oil and natural
gas prices have historically been and are likely to continue to be volatile.
This volatility makes it difficult to estimate with precision the value of
producing properties in acquisitions and to budget and project the return on
exploration and development projects involving the Company's oil and gas
properties. In addition, unusually volatile prices often disrupt the market for
oil and gas properties, as buyers and sellers have more difficulty agreeing on
the purchase price of properties.



UNCERTAINTY IN CALCULATING RESERVES; RATES OF PRODUCTION; DEVELOPMENT
EXPENDITURES; CASH FLOWS

     There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of oil
and natural gas reserves of any category and in projecting future rates of
production and timing of development expenditures, which underlie the reserve
estimates, including many factors beyond the Company's control. Reserve data
represent only estimates. In addition, the estimates of future net cash flows
from the Company's proved reserves and their present value are based upon
various assumptions about future production levels, prices and costs that may
prove to be incorrect over time. Any significant variance from the assumptions
could result in the actual quantity of the Company's reserves and future net
cash flows from them being materially different from the estimates. In addition,
the Company's estimated reserves may be subject to downward or upward revision
based upon production history, results of future exploration and development,
prevailing oil and gas prices, operating and development costs and other
factors.

ACQUISITION OR DISCOVERIES OF ADDITIONAL RESERVES IS NEEDED TO AVOID A MATERIAL
DECLINE IN RESERVES AND PRODUCTION

     The rate of production from oil and gas properties generally declines as
reserves are depleted. Except to the extent that the Company acquires additional
properties containing proved reserves, conducts successful exploration and
development activities or, through engineering studies, identifies additional
behind-pipe zones or secondary recovery reserves, the Company's proved reserves
will decline materially as reserves are produced. Future oil and gas production
is, therefore, highly dependent upon the Company's level of success in acquiring
or finding additional reserves.

SUBSTANTIAL COSTS INCURRED TO CONFORM TO GOVERNMENT REGULATION OF THE OIL AND
GAS INDUSTRY

     The Company's exploration, production and marketing operations are
regulated extensively at the federal, state and local levels, as well as by
other countries in which the Company does business. The Company has made and
will continue to make large expenditures in its efforts to comply with the
requirements of environmental and other regulations. Further, the oil and gas
regulatory environment could change in ways that might substantially increase
these costs. Hydrocarbon-producing states regulate conservation practices and
the protection of correlative rights. These regulations affect the Company's
operations and limit the quantity of hydrocarbons the Company may produce and
sell. In addition, at the U.S. federal level, the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission regulates interstate transportation of natural gas under the Natural
Gas Act. Other regulated matters include marketing, pricing, transportation and
valuation of royalty payments.

SUBSTANTIAL COSTS INCURRED RELATED TO ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

     The Company, as an owner or lessee and operator of oil and gas properties,
is subject to various federal, provincial, state, local and foreign country laws
and regulations relating to discharge of materials into, and protection of, the
environment. These laws and regulations may, among other things, impose
liability on the lessee under an oil and gas lease for the cost of pollution
clean-up resulting from operations, subject the lessee to liability for
pollution damages, and require suspension or cessation of operations in affected
areas.

     The Company maintains insurance coverage, which it believes is customary in
the industry, although it is not fully insured against all environmental risks.
The Company is not aware of any environmental claims existing as of December 31,
1999, which would have a material impact upon the Company's financial position
or results of operations.

     The Company has made and will continue to make expenditures in its efforts
to comply with these requirements, which it believes are necessary business
costs in the oil and gas industry. The Company has established policies for
continuing compliance with environmental laws and regulations, including
regulations applicable to its operations in Canada, Australia and other
countries. Apache also has established operational procedures and training
programs designed to minimize the environmental impact of its field facilities.
The costs incurred by these policies and procedures are inextricably connected
to normal operating expenses such



that the Company is unable to separate the expenses related to environmental
matters; however, the Company does not believe any such additional expenses are
material to its financial position or results of operations.

     Although environmental requirements have a substantial impact upon the
energy industry, generally these requirements do not appear to affect Apache any
differently, or to any greater or lesser extent, than other companies in the
industry. The Company does not believe that compliance with federal, state,
local or foreign country provisions regulating the discharge of materials into
the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment,
will have a material adverse effect upon the capital expenditures, earnings or
competitive position of the Company or its subsidiaries; however, there is no
assurance that changes in or additions to laws or regulations regarding the
protection of the environment will not have such an impact.

COMPETITION WITH OTHER COMPANIES COULD HARM THE COMPANY

     The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. The Company's business
could be harmed by competition with other companies. Because oil and gas are
fungible commodities, the Company's principal form of competition is price
competition. The Company strives to maintain the lowest finding and production
costs possible to maximize profits. In addition, as an independent oil and gas
company, the Company frequently competes for reserve acquisitions, exploration
leases, licenses, concessions and marketing agreements against companies with
financial and other resources substantially larger than the Company possesses.
Many of the Company's competitors have established strategic long-term positions
and maintain strong governmental relationships in countries in which the Company
may seek new entry.

INSURANCE DOES NOT COVER ALL RISKS

     Exploration for and production of oil and natural gas can be hazardous,
involving unforeseen occurrences such as blowouts, cratering, fires and loss of
well control, which can result in damage to or destruction of wells or
production facilities, injury to persons, loss of life, or damage to property or
the environment. The Company maintains insurance against certain losses or
liabilities arising from its operations in accordance with customary industry
practices and in amounts that management believes to be prudent; however,
insurance is not available to the Company against all operational risks.

HEDGING MAY PREVENT THE COMPANY FROM FULLY BENEFITING FROM PRICE INCREASES

     To the extent that the Company engages in hedging activities, it may be
prevented from realizing the benefits of price increases above the levels of the
hedges. In addition, the Company is subject to basis risk when it engages in
hedging transactions, particularly where transportation constraints restrict the
Company's ability to deliver oil and gas volumes at the delivery point to which
the hedging transaction is indexed.

RISKS ARISING FROM THE FAILURE TO FULLY IDENTIFY POTENTIAL PROBLEMS RELATED TO
ACQUIRED RESERVES OR TO PROPERLY ESTIMATE THOSE RESERVES

     The Company from time to time acquires oil and gas properties. Although the
Company performs a review of the acquired properties that it believes is
consistent with industry practices, such reviews are inherently incomplete. It
generally is not feasible to review in depth every individual property involved
in each acquisition. Ordinarily the Company will focus its review efforts on the
higher-value properties and will sample the remainder. However, even a detailed
review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or
potential problems, nor will it permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar
with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and potential.
Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental
problems, such as ground water contamination, are not necessarily observable
even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, the
Company often assumes certain environmental and other risks and liabilities in
connection with acquired properties. There are numerous uncertainties inherent
in estimating quantities of proved oil and gas reserves and actual future
production rates and associated costs with respect to acquired properties, and
actual results may vary substantially from those assumed in the estimates (see
above). In addition, there can be no assurance that acquisitions will not have
an adverse effect



upon the Company's operating results, particularly during the periods in which
the operations of acquired businesses are being integrated into the Company's
ongoing operations.

GENERAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS

     Virtually all of the Company's operations are subject to the risks and
uncertainties of adverse changes in general economic conditions (domestically,
in specific regions of the United States and Canada, and internationally), the
outcome of pending and/or potential legal or regulatory proceedings, changes in
environmental, tax, labor and other laws and regulations to which the Company is
subject, and the condition of the capital markets utilized by the Company to
finance its operations.

RISKS OF NON-U.S. OPERATIONS

     The Company's non-U.S. oil and natural gas exploration, development and
production activities are subject to: political and economic uncertainties,
including, among others, changes, sometimes frequent or marked, in governmental
energy policies or the personnel administering them; expropriation of property;
cancellation or modification of contract rights; foreign exchange restrictions;
currency fluctuations; risks of loss due to civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla
activities and insurrection; royalty and tax increases; and other risks arising
out of foreign governmental sovereignty over the areas in which the Company's
operations are conducted. These risks may be higher in the developing countries
in which the Company conducts these activities. Consequently, the Company's
non-U.S. exploration, development and production activities may be substantially
affected by factors beyond the Company's control, any of which could materially
adversely affect the Company's financial position or results of operations.
Furthermore, in the event of a dispute arising from non-U.S. operations, the
Company may be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of courts outside the
United States or may not be successful in subjecting non-U.S. persons to the
jurisdiction of the courts in the United States, which could adversely affect
the outcome of the dispute.

EFFECT OF CHANGES IN FOREIGN EXCHANGE RATES ON THE COMPANY'S CASH FLOW

     The Company's cash flow stream relating to certain international operations
is based on the U.S. dollar equivalent of cash flows measured in foreign
currencies. Australian gas production is sold under fixed-price Australian
dollar contracts and over half the costs incurred are paid in Australian
dollars. Revenue and disbursement transactions denominated in Australian dollars
are converted to U.S. dollar equivalents based on the exchange rate on the
transaction date. Reported cash flow relating to Canadian operations is based on
cash flows measured in Canadian dollars converted to the U.S. dollar equivalent
based on the average of the Canadian and U.S. dollar exchange rates for the
period reported. Substantially all of the Company's international transactions,
outside of Canada and Australia, are denominated in U.S. dollars. The Company's
Polish and Australian subsidiaries have net financial assets that are
denominated in a currency other than the functional reporting currency of the
subsidiaries. The Company considers its current risk exposure to exchange rate
movements, based on net cash flows, to be immaterial.

EMPLOYEES

     On December 31, 1999, Apache had 1,429 employees.

OFFICES

     Apache's principal executive offices are located at One Post Oak Central,
2000 Post Oak Boulevard, Suite 100, Houston, Texas 77056-4400. At year-end 1999,
the Company maintained regional exploration and/or production offices in Tulsa,
Oklahoma; Houston, Texas; Calgary, Alberta; Cairo, Egypt; Perth, Western
Australia; Beijing, China; and Warsaw, Poland.



ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION PROPERTIES AND RESERVES

  Acreage

     The undeveloped and developed acreage including both domestic leases and
international production and exploration rights that Apache held as of December
31, 1999, are as follows:





  Productive Oil and Gas Wells

     The number of productive oil and gas wells, operated and non-operated, in
which Apache had an interest as of December 31, 1999, is set forth below:



  Gross Wells Drilled

     The following table sets forth the number of gross exploratory and gross
development wells drilled in the last three fiscal years in which the Company
participated. The number of wells drilled refers to the number of wells
commenced at any time during the respective fiscal year. "Productive" wells are
either producing wells or wells capable of commercial production. At December
31, 1999, the Company was participating in 27 wells in the U.S., 23 Canadian
wells, seven Egyptian wells, one Australian well and one Polish well in the
process of drilling.





  Net Wells Drilled

     The following table sets forth, for each of the last three fiscal years,
the number of net exploratory and net developmental wells drilled by Apache:



  Production and Pricing Data

     The following table describes, for each of the last three fiscal years,
oil, natural gas liquids (NGL) and gas production for the Company, average
production costs (excluding severance taxes) and average sales prices.



  Estimated Reserves and Reserve Value Information

     The following information relating to estimated reserve quantities, reserve
values and discounted future net revenues is derived from, and qualified in its
entirety by reference to, the more complete reserve and revenue information and
assumptions included in the Company's Supplemental Oil and Gas Disclosures under
Item 8 below. The Company's estimates of proved reserve quantities of its U.S.,
Canadian and international properties have been subject to review by Ryder Scott
Company, L.P. Petroleum Consultants. There are numerous uncertainties inherent
in estimating quantities of proved reserves and projecting future rates of
production and timing of development expenditures. The following reserve
information represents estimates only and should not be construed as being
exact.



     The following table sets forth the Company's estimated proved developed and
undeveloped reserves as of December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997:



     The following table sets forth the estimated future value of all the
Company's proved reserves, and proved developed reserves, as of December 31,
1999, 1998 and 1997. Future reserve values are based on year-end prices except
in those instances where the sale of gas and oil is covered by contract terms
providing for determinable escalations. Operating costs, production and ad
valorem taxes, and future development costs are based on current costs with no
escalations.



     At December 31, 1999, estimated future net revenues expected to be received
from all the Company's proved reserves and proved developed reserves were as
follows:



     The Company believes that no major discovery or other favorable or adverse
event has occurred since December 31, 1999, which would cause a significant
change in the estimated proved reserves reported herein. The estimates above are
based on year-end pricing in accordance with the SEC guidelines and do not
reflect current prices. Since January 1, 2000, no oil or gas reserve information
has been filed with, or included in any report to, any U.S. authority or agency
other than the SEC and the Energy Information Administration



(EIA). The basis of reporting reserves to the EIA for the Company's reserves is
identical to that set forth in the foregoing table.

  Title to Interests

     The Company believes that its title to the various interests set forth
above is satisfactory and consistent with the standards generally accepted in
the oil and gas industry, subject only to immaterial exceptions which do not
detract substantially from the value of the interests or materially interfere
with their use in the Company's operations. The interests owned by the Company
may be subject to one or more royalty, overriding royalty and other outstanding
interests customary in the industry. The interests may additionally be subject
to obligations or duties under applicable laws, ordinances, rules, regulations
and orders of arbitral or governmental authorities. In addition, the interests
may be subject to burdens such as net profits interests, liens incident to
operating agreements and current taxes, development obligations under oil and
gas leases and other encumbrances, easements and restrictions, none of which
detract substantially from the value of the interests or materially interfere
with their use in the Company's operations.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     The information set forth under the caption "Litigation" in Note 10 to the
Company's financial statements under Item 8 below is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     No matters were submitted for a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of 1999.

                                    PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS

     Apache's common stock, par value $1.25 per share, is traded on the New York
Stock Exchange and the Chicago Stock Exchange under the symbol APA. The table
below provides certain information regarding Apache common stock for 1999 and
1998. Prices shown are from the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions
Reporting System.



     The closing price per share of Apache common stock, as reported on the New
York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions Reporting System for February 29,
2000, was $36 1/2. At December 31, 1999, there were 113,996,464 shares of Apache
common stock outstanding, held by approximately 10,000 shareholders of record
and 45,000 beneficial owners.

     The Company has paid cash dividends on its common stock for 132 consecutive
quarters through December 31, 1999, and expects to continue the payment of
dividends at current levels. During 2000, the Company will implement a change in
the payment dates for the dividends on its common stock from a quarterly basis
to an annual basis. When, and if, declared by the Company's board of directors,
future dividend payments will depend upon the Company's level of earnings,
financial requirements and other relevant factors.

     In December 1995, the Company declared a dividend of one right (a Right)
for each share of Apache common stock outstanding on January 31, 1996. Each
Right entitles the registered holder to purchase from



the Company one ten-thousandth (1/10,000) of a share of Series A Preferred Stock
at a price of $100 per one ten-thousandth of a share, subject to adjustment. The
Rights are exercisable 10 calendar days following a public announcement that
certain persons or groups have acquired 20 percent or more of the outstanding
shares of Apache common stock or 10 business days following commencement of an
offer for 30 percent or more of the outstanding shares of Apache common stock.
In addition, if a person or group becomes the beneficial owner of 20 percent or
more of Apache's outstanding common stock (flip in event), each Right will
become exercisable for shares of Apache's common stock at 50 percent of the then
market price of the common stock. If a 20 percent shareholder of Apache acquires
Apache, by merger or otherwise, in a transaction where Apache does not survive
or in which Apache's common stock is changed or exchanged (flip over event), the
Rights become exercisable for shares of the common stock of the company
acquiring Apache at 50 percent of the then market price for Apache common stock.
Any Rights that are or were beneficially owned by a person who has acquired 20
percent or more of the outstanding shares of Apache common stock and who engages
in certain transactions or realizes the benefits of certain transactions with
the Company will become void. The Company may redeem the Rights at $.01 per
Right at any time until 10 business days after public announcement of a flip in
event. The Rights will expire on January 31, 2006, unless earlier redeemed by
the Company. Unless the Rights have been previously redeemed, all shares of
Apache common stock issued by the Company after January 31, 1996 will include
Rights. Unless and until the Rights become exercisable, they will be transferred
with and only with the shares of Apache common stock.

     In August 1998, the Company issued 100,000 shares of 5.68 percent Series B
Cumulative Preferred Stock (the Series B Preferred Stock) in the form of one
million depositary shares, each representing one-tenth ( 1/10) of a share of
Series B Preferred Stock. Neither the shares of Series B Preferred Stock nor the
depositary shares are traded on any stock exchange. The shares of Series B
Preferred Stock are not convertible into common equity. Holders of the
depositary shares are entitled to receive cumulative cash dividends at an annual
rate of $5.68 per depositary share when, and if, declared by the Company's board
of directors.

     In May 1999, the Company issued 14,950,000 shares of its common stock and
140,000 shares of 6.5 percent Automatically Convertible Equity Securities,
Conversion Preferred Stock, Series C (Series C Preferred Stock) in the form of
seven million depositary shares each representing 1/50th of a share of Series C
Preferred Stock. The depositary shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange
and the Chicago Stock Exchange. The Series C Preferred Stock is not subject to a
sinking fund or mandatory redemption. On May 15, 2002, each depositary share
will automatically convert, subject to adjustments, into not more than one share
and not less than 0.8197 of a share of the Company's common stock, depending on
the market price of the common stock at that time. At any time prior to May 15,
2002, holders of the depositary shares may elect to convert each of their
shares, subject to adjustments, into not less than 0.8197 of a share of the
Company's common stock (5,737,900 common shares). Holders of the depositary
shares are entitled to receive cumulative cash dividends at an annual rate of
$2.015 per depositary share when, and if, declared by the Company's board of
directors.



ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     The following table sets forth selected financial data of the Company and
its consolidated subsidiaries for each of the years in the five-year period
ended December 31, 1999, which information has been derived from the Company's
audited financial statements. This information should be read in connection
with, and is qualified in its entirety by, the more detailed information in the
Company's financial statements under Item 8 below.



     For a discussion of significant acquisitions, reference is made to Item 7,
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" and to Note 2 to the Company's consolidated financial statements
under Item 8 below.

- ---------------

(1) Includes the results of the acquisitions of certain oil and gas properties
    from Petsec, Shell Offshore, British-Borneo and Shell Canada after February
    1, 1999, May 18, 1999, June 18, 1999 and November 30, 1999, respectively.

(2) Includes the results of the acquisitions of certain subsidiaries and oil and
    gas properties from Novus Petroleum Limited (Novus) after December 18, 1998.
    Also includes a $243.2 million pre-tax ($158.1 million net of tax) non-cash
    write-down of the carrying value of the Company's U.S. proved oil and gas
    properties due to ceiling test limitations.

(3) Includes financial data after November 20, 1997, relating to the acquisition
    from Mobil Exploration & Producing Australia Pty Ltd (Mobil) of three
    companies owning interests in certain oil and gas properties and production
    facilities offshore Western Australia (the Ampolex Group Transaction).

(4) Includes financial data after May 20, 1996, for Apache PHN Company, Inc.
    (Phoenix, formerly known as The Phoenix Resource Companies, Inc.).

(5) Includes the results of the acquisitions of certain oil and gas properties
    from Texaco Exploration and Production, Inc. and Aquila Energy Resources
    Corporation after March 1, 1995 and September 1995, respectively, and the
    sale of a substantial portion of the Company's Rocky Mountain properties in
    September 1995.


ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS

OVERVIEW

     Apache's considerable progress in 1999 and favorable outlook for continued
growth were not fully reflected in the Company's stock price at year-end. While
Wall Street turned its attention to technology stocks, Apache recorded its best
year ever, paving the way for its 23rd consecutive year of production growth in
2000.

     1999 performance highlights include record:

     - Production of 204.3 thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day, up 17
       percent.

     - Proved reserves of 807.2 MMboe, up 32 percent.

     - Net cash provided by operating activities of $638.2 million, up 35
       percent.

     - Net income attributable to common stock of $186.4 million, up $31.5
       million over our 1997 record.

     More important than these milestones is the position they have left Apache
for continued progress ahead.

     - $1.8 billion of capital expenditures brought into our fold quality assets
       with low operating costs and high margins. The two acquisitions from
       Shell coupled with first production from major development projects in
       Egypt and Australia contributed to a $.32 per boe decline in Apache's
       lease operating expense per equivalent barrel produced.

     - Record 1999 earnings coupled with $654.8 million of equity offerings
       reduced Apache's debt to 41.4 percent of capitalization, among the
       strongest in our sector and capable of funding substantial growth
       opportunities.

     - Rising production will generate substantial cash flow. While prices are
       always a wildcard, should they approximate levels indicated by the
       current New York Mercantile Exchange, Apache has the potential to achieve
       $1 billion of cash flow in 2000, adding fuel with which to act on
       opportunities that many of Apache's competitors are unable to capture.

     In short, despite only partial recognition in our stock price, Apache's
progress in 1999 puts the company in its strongest financial position ever to
carry out its business strategy and continue to build lasting shareholder value.

     Apache's results of operations and financial position for 1999 were also
significantly impacted by the following factors:

     Commodity Prices -- Apache's average realized oil price increased $5.77 per
barrel from $12.66 per barrel in 1998 to $18.43 per barrel in 1999, increasing
revenues by $153.6 million. The average realized price for natural gas increased
$.24 per Mcf from $1.92 per Mcf in 1998 to $2.16 per Mcf in 1999, positively
impacting revenues by $50.7 million.

     Operations -- Oil production increased 25 percent in 1999 compared to the
prior year. The increase was primarily due to the acquisition of certain blocks
in the Gulf of Mexico from Shell Offshore, included since mid-May of 1999, the
full-period impact of the acquisition of certain oil and gas interests in the
Carnarvon Basin, offshore Western Australia, from Novus in November 1998 and
production from Australia's Stag field which began in May 1998. The increase in
oil production positively impacted revenues by $121.9 million. Gas production
increased 11 percent, which increased revenues by $52.0 million. As with oil,
gas increased in the U.S. due to the Shell Offshore acquisition. In Egypt, the
Western Desert Gas Pipeline in the Khalda concession was completed and first
sales commenced in August 1999.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     Apache reported 1999 income attributable to common stock of $186.4 million,
up from a loss attributable to common stock of $131.4 million in 1998. A
significant increase in oil and gas production revenues was



partially offset by higher recurring depreciation, depletion and amortization
(DD&A) expense, operating costs, preferred stock dividends, and administrative,
selling and other (G&A) expense. Basic net income (loss) per common share was
$1.73 for 1999, as compared to $(1.34) in 1998. A loss attributable to common
stock of $131.4 million was reported in 1998 as opposed to income attributable
to common stock of $154.9 million in 1997. The 1998 loss resulted from a
full-cost ceiling write-down at year end. Results for 1998 were further hampered
by sharp declines in oil and gas prices. Basic net income (loss) per common
share was $(1.34) for 1998, as compared to basic net income per share of $1.71
in 1997.

     Oil and gas production revenues increased 50 percent in 1999 to $1.1
billion as compared to $759.0 million in 1998. The increase resulted from a 46
percent increase in the average realized oil price, a 13 percent increase in the
average realized natural gas price, a 25 percent increase in oil production and
an 11 percent increase in natural gas production. Crude oil, including natural
gas liquids, contributed 55 percent and natural gas contributed 45 percent of
total oil and gas production revenues during 1999. Oil and gas production
revenues decreased 23 percent in 1998 to $759.0 million as compared to $983.8
million in 1997. The decrease resulted from a 34 percent decrease in the average
realized oil price, a 16 percent decrease in the average realized price for
natural gas and a three percent decrease in gas production. Crude oil, including
natural gas liquids, contributed 45 percent and natural gas contributed 55
percent of oil and gas production revenues during 1998.



     The table below presents, for the years indicated, the oil and gas
production revenues, production and average prices received from sales of
natural gas, oil and natural gas liquids.



     The Company's future financial condition and results of operations will
depend upon prices received for its oil and natural gas production and the costs
of finding, acquiring, developing and producing reserves. A



substantial portion of the Company's production is sold under market-sensitive
contracts. Prices for oil and natural gas are subject to fluctuations in
response to changes in supply, market uncertainty and a variety of other factors
beyond the Company's control. These factors include worldwide political
instability (especially in the Middle East), the foreign supply of oil and
natural gas, the price of foreign imports, the level of consumer demand, and the
price and availability of alternative fuels.

     Natural gas revenues increased by 25 percent from 1998 to 1999 as a result
of increased production volumes and realized prices. The average realized gas
price increased 13 percent in 1999 positively affecting revenues by $50.7
million. U.S. natural gas production, which comprised 70 percent of the
Company's worldwide gas production, sold at an average price of $2.31 per Mcf,
nine percent higher than in 1998, positively impacting natural gas sales by
$32.4 million. The Company periodically engages in hedging activities, including
fixed-price physical contracts and financial contracts. Gains under long-term
fixed-price physical contracts increased the gas price by $.02 per Mcf in 1999
while realized losses from open hedging positions negatively impacted the gas
price by $.01 per Mcf in 1999.

     Natural gas production increased 66 million cubic feet per day (MMcf/d), or
11 percent, on a worldwide basis, favorably impacting revenue by $52.0 million
in 1999. In the United States, gas production increased 29.4 MMcf/d due to
acquisition activities, primarily the Shell Offshore acquisition in 1999.
Development activities and the impact of producing property acquisitions during
late 1998 increased natural gas production in Australia by 25.6 MMcf/d. Egyptian
gas production increased ten fold in 1999 as a result of the completion of the
northern portion of the Western Desert Gas Pipeline in the Khalda concession,
with first sales commencing in August.

     Natural gas revenues decreased by 18 percent from 1997 to 1998 due to lower
natural gas prices and production. The average realized gas price received in
1998 was $1.92 per Mcf, 16 percent lower than 1997, negatively affecting revenue
by $78.6 million. The Company periodically engages in hedging activities,
including fixed-price physical contracts and financial contracts. Apache
realized gains from open hedging positions favorably impacting the gas price by
$.01 per Mcf in 1998. Gains under long-term fixed-price physical contracts
increased the gas price by $.05 per Mcf in 1998. Prices declined in the United
States due to unfavorable market conditions. Natural gas prices in Australia
declined 15 percent from 1997 resulting from the devaluation of the Australian
dollar.

     Natural gas production for the United States decreased 12 percent from 1997
to 1998 due to the impact of property sales in the Southern and Midcontinent
regions, tropical storms in the Gulf of Mexico and natural depletion. In
Australia, natural gas production increased 95 percent driven by a full year of
incremental production from properties acquired in the year-end 1997 Ampolex
Group Transaction. The 18 percent uplift in Canadian production resulted from
development activity and Alberta royalty recoupments received for 1998. Alberta
allows reduction in royalty for costs to build processing and transportation
facilities.

     Crude oil revenues totaled $612.3 million in 1999, an 82 percent increase
from 1998 due to higher average realized oil prices and production increases. On
a worldwide basis, average oil prices increased 46 percent to $18.43 per barrel
positively impacting oil sales by $153.6 million. Realized losses from open
hedging positions negatively impacted the oil price by $.16 per barrel in 1999.
Oil production increased 18,115 barrels per day, or 25 percent, in 1999 due
primarily to increases in the United States. Domestic oil production increased
11,489 barrels per day, or 34 percent, primarily due to the Shell Offshore
acquisition. Australian oil production increased 1,786 barrels per day, or 20
percent, over 1998 with additional full-year production from the Stag field.
Egyptian oil production increased 3,840 barrels per day, or 14 percent, as a
result of the price-driven dynamics of certain production sharing contracts and
development activity.

     Crude oil revenues totaled $336.8 million in 1998, a 28 percent decrease
from 1997 due to lower average realized oil prices, which were partially offset
by production increases. On a worldwide basis, average oil prices decreased 34
percent to $12.66 per barrel negatively impacting oil revenues by $158.9
million. Oil production increased 6,359 barrels per day (approximately 10
percent), in 1998 due to increases in Egypt and Australia. Australian oil
production increased 4,421 barrels per day over 1997 with additional production
from the Ampolex Group Transaction and initial sales from the Stag field.
Egyptian oil production increased 8,539 barrels per day, or 44 percent, as a
result of the price-driven dynamics of certain production sharing


contracts and to a lesser extent, drilling and development activity. U.S. oil
production decreased by 6,571 barrels per day, or 16 percent, primarily due to
marginal property sales in the first half of 1998 and natural reservoir
depletion of mature fields.

     Natural gas liquids revenues in 1999 increased 62 percent from 1998.
Natural gas liquids production increased 1,055 barrels per day, or 37 percent
and natural gas liquids prices increased by $1.48 per barrel, or 19 percent, due
to improved market conditions. Natural gas liquids revenues decreased 30 percent
in 1998. Natural gas liquids production increased 572 barrels per day, or 25
percent, while natural gas liquids prices declined by $6.14 per barrel, or 44
percent, due to deteriorating market conditions.

  Other Revenues and Operating Expenses

     Gas gathering, processing and marketing revenues increased 33 percent to
$155.6 million in 1999 from 1998. Higher gas prices in 1999 contributed to the
increase. Gas gathering, processing and marketing costs increased by 34 percent
to $153.4 million resulting in a slight decrease to 1999 margins. During 1998,
gas gathering, processing and marketing revenues decreased 40 percent to $117.4
million. Slightly higher margins were realized in 1998 as compared to 1997.

     Recurring DD&A expense increased to $442.8 million in 1999 from $382.8
million in 1998. On an equivalent barrel basis, recurring full cost DD&A expense
decreased $.09 per boe, from $5.66 per boe in 1998 to $5.57 per boe in 1999. The
decrease in the overall DD&A rate was the result of substantial increases in
United States production volumes during 1999 and the ceiling test write-down in
1998, which lowered the carrying amount of those properties being depleted. The
Company's recurring DD&A expense increased to $382.8 million in 1998 from $381.4
million in 1997. On an equivalent barrel basis, recurring full cost DD&A expense
decreased $.11 per boe, from $5.77 per boe in 1997 to $5.66 per boe in 1998.

     Apache limits, on a country-by-country basis, the capitalized cost of oil
and gas properties, net of accumulated DD&A and deferred income taxes, to
estimated future net cash flows from proved oil and gas reserves discounted at
10 percent, net of related tax effects, plus the lower of cost or fair value of
unproved properties included in the costs being amortized. As a result of low
oil and gas prices in the United States at December 31, 1998, Apache's
capitalized costs of oil and gas properties exceeded the ceiling limitation and
the Company reported a $243.2 million pre-tax ($158.1 million net of tax)
non-cash write-down as additional DD&A expense. No additional DD&A expense was
recorded during 1999 or 1997. Write-downs required by these rules do not impact
cash flow from operating activities.

     Apache's operating costs increased six percent in 1999 to $223.6 million
from $211.6 in 1998. Lease operating expense (LOE), excluding severance taxes,
increased from $182.9 million in 1998 to $191.2 million in 1999. On an
equivalent barrel basis, LOE for 1999 averaged $2.56 per boe, a $.32 decline
from $2.88 per boe in 1998. Domestic per unit costs were significantly reduced
due to lower Southern region repairs, maintenance, power and fuel costs
resulting from the sale of marginal properties partially offset by increases in
the Offshore region due to workover costs associated with acquired properties
located in the Gulf of Mexico from Petsec and Shell Offshore. Operating costs
decreased nine percent to $211.6 million in 1998 from $231.4 million in 1997.
LOE, excluding severance taxes, decreased from $190.8 million in 1997 to $182.9
million in 1998. On an equivalent barrel basis, LOE for 1998 averaged $2.88 per
boe, a $.19 decline from $3.07 per boe in 1997. Domestic per unit costs were
significantly reduced from the sale of marginal North American properties, and
by lower Southern region repairs and maintenance costs.

     G&A expense increased $13.2 million, or 32 percent, from 1998 to 1999. The
Company's overall infrastructure was enlarged to properly handle increased
responsibilities associated with 1999 North American producing property
acquisitions. On an equivalent barrel basis, G&A expense increased to $.72 per
boe in 1999 compared to $.64 per boe in 1998. G&A expense increased $2.5
million, or seven percent from 1997 to 1998. On an equivalent barrel basis, G&A
expense increased to $.64 per boe in 1998 compared to $.62 per boe in 1997. The
increase in G&A expense was primarily the result of employee separation payments
associated with the sale of marginal North American properties.



     Net financing costs for 1999 increased $11.7 million, or 17 percent, from
1998 primarily due to higher interest expense and lower interest income,
partially offset by higher capitalized interest. Gross interest expense
increased $13.3 million resulting from higher average outstanding debt in 1999.
The weighted average interest rate on outstanding debt increased to 7.5 percent
at December 31, 1999 from 7.2 percent at December 31, 1998. The increase in
capitalized interest is associated with Egyptian pipeline projects under
construction. The decrease in interest income was due to a lower average cash
balance during 1999. Net financing costs for 1998 decreased $1.8 million, or two
percent, from 1997 primarily due to higher capitalized interest. Gross interest
expense increased $14.6 million due to a slightly higher interest rate on
average outstanding debt in 1998 compared to 1997 and higher imputed interest on
advances from gas purchasers. This was offset by an increase in capitalized
interest, interest income and lower amortization of deferred loan costs. The
Company's weighted average interest rate on outstanding debt was 7.2 percent at
December 31, 1998 compared to 7.1 percent at December 31, 1997.

MARKET RISK

  Commodity Risk

     The Company's major market risk exposure is in the pricing applicable to
its oil and gas production. Realized pricing is primarily driven by the
prevailing worldwide price for crude oil and spot prices applicable to its
United States and Canadian natural gas production. Historically, prices received
for oil and gas production have been volatile and unpredictable and price
volatility is expected to continue. Monthly oil price realizations ranged from a
low of $10.09 per barrel to a high of $24.11 per barrel during 1999. Gas price
realizations ranged from a monthly low of $1.60 per Mcf to a monthly high of
$2.74 per Mcf during the same period.

     The Company periodically enters into hedging activities on a portion of its
projected oil and natural gas production through a variety of financial and
physical arrangements intended to support oil and natural gas prices at targeted
levels and to manage its exposure to oil and gas price fluctuations. Apache may
use futures contracts, swaps, options and fixed-price physical contracts to
hedge its commodity prices. Realized gains or losses from the Company's price
risk management activities are recognized in oil and gas production revenues
when the associated production occurs. Apache does not hold or issue derivative
instruments for trading purposes. In 1999, Apache recognized a net loss of $3.1
million from hedging activities that decreased oil and gas production revenues.
The net loss in 1999 includes $6.7 million in derivatives losses and $3.6
million in gains from fixed-price physical gas contracts. Gains or losses on
derivative contracts are expected to be offset by sales at the spot market price
or to preserve the margin on existing physical gas contracts.

     At December 31,1999, the Company had open natural gas price swap positions
with a positive fair value of $11.1 million. A 10 percent increase in natural
gas prices would increase the fair value by $19.7 million. A 10 percent decrease
in prices would decrease the fair value by $19.7 million. The Company also had
open oil price swap positions at December 31, 1999 with a negative fair value of
$(9.4) million. A 10 percent increase in oil prices would decrease the fair
value by $18.3 million. A 10 percent decrease in oil prices would increase the
fair value by $18.3 million. Discount rates used in arriving at fair values
range from 6.5 percent for 2000 to 7.3 percent for 2008.

     At December 31, 1999, the Company also had natural gas commodity collars
with a fair value of $.8 million and oil commodity collars with a fair value of
$(4.9) million. A 10 percent increase in oil and gas prices would change the
fair values of the gas collars and the oil collars by $(.9) million and $(5.2)
million, respectively. A 10 percent decrease in oil and gas prices would change
the fair values of the gas collars and the oil collars by $1.6 million and $3.9
million, respectively. The model used to arrive at the fair values for the
commodity collars is based on the Black commodity pricing model. Changes in fair
value, assuming 10 percent price changes, assume non-constant volatility with
volatility based on prevailing market parameters at December 31,1999.

     Notional volumes associated with the Company's derivative contracts are
shown in Note 9 to the Company's consolidated financial statements.



  Interest Rate Risk

     The Company considers its interest rate risk exposure to be minimal as a
result of fixing interest rates on approximately 83 percent of the Company's
debt. Total debt at December 31, 1999, included $318.7 million of floating-rate
debt. As a result, Apache's annual interest costs in 2000 will fluctuate based
on short-term interest rates on approximately 17 percent of its total debt
outstanding at December 31, 1999. The impact on annual cash flow of a 10 percent
change in the floating rate (approximately 69 basis points) would be
approximately $2.2 million. The Company did not have any open derivative
contracts relating to interest rates at December 31, 1999.

  Foreign Currency Risk

     The Company's cash flow stream relating to certain international operations
is based on the U.S. dollar equivalent of cash flows measured in foreign
currencies. Australian gas production is sold under fixed-price Australian
dollar contracts and over half the costs incurred are paid in Australian
dollars. Revenue and disbursement transactions denominated in Australian dollars
are converted to U.S. dollar equivalents based on the exchange rate on the
transaction date. Reported cash flow relating to Canadian operations is based on
cash flows measured in Canadian dollars converted to the U.S. dollar equivalent
based on the average of the Canadian and U.S. dollar exchange rates for the
period reported. Substantially all of the Company's international transactions,
outside of Canada and Australia, are denominated in U.S. dollars.

     The Company's Polish and Australian subsidiaries have net financial assets
that are denominated in a currency other than the functional reporting currency
of the subsidiaries. A decrease in value of 10 percent in the Australian dollar
and Polish zloty relative to the U.S. dollar from the year-end exchange rates
would result in a foreign currency loss of approximately $.7 million, based on
December 31, 1999 amounts. The Company considers its current risk exposure to
exchange rate movements, based on net cash flows, to be immaterial. The Company
did not have any open derivative contracts relating to foreign currencies at
December 31, 1999.

CASH FLOW, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

  Capital Commitments

     Apache's primary needs for cash are for exploration, development and
acquisition of oil and gas properties, repayment of principal and interest on
outstanding debt, payment of dividends, and capital obligations for affiliated
ventures. The Company funds its exploration and development activities primarily
through internally generated cash flows. Apache budgets capital expenditures
based upon projected cash flows. The Company routinely adjusts its capital
expenditures in response to changes in oil and natural gas prices and cash flow.
The Company cannot accurately predict future oil and gas prices.

     Capital Expenditures -- Apache's oil and gas capital expenditures over the
last three years are summarized below:





     Expenditures for exploration and development totaled $405.3 million in 1999
compared to $541.4 million in 1998. Apache's drilling program in 1999 added 64.1
MMboe of proved reserves (including revisions) and replaced 86 percent of
production. In the United States, Apache completed 108 gross wells as producers
out of 130 gross wells drilled during the year, compared with 183 gross
producers out of 233 gross wells drilled in 1998. In Canada, Apache completed 32
gross wells as producers out of 49 gross wells drilled during the year, compared
with 47 gross producers out of 66 gross wells drilled in 1998.

     Internationally, the Company completed 50 gross producers out of 73 gross
wells drilled in 1999, compared to 46 gross producers out of 84 gross wells in
1998. Successful international wells drilled in 1999 included 41 in Egypt and
seven in Australia.

     The total capital expenditures budget for 2000 is $597.5 million, including
$384.9 million for North America. Estimated North American exploration and
development expenditures include $56.4 million in the Southern region, $67.1
million in the Midcontinent region, $151.5 million in the Offshore region and
$109.9 million in Canada. The Company has estimated its other international
exploration and development expenditures in 2000, exclusive of facilities, to
total approximately $212.6 million. Capital expenditures will be reviewed and
possibly adjusted throughout the year in light of changing industry conditions.

     On February 1, 1999, the Company acquired oil and gas properties located in
the Gulf of Mexico from Petsec for an adjusted purchase price of $67.7 million.
The Petsec transaction included estimated proved reserves of approximately 10.2
MMboe as of the acquisition date.

     On May 18, 1999, Apache acquired from Shell Offshore its interest in 22
producing fields and 16 undeveloped blocks located in the Gulf of Mexico. The
Shell Offshore acquisition also included certain production-related assets and
proprietary 2D and 3D seismic data covering approximately 1,000 blocks in the
Gulf of Mexico. The purchase price was $687.7 million in cash and one million
shares of Apache common stock (valued at $28.125 per share). The Shell Offshore
acquisition included approximately 123.2 MMboe of proved reserves as of the
acquisition date.

     On June 18, 1999, the Company acquired a 10 percent interest in the East
Spar Joint Venture and an 8.4 percent interest in the Harriet Joint Venture,
both located in the Carnarvon Basin (offshore Western Australia), from
British-Borneo in exchange for $83.6 million cash and working interests in 11
leases in the Gulf of Mexico. The British-Borneo transaction included
approximately 16.8 MMboe of proved reserves as of the acquisition date.

     On November 30, 1999, Apache acquired from Shell Canada producing
properties and other assets for C$761 million (US$517.8 million). The producing
properties consist of 150,400 net acres and comprise 20 fields with an average
working interest of 55 percent and proved reserves of 87.2 MMboe as of the
acquisition date. Apache also acquired 294,294 net acres of undeveloped
leaseholdings, 100 percent interest in a gas processing plant with a potential
throughput capacity of 160 million cubic feet (MMcf) per day, and 52,700 square
miles of 2D seismic and 884 square miles of 3D seismic.

     In 1999, the Company also completed tactical regional acquisitions for cash
consideration totaling $17.7 million. These acquisitions added approximately 8.8
MMboe to the Company's proved reserves.

     In January 2000, Apache completed the acquisition of producing properties
in Western Oklahoma and the Texas Panhandle, formerly owned by a subsidiary of
Repsol YPF, for approximately $119 million, plus assumed liabilities of
approximately $30 million. The acquisition included estimated proved reserves of
206 Bcfe as of the acquisition date.

     In November 1998, the Company entered into agreements to acquire certain
oil and gas interests and companies holding oil and gas interests in the
Carnarvon Basin, offshore Western Australia, from subsidiaries of Novus for
approximately $55 million. The interests have proved reserves of approximately
5.8 MMboe and daily production of 2,400 barrels of oil equivalent. They are
within the Apache-operated Harriet Joint Venture (which includes production,
processing and pipeline infrastructure associated with the Varanus Island hub),
the Airlie Joint Venture (in which the Company held a prior interest and became
operator) and three other



exploration permit areas. The transaction closed in two stages, in December 1998
for approximately $49 million and in January 1999 for approximately $6 million.

     In 1998, the Company also completed tactical regional acquisitions for cash
consideration totaling $19.4 million. These acquisitions added approximately 9.1
MMboe to the Company's reserves.

     In November 1997, the Company acquired, in the Ampolex Group Transaction,
all the capital stock of three companies owning interests in certain oil and gas
properties (including 31.9 MMboe of proved oil and natural gas reserves) and
production facilities offshore Western Australia for approximately $300 million
pursuant to three agreements with subsidiaries of Mobil. The Ampolex Group
Transaction acquisition, net of the sale of certain properties to Hardy
Petroleum Limited (Hardy), increased the Company's interest to 47.5 percent from
22.5 percent in the Carnarvon Basin's Harriet area, which included the Varanus
Island pipeline, processing and production complex and eight existing oil and
gas fields. In addition, the Company's interest in the East Spar field, which
produces through the Varanus Island facilities, increased to 45 percent from 20
percent. Apache operates both the Harriet and East Spar properties.

     In conjunction with the closing of the Ampolex Group Transaction, in
December 1997, the Company entered into an agreement under which Hardy agreed to
purchase a 10 percent interest in the Company's East Spar gas field and related
production facilities in Western Australia. The transaction closed in January
1998 with a total sales price of approximately $63 million in cash.

     Debt and Interest Commitments -- At December 31, 1999, Apache had
outstanding debt of $116 million under its global credit facility and an
aggregate of $1.8 billion of other debt. This other debt included notes and
debentures maturing in the years 2000 through 2096. Debt outstanding at December
31, 1999 of $1.9 billion was higher as compared to the $1.4 billion outstanding
at December 31, 1998, due to the Company's significant acquisition activity
during 1999. Even so, the Company's debt-to-capitalization ratio improved from
43.0 percent at December 31, 1998 to 41.4 percent at December 31, 1999. Interest
payments on the Company's debt for 2000 are projected to be $162.0 million
(using weighted average balances for floating rate obligations). Anticipated
principal payments for 2000 total $6.2 million.

     Dividend Payments -- Apache paid a total of $12.6 million in dividends
during 1999 on its Series B Preferred Stock issued in August 1998 and its Series
C Preferred Stock issued in May 1999. Common dividends paid during 1999 totaled
$29.7 million, up nine percent from 1998, due to the increased number of common
shares outstanding. The Company has paid cash dividends on its common stock for
132 consecutive quarters through December 31, 1999. The Company expects to
continue payment of dividends at current levels on an annual basis. Future
dividend payments will depend on the Company's level of earnings, financial
requirements and other relevant factors.

  Capital Resources and Liquidity

     The Company's primary capital resources are net cash provided by operating
activities, proceeds from financing activities and proceeds from sales of
non-strategic assets.

     Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities -- Apache's net cash provided by
operating activities during 1999 totaled $638.2 million, an increase of 35
percent over the $471.5 million reported in 1998. This increase was due
primarily to higher oil and gas production and prices in 1999. Net cash provided
by operating activities during 1998 declined $252.3 million from 1997 due
primarily to lower oil and gas prices and lower gas production in 1998, offset
by the receipt of $71.8 million from a purchaser as an advance. The advance was
for future natural gas deliveries over a ten-year period commencing in August
1998.

     Long-Term Borrowings -- In March 1999, Apache Finance Pty Ltd, the
Company's Australian finance subsidiary, issued $100 million principal amount,
$99.3 million net of discount, of senior unsecured 7-percent notes due March 15,
2009. The notes are irrevocably and unconditionally guaranteed by Apache. The
Company has the right to redeem the notes prior to maturity, under certain
conditions related to changes in relevant tax laws. Also, upon certain changes
in control, these notes would be subject to mandatory repurchase. The proceeds
were used to reduce outstanding indebtedness under the Australian portion of the
global credit facility.


     In June 1999, the Company issued $150 million principal amount, $149.1
million net of discount, of senior unsecured 7.625-percent notes due July 1,
2019. The Company does not have the right to redeem the notes prior to maturity.
Upon certain changes in control, these notes would be subject to mandatory
repurchase. The proceeds were used to reduce the Company's outstanding amounts
of commercial paper.

     In December 1999, Apache Finance Canada Corporation, the Company's Canadian
finance subsidiary, issued $300 million principal amount, $296.9 million net of
discount, of senior unsecured 7.75-percent notes due December 15, 2029. The
notes are irrevocably and unconditionally guaranteed by Apache. The Company has
the right to redeem the notes prior to maturity, under certain conditions
related to changes in relevant tax laws. Also, upon certain changes in control,
these notes would be subject to mandatory repurchase. The proceeds were used to
repay commercial paper issued to finance the Shell Canada acquisition.

     Stock Transactions -- In May 1999, Apache issued 14,950,000 shares of
Apache common stock for net proceeds of $444.3 million and 140,000 shares ($217
million) of Series C Preferred Stock in the form of seven million depositary
shares each representing one-fiftieth (1/50th) of a share of Series C Preferred
Stock for net proceeds of $210.5 million. The Series C Preferred Stock is not
subject to a sinking fund or mandatory redemption. On May 15, 2002, each
depositary share will automatically convert, subject to adjustments, into not
more than one share and not less than 0.8197 of a share of Apache common stock,
depending on the market price of Apache common stock at that time.

     At any time prior to May 15, 2002, holders of the depositary shares may
elect to convert each of their shares, subject to adjustments, into not less
than 0.8197 of a share of Apache common stock (5,737,900 common shares). Holders
of the shares are entitled to receive cumulative cash dividends at an annual
rate of $2.015 per depositary share when, and if, declared by Apache's board of
directors.

     The net proceeds from both offerings were used for general corporate
purposes, including funding a portion of the purchase price for the Shell
Offshore acquisition.

     Asset Sales -- Apache received $110 million in 1999 and $131.1 million in
1998 from the sale of non-strategic oil and gas properties in a number of
separate transactions. An additional $46.1 million in proceeds was received in
1999 due to Apache disposing of its holdings in the Ivory Coast by selling its
wholly-owned subsidiary, Apache Cote d'Ivoire Petroleum LDC to a consortium
consisting of Mondoil Cote d'Ivoire LLC and Saur Energie Cote d'Ivoire. The
proceeds were used to reduce debt.

     Liquidity -- The Company had $13.2 million in cash and cash equivalents on
hand at December 31, 1999, down from $14.5 million at December 31, 1998.
Apache's ratio of current assets to current liabilities increased from .74:1 at
December 31, 1998, to 1.02:1 at December 31, 1999.

     Management believes that cash on hand, net cash generated from operations
and unused committed borrowing capacity under its global credit facility will be
adequate to satisfy the Company's financial obligations to meet future liquidity
needs for at least the next two fiscal years. As of December 31, 1999, Apache's
available borrowing capacity under its global credit facility was $884 million.

IMPACT OF THE YEAR 2000 ISSUE

     The Company has not experienced any Year 2000 related computer failures or
problems. The cost to achieve Year 2000 compliance did not exceed the estimated
$4 million.

FUTURE TRENDS

     Apache's strategy is to increase its oil and gas reserves, production, cash
flow and earnings through a balanced growth program that involves:

     - exploiting our existing asset base;

     - acquiring properties to which we can add incremental value; and

     - investing in high-potential exploration prospects.



  Exploiting Existing Asset Base

     We seek to maximize the value of our existing asset base by reducing
operating costs per unit and increasing the amount of recoverable reserves. In
order to achieve these objectives, we rigorously pursue operations to cut costs,
identify production enhancement initiatives such as workovers and recompletions,
and divest marginal and non-strategic properties.

  Acquiring Properties to Which We Can Add Incremental Value

     We seek to purchase reserves at appropriate prices by generally avoiding
auction processes where we are competing against other buyers. Our aim is to
follow each acquisition with a cycle of reserve enhancement, property
consolidation and cash flow acceleration, facilitating asset growth and debt
reduction.

  Investing in High-Potential Exploration Prospects

     We seek to concentrate our exploratory investments in a select number of
international areas and to become the dominant operator in those regions. We
believe that these investments, although higher-risk, offer the potential for
significant reserve additions. Our international investments and exploration
activities are a significant component of our long-term growth strategy. They
complement our North American operations, which are more development oriented.

     A critical component in implementing our three-pronged growth strategy is
maintenance of significant financial flexibility. We are committed to preserving
a strong balance sheet and credit position that gives us the foundation required
to pursue our growth initiatives.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND RISK

     Certain statements in this report, including statements of the future
plans, objectives, and expected performance of the Company, are forward-looking
statements that are dependent upon certain events, risks and uncertainties that
may be outside the Company's control, and which could cause actual results to
differ materially from those anticipated. Some of these include, but are not
limited to, the market prices of oil and gas, economic and competitive
conditions, inflation rates, legislative and regulatory changes, financial
market conditions, political and economic uncertainties of foreign governments,
future business decisions, and other uncertainties, all of which are difficult
to predict.

     There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of
proved oil and gas reserves and in projecting future rates of production and the
timing of development expenditures. The total amount or timing of actual future
production may vary significantly from reserves and production estimates. The
drilling of exploratory wells can involve significant risks, including those
related to timing, success rates and cost overruns. Lease and rig availability,
complex geology and other factors can affect these risks. Although Apache makes
use of futures contracts, swaps, options and fixed-price physical contracts to
mitigate risk, fluctuations in oil and gas prices, or a prolonged continuation
of low prices, may substantially adversely affect the Company's financial
position, results of operations and cash flows.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

     The financial statements and supplementary financial information required
to be filed under this item are presented on pages F-1 through F-37 of this Form
10-K, and are incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     None.



                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     The information set forth under the captions "Nominees for Election as
Directors," "Continuing Directors," "Executive Officers of the Company," and
"Securities Ownership and Principal Holders" in the proxy statement relating to
the Company's 2000 annual meeting of stockholders (the Proxy Statement) is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     The information set forth the captions "Summary Compensation Table",
"Option/SAR Grants Table," "Option/SAR Exercises and Year-End Value Table",
"Employment Contracts and Termination of Employment and Change-in-Control
Arrangements," and "Director Compensation" in the Proxy Statement is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     The information set forth under the caption "Securities Ownership and
Principal Holders" in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     The information set forth under the caption "Certain Business Relationships
and Transactions" in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

                                    PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     (a) Documents included in this report:

          1. Financial Statements



          2. Financial Statement Schedules

          Financial statement schedules have been omitted because they are
     either not required, not applicable or the information required to be
     presented is included in the Company's financial statements and related
     notes.



          3. Exhibits



















- ---------------

* Filed herewith.

+ Management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements required to be
  filed herewith pursuant to Item 14 hereof.

          NOTE: Debt instruments of the Registrant defining the rights of
     long-term debt holders in principal amounts not exceeding 10 percent of the
     Registrant's consolidated assets have been omitted and will be provided to
     the Commission upon request.

     (b) Reports on Form 8-K

     The following current reports on Form 8-K were filed by Apache during the
fiscal quarter ended December 31, 1999:

        October 5, 1999 -- Item 5. Other Events

     Apache signed a definitive agreement to acquire, through its wholly-owned
subsidiary Apache Canada Ltd, certain producing properties and other assets
located in Canada from Shell Canada Limited,


including proved reserves of 87.5 MMboe, 294,294 net acres of undeveloped
leaseholdings, 100-percent interest in a gas processing plant, and proprietary
2-D and 3-D seismic data.

        November 30, 1999 -- Item 2. Acquisition or Disposition of Assets; Item
        5. Other Events

     Apache closed the purchase from Shell Canada Limited of certain producing
properties and other assets located in Canada for Cdn $761 million (US $517
million at then current exchange rates) with an effective date of November 1,
1999.

     Offering to the public by Apache Finance Canada Corporation of US $300
million principal amount of 7.75% Notes due December 15, 2029, guaranteed by
Apache, issued under an indenture dated November 23, 1999, and registered
pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-3 (Registration Nos. 333-90147
and 333-90147-01).



                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                            APACHE CORPORATION

                                                    /s/ RAYMOND PLANK
                                            ------------------------------------
                                                       Raymond Plank
                                            Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

Dated: March 28, 2000

                               POWER OF ATTORNEY

     The officers and directors of Apache Corporation, whose signatures appear
below, hereby constitute and appoint Raymond Plank, G. Steven Farris, Z. S.
Kobiashvili and Roger B. Plank, and each of them (with full power to each of
them to act alone), the true and lawful attorney-in-fact to sign and execute, on
behalf of the undersigned, any amendment(s) to this report and each of the
undersigned does hereby ratify and confirm all that said attorneys shall do or
cause to be done by virtue thereof.

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.







                              REPORT OF MANAGEMENT

     The financial statements and related financial information of Apache
Corporation and subsidiaries were prepared by and are the responsibility of
management. The statements have been prepared in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States and include amounts that are
based on management's best estimates and judgments.

     Management maintains and places reliance on systems of internal control
designed to provide reasonable assurance, weighing the costs with the benefits
sought, that all transactions are properly recorded in the Company's books and
records, that policies and procedures are adhered to, and that assets are
safeguarded. The systems of internal controls are supported by written policies
and guidelines, internal audits and the selection and training of qualified
personnel.

     The consolidated financial statements of Apache Corporation and
subsidiaries have been audited by Arthur Andersen LLP, independent public
accountants. Their audits included developing an overall understanding of the
Company's accounting systems, procedures and internal controls and conducting
tests and other auditing procedures sufficient to support their opinion on the
fairness of the consolidated financial statements.

     The Apache Corporation Board of Directors exercises its oversight
responsibility for the financial statements through its Audit Committee,
composed solely of directors who are not current or former employees of Apache.
The Audit Committee meets periodically with management, internal auditors and
the independent public accountants to ensure that they are successfully
completing designated responsibilities. The internal auditors and independent
public accountants have open access to the Audit Committee to discuss auditing
and financial reporting issues.

                                            Raymond Plank
                                            Chairman of the Board
                                            and Chief Executive Officer

                                            Roger B. Plank
                                            Vice President and Chief Financial
                                            Officer

                                            Thomas L. Mitchell
                                            Vice President and Chief Accounting
                                            Officer

Houston, Texas
March 3, 2000

                                       F-1


                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To the Shareholders of Apache Corporation:

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Apache
Corporation (a Delaware corporation) and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1999
and 1998, and the related consolidated statements of operations, shareholders'
equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December
31, 1999. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Apache
Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the results
of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 1999, in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States.

                                            ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

Houston, Texas
March 3, 2000

                                       F-2


                      APACHE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                      STATEMENT OF CONSOLIDATED OPERATIONS



The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part
                               of this statement.
                                       F-3


                      APACHE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                      STATEMENT OF CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS



The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part
                               of this statement.
                                       F-4


                      APACHE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET



The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part
                               of this statement.
                                       F-5


                      APACHE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                 STATEMENT OF CONSOLIDATED SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY


The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part
                               of this statement.

                                      F-6


                      APACHE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     Nature of Operations -- Apache Corporation (Apache or the Company) is an
independent energy company that explores for, develops and produces natural gas,
crude oil and natural gas liquids. The Company's North American exploration and
production activities are divided into three U.S. operating regions (Offshore,
Southern and Midcontinent) and a Canadian region. Approximately 73 percent of
the Company's proved reserves are located in North America. Internationally,
Apache has exploration and production interests in Egypt and offshore Western
Australia, and exploration interests in Poland and offshore The People's
Republic of China (China).

     Apache holds interests in many of its U.S., Canadian and international
properties through operating subsidiaries, such as Apache Canada Ltd., DEK
Energy Company (DEKALB, formerly known as DEKALB Energy Company), Apache Energy
Limited (formerly known as Hadson Energy Limited), Apache International, Inc.,
and Apache Overseas, Inc.

     The Company's future financial condition and results of operations will
depend upon prices received for its oil and natural gas production and the costs
of finding, acquiring, developing and producing reserves. A substantial portion
of the Company's production is sold under market-sensitive contracts. Prices for
oil and natural gas are subject to fluctuations in response to changes in
supply, market uncertainty and a variety of other factors beyond the Company's
control. These factors include worldwide political instability (especially in
the Middle East), the foreign supply of oil and natural gas, the price of
foreign imports, the level of consumer demand, and the price and availability of
alternative fuels. With natural gas accounting for 54 percent of Apache's 1999
production on an energy equivalent basis, the Company is affected more by
fluctuations in natural gas prices than in oil prices.

     Principles of Consolidation -- The accompanying consolidated financial
statements include the accounts of Apache and its subsidiaries after elimination
of intercompany balances and transactions. The Company's interests in oil and
gas exploration and production ventures and partnerships are proportionately
consolidated. Apache's investment in Producers Energy Marketing LLC (ProEnergy)
and a pipeline partnership in Western Australia are accounted for using the
equity method for the periods of ownership.

     Cash Equivalents -- The Company considers all highly liquid debt
instruments purchased with an original maturity of three months or less to be
cash equivalents. These investments are carried at cost, which approximates
market.

     Inventories -- Inventories consist principally of tubular goods and
production equipment, stated at the lower of weighted average cost or market,
and oil produced but not sold, stated at current market value net of costs to
sell.

     Property and Equipment -- The Company uses the full cost method of
accounting for its investment in oil and gas properties. Under this method, the
Company capitalizes all acquisition, exploration and development costs incurred
for the purpose of finding oil and gas reserves, including salaries, benefits
and other internal costs directly attributable to these activities. Exclusive of
field-level costs, Apache capitalized $14.2 million, $12.2 million and $11.9
million of internal costs in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. Costs associated
with production and general corporate activities are expensed in the period
incurred. Internal costs attributable to the management of the Company's
producing properties, before recoveries from industry partners, totaled $24.4
million, $23.1 million and $22.5 million in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively,
and are included in operating costs in the Company's statement of consolidated
operations. Interest costs related to unproved properties and properties under
development are also capitalized to oil and gas properties. Unless a significant
portion of the Company's proved reserve quantities in a particular country are
sold (greater than 25 percent), proceeds from the sale of oil and gas properties
are accounted for as a reduction to capitalized costs, and gains and losses are
not recognized.

                                       F-7

                      APACHE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Apache computes the provision for recurring depreciation, depletion and
amortization (DD&A) of oil and gas properties on a quarterly basis using the
unit-of-production method based upon production and estimates of proved reserve
quantities. Unevaluated costs and related capitalized interest costs are
excluded from the amortization base until the properties associated with these
costs are evaluated. The amortizable base includes estimated future development
costs and dismantlement, restoration and abandonment costs, net of estimated
salvage values. These future costs are generally estimated by engineers employed
by Apache.

     Apache limits, on a country-by-country basis, the capitalized costs of
proved oil and gas properties, net of accumulated DD&A and deferred income
taxes, to the estimated future net cash flows from proved oil and gas reserves
discounted at 10 percent, net of related tax effects, plus the lower of cost or
fair value of unproved properties included in the costs being amortized. If
capitalized costs exceed this limit, the excess is charged to additional DD&A
expense. Included in the estimated future net cash flows are Canadian provincial
tax credits expected to be realized beyond the date at which the legislation,
under its provisions, could be repealed. To date, the Canadian provincial
government has not indicated an intention to repeal this legislation.

     As a result of low oil and gas prices at December 31, 1998, Apache's
capitalized costs of U.S. oil and gas properties exceeded the ceiling limitation
and the Company recorded a $243.2 million pre-tax ($158.1 million net of tax)
non-cash write-down in 1998. The write-down is reflected as additional DD&A
expense in the accompanying statement of consolidated operations. Given the
volatility of oil and gas prices, it is reasonably possible that the Company's
estimate of discounted future net cash flows from proved oil and gas reserves
could change in the near term. If oil and gas prices decline significantly, even
if only for a short period of time, it is possible that additional write-downs
of oil and gas properties could occur in the future.

     The costs of certain unevaluated leasehold acreage and wells being drilled
are not being amortized. Costs not being amortized are periodically assessed for
possible impairments or reductions in value. If a reduction in value has
occurred, costs being amortized are increased or a charge is made against
earnings for those international operations where a reserve base is not yet
established.

     Buildings, equipment and gas gathering, transmission and processing
facilities are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful
lives of the assets, which range from three to 20 years. Accumulated
depreciation for these assets totaled $97.4 million and $70.0 million at
December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

     Accounts Payable -- Included in accounts payable at December 31, 1999 and
1998, are liabilities of approximately $41.6 million and $24.0 million,
respectively, representing the amount by which checks issued, but not presented
to the Company's banks for collection, exceeded balances in applicable bank
accounts.

     Revenue Recognition -- Apache uses the sales method of accounting for
natural gas revenues. Under this method, revenues are recognized based on actual
volumes of gas sold to purchasers. The volumes of gas sold may differ from the
volumes to which Apache is entitled based on its interests in the properties.
Differences between volumes sold and entitled volumes create gas imbalances
which are generally reflected as adjustments to reported proved gas reserves and
future cash flows in the Company's supplemental oil and gas disclosures.
Adjustments for gas imbalances totaled less than one percent of Apache's proved
gas reserves at December 31, 1999. Revenue is deferred and a liability is
recorded for those properties where the estimated remaining reserves will not be
sufficient to enable the underproduced owner to recoup its entitled share
through production.

     Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities -- Apache periodically enters
into commodity derivatives contracts and fixed-price physical contracts to
manage its exposure to oil and gas price volatility. Commodity derivatives
contracts, which are usually placed with major financial institutions that the
Company believes are minimal credit risks, may take the form of futures
contracts, swaps or options. The oil and gas reference prices upon which these
commodity derivatives contracts are based reflect various market indices that
have a high degree of historical correlation with actual prices received by the
Company. The Company accounts for its
                                       F-8

                      APACHE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

commodity derivatives contracts using the hedge (or deferral) method of
accounting. Under this method, realized gains and losses from the Company's
price risk management activities are recognized in oil and gas production
revenues when the associated production occurs and the resulting cash flows are
reported as cash flows from operating activities. Gains and losses on commodity
derivatives contracts that are closed before the hedged production occurs are
deferred until the production month originally hedged. In the event of a loss of
correlation between changes in oil and gas reference prices under a commodity
derivatives contract and actual oil and gas prices, a gain or loss is recognized
currently to the extent the commodity derivatives contract has not offset
changes in actual oil and gas prices.

     In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities." SFAS No. 133 establishes accounting and
reporting standards requiring that every derivative instrument (including
certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts) be recorded in the
balance sheet as either an asset or liability measured at its fair value, and
requires that changes in a derivative's fair value be recognized currently in
earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met. Special accounting
for qualifying hedges allows a derivative's gains and losses to offset related
results on the hedged item in the statement of consolidated operations, and
requires that a company formally document, designate, and assess the
effectiveness of transactions that receive hedge accounting treatment. SFAS No.
133, as amended, is required to be adopted on January 1, 2001, although earlier
adoption is permitted. The Company is analyzing the effects of SFAS No. 133, but
has not yet quantified the impact on its financial statements or determined the
timing or method of adoption. Management does not believe that the adoption of
SFAS No. 133 will have a material impact on the Company's financial condition or
results of operations.

     Income Taxes -- The Company follows the liability method of accounting for
income taxes under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for
the future tax consequences of (i) temporary differences between the tax bases
of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial statements
and (ii) operating loss and tax credit carryforwards for tax purposes. Deferred
tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance when, based upon management's
estimates, it is more likely than not that a portion of the deferred tax assets
will not be realized in a future period.

     Foreign Currency Translation -- The U.S. dollar is considered the
functional currency for each of the Company's international operations, except
for its Canadian subsidiary whose functional currency is the Canadian dollar.
Translation adjustments resulting from translating the Canadian subsidiary's
foreign currency financial statements into U.S. dollar equivalents are reported
separately and accumulated in other comprehensive income. For other
international operations, transaction gains and losses are recognized in net
income.

     Net Income (Loss) Per Common Share -- Basic and diluted net income (loss)
per common share have been computed in accordance with SFAS No. 128, "Earnings
per Share." Basic net income (loss) per common share is computed by dividing
income (loss) attributable to common stock by the weighted average number of
common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted net income per common share
reflects the potential dilution that could occur if securities or other
contracts to issue common stock were exercised or converted into common stock.
Diluted net loss per common share does not reflect dilution from potential
common shares, because to do so would be antidilutive. Calculations of basic and
diluted net income (loss) per common share are illustrated in Note 7.

     Stock-Based Compensation -- The Company accounts for employee stock-based
compensation using the intrinsic value method prescribed by Accounting
Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees" and related interpretations. Nonemployee stock-based compensation is
accounted for using the fair value method in accordance with SFAS No. 123,
"Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation."

                                       F-9

                      APACHE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Use of Estimates -- The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires management to
make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Significant estimates with regard to these financial statements include the
estimate of proved oil and gas reserve quantities and the related present value
of estimated future net cash flows therefrom (see supplemental oil and gas
disclosures).

2. ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES

  Acquisitions

     On February 1, 1999, the Company acquired oil and gas properties located in
the Gulf of Mexico from Petsec Energy Inc. (Petsec) for an adjusted purchase
price of $67.7 million. The Petsec transaction included estimated proved
reserves of approximately 10.2 million barrels of oil equivalent (MMboe) as of
the acquisition date.

     On May 18, 1999, Apache acquired from Shell Offshore Inc. and affiliated
Shell entities (Shell Offshore) its interest in 22 producing fields and 16
undeveloped blocks located in the Gulf of Mexico. The Shell Offshore acquisition
also included certain production-related assets and proprietary 3D seismic data
covering approximately 1,000 blocks in the Gulf of Mexico. The purchase price
was $687.7 million in cash and one million shares of Apache common stock (valued
at $28.125 per share). The Shell Offshore acquisition included approximately
123.2 MMboe of proved reserves as of the acquisition date.

     On June 18, 1999, the Company acquired a 10 percent interest in the East
Spar Joint Venture and an 8.4 percent interest in the Harriet Joint Venture,
both located in the Carnarvon Basin (offshore Western Australia), from
British-Borneo Oil and Gas Plc (British-Borneo) in exchange for $83.6 million
cash and working interests in 11 leases in the Gulf of Mexico. The
British-Borneo transaction included approximately 16.8 MMboe of proved reserves
as of the acquisition date.

     The purchase price was allocated to the assets purchased and the
liabilities assumed based upon the fair values on the date of acquisition, as
follows (in thousands):



     On November 30, 1999, Apache acquired from Shell Canada Limited (Shell
Canada) producing properties and other assets for C$761 million (US$517.8
million). The producing properties consisted of 150,400 net acres and comprised
20 fields with an average working interest of 55 percent and proved reserves of
87.2 MMboe as of the acquisition date. Apache also acquired 294,294 net acres of
undeveloped leaseholdings, a 100 percent interest in a gas processing plant with
a potential throughput capacity of 160 million cubic feet (MMcf) per day, and
52,700 square miles of 2-D seismic and 884 square miles of 3-D seismic.

     The following unaudited pro forma information shows the effect on the
Company's consolidated results of operations as if the Shell Offshore and Shell
Canada acquisitions occurred on January 1 of each year

                                      F-10

                      APACHE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

presented. The pro forma information is based on numerous assumptions and is not
necessarily indicative of future results of operations.



     In 1999, the Company also completed tactical regional acquisitions for cash
consideration totaling $17.7 million. These acquisitions added approximately 8.8
MMboe to the Company's proved reserves.

     In November 1998, the Company entered into agreements to acquire certain
oil and gas interests and companies holding oil and gas interests in the
Carnarvon Basin, offshore Western Australia, from subsidiaries of Novus
Petroleum Limited (Novus) for approximately $55 million. The interests have
estimated proved reserves of approximately 5.8 MMboe and daily production of
2,400 barrels of oil equivalent. They are within the Apache-operated Harriet
Joint Venture (which includes production, processing and pipeline infrastructure
associated with the Varanus Island hub), the Airlie Joint Venture (in which the
Company held a prior interest and became operator) and three other exploration
permit areas. The transaction closed in two stages, in December 1998
(approximately $49 million) and in January 1999 (approximately $6 million).
Under the terms of an agreement with Novus, the Company may be required to make
additional payments to Novus based on proved and probable recoverable oil and
condensate reserves, as determined by independent engineers, on a defined
geological structure in the Gipsy-Rose-Lee area, offshore Western Australia. If
required, such payments would be calculated using $2.50 for each barrel of
proved and $1.25 for each barrel of probable oil and condensate reserves. A
payment becomes due if and when a decision is made to construct facilities for
the production of oil or condensate from the designated area.

     The total purchase price for the two stages of the transaction was
allocated to the assets purchased and the liabilities assumed based upon the
fair values on the date of acquisition, as follows (in thousands):



     In 1998, the Company also completed tactical regional acquisitions for cash
consideration totaling $19.4 million. These acquisitions added approximately 9.1
MMboe to the Company's proved reserves.

     In November 1997, the Company acquired all the capital stock of three
companies owning interests in certain oil and gas properties (including 31.9
MMboe of proved oil and natural gas reserves) and production facilities offshore
Western Australia for approximately $300 million from subsidiaries of Mobil
Exploration & Producing Australia Pty Ltd (Ampolex Group Transaction). The
Ampolex Group Transaction, net of the subsequent sale of certain properties to
Hardy Petroleum Limited (Hardy), increased the Company's interest to 47.5
percent from 22.5 percent in the Carnarvon Basin's Harriet area, which includes
the Varanus Island

                                      F-11

                      APACHE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

pipeline, processing and production complex and eight existing oil and gas
fields. The transaction also increased the Company's interest in the East Spar
field, which produces through the Varanus Island facilities, to 45 percent from
20 percent. Apache operates the Harriet and East Spar properties.

     The purchase price was allocated to the assets purchased and the
liabilities assumed based upon the fair values on the date of acquisition, as
follows (in thousands):



     In conjunction with the closing of the Ampolex Group Transaction, the
Company entered into an agreement with Hardy in December 1997, under which Hardy
agreed to purchase a 10 percent interest in the Company's East Spar field and
related production facilities. The transaction closed in January 1998, with a
total sales price of approximately $63 million in cash.

     In 1997, the Company also completed tactical regional acquisitions for cash
consideration totaling $33.6 million. These acquisitions added approximately 6.6
MMboe to the Company's proved reserves.

     Each transaction described above has been accounted for using the purchase
method of accounting and has been included in the financial statements of Apache
since the date of acquisition.

     In January 2000, Apache completed the acquisition of producing properties
in Western Oklahoma and the Texas Panhandle, formerly owned by a subsidiary of
Repsol YPF, for approximately $119 million, plus assumed liabilities of
approximately $30 million. The acquisition included estimated proved reserves of
206 billion cubic feet of natural gas equivalent as of the acquisition date.

  Divestitures

     On September 3, 1999, Apache sold its holdings in the Ivory Coast by
selling its wholly-owned subsidiary, Apache Cote d'Ivoire Petroleum LDC, for a
total sales price of $46.1 million to a consortium consisting of Mondoil Cote
d'Ivoire LLC and Saur Energie Cote d'Ivoire. The sale consisted of 13.7 MMboe of
proved reserves and a gain was recorded to other revenues in the accompanying
statement of consolidated operations.

     Additionally, during 1999, Apache sold 27.9 MMboe of proved reserves in
several transactions from largely marginal North American properties for $110
million.

     In 1998, Apache sold marginal properties, primarily in North America,
containing 29.6 MMboe of proved reserves, for $131.1 million. Apache used the
sales proceeds to reduce bank debt.

     Apache received $30.1 million in 1997 from the sale of non-strategic oil
and gas properties in a number of separate transactions.

3. INVESTMENTS IN EQUITY SECURITIES

     Apache has certain investments in equity securities which are classified as
"available for sale" pursuant to SFAS No. 115, "Accounting for Certain
Investments in Debt and Equity Securities." At December 31, 1999, the aggregate
cost basis totaled $2.3 million. The related aggregate fair value approximated
$2.6 million and the unrealized gain at December 31, 1999 was approximately
$300,000. At December 31, 1998 and 1997, Apache had no investments in equity
securities.

                                      F-12

                      APACHE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The Company realized an aggregate gain from the sale of equity securities
totaling $234,000 during 1999, losses totaling $364,000 during 1998 and gains of
$13,000 during 1997. Apache utilizes the average cost method in computing
realized gains or losses, which are included in other revenues in the
accompanying statement of consolidated operations.

4. DEBT

  Long-Term Debt



     In June 1997, Apache replaced its $1 billion global borrowing-base credit
facility with a new $1 billion global corporate credit facility (global credit
facility). The global credit facility consists of three separate bank
facilities: a $700 million facility in the United States; a $175 million
facility in Australia; and a $125 million facility in Canada. The global credit
facility enables Apache to draw on the entire $1 billion facility without
restrictions tied to periodic revaluation of the Company's oil and gas reserves.
As of December 31, 1999, Apache's available borrowing capacity under the global
credit facility was $884 million. Under the financial covenants of the global
credit facility, the Company must (i) maintain a consolidated tangible net
worth, as defined, of at least $1.2 billion as of December 31, 1999, which is
adjusted for subsequent earnings, and (ii) maintain a ratio of debt to
capitalization of not greater than 60 percent at the end of any fiscal quarter.
The Company was in compliance with all financial covenants at December 31, 1999.

     The global credit facility is scheduled to mature on June 12, 2002, in the
amount of $30 million and the remaining $970 million on June 12, 2003. At the
Company's option, the interest rate is based on (i) the greater of (a) The Chase
Manhattan Bank's prime rate or (b) the federal funds rate plus one-half of one
percent, (ii) the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a margin determined
by the Company's

                                      F-13

                      APACHE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

senior long-term debt rating, or (iii) a margin that is determined by
competitive bids from the participating banks. At December 31, 1999, the margin
over LIBOR for committed loans was .185 percent. The Company also pays a
quarterly facility fee of .09 percent on the total amount of each of the three
facilities, which fee varies based upon the Company's senior long-term debt
rating.

     At December 31, 1999, the Company also had certain uncommitted money market
lines of credit which are used from time to time for working capital purposes.
As of December 31, 1999, an aggregate of $6.2 million was outstanding under such
credit lines.

     In January 1997, the Company established a $300 million commercial paper
program which enables Apache to borrow funds for up to 270 days at competitive
interest rates. In June 1997, Apache expanded its commercial paper program to
$700 million from $300 million to provide access to additional low-cost, short-
term funds. Since its inception in January 1997, the Company's commercial paper
program has been rated A-2, Prime-2 and D-1- (D-One-Minus) by Standard & Poor's,
Moody's and Duff and Phelps, respectively. As of December 31, 1999, no amounts
were outstanding under Apache's commercial paper program. The commercial paper
balance at December 31, 1998 was classified as long-term debt in the
accompanying consolidated balance sheet as the Company had the ability and
intent to refinance such amounts on a long-term basis through either the
rollover of commercial paper or available borrowing capacity under the global
credit facility.

     In January 1998, approximately 90 percent, or $155.6 million, of the
Company's 6-percent convertible subordinated debentures was converted into
approximately 5.1 million shares of Apache common stock at a conversion price of
$30.68 per share. The remaining $16.9 million of principal amount was redeemed
for $17.4 million in cash, plus accrued and unpaid interest. The Company
recorded a $.8 million loss on the early extinguishment of debt in January 1998.

     In May 1992, Apache issued $100 million of 9.25-percent notes which mature
in June 2002. The Company does not have the right to redeem the notes prior to
maturity.

     In February 1998, Apache issued $150 million principal amount, $148.2
million net of discount, of senior unsecured 7-percent notes maturing on
February 1, 2018. The Company does not have the right to redeem the notes prior
to maturity.

     In June 1999, the Company issued $150 million principal amount, $149.1
million net of discount, of senior unsecured 7.625-percent notes due July 1,
2019. The Company does not have the right to redeem the notes prior to maturity.

     In February 1996, Apache issued $100 million principal amount, $99.6
million net of discount, of senior unsecured 7.7-percent notes due March 15,
2026. In April 1996, the Company issued $180 million principal amount, $178.5
million net of discount, of senior unsecured 7.95-percent notes maturing on
April 15, 2026. The notes are not redeemable prior to maturity; however, under
certain conditions, Apache has the right to advance maturity of these notes.

     In August 1997, Apache issued $150 million principal amount, $148 million
net of discount, of senior unsecured 7.375-percent debentures maturing on August
15, 2047. The debentures are not redeemable prior to maturity; however, Apache
has the right to advance maturity, under certain conditions.

     In November 1996, Apache issued $150 million principal amount, $149.2
million net of discount, of senior unsecured 7.625-percent debentures maturing
on November 1, 2096. The debentures are not redeemable prior to maturity;
however, under certain conditions, Apache has the right to advance maturity of
these debentures.

     Upon certain changes in control, the debt instruments described in the
preceding six paragraphs would be subject to mandatory repurchase.

                                      F-14

                      APACHE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     In October 1997, three of the Company's Egyptian subsidiaries entered into
a secured, revolving credit facility with a group of banks. The facility
provides for total commitments of $250 million, with availability determined by
a borrowing base formula predicated upon those subsidiaries' oil and gas reserve
quantities, forecast rates of production, and future oil and gas prices. The
borrowing base is $196.6 million at December 31, 1999 and will be redetermined
semi-annually. The total amount of commitments under the facility is currently
scheduled to be reduced by set increments every six months, beginning May 17,
2000. The facility is presently secured solely by assets associated with the
Company's Qarun and Khalda concessions and shares of stock of the Company's
subsidiaries holding those concessions, with provisions that will permit the
inclusion of other of the Company's Egyptian subsidiaries as borrowers with
security interests on such subsidiaries' assets and shares of stock. Interest is
assessed at LIBOR plus a margin of .375 percent, which is scheduled to increase
to .625 percent on January 3, 2001; however, if the facility is extended the
rate increase would occur two years from the end of the facility's extended
term. A quarterly fee of .375 percent is payable on the available portion of the
commitments, while a quarterly fee of .1875 percent is payable on the difference
between the borrowing base and the total amount of commitments under the
facility. The facility is scheduled to mature on January 3, 2003.

     The DEKALB 9.875-percent notes mature on July 15, 2000 and are not
redeemable prior to their maturity. The DEKALB notes are classified as long-term
debt in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet because the Company has the
ability and intent to refinance such amounts on a long-term basis through
available borrowing capacity under the global credit facility.

     In December 1997, Apache Finance Pty Ltd (Apache Finance Australia), the
Company's Australian finance subsidiary, issued $170 million principal amount,
$168.7 million net of discount, of senior unsecured 6.5-percent notes due
December 15, 2007.

     In March 1999, Apache Finance Australia issued $100 million principal
amount, $99.3 million net of discount, of senior unsecured 7-percent notes due
March 15, 2009.

     In December 1999, Apache Finance Canada Corporation (Apache Finance
Canada), the Company's Canadian finance subsidiary, issued $300 million
principal amount, $296.9 million net of discount, of senior unsecured
7.75-percent notes due December 15, 2029.

     The Apache Finance Australia and Apache Finance Canada notes are
irrevocably and unconditionally guaranteed by Apache. Under certain conditions
related to changes in relevant tax laws, Apache Finance Australia and Apache
Finance Canada have the right to redeem the notes prior to maturity. In the case
of the 6.5-percent notes, Apache Finance Australia may also redeem the notes at
its option subject to an adjustment to keep investors whole. Also, upon certain
changes in control, these notes would be subject to mandatory repurchase.

     As of December 31, 1999 and 1998, the Company had approximately $16.8
million and $17.0 million, respectively, of unamortized costs associated with
its various debt obligations. These costs are reflected as deferred charges in
the accompanying consolidated balance sheet and are being amortized over the
life of the related debt.

     The indentures for the notes and debentures described above place certain
restrictions on the Company, including limits on Apache's ability to incur debt
secured by certain liens and its ability to enter into certain sale and
leaseback transactions.

                                      F-15

                      APACHE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

  Aggregate Maturities of Debt



5. INCOME TAXES

     Income (loss) before income taxes is composed of the following:



     The total provision (benefit) for income taxes consists of the following:



     The deferred taxes shown above exclude amounts related to the compensation
component of non-qualified stock options exercised in each year for which the
benefit was credited directly to shareholders' equity.

     A reconciliation of the federal statutory income tax amounts to the
effective amounts is shown below:



                                      F-16

                      APACHE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The net deferred tax liability is comprised of the following:



     U.S. deferred taxes have not been provided on foreign earnings totaling
$343.5 million, which are permanently reinvested abroad. Presently, limited
foreign tax credits are available to reduce the U.S. taxes on such amounts if
repatriated.

     At December 31, 1999, the Company had U.S. federal net operating loss
carryforwards of $231.6 million that will expire beginning in 2000, and U.S. and
foreign statutory depletion carryforwards totaling $10.9 million that can be
carried forward indefinitely. The Company has alternative minimum tax (AMT)
credit carryforwards of $9.1 million that can be carried forward indefinitely,
but which can be used only to reduce regular tax liabilities in excess of AMT
liabilities. The Company has investment and other tax credit carryforwards of
$1.7 million that most likely will expire in 2000 and 2001, which have been
fully reserved through a valuation allowance.

6. ADVANCES FROM GAS PURCHASERS

     In July 1998, Apache received $71.8 million from a purchaser as an advance
payment for future natural gas deliveries ranging from 6,726 MMBtu per day to
24,669 MMBtu per day, for a total of 45,330,949 MMBtu, over a ten-year period
commencing August 1998. As a condition of the arrangement with the purchaser,
Apache entered into three gas price swap contracts with a third party under
which Apache became a fixed price payor for identical volumes at prices ranging
from $2.34 per MMBtu to $2.56 per MMBtu. In addition, the purchaser pays Apache
a monthly fee of $.08 per MMBtu on the contracted volumes. The net result of
these related transactions is that gas delivered to the purchaser is reported as
revenue at prevailing spot prices with Apache realizing a premium associated
with the monthly fee paid by the purchaser.

     In August 1997, Apache received $115.2 million from a purchaser as an
advance payment for future natural gas deliveries of 20,000 MMBtu per day over a
ten-year period commencing September 1997. As a condition of the arrangement
with the purchaser, Apache entered into two gas price swap contracts with a
third party under which Apache became a fixed price payor for identical volumes
at average prices starting at

                                      F-17

                      APACHE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

$2.19 per MMBtu in 1997 and escalating to $2.59 per MMBtu in 2007. In addition,
the purchaser pays Apache a monthly fee of $.07 per MMBtu on the contracted
volumes. The net result of these related transactions is that gas delivered to
the purchaser is reported as revenue at prevailing spot prices with Apache
realizing a premium associated with the monthly fee paid by the purchaser.

     In December 1994, Apache received $67.4 million from a purchaser as an
advance payment for future natural gas deliveries of 20,000 MMBtu per day over a
six-year period commencing January 1995. As a condition of the arrangement with
the purchaser, Apache entered into a gas price swap contract with a third party
under which Apache became a fixed price payor for identical volumes at prices
starting at $1.81 per MMBtu in 1995 and escalating at $.10 per MMBtu per year
through 2000. The net result of these related transactions is that gas delivered
to the purchaser is reported as revenue at prevailing spot prices with Apache
realizing a $.05 per MMBtu premium associated with a monthly fee paid by the
purchaser.

     The Company, through its marketing subsidiaries, may purchase gas from
third parties to satisfy gas delivery requirements under these arrangements.
Contracted volumes relating to these arrangements are included in the Company's
supplemental oil and gas disclosures.

     These advance payments have been classified as advances from gas purchasers
on the accompanying consolidated balance sheet and are being reduced as gas is
delivered to the purchasers under the terms of the contracts. At December 31,
1999 and 1998, advances of $181.0 million and $205.5 million, respectively, were
outstanding. Gas volumes delivered to the purchaser are reported as revenue at
prices used to calculate the amount advanced, before imputed interest, plus or
minus amounts paid or received by Apache applicable to the price swap
agreements. Interest expense is recorded based on a rate of 8 percent on the
1998 and 1997 advances, and 9.5 percent on the 1994 advances.

7. CAPITAL STOCK

  Common Stock Outstanding



- ---------------

(1) In May 1999, Apache completed a public offering of approximately 15.0
    million shares of Apache common stock for net proceeds of $444.3 million.
                                      F-18

                      APACHE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Net Income (Loss) Per Common Share -- A reconciliation of the components of
basic and diluted net income (loss) per common share for the years ended
December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997 is presented in the table below:



     The effect of stock options and the 6-percent convertible subordinated
debentures were not included in the computation of diluted net loss per common
share during 1998 and the effect of the Series C Preferred Stock was not
included in the computation of diluted net income per common share during 1999
because to do so would have been antidilutive.

     Stock Option Plans -- At December 31, 1999, officers and certain key
employees had been granted options to purchase the Company's common stock under
employee stock option plans adopted in 1990, 1995 and 1998 and under certain
predecessor plans (collectively, the Stock Option Plans). Under the Stock Option
Plans, the exercise price of each option equals the market price of Apache's
common stock on the date of grant. Options generally become exercisable ratably
over a four-year period and expire after 10 years. The Company may issue up to
6,485,231 shares of common stock under the Stock Option Plans, of which options
to acquire 1,276,279 shares of common stock remained available for grant at
December 31, 1999.

     On October 31, 1996, the Company established the 1996 Performance Stock
Option Plan (the Performance Plan) for substantially all full-time employees,
excluding officers and certain key employees. Under the Performance Plan, the
exercise price of each option equals the market price of Apache common stock on
the date of grant. All options become exercisable after nine and one-half years
and expire ten years from the date of grant; however, exercisability will be
accelerated if share price goals of $50 and $60 per share are attained before
January 1, 2000. These share price goals were not attained before January 1,
2000. Under the terms of the Performance Plan, no grants could be made after
December 31, 1998.

                                      F-19

                      APACHE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     A summary of the status of the plans described above as of December 31,
1999, 1998, and 1997, and changes during the years then ended, is presented in
the table and narrative below (shares in thousands):



     The following table summarizes information about stock options covered by
the plans described above that are outstanding at December 31, 1999 (shares in
thousands):



- ---------------

(1) Excludes 219,000, 449,600 and 496,900 shares as of December 31, 1999, 1998
    and 1997, respectively, issuable under stock options assumed by Apache in
    connection with the 1996 merger with The Phoenix Resource Companies, Inc.

(2) The fair value of each option is estimated as of the date of grant using the
    Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted-average
    assumptions used for grants in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively: (i)
    risk-free interest rates of 5.65, 5.46 and 6.33 percent; (ii) expected lives
    of five years for the Stock Option Plans, and 2.5 years for the Performance
    Plan; (iii) expected volatility of 33.87, 31.17 and 31.21 percent, and (iv)
    expected dividend yields of .75, .88 and .82 percent.
                                      F-20

                      APACHE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     In May 1997, Apache's shareholders approved the 1996 Share Price
Appreciation Plan (the Appreciation Plan) for officers and certain key
employees. The Appreciation Plan provided for conditional grants denominated in
shares of Apache common stock that would have vested upon attainment of share
price goals of $50 and $60 per share before January 1, 2000. Since these share
price goals were not attained before January 1, 2000, the Appreciation Plan
terminated and all conditional grants were forfeited.

     A summary of the status of the Appreciation Plan as of December 31, 1999,
1998 and 1997, and changes during the years then ended, is presented in the
table and narrative below (shares in thousands):



     The Company accounts for its stock-based compensation plans under APB
Opinion No. 25 and related interpretations, under which no compensation cost has
been recognized for the Stock Option Plans, the Performance Plan, or the
Appreciation Plan. If compensation costs for these plans had been determined in
accordance with SFAS No. 123, the Company's net income and net income per common
share would approximate the following pro forma amounts:



     The pro forma amounts shown above may not be representative of future
results, as the SFAS No. 123 method of accounting has not been applied to
options granted prior to January 1, 1995.

- ---------------

(1) The fair value of each conditional grant is estimated as of the date of
    grant using a Monte Carlo simulation with the following weighted-average
    assumptions used for grants in 1998 and 1997, respectively: (i) risk-free
    interest rate of 5.37 and 6.45 percent; (ii) expected volatility of 33.11
    and 28.63 percent; and (iii) expected dividend yields of .82 and .84
    percent.
                                      F-21

                      APACHE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     In December 1998, the Company entered into a conditional stock grant
agreement with an executive of the Company which would award up to 100,000
shares of the Company's common stock in five annual installments. Each
installment has a five-year vesting period, 40 percent of the conditional grants
will be paid in cash at the market value of the stock on the date of payment and
the balance (60,000 shares) will be issued in Apache common stock.

  Preferred Stock

     The Company has five million shares of no par preferred stock authorized,
of which 25,000 shares have been "designated" as Series A Junior Participating
Preferred Stock (the Series A Preferred Stock), 100,000 shares have been
designated as the 5.68 percent Series B Cumulative Preferred Stock (the Series B
Preferred Stock) and 140,000 shares have been designated as Automatically
Convertible Equity Securities, Conversion Preferred Stock, Series C (the Series
C Preferred Stock). The shares of Series A Preferred Stock are authorized for
issuance pursuant to certain rights that trade with Apache common stock
outstanding and are reserved for issuance upon the exercise of the Rights as
defined and discussed below.

     Rights to Purchase Series A Preferred Stock -- In December 1995, the
Company declared a dividend of one right (a Right) for each share of Apache
common stock outstanding on January 31, 1996. Each Right entitles the registered
holder to purchase from the Company one ten-thousandth (1/10,000) of a share of
Series A Preferred Stock at a price of $100 per one ten-thousandth of a share,
subject to adjustment. The Rights are exercisable 10 calendar days following a
public announcement that certain persons or groups have acquired 20 percent or
more of the outstanding shares of Apache common stock or 10 business days
following commencement of an offer for 30 percent or more of the outstanding
shares of Apache common stock. In addition, if a person or group becomes the
beneficial owner of 20 percent or more of Apache's outstanding common stock
(flip in event), each Right will become exercisable for shares of Apache's
common stock at 50 percent of the then market price of the common stock. If a 20
percent shareholder of Apache acquires Apache, by merger or otherwise, in a
transaction where Apache does not survive or in which Apache's common stock is
changed or exchanged (flip over event), the Rights become exercisable for shares
of the common stock of the company acquiring Apache at 50 percent of the then
market price for Apache common stock. Any Rights that are or were beneficially
owned by a person who has acquired 20 percent or more of the outstanding shares
of Apache common stock and who engages in certain transactions or realizes the
benefits of certain transactions with the Company will become void. The Company
may redeem the Rights at $.01 per Right at any time until 10 business days after
public announcement of a flip in event. The Rights will expire on January 31,
2006, unless earlier redeemed by the Company. Unless the Rights have been
previously redeemed, all shares of Apache common stock issued by the Company
after January 31, 1996 will include Rights. Unless and until the Rights become
exercisable, they will be transferred with and only with the shares of Apache
common stock.

     Series B Preferred Stock -- In August 1998, Apache issued 100,000 shares
($100 million) of Series B Preferred Stock in the form of one million depositary
shares, each representing one-tenth (1/10) of a share of Series B Preferred
Stock, for net proceeds of $98.4 million. The Series B Preferred Stock has no
stated maturity, is not subject to a sinking fund and is not convertible into
Apache common stock or any other securities of the Company. Apache has the
option to redeem the Series B Preferred Stock at $1,000 per share on or after
August 25, 2008. Holders of the shares are entitled to receive cumulative cash
dividends at an annual rate of $5.68 per depositary share when, and if, declared
by Apache's board of directors.

     Series C Preferred Stock -- In May 1999, Apache issued 140,000 shares ($217
million) of Series C Preferred Stock in the form of seven million depositary
shares each representing one-fiftieth (1/50) of a share of Series C Preferred
Stock, for net proceeds of $210.5 million. The Series C Preferred Stock is not
subject to a sinking fund or mandatory redemption. On May 15, 2002, each
depositary share will automatically convert,

                                      F-22

                      APACHE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

subject to adjustments, into not more than one share and not less than 0.8197 of
a share of Apache common stock, depending on the market price of Apache common
stock at that time.

     At any time prior to May 15, 2002, holders of the depositary shares may
elect to convert each of their shares, subject to adjustments, into not less
than 0.8197 of a share of Apache common stock (5,737,900 common shares). Holders
of the shares are entitled to receive cumulative cash dividends at an annual
rate of $2.015 per depositary share when, and if, declared by Apache's board of
directors.

     Comprehensive Income -- In the first quarter of 1998, the Company adopted
SFAS No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income," which established standards for
reporting components of comprehensive income. Components of accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss) consist of the following (in thousands):



     The unrealized gain on marketable securities at December 31, 1999 is net of
income taxes of $129,000. The currency translation adjustments are not adjusted
for income taxes as they relate to an indefinite investment in a non-U.S.
subsidiary.

8. NON-CASH INVESTING AND FINANCING ACTIVITIES

     A summary of non-cash investing and financing activities is presented
below:

     In June 1999, the Company acquired certain oil and gas interests from
British-Borneo for cash and the assumption of certain liabilities. The
accompanying financial statements include the amounts detailed in Note 2.

     In May 1999, the Company issued one million shares of Apache common stock
to Shell Offshore in connection with the transaction discussed in Note 2.

     In December 1998 and January 1999, the Company acquired certain oil and gas
interests from subsidiaries of Novus for cash and the assumption of certain
liabilities. The accompanying financial statements include the amounts detailed
in Note 2.

     In June 1998, Apache formed a strategic alliance with Cinergy Corp.
(Cinergy) and sold its 57 percent interest in ProEnergy for 771,258 shares of
Cinergy common stock valued at $26.5 million.

     In March 1998, Apache acquired certain oil and gas property interests for
approximately 177,000 shares of Apache common stock valued at $6.1 million.

     In January 1998, approximately 90 percent, or $155.6 million principal
amount, of the Company's 6-percent convertible subordinated debentures was
converted into approximately 5.1 million shares of Apache common stock at a
conversion price of $30.68 per share.

     In November 1997, Apache acquired certain assets through the Ampolex Group
Transaction for cash and the assumption of certain liabilities. The accompanying
financial statements include the amounts detailed in Note 2.

     In November 1997, the Company's $75 million principal amount of
3.93-percent convertible notes were converted into approximately 2.8 million
shares of Apache common stock at a conversion price of $27 per share.

                                      F-23

                      APACHE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

Supplemental Disclosure of Cash Flow Information:



9. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND OFF-BALANCE-SHEET RISK

     The following table presents the carrying amounts and estimated fair values
of the Company's financial instruments at December 31, 1999 and 1998.



- ---------------

(1) The fair value of natural gas price swaps at December 31, 1999 and 1998
    reflects fixed-to-floating price swaps where there is an offsetting position
    with a physical contract. See Commodity Price Hedges below.
                                      F-24

                      APACHE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value
of the financial instruments summarized in the table above. The carrying values
of trade receivables and trade payables included in the accompanying
consolidated balance sheet approximated market value at December 31, 1999 and
1998.

     Cash and Cash Equivalents -- The carrying amounts approximated fair value
due to the short maturity of these instruments.

     Long-Term Debt -- The fair values of the 7.625-percent debentures and the
Apache Finance Australia 7-percent notes are based upon estimates provided to
the Company by independent investment banking firms. The fair values of all
other notes and debentures are based on the quoted market prices. The carrying
amount of the bank debt, commercial paper and money market lines of credit
approximated fair value because the interest rates are variable and reflective
of market rates.

     Commodity Price Hedges -- Apache periodically enters into commodity
derivative contracts and fixed-price physical contracts to manage its exposure
to oil and gas price volatility. Commodity derivatives contracts, which are
usually placed with major financial institutions that the Company believes are
minimal credit risks, may take the form of futures contracts, swaps or options.
The derivative contracts call for Apache to receive, or make, payments based
upon the differential between a fixed and a variable commodity price as
specified in the contract. As a result of these activities, Apache recognized
hedging losses of $6.7 million in 1999 and hedging gains of $1.3 million and
$14.5 million in 1998 and 1997, respectively. The hedging gains and losses are
included in oil and gas production revenues in the statement of consolidated
operations.

     The following table and note thereto cover the Company's pricing and
notional volumes on open commodity derivative contracts as of December 31, 1999:



- ---------------

(1) The Company has various contracts to supply gas at fixed prices. In order to
    lock in a margin on a portion of the volumes, the Company is a fixed price
    payor on swap transactions. The average physical contract price ranges from
    $2.32 in 2000 to $2.56 in 2008. The fair value of these hedges was $11.1
    million at December 31, 1999, all of which is related to the arrangements
    discussed in Note 6.
                                      F-25

                      APACHE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

10. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

     Litigation -- The Company is involved in litigation and is subject to
governmental and regulatory controls arising in the ordinary course of business.
It is the opinion of the Company's management that all claims and litigation
involving the Company are not likely to have a material adverse effect on its
financial position or results of operations.

     Environmental -- Apache, as an owner and operator of oil and gas
properties, is subject to various federal, state, local and foreign country laws
and regulations relating to discharge of materials into, and protection of, the
environment. These laws and regulations may, among other things, impose
liability on the lessee under an oil and gas lease for the cost of pollution
clean-up resulting from operations and subject the lessee to liability for
pollution damages. Apache maintains insurance coverage, which it believes, is
customary in the industry, although it is not fully insured against all
environmental risks.

     As part of the Company's due diligence review for acquisitions, Apache
conducts an extensive environmental evaluation of purchased properties.
Depending on the extent of an identified environmental problem, the Company may
exclude a property from the acquisition, require the seller to remediate the
property to Apache's satisfaction, or agree to assume liability for remediation
of the property. As of December 31, 1999, Apache had a reserve for environmental
remediation of approximately $7.7 million. The Company is not aware of any
environmental claims existing as of December 31, 1999, which have not been
provided for or would otherwise have a material impact on its financial position
or results of operations. There can be no assurance, however, that current
regulatory requirements will not change, or past non-compliance with
environmental laws will not be discovered on the Company's properties.

     International Commitments -- The Company, through its subsidiaries, has
acquired or has been conditionally or unconditionally granted exploration rights
in Australia, Egypt, China and Poland. In order to comply with the contracts and
agreements granting these rights, the Company, through various wholly-owned
subsidiaries, is committed to expend approximately $95 million through 2003.

     Retirement and Deferred Compensation Plans -- The Company provides a 401(k)
savings plan for employees which allows participating employees to elect to
contribute up to 12 percent of their salaries, with Apache making matching
contributions up to a maximum of six percent of each employee's salary. In
addition, the Company annually contributes six percent of each participating
employee's compensation, as defined, to a money purchase retirement plan. The
401(k) plan and the money purchase retirement plan are subject to certain
annually-adjusted, government-mandated restrictions which limit the amount of
each employee's contributions.

     For certain eligible employees, the Company also provides a non-qualified
retirement/savings plan which allows the deferral of up to 50 percent of each
such employee's salary, and which accepts employee contributions and the
Company's matching contributions in excess of the above-referenced restrictions
on the 401(k) savings plan and money purchase retirement plan. Additionally,
Apache Energy Limited and Apache Canada Ltd. maintain separate retirement plans,
as required under the laws of Australia and Canada, respectively.

     Vesting in the Company's contributions to the 401(k) savings plan, the
money purchase retirement plan and the non-qualified retirement/savings plan
occurs at the rate of 20 percent per year. Total expenses under all plans were
$7.8 million, $7.3 million and $6.3 million for 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively. The unfunded liability for all plans has been accrued in the
consolidated balance sheet.

     China -- On May 28, 1999, Apache China Corporation LDC (Apache China, an
indirect wholly owned subsidiary of the Company) sent a notice of default to
XCL-China, Ltd. (XCL-China), a participant with Apache China in the Zhao Dong
Block offshore the People's Republic of China, and its parent company, XCL,
Ltd., for the failure to pay approximately $10 million of costs pursuant to the
agreements governing the

                                      F-26

                      APACHE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

project. Prior to the expiration of the cure period, XCL-China and XCL, Ltd.
filed petitions initiating arbitration proceedings against Apache China. The
actions seek to disallow approximately $17 million in costs expended by Apache
China related to developing the Zhao Dong Block, including the $10 million in
costs billed by Apache China to XCL-China that have not been paid. In addition,
XCL-China has advised Apache China of XCL-China's intent to seek the removal of
Apache China as operator of the Block. Apache China has denied the allegations
made by XCL-China in its petition and is vigorously contesting them. On November
30, 1999 the arbitration proceedings were stayed in connection with the
bankruptcy proceeding described below.

     On June 25, 1999, Apache China filed a petition in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Opelousas, Louisiana, to place XCL-China into involuntary bankruptcy under
Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code on account of XCL-China's failure to pay its
share of costs related to development of the Zhao Dong Block. On December 21,
1999, the holders of XCL, Ltd.'s senior secured notes, acting through their
Trustee, exercised their remedial rights under their indenture and removed the
existing Board of Directors of XCL-China, electing a new Board. The new Board of
Directors of XCL-China voted to withdraw XCL-China's opposition to Apache
China's Chapter 7 bankruptcy petition filed against XCL-China and on December
22, 1999 obtained an order of the Court converting the proceeding into a
voluntary Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding.

     Apache China has entered into negotiations with the Chinese authorities
concerning the terms and conditions of the development of the Zhao Dong Block
including, among other things the portion of XCL-China's future development
costs to be paid by the Chinese. Apache China is prepared to move forward as
soon as these negotiations are satisfactorily concluded.

     Lease Commitments -- The Company has leases for buildings, facilities and
equipment with varying expiration dates through 2007. Net rental expense was
$11.5 million, $8.1 million and $5.8 million for 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively.

     As of December 31, 1999, minimum rental commitments under long-term
operating leases, net of sublease rentals, and long-term pipeline transportation
commitments, ranging from one to 24 years, are as follows:



     Partnership in Western Australia -- Apache is a partner in a partnership
formed to construct and operate a 62-mile pipeline from Varanus Island to
onshore facilities in Western Australia. Apache has a 50 percent interest in the
partnership and has guaranteed 50 percent of the partnership's share of any
related debt incurred by the partnership up to the time certain documentation
related to the partnership's debt is finalized. Thereafter, the partnership debt
will be non-recourse to Apache. The Company has dedicated the production volumes
of six take-or-pay gas sales contracts to the pipeline. Apache will be required
to prepay transportation tariffs in the event Apache receives payments under the
take-or-pay provisions of these contracts, or in the event the Company fails to
deliver the volumes required by the contracts and requested by the purchasers.

                                      F-27

                      APACHE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

11. TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES AND MAJOR CUSTOMERS

     Strategic Alliance with Cinergy Corp. -- In June 1998, Apache formed a
strategic alliance with Cinergy to market substantially all the Company's
natural gas production from North America and sold its 57 percent interest in
ProEnergy for 771,258 shares of Cinergy common stock subsequently sold for $26.1
million. ProEnergy, renamed Cinergy Marketing and Trading LLC, will continue to
market Apache's North American natural gas production for 10 years, with an
option to terminate after six years, under an amended and restated gas purchase
agreement effective July 1, 1998. During this period, Apache is generally
obligated to deliver most of its North American gas production to Cinergy and,
under certain circumstances, reimburse Cinergy if certain gas throughput
thresholds are not met. Accordingly, Apache recorded a deferred gain of $20.0
million, subject to adjustment, on the sale of ProEnergy that is being amortized
over six years.

     Related Parties -- F.H. Merelli, a member of the Company's board of
directors since July 1997, is chairman, president and chief executive officer of
Key Production Company, Inc. (Key). In the normal course of business, Key paid
to Apache during 1999 approximately $3.0 million for Key's proportionate share
of drilling and workover costs, mineral interests and routine expenses relating
to 380 oil and gas wells in which Key owns interests and for which Apache is the
operator. Key received approximately $6.3 million in 1999 for its proportionate
share of revenues from such interests, of which approximately $4.2 million was
paid directly to Key by Apache or related entities.

     Major Purchasers -- In 1999, purchases by Cinergy and the Egyptian General
Petroleum Corporation (EGPC) accounted for 29 percent and 21 percent of the
Company's oil and gas production revenues, respectively. In 1998, purchases by
Cinergy/ProEnergy and EGPC accounted for 38 percent and 17 percent of the
Company's oil and gas production revenues, respectively. In 1997, purchases by
ProEnergy and EGPC accounted for 40 percent and 13 percent of the Company's oil
and gas production revenues.

     Concentration of Credit Risk -- The Company's revenues are derived
principally from uncollateralized sales to customers in the oil and gas
industry; therefore, customers may be similarly affected by changes in economic
and other conditions within the industry. Apache has not experienced significant
credit losses on such sales. Sales of natural gas by Apache to Cinergy are
similarly uncollateralized.

                                      F-28

                      APACHE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

12. BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION

     Apache has five reportable segments which are primarily in the business of
natural gas and crude oil exploration and production. The accounting policies of
the segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant
accounting policies. The Company evaluates performance based on profit or loss
from oil and gas operations before income and expense items incidental to oil
and gas operations and income taxes. Apache's reportable segments are managed
separately because of their geographic locations. Financial information by
operating segment is presented below:



                                      F-29

                      APACHE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)



                                      F-30


                      APACHE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                      SUPPLEMENTAL OIL AND GAS DISCLOSURES
                                  (UNAUDITED)

     Oil and Gas Operations -- The following table sets forth revenue and direct
cost information relating to the Company's oil and gas exploration and
production activities. Apache has no long-term agreements to purchase oil or gas
production from foreign governments or authorities.



- ---------------

(1) Amortization rate per boe reflects only depreciation, depletion and
    amortization (DD&A) of capitalized costs of proved oil and gas properties
    (and excludes the additional DD&A recorded in 1998).

                                      F-31

                      APACHE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              SUPPLEMENTAL OIL AND GAS DISCLOSURES -- (CONTINUED)
                                  (UNAUDITED)

     Costs Not Being Amortized -- The following table sets forth a summary of
oil and gas property costs not being amortized at December 31, 1999, by the year
in which such costs were incurred:



     Capitalized Costs Incurred -- The following table sets forth the
capitalized costs incurred in oil and gas producing activities:



- ---------------

(1) Acquisition of proved properties includes unevaluated costs of $256.4
    million, $15.7 million and $53.8 million for transactions completed in 1999,
    1998 and 1997, respectively.
                                      F-32

                      APACHE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              SUPPLEMENTAL OIL AND GAS DISCLOSURES -- (CONTINUED)
                                  (UNAUDITED)

     Capitalized Costs -- The following table sets forth the capitalized costs
and associated accumulated depreciation, depletion and amortization, including
impairments, relating to the Company's oil and gas production, exploration and
development activities:



                                      F-33


                      APACHE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              SUPPLEMENTAL OIL AND GAS DISCLOSURES -- (CONTINUED)
                                  (UNAUDITED)

     Oil and Gas Reserve Information -- Proved oil and gas reserve quantities
are based on estimates prepared by the Company's engineers in accordance with
guidelines established by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The
Company's estimates of proved reserve quantities of its U.S., Canadian and
international properties are subject to review by Ryder Scott Company, L.P.
Petroleum Consultants, independent petroleum engineers. In 1996, the proved
reserve quantities of certain of the Company's Egyptian properties were subject
to review by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc., independent petroleum
engineers.

     There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of
proved reserves and projecting future rates of production and timing of
development expenditures. The following reserve data represents estimates only
and should not be construed as being exact.


                                      F-34

                      APACHE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              SUPPLEMENTAL OIL AND GAS DISCLOSURES -- (CONTINUED)
                                  (UNAUDITED)

     Future Net Cash Flows -- Future cash inflows are based on year-end oil and
gas prices except in those instances where future natural gas or oil sales are
covered by physical or derivative contract terms providing for higher or lower
amounts. Operating costs, production and ad valorem taxes and future development
costs are based on current costs with no escalation.

     The following table sets forth unaudited information concerning future net
cash flows for oil and gas reserves, net of income tax expense. Income tax
expense has been computed using expected future tax rates and giving effect to
tax deductions and credits available, under current laws, and which relate to
oil and gas producing activities. This information does not purport to present
the fair market value of the Company's oil and gas assets, but does present a
standardized disclosure concerning possible future net cash flows that would
result under the assumptions used.



- ---------------

(1) Included in cash inflows is approximately $30.8 million, $27.9 million and
    $27.3 million ($9.7 million, $9.1 million and $9.3 million after discount at
    10 percent per annum) for 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively, of Canadian
    provincial tax credits expected to be realized beyond the date at which the
    legislation, under its provisions, could be repealed.

(2) Estimated future net cash flows before income tax expense, discounted at 10
    percent per annum, totaled approximately $6.1 billion, $2.4 billion and $3.3
    billion as of December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.
                                      F-35

                      APACHE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              SUPPLEMENTAL OIL AND GAS DISCLOSURES -- (CONTINUED)
                                  (UNAUDITED)

     The following table sets forth the principal sources of change in the
discounted future net cash flows:



     Impact of Pricing -- The estimates of cash flows and reserve quantities
shown above are based on year-end oil and gas prices, except in those cases
where future natural gas or oil sales are covered by contracts at specified
prices. Estimates of future liabilities and receivables applicable to oil and
gas commodity hedges are reflected in future cash flows from proved reserves
with such estimates based on prices in effect as of the date of the reserve
report. Fluctuations are largely due to supply and demand perceptions for
natural gas and volatility in oil prices.

     Under the full cost accounting rules of the SEC, the Company reviews the
carrying value of its proved oil and gas properties each quarter on a
country-by-country basis. Under these rules, capitalized costs of proved oil and
gas properties, net of accumulated DD&A and deferred income taxes, may not
exceed the present value of estimated future net cash flows from proved oil and
gas reserves, discounted at 10 percent, plus the lower of cost or fair value of
unproved properties included in the costs being amortized, net of related tax
effects. These rules generally require pricing future oil and gas production at
the unescalated oil and gas prices at the end of each fiscal quarter and require
a write-down if the "ceiling" is exceeded. Given the volatility of oil and gas
prices, it is reasonably possible that the Company's estimate of discounted
future net cash flows from proved oil and gas reserves could change in the near
term. If oil and gas prices decline significantly, even if only for a short
period of time, it is possible that write-downs of oil and gas properties could
occur in the future.

                                      F-36


                      APACHE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                     SUPPLEMENTAL QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA
                                  (UNAUDITED)



- ---------------

(1) The sum of the individual quarterly net income (loss) per common share
    amounts may not agree with year-to-date net income (loss) per common share
    as each quarterly computation is based on the weighted average number of
    common shares outstanding during that period. In addition, certain
    potentially dilutive securities were not included in certain of the
    quarterly computations of diluted net income (loss) per common share because
    to do so would have been antidilutive.

(2) As a result of low oil and gas prices at December 31, 1998, the carrying
    value of Apache's U.S. oil and gas properties exceeded the ceiling
    limitation and the Company reported a $243.2 million pre-tax ($158.1 million
    net of tax) non-cash write-down in the fourth quarter of 1998.
                                      F-37


                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS















- ---------------

* Filed herewith.

+ Management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements required to be
  filed herewith pursuant to Item 14 hereof.

