
10-K
FORM 10-K FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996



 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
               ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
  For the fiscal year ended                          Commission file number
      December 31, 1996                                      1-8052
 
                             TORCHMARK CORPORATION
            (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)
 
           Delaware                                        63-0780404
 (STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION                           (I.R.S. EMPLOYER
              OF                                       IDENTIFICATION NO.) 
       INCORPORATION OR                                
        ORGANIZATION)
 
    2001 Third Ave. South,                                    35233
        Birmingham, AL                                      (ZIP CODE) 
    (ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL                                  
      EXECUTIVE OFFICES)
 
              Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
                                (205) 325-4200
 
          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
 
                                                       NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE
  TITLE OF EACH CLASS           CUSIP NUMBER:           ON WHICH REGISTERED:
 
Common Stock, $1.00 Par           891027104           New York Stock Exchange  
         Value                                        The International Stock  
                                                         Exchange, London,    
                                                              England          

 
          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                                     None
 
           Securities reported pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Act:
 
                   TITLE OF EACH                   CUSIP NUMBER:
                   CLASS:
                   8 5/8% Sinking Fund             891027 AB 0
                   Debentures due 2017
                   9 5/8% Senior Notes             891027 AD 6
                   due 1998
                   8 1/4% Senior                   891027 AE 4
                   Debentures due 2009
                   7 7/8% Notes due                891027 AF 1
                   7 3/8% Notes due                891027 AG 9
 
INDICATE BY CHECK MARK WHETHER THE REGISTRANT (1) HAS FILED ALL REPORTS
REQUIRED TO BE FILED BY SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934 DURING THE PRECEDING 12 MONTHS (OR FOR SUCH SHORTER PERIOD THAT THE
REGISTRANT WAS REQUIRED TO FILE SUCH) AND (2) HAS BEEN SUBJECT TO SUCH FILING
REQUIREMENTS FOR THE PAST 90 DAYS.
                                                                 YES [X]  NO [_]
 
INDICATE BY CHECK MARK IF DISCLOSURE OF DELINQUENT FILERS PURSUANT TO ITEM 405
OF REGULATION S-K ((S)229.405 OF THIS CHAPTER) IS NOT CONTAINED HEREIN, AND
WILL NOT BE CONTAINED, TO THE BEST OF REGISTRANT'S KNOWLEDGE, IN DEFINITIVE
PROXY OR INFORMATION STATEMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN PART III OF THIS
FORM 10-K OR ANY AMENDMENT TO THIS FORM 10-K. [_]
 
 THE AGGREGATE MARKET VALUE OF THE VOTING STOCK HELD BY NON-AFFILIATES OF THE
                          REGISTRANT: $4,181,248,001
 
THE NUMBER OF SHARES OUTSTANDING OF EACH OF THE REGISTRANT'S CLASSES OF COMMON
                  STOCK, AS OF FEBRUARY 28, 1997: 69,832,952
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
 PROXY STATEMENT FOR ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS TO BE HELD APRIL 24, 1997,
                                   PART III
 
                    INDEX OF EXHIBITS (PAGES 67 THROUGH 69)
                     TOTAL NUMBER OF PAGES INCLUDED ARE 76

 
                                    PART 1
 
                               ITEM 1. BUSINESS
 
  Torchmark Corporation ("Torchmark"), an insurance and diversified financial
services holding company, was incorporated in Delaware on November 19, 1979,
as Liberty National Insurance Holding Company. Through a plan of
reorganization effective December 30, 1980, it became the parent company for
the businesses operated by Liberty National Life Insurance Company ("Liberty")
and Globe Life And Accident Insurance Company ("Globe"). United American
Insurance Company ("United American"), Waddell & Reed, Inc. ("W&R") and United
Investors Life Insurance Company ("UILIC") along with their respective
subsidiaries were acquired in 1981. The name Torchmark Corporation was adopted
on July 1, 1982. Family Service Life Insurance Company ("Famlico") was
purchased in July, 1990, and American Income Life Insurance Company ("American
Income") was purchased in November, 1994.
 
  The following table presents Torchmark's business by primary distribution
method:
 

 
Additional information concerning industry segments may be found in
Management's Discussion and Analysis and in Note 17--Industry Segments in the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
                                   INSURANCE
 
LIFE INSURANCE
 
  Torchmark writes a variety of nonparticipating ordinary life insurance
products. These include traditional and interest sensitive whole-life
insurance, term life insurance, and other life insurance. The following table
presents selected information about Torchmark's life products:
 

 
 

 
  The distribution methods for life insurance products include sales efforts
conducted by direct response, exclusive agents and independent agents. These
methods are discussed in more depth under the heading "Marketing." The
following table presents life annualized premium issued by marketing method:
 

- --------
* Annualized premium in force for 1996 includes $21 million acquired from
another carrier originally produced by this agency.
 
  Permanent insurance products sold by Torchmark build cash values which are
available to policyholders. Policyholders may borrow such funds using the
policies as collateral. The aggregate value of policy loans outstanding at
December 31, 1996 was $207 million and the average interest rate earned on
these loans was 6.58% in 1996. Interest income earned on policy loans was
$13.2 million in 1996, $12.1 million in 1995, and $10.0 million in 1994.
Torchmark had 188 thousand and 182 thousand policy loans outstanding at year-
end 1996 and 1995, respectively.
 
  The availability of cash values contributes to voluntary policy terminations
by policyholders through surrenders. Torchmark's life insurance products may
be terminated or surrendered at the election of the insured at any time,
generally for the full cash value specified in the policy. Specific surrender
procedures vary with the type of policy. For certain policies this cash value
is based upon a fund less a surrender charge which decreases with the length
of time the policy has been in force. This surrender charge is either based
upon a percentage of the fund or a charge per $1,000 of face amount of
insurance. The schedule of charges may vary by plan of insurance and, for some
plans, by age of the insured at issue. Torchmark's ratio of aggregate face
amount voluntary terminations to the mean amount of life insurance in force
was 17.1% in 1996, 17.2% in 1995 and 14.7% in 1994.
 
  The following table presents an analysis of changes to Torchmark's life
insurance business in force:
 

 

 
HEALTH INSURANCE
 
  Torchmark offers an assortment of supplemental health insurance products.
These are generally classified as (1) Medicare Supplement, (2) cancer and (3)
other health policies.
 
  Medicare Supplement policies are offered on both an individual and group
basis through exclusive and independent agents, and direct response. These
guaranteed renewable policies provide reimbursement for certain expenses not
covered by the federal Medicare program. One popular feature available under
Torchmark's Medicare Supplements is an automatic claim filing system for
Medicare Part B benefits whereby policyholders do not have to file most claims
because they are paid directly by Torchmark from Medicare records.
 
  Cancer policies are offered on an individual basis through exclusive and
independent agents as well as direct response. These guaranteed renewable
policies are designed to fill gaps in existing medical coverage. Benefits are
triggered by a diagnosis of cancer or health related events or medical
expenses related to the treatment of cancer. Benefits may be in the form of a
lump sum payment, stated amounts per diem, per medical procedure, or
reimbursement for certain medical expenses.
 
  Other health policies include accident, long term care and limited benefit
hospital and surgical coverages. These policies are generally issued as
guaranteed-renewable and are offered on an individual basis through exclusive
and independent agents, and direct response. They are designed to supplement
existing medical coverages. Benefits are triggered by certain health related
events or incurred expenses. Benefit amounts are per diem, per health related
event or defined expenses incurred up to a stated maximum.
 
  The following table presents supplemental health annualized premium for the
three years ended December 31, 1996 by marketing method:
 

 
  The following table presents supplemental health annualized premium
information for the three years ended December 31, 1996 by product category:
 

 

 
ANNUITIES
 
  Annuity products offered by Torchmark include single-premium deferred
annuities, flexible-premium deferred annuities, and variable annuities.
Single-premium and flexible-premium products are fixed annuities where a
portion of the interest credited is guaranteed. Additional interest may be
credited on certain contracts. Variable annuity policyholders may select from
a variety of mutual funds managed by W&R which offer different degrees of risk
and return. The ultimate benefit on a variable annuity results from the
account performance. The following table presents Torchmark subsidiaries'
annuity collections and deposit balances by product type:
 

 
INVESTMENTS
 
  The nature, quality, and percentage mix of insurance company investments are
regulated by state laws that generally permit investments in qualified
municipal, state, and federal government obligations, corporate bonds,
preferred and common stock, real estate, and mortgages where the value of the
underlying real estate exceeds the amount of the loan. Torchmark's investments
consist predominantly of high-quality, investment-grade securities. Fixed
maturities represented 90% of total investments at December 31, 1996.
Approximately 25% of fixed maturity investments were securities guaranteed by
the United States Government or its agencies or investments that were
collateralized by U.S. government securities. More than 70% of these
investments were in GNMA securities that are backed by the full faith and
credit of the United States government. The remainder of these government
investments were U.S. Treasuries, agency securities or collateralized mortgage
obligations ("CMO's") that are fully backed by GNMA's. (See Note 3--Investment
Operations in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Management's
Discussion and Analysis.)
 
  The following table presents an analysis of Torchmark's fixed maturity
investments at December 31, 1996. All of the securities are classified as
available for sale and are, therefore, reported at fair market value.
 

 
  The following table presents Torchmark's fixed maturity investments at
December 31, 1996 on the basis of ratings as determined primarily by Standard
& Poor's Corporation. Moody's Investors Services' bond ratings are used when
Standard & Poor's ratings are not available. Ratings of BBB and higher (or
their equivalent) are considered investment grade by the rating services.
 

 

 
  The following table presents the fixed maturity investments of Torchmark's
insurance subsidiaries at December 31, 1996 on the basis of ratings as
determined by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC").
Categories one and two are considered investment grade by the NAIC.
 

 
  Securities are assigned ratings when acquired. All ratings are reviewed and
updated at least annually. Specific security ratings are updated as
information becomes available during the year.
 
PRICING
 
  Premium rates for life and health insurance products are established using
assumptions as to future mortality, morbidity, persistency, and expenses, all
of which are generally based on Torchmark's experience, and on projected
investment earnings. Revenues for individual life and health insurance
products are primarily derived from premium income, and, to a lesser extent,
through policy charges to the policyholder account values on certain
individual life products. Profitability is affected to the extent actual
experience deviates from that which has been assumed in premium pricing and to
the extent investment income exceeds that which is required for policy
reserves.
 
  Collections for annuity products and certain life products are not
recognized as revenues but are added to policyholder account values. Revenues
from these products are derived from charges to the account balances for
insurance risk and administrative costs. Profits are earned to the extent
these revenues exceed actual costs. Profits are also earned from investment
income on the deposits invested in excess of the amounts credited to policy
accounts.
 
UNDERWRITING
 
  The underwriting standards of Torchmark are established by management.
Torchmark uses information from the application and, in some cases, inspection
reports, doctors' statements and/or medical examinations to determine whether
a policy should be issued in accordance with the application, with a different
rating, with a rider, with reduced coverage or rejected.
 
  Torchmark requires medical information or examinations of applicants for
life insurance in excess of certain prescribed amounts. These are graduated
according to the age of the applicant and may vary with the kind of insurance.
The maximum amount of insurance issued without medical information is $100,000
through age 40. Torchmark requests medical information of all applicants,
regardless of age or amount, if information obtained from the application or
other sources indicates that such information is warranted.
 
  In recent years, there has been considerable concern regarding the impact of
the HIV virus associated with Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome ("AIDS").
Torchmark has implemented certain underwriting tests to detect the presence of
the HIV virus and continues to assess the utility of other appropriate
underwriting tests to detect AIDS in light of medical developments in this
field. To date, AIDS claims have not had a material impact on claims
experience.
 

 
REINSURANCE
 
  As is customary among insurance companies, Torchmark cedes insurance to
other unaffiliated insurance companies on policies they issue in excess of
retention limits. Reinsurance is an effective method for keeping insurance
risk within acceptable limits. In the event insurance business is ceded,
Torchmark remains contingently liable with respect to ceded insurance should
any reinsurer be unable to meet the obligations it assumes (See Note 16--
Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements and Schedule IV--Reinsurance [Consolidated]).
 
RESERVES
 
  The life insurance policy reserves reflected in Torchmark's financial
statements as future policy benefits are calculated based on generally
accepted accounting principles. These reserves, with the addition of premiums
to be received and the interest thereon compounded annually at assumed rates,
must be sufficient to cover policy and contract obligations as they mature.
Generally, the mortality and persistency assumptions used in the calculations
of reserves are based on company experience. Similar reserves are held on most
of the health policies written by Torchmark's insurance subsidiaries, since
these policies generally are issued on a guaranteed-renewable basis. A list of
the assumptions used in the calculation of Torchmark's reserves are reported
in the financial statements (See Note 8--Future Policy Benefit Reserves in the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Reserves for annuity products
consist of the policyholders' account values and are increased by policyholder
deposits and interest credits and are decreased by policy charges and benefit
payments.
 
MARKETING
 
  Torchmark is licensed to sell insurance in all 50 states, the District of
Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, New Zealand and Canada.
Distribution is through direct response, independent and exclusive agents.
 
  Direct Response. Torchmark offers life insurance products directly to
consumers through direct mail, co-op mailings, national cable and local spot
television, national newspaper supplements and national magazines. Torchmark
operates a full service letterpress which enables the direct response
operation to maintain high quality standards while producing materials much
more efficiently than they could be purchased from outside vendors.
 
  Exclusive Agents. Torchmark sells and services life and health insurance
through 1,750 Liberty National agents primarily in the seven state area of
Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Tennessee, Mississippi, South Carolina, and North
Carolina. These agents are employees of Liberty and are primarily compensated
by commissions based on sales. During the past several years this operation
has emphasized bank draft and direct bill collection of premium rather than
agent collection, because of the resulting lower cost and improved
persistency. Agent collected sales were discontinued in 1996.
 
  Through the American Income Agency, Torchmark sells individual life and
fixed-benefit accident and health insurance through approximately 1,450
exclusive agents who target moderate income wage earners through the
cooperation of labor unions, credit unions, and other associations. These
agents are authorized to use the "union label" because this sales force is
represented by organized labor.
 
  Torchmark sells life insurance as well as fixed and variable annuity
products through the 2,170 W&R financial planners. (See Asset Management--
Mutual Funds for additional marketing information about the W&R sales force.)
 
  Torchmark offers life and health insurance targeted to various special
markets through approximately 1,100 United American exclusive independent
agents in 73 branch offices throughout the United States.
 
  Independent Agents. Torchmark offers a variety of life and health insurance
policies through approximately 46 thousand independent agents, brokers, and
licensed sales representatives. Torchmark is not committed or obligated in any
way to accept a fixed portion of the business submitted by any independent
agent. All policy applications, both new and renewal, are subject to approval
and acceptance by Torchmark. Torchmark is not dependent on any single agent or
any small group of independent agents, the loss of which would have a
materially adverse effect on insurance sales.
 

 
  Torchmark distributes life insurance through a nationwide independent agency
whose sales force is comprised of former commissioned and non-commissioned
military officers who sell exclusively to commissioned and non-commissioned
military officers and their families.
 
RATINGS
 
  The following list indicates the ratings currently held by Torchmark's five
largest insurance companies as rated by A.M. Best Company:
 

 
  A.M. Best states that it assigns A+ (Superior) ratings to those companies
which, in its opinion, have demonstrated superior overall performance when
compared to the norms of the life/health insurance industry. A+ (Superior)
companies have a very strong ability to meet their obligations to
policyholders over a long period of time. A.M. Best states that it assigns A
(Excellent) ratings to those companies which, in its opinion, have
demonstrated excellent overall performance when compared to the norms of the
life/health insurance industry. A (Excellent) companies have an excellent
ability to meet their obligations to policyholders over a long period of time.
United Investors Life Insurance Company also has a rating of AA by Standard &
Poor's Corporation. This AA rating is assigned by Standard & Poor's
Corporation to those companies who offer excellent financial security on an
absolute and relative basis and whose capacity to meet policyholders
obligations is overwhelming under a variety of economic and underwriting
conditions.
 

 
                               ASSET MANAGEMENT
 
  Torchmark conducts its asset management and financial services businesses
through Waddell & Reed Financial Services, Inc. and its subsidiaries. This
segment's activity is mutual fund distribution, management, and servicing.
 
MUTUAL FUNDS
 
  Torchmark's mutual fund operations are carried out by a subsidiary of United
Management, W&R, which markets and manages the seventeen mutual funds in the
United Group of Mutual Funds, the six mutual funds in the Waddell & Reed Fund,
Inc. ("W&R Funds"), and the ten mutual funds in the TMK/United Fund, Inc.
("TMK/United Funds") which are used exclusively as the investment funds for
variable annuities sold by UILIC. These funds were valued as follows at
December 31, 1996 and 1995:
 

 
  W&R's revenues consist of the following: (1) fees for managing the assets,
which are based on the value of the assets managed, (2) commissions for the
sale of products, and (3) fees for accounting and administration, which are
based primarily on an annual charge per account. In addition to its mutual
fund management and distribution activities, W&R manages accounts for
individual and institutional investors for which asset management fees are
received.
 
  Asset management activities are conducted by an experienced and qualified
staff. As of December 31, 1996, the average industry experience of the fund
managers for W&R was 20 years, and average company experience was 13 years.
 
  The following table indicates W&R revenues by component for the three years
ending December 31, 1996:
 

 
*Commissions received from affiliates for variable annuities and insurance
product sales are eliminated in consolidation.
 
  W&R markets its mutual funds and other financial products, including life
insurance, through a sales force of approximately 2,170 registered
representatives in 50 states and the District of Columbia. These
representatives concentrate on product sales of W&R and other Torchmark
affiliates. W&R maintained 172 sales offices at December 31, 1996.
 
  W&R conducts money management seminars on a national scale to reach numerous
potential clients every year. Individual financial plans are developed for
clients through one-on-one consultations with the W&R sales representatives.
Emphasis is placed on a long-term relationship with a client rather than a
one-time sale.
 

 
                                  COMPETITION
 
  The insurance industry is highly competitive. Torchmark competes with other
insurance carriers through policyholder service, price, product design, and
sales effort. In addition to competition with other insurance companies,
Torchmark also faces increasing competition from other financial services
organizations. While there are a number of larger insurance companies
competing with Torchmark that have greater resources and have considerable
marketing forces, there is no individual company dominating any of Torchmark's
life or health markets.
 
  Torchmark's health insurance products compete with, in addition to the
products of other health insurance carriers, health maintenance organizations,
preferred provider organizations, and other health care related institutions
which provide medical benefits based on contractual agreements.
 
  Generally, Torchmark companies operate at lower administrative expense
levels than its peer companies, allowing Torchmark to have competitive rates
while maintaining margins, or, in the case of Medicare Supplement business, to
remain in the business while some companies have ceased new writings.
Torchmark's years of experience in direct response business are a valuable
asset in designing direct response products. On the other hand, Torchmark's
insurance subsidiaries do not have the same degree of national name
recognition as some other companies with which they compete.
 
  W&R competes with hundreds of other registered institutional investment
advisers and mutual fund management and distribution companies which
distribute their fund shares through a variety of methods including affiliated
and unaffiliated sales forces, broker-dealers, and direct sales to the public.
Although no one company or group of companies dominates the mutual fund
industry, some are larger than W&R and have greater resources. Competition is
based on the methods of distribution of fund shares, tailoring investment
products to meet certain segments of the market, the changing needs of
investors, the ability to achieve superior investment management performance,
the type and quality of shareholder services, and the success of sales
promotion efforts.
 
                                  REGULATION
 
  INSURANCE. Insurance companies are subject to regulation and supervision in
the states in which they do business. The laws of the various states establish
agencies with broad administrative and supervisory powers which include, among
other things, granting and revoking licenses to transact business, regulating
trade practices, licensing agents, approving policy forms, approving certain
premium rates, setting minimum reserve and loss ratio requirements,
determining the form and content of required financial statements, and
prescribing the type and amount of investments permitted. Insurance companies
can also be required under the solvency or guaranty laws of most states in
which they do business to pay assessments up to prescribed limits to fund
policyholder losses or liabilities of insolvent insurance companies. They are
also required to file detailed annual reports with supervisory agencies, and
records of their business are subject to examination at any time. Under the
rules of the NAIC, insurance companies are examined periodically by one or
more of the supervisory agencies. The most recent examinations of Torchmark's
insurance subsidiaries were: Famlico, as of December 31, 1995; American Income
as of December 31, 1990; Globe, as of December 31, 1994; Liberty, as of
December 31, 1991; United American, as of December 31, 1993; and UILIC, as of
December 31, 1993.
 
  NAIC Ratios. The NAIC developed the Insurance Regulatory Information System
("IRIS"), which is intended to assist state insurance regulators in monitoring
the financial condition of insurance companies. IRIS identifies twelve
insurance industry ratios from the statutory financial statements of insurance
companies, which are based on regulatory accounting principles and are not
based on generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). IRIS specifies a
standard or "usual value" range for each ratio, and a company's variation from
this range may be either favorable or unfavorable. The following table
 

 
presents the IRIS ratios as determined by the NAIC for Torchmark's five
largest insurance subsidiaries, which varied unfavorably from the "usual
value" range for the years 1995 and 1994.
 

 
Explanation of Ratios:
 
  Investment in Affiliate to Capital and Surplus--This ratio is determined by
measuring total investment in affiliates against the capital and surplus of
the company. The NAIC considers a ratio of more than 100% to be high, and to
possibly impact a company's liquidity, yield, and overall investment risk. The
large ratio in Liberty in 1995 and 1994 is brought about by its ownership of
other large Torchmark insurance companies and the ownership of 81% of the
stock of United Management. Profitability and growth in these subsidiaries
have caused this ratio to gradually rise. All intercompany investment is
eliminated in consolidation, and the internal organizational structure has no
bearing on consolidated results.
 
  Change in Capital and Surplus--These ratios, calculated on both a gross and
net basis, are a measure of improvement or deterioration in the company's
financial position during the year. The NAIC considers ratios less than minus
10% and greater than 50% to be unusual. Liberty's ratio of minus 29% in 1994
was due to the payment of a large dividend by United Management, an 81% owned
subsidiary, directly to Torchmark. Because Liberty waived its interest in this
dividend, it reduced Liberty's capital and surplus. United American's ratio of
minus 11% in 1995 and Globe's ratios of minus 18% in 1995 and minus 12% in
1994 were caused by the payment of dividends to Torchmark in excess of their
statutory net income. These transactions did not affect the consolidated
equity of Torchmark at December 31, 1995 and 1994.
 
  Change in Reserving Ratio--The change in reserving ratio represents the
number of percentage points of difference between the reserving ratio for
current and prior years. Liberty's ratio was slightly over the usual range
because it assumed a block of business in late 1995. The assumption of this
business caused an increase in year-end reserves. No allowance is made for
special transactions such as this in the calculation.
 
  Non-admitted Assets to Admitted Assets--This ratio measures the degree to
which a company has acquired assets which cannot be carried on its statutory
balance sheet. American Income's ratio of 11% in 1995 was due to a large
amount of agent balances that arose from comissions that are advanced to
agents when a policy is submitted. Due to the growth of American Income's
business, these advances have grown and caused a variance in this particular
ratio.
 
  Risk Based Capital. In December 1992, the NAIC adopted a model act that
requires a risk based capital formula be applied to all life and health
insurers. The requirement began in 1994 for information based on the 1993
annual statements. The risk based capital formula is a threshold formula
rather than a target capital formula. It is designed only to identify
companies that require regulatory attention and is not to be used to rate or
rank companies that are adequately capitalized. All of the insurance
subsidiaries of Torchmark are adequately capitalized under the risk based
capital formula.
 

 
  Guaranty Assessments. State solvency or guaranty laws provide for
assessments from insurance companies into a fund which is used, in the event
of failure or insolvency of an insurance company, to fulfill the obligations
of that company to its policyholders. The amount which a company is assessed
for these state funds is determined according to the extent of these
unsatisfied obligations in each state. These assessments are recoverable to a
great extent as offsets against state premium taxes.
 
  HOLDING COMPANY. States have enacted legislation requiring registration and
periodic reporting by insurance companies domiciled within their respective
jurisdictions that control or are controlled by other corporations so as to
constitute a holding company system. Torchmark and its subsidiaries have
registered as a holding company system pursuant to such legislation in
Alabama, Delaware, Missouri, New York, Texas, and Indiana.
 
  Insurance holding company system statutes and regulations impose various
limitations on investments in subsidiaries, and may require prior regulatory
approval for the payment of certain dividends and other distributions in
excess of statutory net gain from operations on an annual noncumulative basis
by the registered insurer to the holding company or its affiliates.
 
  MUTUAL FUNDS. Torchmark's mutual fund management and distribution
activities, as well as its investment advisory services, are subject to state
and federal regulation and oversight by the National Association of Securities
Dealers, Inc. Each of the funds in the United Group of Mutual Funds, the W&R
Funds, and the TMK/United Funds is or was a registered investment company
under the Investment Company Act of 1940. W&R and Waddell & Reed Asset
Management Company ("WRAM") are registered pursuant to the Investment Advisers
Act of 1940. Additionally, W&R is regulated as a broker-dealer under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
                                   PERSONNEL
 
  At the end of 1996, Torchmark had 2,312 employees and 2,516 licensed
employees under sales contracts. Additionally, approximately 54,000
independent and exclusive agents and brokers, who were not employees of
Torchmark, were associated with Torchmark's marketing efforts.
 
                              ITEM 2. REAL ESTATE
 
  Torchmark, through its subsidiaries, owns or leases buildings that are used
in the normal course of business. Liberty owns a 487,000 square foot building
at 2001 Third Avenue South, Birmingham, Alabama which currently serves as
Liberty's, UILIC's, and Torchmark's home office. Liberty leases approximately
160,000 square feet of this building to unrelated tenants. Liberty also
operates from 61 company-owned district office buildings used for agency sales
personnel.
 
  Globe owns a 300,000 square foot office building at 204 North Robinson,
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, of which it occupies 56,138 square feet as its home
office and the balance is available for lease. Globe also owns a 330,000
square foot office building complex at 14000 Quail Springs Parkway Plaza
Boulevard, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, and an 80,000 square foot office building
at 120 Robert S. Kerr Avenue, Oklahoma City, which are available for lease to
other tenants.
 
  In 1996, United American relocated to a new home office building. United
American owns and is the sole occupant of this 140,000 square foot facility,
located in the Stonebridge Ranch development in McKinney, Texas (a North
Dallas suburb). The former home office building on Buckner Boulevard in
Dallas, Texas is under contract to be sold.
 
  American Income owns and is the sole occupant of an office building located
at 1200 Wooded Acres Drive, Waco, Texas. The building is a two story structure
containing approximately 72,000 square feet of usable floor space. In
addition, American Income leases office space in various cities throughout the
United States.
 
  W&R owns and occupies a 116,000 square foot office building utilized as its
corporate headquarters located in United Investors Park, a commercial
development at 6300 Lamar Avenue, Shawnee Mission, Kansas. In addition, W&R
owns three other office buildings in this development, each containing
approximately 48,000 square feet, which are leased or are available for lease.
 

 
  Liberty, Globe and W&R also lease district office space for their agency
sales personnel. All of the other Torchmark companies lease their office space
in various cities in the U.S.
 
  A Torchmark subsidiary, Torchmark Development Corporation ("TDC"), has
completed three buildings consisting of 185,000 square feet, 90,000 square
feet and 25,000 square feet of office space within a 100 acre commercial
development known as Liberty Park along Interstate 459 in Birmingham, Alabama.
Approximately 275,000 square feet of this total office area is currently
leased. A 110,000 square foot office building is currently under construction
in this development and is scheduled for completion in the Spring of 1997. TDC
also owns and manages a 70,000 square foot office and retail complex adjacent
to Liberty Park of which approximately 60% is leased by an affiliated party.
As a part of a joint venture with unaffiliated entities, TDC is also
developing 2,800 contiguous acres as a planned community development.
 
                           DATA PROCESSING EQUIPMENT
 
  Torchmark and its primary subsidiaries have significant automated
information processing capabilities, supported by centralized computer
systems. Torchmark also uses personal computers to support the user-specific
information processing needs of its professional and administrative staffs.
 
  All centralized computer software support, information processing schedules
and computer-readable data management requirements are supported by company-
specific policies and procedures which ensure that required information
processing results are produced and distributed in a timely manner. These
policies and procedures provide for the copying, off-site physical storage and
retention of significant company computer programs and business data files for
backup purposes.
 
                           ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
  Torchmark and its subsidiaries continue to be named as parties to pending or
threatened legal proceedings. These lawsuits involve tax matters, alleged
breaches of contract, torts, including bad faith and fraud claims based on
alleged wrongful or fraudulent acts of agents of Torchmark's subsidiaries,
employment discrimination, and miscellaneous other causes of action. Many of
these lawsuits involve claims for punitive damages in state courts of Alabama,
a jurisdiction particularly recognized for its large punitive damage verdicts.
A number of such actions involving Liberty also name Torchmark as a defendant.
As a practical matter, a jury's discretion regarding the amount of a punitive
damage award is not limited by any clear, objective criteria under Alabama
law. Accordingly, the likelihood or extent of a punitive damage award in any
given case is virtually impossible to predict. As of December 31, 1996,
Liberty was a party to approximately 282 active lawsuits (including 25
employment related cases and excluding interpleaders and stayed cases), more
than 250 of which were Alabama proceedings in which punitive damages were
sought. Liberty faces trial settings in these cases on an on-going basis.
 
  Torchmark has previously reported the entry of an Order and Final Judgment
by the Circuit Court of Barbour County, Alabama in Robertson v. Liberty
National Life Insurance Company (Case No. CV-92-021) approving a cancer policy
class action settlement involving legal and equitable relief valued at a total
of $55 million. In July 1994, certain intervenors in the Robertson litigation
filed a notice of appeal of the Order and Final Judgment with the Supreme
Court of Alabama. On December 22, 1995, the Alabama Supreme Court unanimously
affirmed the Robertson class action settlement and on February 16, 1996,
issued a notice overruling the petition for a rehearing in Robertson filed by
certain intervenors. A petition for writ of certiorari to the Supreme Court of
the United States was then filed by intervenors. The U.S. Supreme Court
granted certiorari in Robertson on October 1, 1996. Oral arguments on the
intervenors' petition, which alleged that class members had not received due
process in the class certification procedure and should be allowed to opt out
of the class action settlement to pursue separate litigation, were heard by
the U.S. Supreme Court on January 14, 1997. On March 3, 1997, the U.S. Supreme
Court dismissed, as improvidently granted, the writ of certiorari previously
granted in Robertson. The ruling effectively ends direct appeals from the
Robertson class action settlement and Liberty will proceed with administration
of benefits under the class settlement.
 
  As previously reported, Liberty is subject to 76 individual cancer policy
lawsuits pending in Alabama and Mississippi, which were stayed or otherwise
held in abeyance pending final resolution of the Robertson case. Liberty will
file motions to dismiss these lawsuits based upon the U.S. Supreme Court
opinion in Robertson. If these cases are dismissed, no collateral attacks on
the cancer class action settlement will remain at this time.
 
 
  As previously reported, Dismukes v. Torchmark Corporation (Case No. CV-94-
1006-P-M), which was filed on December 30, 1994 and is presently pending in
the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
 

 
Alabama, is the only remaining purported class action litigation brought by
Torchmark shareholders alleging untimely and inadequate disclosure of material
contingent liabilities arising out of insurance policy litigation involving
Liberty. The U.S. District Court entered an order granting partial summary
judgment on behalf of the defendants on April 16, 1996. Claims for damages
based on Section 10b-5 of the Securities Exchange Act, on state securities
laws and for common law fraud remain pending in the case.
 
  As previously reported, Torchmark, its insurance subsidiaries Globe and
United American, and certain Torchmark officers were named as defendants in
litigation filed April 22, 1994, as a purported class action in the District
Court of Oklahoma County, Oklahoma (Moore v. Torchmark Corporation, Case No.
CJ-94-2784-65). The suit claims damages on behalf of individual health
policyholders who are alleged to have been induced to terminate such policies
and to purchase Medicare Supplement and/or other insurance coverages. The
complaint seeks actual and punitive damages for each class member in excess of
$10,000. Subsequent to the filing of this case, one of the plaintiffs was
dismissed and the named plaintiff died. The complaint was amended to include
new plaintiffs purporting to represent the class and restyled Tabor v.
Torchmark Corporation. No class has been certified. A motion to dismiss filed
by the defendants was denied and limited discovery as permitted by the
Oklahoma Supreme Court is proceeding.
 
  Prior filings have reported that in July 1994, a purported class action
alleging fraudulent and deceitful practices in premium billing and lapses of
coverage on a payroll deduction insurance plan was filed in the Superior Court
for Gordon County, Georgia against Liberty (Bryant v. Liberty National Life
Insurance Company, Civil Action No. 28979). The complaint alleged actual
damages in excess of $10 million and punitive damages of not less than $50
million as well as premium reimbursements. Liberty removed this case to
federal court, but the case was subsequently remanded to the state court. The
Bryant case was settled on an individual basis by the parties on December 23,
1996. No class was ever certified.
 
  Litigation was filed on April 26, 1995, in the Circuit Court of Houston
County, Alabama against Liberty involving the sale of health insurance
coverage alleged to be in conflict with provisions of the Omnibus Budget
Reconciliation Act of 1990 (Stewart v. Liberty National Life Insurance
Company, Case No. CV-95-345L; Tolar v. Liberty National Life Insurance
Company, Case No. CV-95-346J; Ingram v. Liberty National Life Insurance
Company, Case No. CV-95-348L; Burkett v. Liberty National Life Insurance
Company, Case No. CV-95-347H). The Stewart case has been dismissed with
prejudice and the other cases remain pending.
 
  A purported class action was filed on August 8, 1995, against Liberty in the
Circuit Court of Jefferson County, Alabama on behalf of Liberty cancer
policyholders eligible for Medicare who submitted claims during an
approximately two month period in 1993 (Adkins v. Liberty National Life
Insurance Company, Case No. CV-95-5634). Beginning in September 1993, in
reliance on federal law concerning the amount health care providers could
collect from Medicare eligible individuals, Liberty limited the payment of
benefits to such individuals to the amounts collectible by the providers under
federal law. In November, 1993 Liberty discontinued this practice and
recalculated and repaid all claims in full as it had prior to September 1993
together with interest. Nearly two years after this refund, the Adkins case
was filed. The claims made in Adkins are identical to the individual claims in
Allen v. Liberty National Life Insurance Company (Case No. CV-94-3634), an
individual case reversed and remanded by the Alabama Supreme Court on March 7,
1997 after an appeal regarding the remitted verdict of $2.7 million. A class
certification order, which does not address the merits of the litigation, was
entered by the Court in Adkins on July 26, 1996. Liberty filed a petition for
writ of mandamus or prohibition with the Alabama Supreme Court in August 1996
asserting abuse of discretion by the trial court in certifying the Adkins
class. The Alabama Supreme Court has stayed further proceedings as to the
class issues in Adkins pending its ruling on the propriety of class
certification.
 
  On August 25, 1995, a purported class action was filed against Torchmark,
Globe, United American and certain officers of these companies in the United
States District Court for the Western District of Missouri on behalf of all
former agents of Globe (Smith v. Torchmark Corporation, Case No.: 95-3304-CV-
S-4). This action alleges that the defendants breached independent agent
contracts with the plaintiffs by treating them as captive agents and engaged
in a pattern of racketeering activity wrongfully denying income and renewal
commissions to the agents, restricting insurance sales, mandating the purchase
of worthless leads, terminating agents without cause and inducing the
execution of independent contracts based on misrepresentations of fact.
Monetary damages in an unspecified amount are sought. A plaintiff class was
certified by the District Court on February 26, 1996, although the
certification does not go to
 

 
the merit of the allegations in the complaint. On December 31, 1996, the
plaintiffs filed an amended complaint in Smith to allege violations of various
provisions of the Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. Discovery
is presently proceeding in this case.
 
  It has been previously reported that Liberty is a party to individual
lawsuits and a purported class action (Carlton v. Liberty National Life
Insurance Company, Case No. CV-96-22) in the Circuit Court of Chambers County,
Alabama, in which allegations are made that an interest sensitive life
insurance policy would become paid-up or self-sustaining after a specified
number of years. Currently, Liberty is a party to more than 100 individual
interest sensitive cases, 53 of which were filed by a single lawyer in
Chambers County, Alabama. Additionally, Torchmark has previously reported the
case of Lawson v. Liberty National Life Insurance Company, filed in the
Circuit Court of Jefferson County, Alabama (Civil Action No.: CV-96-01119),
where the plaintiffs were seeking class certification on behalf of such
policyholders including those who were allegedly induced to exchange life
insurance policies or the existing policy's cash value was allegedly depleted.
On May 14, 1996, the Circuit Court of Jefferson County, Alabama entered an
order conditionally certifying a plaintiffs claim in Lawson in order to
preserve the Court's jurisdiction over the class action question, subject to a
full evidentiary hearing on class certification at a future date yet to be
determined.
 
  In 1978, the United States District Court for the Northern District of
Alabama entered a final judgment in Battle v. Liberty National Life Insurance
Company, et al. (CV-70-H-752-S), class action litigation involving Liberty, a
class composed of all owners of funeral homes in Alabama and a class composed
of all insureds (Alabama residents only) under burial or vault policies
issued, assumed or reinsured by Liberty. The final judgment fixed the rights
and obligations of Liberty and the funeral directors authorized to handle
Liberty burial and vault policies as well as reforming the benefits available
to the policyholders under the policies. Although class actions are inherently
subject to subsequent collateral attack by absent class members, the Battle
decree remains in effect to date. A motion filed in February 1990 to challenge
the final judgment under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 60(b) was rejected by
both the District Court in 1991 and the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals in
1992 and a Writ of Certiorari was denied by the U.S. Supreme Court in 1993.
 
  In November 1993, an attorney (purporting to represent the funeral director
class) filed a petition in the District Court seeking "alternative relief"
under the final judgment. This petition was voluntarily withdrawn on November
8, 1995, by petitioners. On February 23, 1996, Liberty filed a petition with
the District Court requesting that it order certain contract funeral directors
to comply with their obligations under the Final Judgment in Battle and their
funeral service contracts. A petition was filed on April 8, 1996 on behalf of
a group of funeral directors seeking to modify the 1978 decree in Battle in
light of changed economic circumstances. Liberty is actively opposing this
petition.
 
  Purported class action litigation was filed on January 2, 1996 against
Torchmark, Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated ("Torch Energy"), and certain
Torch Energy subsidiaries and affiliated limited partnerships in the Circuit
Court of Pickens County, Alabama (Pearson v. Torchmark Corporation, Case No.
CV-95-140). Plaintiff alleges improper payment of royalties and overriding
royalties on coalbed methane gas produced and sold from wells in Robinson's
Bend Coal Degasification Field, seeks certification of a class and claims
unspecified compensatory and punitive damages on behalf of such class. On
April 11, 1996, Torchmark's motion to change venue was granted and the case
has been transferred to the Circuit Court of Tuscaloosa County, Alabama. The
Company's motion to dismiss remains pending while discovery is proceeding.
 
  It has been previously reported that the Company, its subsidiaries United
American and Globe and certain individual corporate officers are parties to
purported class action litigation filed April 5, 1996 in the U.S. District
Court for the Northern District of Georgia (Crichlow v. Torchmark Corporation,
Case No.: 4:96-CV 0086-HLM). The complaint alleged RICCO violations, fraud,
breach of contract, conspiracy, violations of the Oklahoma Consumer Protection
Act and breach of the duty of good faith and fair dealing on behalf of all
persons who purchased, at any time between 1987 and the present, certain
hospitalization and surgical insurance policies issued by Globe and United
American. The plaintiffs asserted that they purchased these policies and
subsequently incurred improper claim denials, wrongful recision and "rate-ups"
and post-claim underwriting. On December 4, 1996, the U.S. District Court
dismissed the RICCO counts, the Oklahoma Consumer Protection Act and contract
counts as to certain defendants and ordered plaintiffs to file an amended
complaint. On December 23, 1996, the plaintiffs filed
 

 
the amended complaint as ordered, alleging breach of contract, fraud,
conspiracy and breach of the duty of good faith and fair dealing on behalf of
a purported class of persons who purchased Globe, but not United American,
policies from 1987 to the present. Defendants have filed motions to dismiss
and for partial summary judgment.
 
  On April 19, 1996, a $5 million punitive judgment was entered against
LIberty by a jury in Mobile, Alabama in Strickland v. Liberty National Life
Insurance Company (CV-95-1399). In the Strickland case, the plaintiff, who was
in his sixties, cancelled several small life insurance policies and purchased
a substantial amount of new coverage. The plaintiff contended that certain
supplemental benefits which were present in the smaller policies were not
included in the new coverage (i.e. accidental death and premium waiver). The
trial judge held that Strickland was not entitled to recover compensatory
damages. Nevertheless the jury awarded $100 in nominal damages in addition to
the punitive award. Liberty has filed various motions for the post-trial
relief with the Circuit Court, which held a post-trial hearing on the
propriety of the punitive damage award on February 12, 1997. On March 11,
1997, the Circuit Court judge reduced the Strickland judgment to $37,500.
 
  A jury in Chambers County, Alabama Circuit Court returned a verdict of
$333,000 compensatory damages and $17.2 million in punitive damages against
Liberty on June 11, 1996, in McQuiston v. Liberty National Life Insurance
Company (CV-94-234). The case arose out of a claim which had been denied due
to an alleged misrepresentation in the application. There was a recorded
telephone interview with the applicant in which a statement was given which
Liberty alleges was a misrepresentation of the health of the proposed insured.
After the litigation was filed, it was learned that one signature on the
application was not that of the insured. Upon notice of this fact, Liberty
paid the $20,000 claim proceeds into court. Liberty has filed motions for
post-trial relief with the Court, subject to completion of post trial
discovery. A post-trial hearing on the propriety of the punitive damage award
is scheduled for March 28, 1997.
 
  Based upon information presently available, and in light of legal and other
factual defenses available to Torchmark and its subsidiaries, contingent
liabilities arising from threatened and pending litigation are not presently
considered by management to be material. It should be noted, however, that the
frequency of large punitive damage awards bearing little or no relation to
actual damages awarded by juries in jurisdictions in which Torchmark has
substantial business, particularly in Alabama, continues to increase
universally, creating the potential for unpredictable material adverse
judgments in any given punitive damage suit.
 
          ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
  No matter was submitted to a vote of shareholders, through the solicitation
of proxies or otherwise, during the fourth quarter of 1996.
 

 
                                    PART II
 
   ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
                                    MATTERS
 
  The principal market in which Torchmark's common stock is traded is the New
York Stock Exchange. There were 7,262 shareholders of record on December 31,
1996, excluding shareholder accounts held in nominee form. Information
concerning restrictions on the ability of Torchmark's subsidiaries to transfer
funds to Torchmark in the form of cash dividends is set forth in Note 14--
Shareholders' Equity in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The market price and cash dividends paid by calendar quarter for the past two
years are as follows:
 

Year-end closing
price..................$50.500
 
 

Year-end closing
price..................$45.250
 

 
                        ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
  The following information should be read in conjunction with Torchmark's
Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes reported elsewhere in this
Form 10-K:
 
          (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE AND PERCENTAGE DATA)
 

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) Excludes realized investment gains (losses) and the related adjustment to
    deferred acquisition costs.
(2) Includes accrued investment income.
(3) Computed after deduction of preferred shareholders' equity.
(4) Annualized life premium in force includes $144 million, and annualized
    health premium in force includes $37 million, representing the business
    acquired in the acquisition of American Income Life Insurance Company in
    1994.
 

 
    ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
                             RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
  The following should be read in conjunction with the Selected Financial Data
and Torchmark's Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto appearing
elsewhere in this report.
 
                             RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
  Torchmark's net operating income from continuing operations excludes
realized investment gains and losses and the related adjustment to deferred
acquisition costs. Net operating income was $4.43 per share in 1996, rising
13% over $3.93 per share in 1995. This increase in net operating income for
1995 was 5% from 1994 per share net operating income of $3.74. Realized
investment losses for 1995 included a $15 million after-tax, or $.21 per
share, writedown of an investment in Southwestern Life Corporation, which
filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in the third quarter of 1995.
 
  Torchmark's net income, including discontinued operations, was $311 million
in 1996 compared with $143 million in 1995 and $269 million in 1994. On a per-
share basis, net income was $4.37, $2.00, and $3.72 in 1996, 1995, and 1994,
respectively. Net income in 1995 was negatively affected by Torchmark's
decision to dispose of its energy segment and to exit the energy industry.
Accordingly, in 1995, Torchmark modified the presentation in its financial
statements to set forth separately the net assets and results attributable to
the discontinued energy segment as discontinued operations. Also in the fourth
quarter of 1995, as a part of the decision to dispose of the energy segment,
Torchmark wrote down its investment in a coalbed methane gas development in
the Black Warrior Basin of Alabama to the investment's estimated realizable
value. Torchmark had experienced disappointments in methane gas production
through increased difficulties in obtaining significant gas production from
lower coal seams, resulting in downward revisions to engineering estimates of
reserves. In view of these production difficulties, Torchmark's desire to sell
its energy segment, and the adoption of FASB Statement 121, an accounting rule
regarding impairments, it was determined that a writedown of the investment
was appropriate. The writedown amounted to an after-tax charge of $130
million, or $1.82 per share in 1995. The disposition of the energy segment was
completed on September 30, 1996 and resulted in an after-tax loss of $7
million or $.10 per share. For more details on this transaction, see "Disposal
of Energy Segment" on page 30 of this report.
 
  In a comparison of 1996 and 1995 results with those of 1994, attention
should be given to the acquisition of American Income on November 3, 1994 for
total consideration of $552 million. American Income's results were
consolidated with Torchmark's after the acquisition date, being included for a
full year in 1995 for the first time. American Income added approximately $17
million and $22 million to Torchmark's 1995 and 1996 net income, respectively,
after taking into account goodwill amortization and financing costs.
 
  Torchmark's 1996 revenues gained 7% over the prior year to $2.21 billion.
Revenues increased 10% in 1995 to $2.07 billion from $1.88 billion in 1994, an
increase of $192 million. The American Income acquisition accounted for the
1995 increase after adjusting for lost investment income from the purchase.
American Income added $225 million to total revenues in 1995, compared with
$31 million in 1994. Premium income increased 4% in 1996 over the prior year
to $1.61 billion. Premium in 1995 rose 11% to $1.55 billion from $1.39
billion. The $157 million gain in premium in 1995 was caused by the inclusion
of American Income premium for a full year, which increased $168 million over
1994. The components of Torchmark's revenues and operations are described in
more detail in the discussion of segments and investment operations found on
pages 19 through 27 of this report.
 
  Operating expenses, as a percentage of total revenues, were stable at 7% in
both 1996 and 1995. This expense ratio increased from 6.3% in 1994. The higher
expense ratios in 1995 and 1996 are related to increased legal and litigation
costs at Liberty. In 1995, the increases in goodwill amortization, interest
expense, and the MIPS dividend were the result of financing the American
Income acquisition in late 1994. Please refer to the following sections of
this report for a more complete discussion of this purchase
 

 
and the related financing costs: "Acquisition of American Income" on page 30,
and "Capital Resources" on page 28. Interest expense declined 9% in 1996 due
to debt paydowns. For a more complete discussion of Torchmark's debt, please
see the "Capital Resources" discussion.
 
  The following is a discussion of Torchmark's operations by segment.
 
                                   INSURANCE
 
  Life insurance. Life insurance premium increased 11% in 1996 to $855
million. Life premium grew 28% to $772 million for the year 1995. The 1995
versus 1994 comparison is distorted somewhat because of the American Income
acquisition in late 1994. American Income life premium was $154 million in
1995, compared with $21 million in 1994, accounting for $133 million of the
$171 million increase in life premium for 1995. Sales of life insurance in
terms of annualized premium were $215 million in 1996 and $218 million in
1995. This represents a 1% decline in 1996 when compared with 1995, a record
year for Torchmark, but the 1995 increase was 45% over 1994 sales of $150
million. American Income accounted for $51 million of 1995 sales, or 64% of
the 1995 increase.
 
  Life insurance premium is Torchmark's largest component of revenue,
representing 39% of total revenue and 53% of total premium. In 1995,
Torchmark's life annualized premium in force at year end exceeded its health
premium for the first time since 1982. In 1996, the gap between life and
health premium increased, as annualized life premium in force grew to 56% of
total as opposed to health premium's 44%. Torchmark has emphasized increases
in sales of life insurance product lines relative to health and other
insurance products because profit margins for life insurance are superior.
Additionally, assets backing the higher reserves required for life products
provide the potential for Torchmark to increase investment income. Profit
margins for life insurance operations, as measured by insurance operating
income as a percentage of premium, have approximated 29% in each of the three
years presented. By contrast, health margins have not exceeded 16% during the
same three years.
 
  Annualized life premium in force climbed 9% in 1996 to $947 million at
December 31. Annualized life premium in force also grew 9% during 1995, rising
to $869 million. Annualized premium in force data includes amounts collected
on certain interest-sensitive life products which are not recorded as premium
income but exclude single premium income and policy account charges.
 
  Torchmark markets its life insurance products through a variety of different
distribution channels. The following table presents life insurance premium
income during each of the three years ended December 31, 1996 by distribution
method.
 
                                LIFE INSURANCE
                        Premium by Distribution Method
                         (Dollar amounts in thousands)
 

 
  The direct response operation has experienced premium growth, with premium
revenue rising 15% in 1996 to $172 million, after having risen 17% in 1995.
Annualized life premium in force was $202 million at December 31, 1996. Direct
response marketing is conducted through direct mail, co-op mailings,
 

 
television and consumer magazine advertising, as well as direct mail
solicitations endorsed by groups, unions and associations. The direct response
operation accounted for 20% of Torchmark's life insurance premium in 1996.
 
  The Liberty National Agency distribution system accounted for the most life
insurance premium income in each of the three years presented, with 1996
premium representing 33% of Torchmark's total life premium. Annualized life
premium in force grew from $297 million at year-end 1995 to $299 million at
the end of 1996. Life premium sales, in terms of annualized premium issued,
declined 6% during 1996 to $45 million. During the past two years, this agency
has completed the transition from a debit-style renewal premium collection
system to a direct bill or bank-draft collection system. At the beginning of
1996, debit or home collection sales were discontinued. Under the new system,
agents spend more time developing new customers. As expected, a number of
agents did not make the transition. During the two year period, the agency
force declined 31% to 1,750 agents. However, life insurance production only
declined 12%, which is evidence of the strength of the existing sales force.
In the fourth quarter of 1996, emphasis was placed on hiring and training new
agents under the new system. The agency expects a growth in the number of
productive agents, and in turn, growth in sales and in force.
 
  Another Torchmark distribution system which experienced growth in life
insurance operations was the American Income Agency. This agency targets
members of labor unions, credit unions, and other associations for its life
insurance sales. Life premium rose 13% in 1996 to $174 million. Annualized
premium in force grew 11% to $188 million at December 31, 1996. Annualized
premium in force was $170 million at year-end 1995, rising 15% over year-end
1994. Sales of annualized premium increased 6% to $54 million in 1996.
American Income was acquired by Torchmark in late 1994.
 
  Torchmark distributes life insurance through a nationwide independent agency
whose sales force is comprised of former commissioned and non-commissioned
military officers who sell exclusively to commissioned and non-commissioned
military officers and their families. The quality of the business, which is
comprised of whole life products with term insurance riders, produced by this
agency is outstanding. Life premium income from this distribution system was
$71 million in 1996, up $26 million from 1995. This increase resulted
primarily from the acquisition from another carrier of a block of business
with $21 million of annualized premium in force produced by the military
agency. In the past, this agency has produced business through Liberty
National, but beginning late in the first quarter of 1997, additional sales
will be produced through Globe Life.
 
  Torchmark's other three distribution channels each experienced premium
growth in 1996. The United Investors Exclusive Agency, made up of W&R sales
representatives, recorded premium income of $74 million, increasing 6% over
1995. Premium for the United American Exclusive Agency rose 47% to $16
million. Annualized premium sold was $11 million in 1996, gaining 17%. The
United American Independent Agency had life premium income growth of 19% to
$33 million, and sales growth of 11% to $18 million. The United Investors
Agency represents 9% of Torchmark's life premium, while the two United
American Agencies represent 6%.
 

 
                                LIFE INSURANCE
                              Summary of Results
                         (Dollar amounts in thousands)
 

 
  Torchmark's life insurance margins have remained stable, with insurance
operating income at approximately 29%, throughout the three-year period
presented. As a percentage of premium, operating expenses resumed their
decline in 1996, dropping to 7.2%. This expense ratio was 8.6% five years ago
and 11% ten years ago.
 
  One major factor in maintaining stable operating income margins in the life
insurance business is improved persistency. Persistency is beneficial to
margins because it lowers the rate of amortization of acquisition costs, and
increases profits because the premium life is extended. Persistency
improvements have resulted, at least in part, from previously-mentioned
changes in the Liberty National Agency marketing system, including revisions
in agents' compensation formulas to encourage lower lapses and changing the
premium collection method from agent-collected to bank draft and direct bill
methods which are characterized by higher persistency. Another contributing
factor to improved persistency in life business is a higher proportion of
premium from the military distribution system, which has an extremely low
lapse rate.
 
  Even though improvements in persistency have occurred in Torchmark's major
life insurance lines, acquisition cost ratios rose in each of the years
reported. In a comparison of 1996 and 1995 ratios with 1994, the American
income purchase must be taken into account. While American Income's life
business is very profitable and has a total insurance operating income margin
similar to other Torchmark products, it is characterized by lower policy
obligations and higher amortization of acquisition costs. The higher
acquisition cost ratio is a result of the higher amortization of the value of
insurance purchased relative to deferred acquisition costs. Torchmark's
discontinuance of active marketing of pre-need funeral insurance has caused
the amortization of acquisition cost on this business to increase relative to
premium, although the impact on total margins are more than offset by a
reduction in policy benefits ratios.
 
  The above presentation of life insurance results excludes a $22.8 million
benefit in 1994 from the review of reserving assumptions on a block of burial
reserves. An evaluation of assumptions regarding mortality, interest, and
inflation pressures on burial costs indicated that sufficient experience
existed to support a change in the level of reserves held on this block.
Torchmark will continue to monitor its reserving assumptions for this block on
an annual basis to ensure that reserves are adequate to meet contractual
liabilities. Had this item been included, the 1994 ratio of policy obligations
to premium would have been reduced and overall margin would have been
increased 3.8%.
 
  Health insurance. Health products sold by Torchmark include Medicare
Supplement insurance, cancer insurance, long-term care, and other under-age 65
limited benefit supplemental medical and hospitalization products. As a
percentage of annualized health premium in force at December 31, 1996,
Medicare Supplement accounted for 70%, cancer 16%, and other products 14%.
These products are marketed by exclusive and independent agents, by direct
response, and through associations. The table below presents health insurance
premium income during each of the three years ended December 31, 1996 by
distribution method.
 
 

 
                               HEALTH INSURANCE
                        Premium by Distribution Method
                         (Dollar amounts in thousands)
 

 
  The following chart contains health insurance premium data from 1994 through
1996:
 

 
  A major factor leading to the smaller decline in health sales over the three
year period was the smaller decline in Medicare Supplement sales over the same
period. In 1996, sales of Medicare Supplement insurance, the major component
of Torchmark's health insurance, increased over the prior year sales for the
first time since 1992.
 
  The following chart demonstrates the smaller declines over the past three
years for Medicare Supplement annualized premium sales and in force:
 

 
  The leveling of Medicare Supplement sales as compared to the prior year is
due in part to $4 million annualized premium sold through Direct response, a
distribution system not previously marketing this product. In addition to
higher sales than the previous year, 1996 Medicare Supplement in force
benefited from premium rate increases implemented during the year, the first
increase in three years.
 
  In recent years, declines in Medicare Supplement premium issued and premium
in force were the result of 1990 regulatory requirements that reduced
allowable agents commissions on new sales, as well as uncertainties regarding
health care reform by the Clinton Administration and Congress. Further,
regulatory standardization of policy benefits to 10 standardized plans
increased competition because consumers now see these products as a
"commodity", differentiated only by price. Increased competition by Health
Maintenance Organizations that substitute for traditional Medicare also have
dampened sales.
 
  Torchmark is using several strategies to maintain sales of new policies and
the persistency of existing in force Medicare Supplement policies. Torchmark's
premium rate increases year to year have been less than certain competitors,
making Torchmark's rates more price competitive. In addition, new markets such
as employer and association groups, and distribution methods such as Direct
response are being tested.
 
  Sales of cancer products declined 6% to $10.7 million in 1996 after rising
40% in 1995 to $11.3 million. In spite of the lower sales, annualized premium
in force for cancer increased to $119 million at year-end 1996 from $115
million at December 31, 1995, due primarily to the implementation of rate
increases for the first time in two years. Annualized premium in force for
other health products experienced an 8% drop in 1996, from $114 million to
$105 million at December 31, 1996. Sales also
 

 
declined 11% in 1996 to $25 million. Torchmark introduced a new series of
long-term care products in late 1996, and intends to aggressively market this
product line.
 
                               HEALTH INSURANCE
                              Summary of Results
                         (Dollar amounts in thousands)
 

 
  As a percentage of premium, insurance operating income for Torchmark's
health insurance was stable, approximating 16% in each of the three years
considered. While policy obligations as a percentage of premium have risen
each year, these increases have been more than offset by the declines in
amortization of acquisition costs and commissions. The decline in the
amortization of acquisition costs ratio has been caused by improvements in
persistency in Torchmark's health business. Excluded from the above
presentation of health results in 1994 is a $30 million charge for cancer
policy benefits resulting from a reclassification of non-operating expense to
health benefits, since actual payments will be made in the form of health
benefits.
 
  Annuities. Torchmark's annuity products serve a wide range of markets, such
as providing retirement income, funding prearranged funerals, and offering
long-term tax-deferred growth opportunities. Annuities are sold on both a
fixed and variable basis. Fixed annuity deposits are held and invested by
Torchmark and are obligations of the company. Variable annuity deposits are
invested at the policyholder's direction into his choice among ten W&R managed
mutual funds which vary in degree of investment risk and return. A fixed
annuity investment account is also available as a variable annuity investment
option. These investments pertaining to variable annuity deposits are reported
as "Separate Account Assets" and the corresponding deposit balances for
variable annuities are reported as "Separate Account Liabilities."
 
  Annuity premium is accounted for as a deposit and is not reflected in
income. Revenues on both fixed and variable annuities are derived from charges
to the annuity account balances for insurance risk, administration, and
surrender, depending on the structure of the contract. Variable accounts are
also charged an investment fee and a sales charge. Torchmark benefits to the
extent these policy charges exceed actual costs and to the extent actual
investment income exceeds the investment income which is credited to
policyholders on fixed annuities.
 

 
  The following table presents the annuity account balance at each year end
and the annuity collections for each year for both fixed and variable
annuities.
 

 
  Annuity premium collections increased 4% in 1996 to $335 million over the
prior year. Annuity collections rose 35% to $323 million in 1995. Fixed
annuity premium collections declined 35% in 1996 to $87 million from $133
million in 1995, after having risen over three times 1994 collections of $43
million. The 1995 increase was caused by the entry of a United American
general agency in the fourth quarter of 1994 that markets to bank customers.
These sales generated $76 million in 1995 collections. In 1996, however, these
sales declined to $55 million. Additionally, Torchmark's preneed annuity
collections declined $19 million in 1996, contributing to the decline in 1996
fixed annuity collections.
 
  More than offsetting the decline in 1996 of fixed collections was an
increase in 1996 of variable annuity collections of 31%. These collections
were $247 million in 1996 as compared with $189 million in 1995. Strong
financial markets in 1996 have contributed greatly to the growth in variable
collections. Torchmark's variable annuities are issued by UILIC and sold by
W&R sales representatives.
 
  The variable annuity account balance also gained 31% over the 1995 period,
standing at $1.4 billion at December 31, 1996. The deposit account balance is
positively affected by additional deposits resulting from heightened investor
interest and by the accounts being valued based on the higher market values of
the underlying investments.
 
                                   ANNUITIES
                              Summary of Results
                         (Dollar amounts in thousands)
 

 
  Insurance operating margins for annuities as measured by the mean reserve
have remained fairly stable throughout the three years examined. Annuity
policy charges have increased in each period. Policy charges increased 18% to
$22 million in 1996. These charges were $19 million in 1995, gaining 37% over
1994 charges of $14 million. Growth in these policy charges resulted from the
increase in size of the annuity account balance over each of the prior years,
the increase in the number of annuity contracts in force, and the cumulative
effect of growth in sales over the past few years on which the sales charge is
based. The allocated investment income, or the investment income earned in
excess of policy
 

 
requirements, also grew in each of the periods 1994 through 1996. These
increases resulted from the growth in the fixed annuity deposit balances.
 
                               ASSET MANAGEMENT
 
  Financial Services. Torchmark's financial services operations consist of the
marketing of 23 mutual funds, including the United Group and the W & R Group
of funds through exclusive financial planners. These representatives also
market a variety of insurance products of Torchmark subsidiaries. Financial
services operations also involve the management of mutual fund portfolios, the
management of institutional portfolios, and the servicing of customer
accounts. Revenues are derived from commissions from the sale of investment
and insurance products, fees for management of investment asset portfolios,
and fees for servicing the accounts.
 
  Financial services revenues rose 21% to $221 million in 1996 compared with
1995 revenues of $183 million. These revenues grew 9% in 1995 from 1994
revenues of $167 million. Financial services revenues presented in Torchmark's
consolidated financial statements will not correspond to total revenues for
the financial services segment presented below in the Summary of Results table
because certain revenues are eliminated in consolidation.
 
  Asset management fees of $103 million in 1996 were the largest component of
financial services revenues, representing 47% of 1996 segment revenues. Asset
management fees grew 20% in 1996, after having gained 22% to $86 million in
1995. Increases in these fees have occurred due to the daily growth in mutual
fund assets and institutional assets under management, on which asset
management fees are based. Average assets under management rose 17% in 1996
and 14% in 1995. Growth in average assets under management in 1995 and 1996
resulted from two factors. First, strength in the financial markets caused
increases in the values of fund securities. Secondly, new net investment
product sales and reinvested dividends in each period contributed to asset
growth. Total assets under management were $18.9 billion at December 31, 1996,
an increase over the prior year end of 3%. Total assets under management were
$18.3 billion at December 31, 1995 and $14.5 billion at December 31, 1994,
rising 26% in 1995. Mutual fund assets under management rose 14% in 1996 to
$17.2 billion at year-end 1996. Asset management fees grew at a higher rate
than assets under management in 1996 primarily because of a change in the type
of assets under management. The total increase in assets under management for
the period of $.6 billion was the result of a $2.1 billion increase in mutual
fund assets partially offset by a $1.5 billion decrease in institutional
assets. The mutual fund assets that were added have a higher management fee
rate than the institutional assets that were lost.
 
  Commission revenues are derived from the sales of both investment and
insurance products, with investment product commissions representing 84% of
total commission revenues in 1996. The commissions from insurance products and
variable annuities are primarily received from Torchmark insurance
subsidiaries, and are eliminated in consolidation. Investment product
commissions rose 26% to $72 million in 1996, after having declined 4% to $57
million in 1995. Investment product sales climbed 27% in 1996 to $1.5 billion.
Investment product sales in 1995 were level with the 1994 sales of $1.2
billion. In 1996, sales of the United Funds, a front-load product, increased
22% or $187 million while sales of the W&R Funds, a deferred-load product,
grew 44% or $70 million. Insurance product commissions have grown steadily,
with 1996 commissions of $13.9 million, as compared with $13.5 million in 1995
and $12.8 million in 1994.
 
  Services fees grew 21% in 1996, after rising 6% in 1995. Service fees are
charged based on the number of accounts serviced. The number of accounts
serviced was 1.31 million at December 31, 1996, an increase of 7%. Accounts
serviced were 1.22 million at year-end 1995 and 1.15 million at year-end 1994.
The 1996 fees grew at a rate greater than the number of accounts because of an
increase in fees.
 

 
                              FINANCIAL SERVICES
                              Summary of Results
                         (Dollar amounts in thousands)
 

- --------
* Financial services revenue includes $33.1 million in 1996, $27.5 million in
 1995 and $25.9 million in 1994 representing revenues from other Torchmark
 segments which are eliminated in consolidation.
 
  Pretax income for Torchmark's financial services operations has grown very
rapidly, rising 20% to $113 million in 1996. This growth follows a 12%
increase in 1995 to $94 million and a 15% increase in 1994 to $84 million. As
a percentage of total financial services revenues, pretax income rose above
51% in 1995 and remained comparable in 1996. The 1995 margin improvement
resulted from a greater percentage of financial services revenues coming from
asset management fees. Asset management fees have a significantly greater
profit margin than commissions and service fees. The proportion of asset
management fees to total revenues remained constant in 1996, contributing to
the flat margin ratios. While other expenses as a percentage of revenues
declined, asset management fees were up about 17% over 1995.
 
  Commissions and selling expenses are the direct expenses associated with
producing commission revenue. They consist of the commissions, bonuses, and
other compensation paid to the sales force as well as other marketing and
promotional costs. Because of the 1996 increase in sales volume, which causes
an increase in sales incentive compensation, direct expenses as a percentage
of commission revenue rose slightly, from 91% in 1995 to 92%. W&R also
increased promotional efforts in 1995 and to an even greater extent in 1996.
The 1996 increase in commission revenues resulted, at least in part, from
these measures.
 
                                  INVESTMENTS
 
  Torchmark's net investment income increased 6% to $405 million during the
year, following an increase of 10% in 1995 and a decrease of 6% in 1994. When
adjusted for the American Income acquisition in late 1994, however, the 1995
increase was 3%. The 1996 increase in investment income is principally due to
the continued accumulation of invested assets, which rose to $5.9 billion by
year end. When adjusted for disposition of Torchmark's energy operations, mean
invested assets rose 6% in 1996, as compared with a similar 6% increase in
1995.
 
  The overall level of interest rates rose sharply during the first half of
1996, then retracted approximately one-half of the advance by year end. In
this environment, Torchmark's investment program continued to emphasize
investment grade, call-protected corporate securities. New investment
acquisitions of fixed income securities totaled $1.08 billion, compared with
1995 acquisitions of $1.87 billion. Acquisitions in 1995, however, were
inflated by several sales programs implemented to reduce exposure to
prepayments on mortgage-backed securities. During 1996, acquisitions were made
at an average yield of 7.12% and an average life of 7.8 years compared with
7.28% and 13.4 years, respectively, for 1995. While there were no significant
sales of GNMA holdings as in the past several
 

 
years, mortgage-backed securities declined because of repayments and the
increase in other types of invested assets. Mortgage-backed securities were
25% of fixed income securities and 23% of invested assets at December 31,
1996. They were 27% of invested assets at year-end 1995 and 43% of invested
assets at year-end 1994.
 
  Torchmark's fixed maturity portfolio is subject to market risk caused by
changes in interest rates in financial markets. Because this portfolio is
classified as available for sale, it is valued at market. While the portfolio
is sensitive to market fluctuations, these temporary changes in market value
have no bearing on the ultimate proceeds at maturity. Torchmark limits its
market risk by maintaining a high quality portfolio with a relatively short
average life.
 
  The moderate increase in rates in 1996 caused the unrealized gain of the
fixed income portfolio to decline. At December 31, 1996, the market value of
fixed income investments exceeded book value by $63 million, compared with an
unrealized gain of $226 million at the end of 1995 and an unrealized loss of
$242 million at year-end 1994. Despite the fluctuation in market values, the
portfolio yield remained relatively stable at 7.55%, compared with 7.66% at
year-end 1995 and 7.73% at year-end 1994. With shorter maturity acquisitions,
the average life of the bond portfolio decreased from 8.8 years at year-end
1995 to 7.8 years currently. At year end, an estimated 38% of the fixed income
portfolio will maturity within five years, and 80% will mature within 10
years. This compares with estimates of 38% and 76%, respectively, at year-end
1995.
 
  Presented below is a schedule of Torchmark's fixed-income portfolio by
maturity.
 

 
  Torchmark's emphasis on fixed maturity bonds, which represented 90% of
invested assets at 1996 year end, caused percentage holdings of other type
investments to vary widely with latest industry averages prepared by the
American Council of Life Insurance.
 

- --------
(1) Latest data available from the American Council of Life Insurance.
 
  The quality of fixed income holdings remains very high, with 95% rated
investment grade by Standard & Poor's and the NAIC.
 

 
                              FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
  Liquidity. Liquidity pertains to Torchmark's ability to meet on demand the
cash commitments required by its business operations and financial
obligations. Torchmark's liquidity is obtained from three sources: its
positive cash flow from operations, its portfolio of short-term investments,
and its line of credit facility.
 
  Torchmark's insurance and asset management operations generate positive cash
flows in excess of its immediate needs. Cash flows provided from operations,
including deposit-product operations, were $517 million in 1996, compared with
$478 million in 1995, an increase of 8%. Operating cash flows grew 42% in 1995
over 1994 cash flows of $337 million. The 1995 increase was primarily caused
by increased deposit-product sales in 1995 and a one-time $48 million tax
settlement paid in 1994 related to prior periods. In addition to operating
cash flows, Torchmark received $347 million of investment maturities and
repayments in 1996, further enhancing total positive cash flow. Such
repayments were $351 million in 1995 and $796 million in 1994. Cash flows in
excess of immediate requirements are used to build an investment base to fund
future requirements.
 
  Torchmark's cash and short-term investments were $103 million at December
31, 1996, compared with $86 million at year-end 1995. These liquid assets
represented approximately 1% of total assets at December 31, 1996, the same as
at the end of the previous year. In addition to Torchmark's liquid assets,
Torchmark has a portfolio of marketable fixed and equity securities which are
available for sale should the need arise. These securities had a value of $5.3
billion at December 31, 1996.
 
  Torchmark has in place a line of credit facility with a group of lenders
which allows unsecured borrowings up to a specified maximum amount. The
maximum amount was increased during 1996 to $600 million at December 31, 1996.
Interest is charged at variable rates for borrowings. This line of credit is
further designated as a backup credit line for a commercial paper program not
to exceed $600 million, whereby Torchmark may borrow from either the credit
line or issue commercial paper at any time but may not borrow in excess of a
total of $600 million on the combined facilities. At December 31, 1996,
$41 million in commercial paper was outstanding and there were no borrowings
on the line of credit. A facility fee is charged on the entire $600 million
balance. In accordance with the agreements, Torchmark is subject to certain
covenants regarding capitalization and earnings. At December 31, 1996,
Torchmark was in full compliance with these covenants.
 
  Liquidity of the parent company is affected by the ability of the
subsidiaries to pay dividends. Dividends are paid by subsidiaries to the
parent in order to meet its dividend payments on common and preferred stock,
interest and principal repayment requirements on parent company debt, and
operating expenses of the parent company. Dividends from insurance
subsidiaries of Torchmark are limited to the greater of statutory net gain
from operations on an annual noncumulative basis or 10% of surplus, in the
absence of special approval, and distributions are not permitted in excess of
statutory net worth. Subsidiaries are also subject to certain minimum capital
requirements. Although these restrictions exist, dividend availability from
subsidiaries has been and is expected to be more than adequate for parent
company operations. During 1997, a maximum amount of $275 million will be
available to Torchmark from insurance subsidiaries without regulatory
approval.
 
  Capital Resources. The carrying amount of Torchmark's long-term debt was
$792 million at both year-ends 1996 and 1995. Major debt issues outstanding at
December 31, 1996 were as follows:
 

 

 
  Torchmark repaid $550 thousand of principal on the Senior Debentures in 1996
under the terms of a put provision.
 
  In connection with the American Income purchase in November, 1994, Torchmark
issued eight million shares or $200 million face amount Cumulative Monthly
Income Preferred Securities, Series A ("MIPS") in October, 1994. The MIPS were
issued at an annual dividend rate of 9.18%. They are subject to a mandatory
redemption in full at September 30, 2024, although Torchmark may elect to
extend the MIPS for up to an additional 20 years if certain conditions are
met. They are redeemable at Torchmark's option at any time after September 30,
1999. While Torchmark is obligated to pay dividends at a fixed rate of 9.18%,
Torchmark subsequently entered into a ten-year interest-rate swap agreement
with an unaffiliated party to reduce financing costs. The swap agreement calls
for Torchmark to pay a variable rate on the $200 million face amount in
exchange for payment of the fixed dividend. Torchmark is at risk on this
instrument for higher financing costs to the extent interest rates rise during
the remaining term. This risk is limited, however, by a five-year interest-
rate cap which Torchmark acquired in conjunction with the swap agreement that
insures the variable rate cannot exceed 10.39%. At December 31, 1996, the
variable rate was 6.95%. During 1996, Torchmark's after-tax dividend cost for
the MIPS was $9.7 million, compared with $11.9 million that would have been
incurred without the swap and cap transactions. Torchmark's after-tax cost in
1995 was $10.3 million, saving $1.6 million.
 
  Short-term debt was $41 million at year-end 1996, compared with $189 million
at the end of the previous year. Torchmark repaid $148 million principal
amount on this debt in 1996, with funds from internal cash flow. Torchmark
paid down a net of $61 million on the credit facility during 1995.
 
  During 1996, the Torchmark Board of Directors and its financial advisor,
Morgan Stanley, reviewed a number of restructuring options to possibly enhance
shareholder value, including splitting the operations into separate publicly
traded entities and selling all or portions thereof. However, none of the
reasonably achievable restructuring options provided sufficient likelihood of
creating more long term shareholder value than the current structure.
Accordingly, the following actions were agreed to and accomplished to the
extent described in the following sections.
 
    (1) Beginning in August 1996, Torchmark renewed its share repurchase
        program, and acquired 2.3 million shares of its common stock at a
        cost of $107 million by year end 1996. Torchmark also intends to use
        excess cash flow to make additional open market purchases, as market
        conditions warrant, provided that its debt-to-capital ratio does not
        exceed 40% and that no opportunities for acquisition offering
        superior returns are available.
 
    (2) Monetization of Vesta stock (see discussion below under Other
        items).
 
    (3) Complete the sale of the energy related discontinued operations (see
        discussion below under Other Items).
 
  Shareholders' equity rose to $1.63 billion at December 31, 1996, an increase
of 3% from December 31, 1995 shareholders' equity of $1.59 billion. Book value
per share was $23.38 at 1996 year end, compared with $22.17 and $17.37 at
year-ends 1995 and 1994, respectively. After adjusting for the impact of
interest-rate fluctuations on shareholders' equity required by accounting
rules, book value per share was $22.84 at year-end 1996, an increase of 12%
over $20.33 at year-end 1995. Comparative book value per share was $19.31 at
year-end 1994. Return from continuing operations on common shareholders'
equity was 20.5% in 1996, compared with 18.5% in 1995, even though average
shareholders' equity increased. The return on equity ratios excludes the mark
up or down of shareholders' equity for changes in market interest rates
required by accounting rules. Total debt as a percentage of total
capitalization continues to decline, and was 32% at December 31, 1996. In the
computation of this ratio, the MIPS are counted as equity and the effect of
the above-mentioned accounting rule is excluded. This debt-to-capitalization
ratio was 37% at year-end 1995 and 40% at year-end 1994. Torchmark's ratio of
earnings before interest, taxes and discontinued operations to interest
requirements was 7.7 for 1996, compared with 6.3 in 1995 and 6.2 in 1994.
 

 
                                  OTHER ITEMS
 
  Acquisition of American Income. On November 3, 1994, Torchmark acquired
American Income for a total cash purchase price of approximately $552 million.
American Income sells life insurance to union, credit union, and other
association members through exclusive agents. The results of operations of
American Income were consolidated with those of Torchmark after the purchase
date. Funds for the purchase were provided through a $200 million preferred
security offering which is discussed in more detail in the capital resources
section above, a $175 million bridge loan from a group of banks, the sale of
investments available for sale, and internal cash flow.
 
  Disposal of Energy Segment. On September 30, 1996, Torchmark completed the
sale of its energy business segment including its energy asset management
subsidiary, Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated ("TEAI"), and its Black Warrior
coalbed methane investment. These operations, which were reclassified as
discontinued operations in Torchmark's financial statements at December 31,
1995, were sold to a TEAI management group. After the sale, Torchmark had no
controlling ownership interest in any energy asset management organization.
 
  In addition to previously transferred securities, warrants, and Section 29
energy-related tax credits, which approximated $112 million at closing,
Torchmark received subordinated debt and notes totalling $32.5 million along
with $15.5 million in cash. After closing costs and retained liabilities,
Torchmark recorded a pre-tax loss of $23 million and an after-tax loss of $7
million from the sale, or $.10 per share.
 
  Monetization of Vesta Stock. Torchmark filed a registration statement with
the Securities and Exchange Commission during the third quarter of 1996. The
purpose of this statement was to monetize a substantial portion of Torchmark's
holdings of Vesta Insurance Group, Inc. ("Vesta") common stock, by issuing a
security mandatorily exchangeable for Vesta stock at the option of Torchmark.
Torchmark currently holds approximately five million shares of Vesta stock. On
November 7, 1996, Torchmark withdrew this registration statement because
market conditions were not favorable for the monetization of Vesta stock at
that time. Depending upon future market conditions, Torchmark may refile the
registration statement or otherwise provide for the monetization of a portion
of all of the Vesta stock, but currently has no plans to monetize this stock.
 
  Litigation. Torchmark and its subsidiaries continue to be named as parties
to pending or threatened litigation, most of which involve punitive damage
claims based upon allegations of agent misconduct at Liberty in Alabama. Such
punitive damage claims are tried in Alabama state courts where any punitive
damage litigation has the potential for significant adverse results. It is
impossible to predict the extent of punitive damages that may be awarded if
liability is found in any given case, since the amount of punitive damages in
Alabama is left largely to the discretion of the jury in each case. It is thus
difficult to predict with certainty the liability of Torchmark or its
subsidiaries in any given case because of the unpredictable nature of this
type of litigation.
 
  Also, the cancer policy class action litigation in Alabama continued in
1996. In February 1996, the Alabama Supreme Court issued a notice overruling a
petition for rehearing of its decision affirming the trial court's final
approval of the May 1994 settlement of this litigation. Certain intervenors
then filed a petition for writ of certiorari to the U.S. Supreme Court, which
granted certiorari in October 1996. Oral arguments were heard on the
intervenors' petition in January 1997. On March 3, 1997, the U.S. Supreme
Court dismissed, as improvidently granted, the writ of certiorari it had
previously granted, effectively ending direct appeals of the cancer policy
class action settlement.
 
                             NEW ACCOUNTING RULES
 
  Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and
Extinguishments of Liabilities (FASB Statement No. 125) is effective for
transactions occurring after December 31, 1996, applied prospectively. Earlier
or retrospective application is not permitted. This statement provides
accounting and reporting standards for transfers and servicing of financial
assets and extinguishments of liabilities, based on the concept of control.
The adoption of this standard will have no material impact on Torchmark's
financial condition or results.
 

 
              ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 

 

 
                         INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
 
The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Torchmark Corporation
Birmingham, Alabama
 
  We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Torchmark
Corporation and subsidiaries as listed in Item 8 and the supporting schedules
as listed in Item 14(a). These financial statements and financial statement
schedules are the responsibility of Torchmark's management. Our responsibility
is to express an opinion on these financial statements and financial statement
schedules based on our audits.
 
  We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements and
financial statement schedules are free of material misstatement. An audit
includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as
well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe
that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Torchmark
Corporation and subsidiaries at December 31, 1996 and 1995, and the results of
their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended December 31, 1996, in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement
schedules, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial
statements taken as a whole, present fairly, in all material respects, the
information set forth therein.
 
  As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, Torchmark
adopted the provisions of the Financial Accounting Standards Board's Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 121, Accounting for the Impairment of
Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of, in 1995.
 
                                             KPMG PEAT MARWICK LLP
 
Birmingham, Alabama
January 31, 1997, except for
  Note 16, which is as
  of March 11, 1997
 

 
                             TORCHMARK CORPORATION
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
              (DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
 

 
          See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 

 
                             TORCHMARK CORPORATION
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
                  (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
 

 
          See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 

 
                             TORCHMARK CORPORATION
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
                  (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
 

 
          See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 

 
                             TORCHMARK CORPORATION
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOW
                             (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)

 
          See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 

 
                             TORCHMARK CORPORATION
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
             (DOLLARS AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
 
NOTE 1--SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
  Basis of Presentation: The accompanying financial statements have been
prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP").
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts
of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual
results could differ from those estimates.
 
  Principles of Consolidation: The financial statements include the results of
Torchmark Corporation ("Torchmark") and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries which are not majority-owned are reported on the equity method.
All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in
consolidation.
 
  Investments. Torchmark classifies all of its fixed maturity investments,
which include bonds and redeemable preferred stocks, as available for sale.
Investments classified as available for sale are carried at fair value with
unrealized gains and losses, net of deferred taxes, reflected directly in
shareholders' equity. Investments in equity securities, which include common
and nonredeemable preferred stocks, are reported at fair value with unrealized
gains and losses, net of deferred taxes, reflected directly in shareholders'
equity. Policy loans are carried at unpaid principal balances. Mortgage loans
are carried at amortized cost. Investments in real estate are reported at cost
less allowances for depreciation, which are calculated on the straight line
method. Short-term investments include investments in certificates of deposit
and other interest-bearing time deposits with original maturities within three
months. Other long-term investments consist of investments in mutual funds
managed by a Torchmark subsidiary. They are carried at fair value. Other long-
term investments also include passive energy limited-partnership investments
which are valued at partnership equity. If an investment becomes permanently
impaired, such impairment is treated as a realized loss and the investment is
adjusted to net realizable value.
 
  Gains and losses realized on the disposition of investments are recognized
as revenues and are determined on a specific identification basis.
 
  Realized investment gains and losses and investment income attributable to
separate accounts are credited to the separate accounts and have no effect on
Torchmark's net income. Investment income attributable to other policyholders
is included in Torchmark's net investment income. Net investment income for
the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994 included $298.4 million,
$279.6 million, and $240.7 million, respectively, which was allocable to
policyholder reserves or accounts. Realized investment gains and losses are
not allocable to policyholders.
 
  Determination of Fair Values of Financial Instruments: Fair value for cash,
short-term investments, short-term debt, receivables and payables approximates
carrying value. Fair values for investment securities are based on quoted
market prices, where available. Otherwise, fair values are based on quoted
market prices of comparable instruments. Mortgages are valued using discounted
cash flows. Substantially all of Torchmark's long-term debt, including the
monthly income preferred securities, is valued based on quoted market prices.
 
  Cash: Cash consists of balances on hand and on deposit in banks and
financial institutions. Overdrafts arising from the overnight investment of
funds offset cash balances on hand and on deposit.
 
  Recognition of Premium Revenue and Related Expenses: Premiums for insurance
contracts which are not defined as universal life-type according to SFAS 97
are recognized as revenue over the premium-paying period of the policy.
Profits for limited-payment life insurance contracts as defined by SFAS 97 are
recognized over the contract period. Premiums for universal life-type and
annuity contracts are added to the policy account value, and revenues for such
products are recognized as charges to the policy account value for mortality,
administration, and surrenders (retrospective deposit method). Variable
annuity products are also assessed an investment management fee and a sales
charge. Life premium includes policy charges of $72.8 million, $72.7 million,
and $74.2 million for the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994,
respectively. Other premium includes annuity policy charges for the
 

 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
              (DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 1--SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

years ended December 31, 1996, 1995, and 1994 of $22.4 million, $19.0 million,
and $13.9 million, respectively. Profits are also earned to the extent that
investment income exceeds policy requirements. The related benefits and
expenses are matched with revenues by means of the provision of future policy
benefits and the amortization of deferred acquisition costs in a manner which
recognizes profits as they are earned over the same period.
 
  Future Policy Benefits: The liability for future policy benefits for
universal life-type products according to SFAS 97 is represented by policy
account value. The liability for future policy benefits for all other life and
health products is provided on the net level premium method based on estimated
investment yields, mortality, morbidity, persistency and other assumptions
which were appropriate at the time the policies were issued. Assumptions used
are based on Torchmark's experience as adjusted to provide for possible
adverse deviation. These estimates are periodically reviewed and compared with
actual experience. If it is determined future experience will probably differ
significantly from that previously assumed, the estimates are revised.
 
  Deferred Acquisition Costs and Value of Insurance Purchased: The costs of
acquiring new insurance business are deferred. Such costs consist of sales
commissions, underwriting expenses, and certain other selling expenses. The
costs of acquiring new business through the purchase of other companies and
blocks of insurance business are also deferred.
 
  Deferred acquisition costs, including the value of life insurance purchased,
for policies other than universal life-type policies according to SFAS 97 are
amortized with interest over an estimate of the premium-paying period of the
policies in a manner which charges each year's operations in proportion to the
receipt of premium income. For universal life-type policies, acquisition costs
are amortized with interest in proportion to estimated gross profits. The
assumptions used as to interest, persistency, morbidity and mortality are
consistent with those used in computing the liability for future policy
benefits and expenses. If it is determined that future experience will
probably differ significantly from that previously assumed, the estimates are
revised. Deferred acquisition costs are adjusted to reflect the amounts
associated with unrealized investment gains and losses pertaining to universal
life-type products.
 
  Income Taxes: Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability
method in accordance with SFAS 109. Under the asset and liability method,
deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax
consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement book
values and tax bases of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets and
liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable
income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be
recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a
change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the
enactment date.
 
  Property and Equipment: Property and equipment is reported at cost less
allowances for depreciation. Depreciation is recorded primarily on the
straight line method over the estimated useful lives of these assets which
range from two to twenty years for equipment and two to forty years for
buildings and improvements. Ordinary maintenance and repairs are charged to
income as incurred.
 
  Impairments: Torchmark adopted the provisions of SFAS 121, Accounting for
the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed
Of, effective at the issuance of the standard in March, 1995. This standard
requires that certain long-lived assets used in Torchmark's business as well
as certain intangible assets be reviewed for impairment when circumstances
indicate that these assets may not be recoverable, and further provides how
such impairment shall be determined and measured. It also requires that long-
lived assets and intangibles to be disposed of be reported at the lower of
carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell. Except for the writedown of
the energy investment described in Note 7, the adoption of this statement had
no material impact on Torchmark's operations or financial position for the
years ended December 31, 1996 and 1995.
 
 

 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
              (DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 1--SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

  Goodwill: The excess cost of businesses acquired over the fair value of
their net assets is reported as goodwill and is amortized on a straight-line
basis over a period not exceeding 40 years. Torchmark's unamortized goodwill
is periodically reviewed to ensure that conditions are present to indicate the
recorded amount of goodwill is recoverable from the estimated future
profitability of the related business. If events or changes in circumstances
indicate that future profits will not be sufficient to support the carrying
amount of goodwill, goodwill is written down to the recoverable amount and is
amortized over the original remaining period or a reduced period if
appropriate.
 
  Treasury Stock: Torchmark accounts for purchases of treasury stock on the
cost method.
 
  Reclassification: Certain amounts in the financial statements presented have
been reclassified from amounts previously reported in order to be comparable
between years. These reclassifications have no effect on previously reported
shareholders' equity or net income during the periods involved.
 
  Litigation: Torchmark and its subsidiaries continue to be named as parties
to legal proceedings. Because much of Torchmark's litigation is brought in
Alabama, a jurisdiction known for excessive punitive damage verdicts bearing
little or no relationship to actual damages, the ultimate outcome of any
particular action cannot be predicted. It is reasonably possible that changes
in the expected outcome of these matters could occur in the near term, but
such changes should not be material to Torchmark's reported results or
financial condition.
 
  Earnings Per Share: Earnings available to holders of common stock are
computed after deducting dividends on the Preferred Stock in 1994. Primary
earnings per share are then calculated by dividing the earnings available to
holders of common stock by the weighted average number of common shares
outstanding during the period. The weighted average numbers of common shares
outstanding for each period are as follows: 1996--71,229,892, 1995--
71,593,774, 1994--72,095,657.
 

 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
              (DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 2--STATUTORY ACCOUNTING
 
  Insurance subsidiaries of Torchmark are required to file statutory financial
statements with state insurance regulatory authorities. Accounting principles
used to prepare these statutory financial statements differ from GAAP.
Consolidated net income and shareholders' equity on a statutory basis for the
insurance subsidiaries were as follows:
 

 
  The excess, if any, of shareholders' equity of the insurance subsidiaries on
a GAAP basis over that determined on a statutory basis is not available for
distribution to Torchmark without regulatory approval.
 
  A reconciliation of Torchmark's insurance subsidiaries' statutory net income
to Torchmark's consolidated GAAP net income is as follows:
 

 

 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
              (DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 3--INVESTMENT OPERATIONS
 

 

 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
              (DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 3--INVESTMENT OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)
 
  A summary of fixed maturities available for sale and equity securities by
amortized cost and estimated market value at December 31, 1996 and 1995 is as
follows:
 

 

 

 
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
              (DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
NOTE 3--INVESTMENT OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)
 
  A schedule of fixed maturities by contractual maturity at December 31, 1996
is shown below on an amortized cost basis and on a market value basis. Actual
maturities could differ from contractual maturities due to call or prepayment
provisions.
 

 
  Proceeds from sales of fixed maturities available for sale were $487 million
in 1996, $1.18 billion in 1995, and $583 million in 1994. Gross gains realized
on those sales were $8.7 million in 1996, $13.4 million in 1995, and $14.6
million in 1994. Gross losses were $5.3 million in 1996, $13.5 million in
1995, and $20.8 million in 1994.
 
  Torchmark had $39.2 million and $25.7 million in investment real estate at
December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively, which was nonincome producing during
the previous twelve months. These properties included primarily construction
in process and land. Fixed maturity investments, mortgage loans, and other
long-term investments which were nonincome producing during the previous
twelve months were $0.3 million at December 31, 1995. There were no such
investments at December 31, 1996.
 
  Derivative investments were immaterial to Torchmark at December 31, 1996.
These investments consist of interest-only and principal-only collateralized
mortgage obligations and a foreign currency trading account. Torchmark's total
carrying value of these investments was $26.3 million and $23.9 million at
December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively. Torchmark has no off-balance sheet
exposure in connection with these investments.
 
NOTE 4--PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT
 
  A summary of property and equipment used in the business is as follows:
 

 
  Depreciation expense on property used in the business was $5.4 million, $5.7
million, and $7.6 million in each of the years 1996, 1995, and 1994,
respectively.
 

 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
              (DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
 
NOTE 5--DEFERRED ACQUISITION COSTS AND VALUE OF INSURANCE PURCHASED
 
  An analysis of deferred acquisition costs and the value of insurance
purchased is as follows:
 

- --------
(1)Represents amounts pertaining to investments relating to universal life-
type products.
 
  The amount of interest accrued on the unamortized balance of value of
insurance purchased was $18.9 million, $20.0 million, and $11.7 million, for
the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively. The average
interest accrual rates used for the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and
1994 were 7.26%, 7.26% and 7.72%, respectively. The estimated amount of the
unamortized balance at December 31, 1996 to be amortized during each of the
next five years is: 1997, $27.8 million; 1998, $24.5 million; 1999, $21.6
million; 2000, $18.9 million; and 2001, $16.7 million.
 
  In the event of lapses or early withdrawals in excess of those assumed,
deferred acquisition costs and the value of insurance purchased may not be
recoverable.
 

 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
              (DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 6--ACQUISITIONS
 
  On November 3, 1994, Torchmark acquired all of the outstanding common stock
of American Income Holding, Inc., whose primary operating subsidiary is
American Income Life Insurance Company ("American Income") for $35 per share
or a total purchase price of $552 million, including expenses. American Income
is a life insurance company which sells individual supplemental life and
fixed-benefit accident and health insurance through labor union locals, credit
unions, and other employment related associations. The purchase was financed
with a combination of internal funds, sales of securities, bank borrowings,
and the issuance by a finance subsidiary of 9.18% Cumulative Monthly Income
Preferred Securities, Series A ("MIPS"). The transaction resulted in goodwill
of approximately $403 million which will be amortized on a straight line basis
over 40 years. The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase, and the
results of operations since the acquisition date have been consolidated.
 
  A summary of the net assets acquired is as follows:
 

 
  The table below presents supplemental pro forma information for 1994 as if
the American Income acquisition were made at January 1, 1993 at the same
purchase price, based on estimates and assumptions considered appropriate:
 

 

 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
              (DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
 
NOTE 7--DISPOSAL OF ENERGY SEGMENT
 
 
  On September 30, 1996, Torchmark completed the sale of its energy business
segment including its energy asset management subsidiary, Torch Energy
Advisors Incorporated ("TEAI"), and its Black Warrior coalbed methane
investment. These operations, which were reclassified as discontinued
operations in Torchmark's financial statements at December 31, 1995, were sold
to a TEAI management group. After the sale, Torchmark had no controlling
ownership interest in any energy asset management organization.
 
  In addition to previously transferred securities, warrants, and Section 29
energy-related tax credits, which approximated $112 million at closing,
Torchmark received subordinated debt and notes totaling $32.5 million along
with $15.5 million in cash. After closing costs and retained liabilities,
Torchmark recorded a pretax loss of $23 million and an after-tax loss of $7
million from the sale, or $.10 per share.
 
 
  In the first quarter of 1996, TEAI sold 1.5 million of its shares in Nuevo
Energy Company ("Nuevo") common stock for proceeds of $35.6 million. These
proceeds were transferred to Torchmark in the form of a dividend prior to the
sale of TEAI. Additionally, included in the above mentioned transferred
marketable securities were 1.3 million shares of Nuevo common stock which were
sold in the fourth quarter of 1996 for proceeds of $57.6 million.
 
  At December 31, 1995, discontinued operations assets consisted of:
 

 

 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
              (DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
NOTE 8--FUTURE POLICY BENEFIT RESERVES
 
 
  A summary of the assumptions used in determining the liability for future
policy benefits at December 31, 1996 is as follows:
 
                           INDIVIDUAL LIFE INSURANCE
 
INTEREST ASSUMPTIONS:
 

 
MORTALITY ASSUMPTIONS:
 
  For individual life, the mortality tables used are various statutory
mortality tables and modifications of:
 
                1950-54 Select and Ultimate Table
                1954-58 Industrial Experience Table
                1955-60 Ordinary Experience Table
                1965-70 Select and Ultimate Table
                1955-60 Inter-Company Table
                1970 United States Life Table
                1979-81 United States Life Table
                1975-80 Select and Ultimate Table
                X-18 Ultimate Table
 
WITHDRAWAL ASSUMPTIONS:
 
  Withdrawal assumptions are based on Torchmark's experience.
 

 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
              (DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
NOTE 8--FUTURE POLICY BENEFIT RESERVES (CONTINUED)
 
 
                          INDIVIDUAL HEALTH INSURANCE
 
INTEREST ASSUMPTIONS:

 
MORBIDITY ASSUMPTIONS:
 
  For individual health, the morbidity assumptions are based on either
Torchmark's experience or the assumptions used in calculating statutory
reserves.
 
TERMINATION ASSUMPTIONS:
 
  Termination assumptions are based on Torchmark's experience.
 
OVERALL INTEREST ASSUMPTIONS
 
  The overall average interest assumption for determining the liability for
future life and health insurance benefits in 1996 was 6.3%.
 
NOTE 9--LIABILITY FOR UNPAID HEALTH CLAIMS
 
  Activity in the liability for unpaid health claims is summarized as follows:
 

 
  The liability for unpaid health claims is included with "Policy claims and
other benefits payable" on the Balance Sheet.
 
  Health benefits for 1994 include a $30 million charge resulting from a
reclassification of nonoperating expense to health benefits, since actual
payments will be made in the form of health benefits.
 

 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
              (DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
NOTE 10--INCOME TAXES
 
 
  Torchmark and most of its subsidiaries file a life-nonlife consolidated
federal income tax return. Sentinel files its own federal income tax return
and will not be eligible to join Torchmark's consolidated return group until
1997. American Income files its own consolidated federal income tax return and
will not be eligible to join Torchmark's consolidated return group until 2000.
 
  Total income taxes were allocated as follows:
 

 
  Income tax expense attributable to income from continuing operations
consists of:
 

 
  In 1996, 1995, and 1994, deferred income tax expense was incurred because of
the difference between net operating income before income taxes as reported on
the consolidated statement of operations and taxable income as reported on
Torchmark's income tax returns. As explained in Note 1, this difference caused
the financial statement book values of some assets and liabilities to be
different from their respective tax bases.
 
  The effective income tax rate differed from the expected 35% rate as shown
below:
 

 

 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
              (DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
NOTE 10--INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED)
 
 
  The tax effects of temporary differences that gave rise to significant
portions of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are presented
below:
 

 
  The valuation allowance for deferred tax assets as of December 31, 1996 and
1995 was $2.1 million. Subsequently recognized tax benefits of $2.1 million
relating to the December 31, 1996 valuation allowance will be allocated to
goodwill.
 
  Torchmark has not recognized a deferred tax liability for the undistributed
earnings of its wholly-owned subsidiaries because such earnings are remitted
to Torchmark on a tax-free basis. A deferred tax liability will be recognized
in the future if the remittance of such earnings becomes taxable to Torchmark.
In addition, Torchmark has not recognized a deferred tax liability of
approximately $60 million that arose prior to 1984 on temporary differences
related to the policyholders' surplus accounts in the life insurance
subsidiaries. A current tax expense will be recognized in the future if and
when these amounts are distributed.
 

 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
              (DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
NOTE 11--POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS
 
  Pension Plans: Torchmark has retirement benefit plans and savings plans
which cover substantially all employees. There is also a nonqualified excess
benefit plan which covers certain employees. The total cost of these
retirement plans charged to operations was as follows:
 

 
  Cost for the defined benefit pension plans has been calculated on the
projected unit credit actuarial cost method. Contributions are made to the
pension plans subject to minimums required by regulation and maximums allowed
for tax purposes. Accrued pension expense in excess of amounts contributed has
been recorded as a liability in the financial statements and was $6.2 million
and $9.5 million at December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively. The plans
covering the majority of employees are organized as trust funds whose assets
consist primarily of investments in marketable long-term fixed maturities and
equity securities which are valued at market.
 
  The excess benefit pension plan provides the benefits that an employee would
have otherwise received from a defined benefit pension plan in the absence of
the Internal Revenue Code's limitation on benefits payable under a qualified
plan. Although this plan is unfunded, pension cost is determined in a similar
manner as for the funded plans. Liability for the excess benefit plan was $4.8
million and $5.5 million as of December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively.
 
  Net periodic pension cost for the defined benefit plans by expense component
was as follows:
 

 
  A reconciliation of the funded status of the defined benefit plans with
Torchmark's pension liability was as follows:
 

 

 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
              (DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
NOTE 11--POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS (CONTINUED)
 
  The weighted average assumed discount rates used in determining the
actuarial benefit obligations were 7.5% in 1996 and 7.25% in 1995. The rate of
assumed compensation increase was 4.5% in 1996 and 4.25% in 1995 and the
expected long-term rate of return on plan assets was 9.25% in 1996 and 8.0% in
1995.
 
  Torchmark accrues expense for the defined contribution plans based on a
percentage of the employees' contributions. The plans are funded by the
employee contributions and a Torchmark contribution equal to the amount of
accrued expense.
 
  Postretirement Benefit Plans Other Than Pensions: Torchmark provides
postretirement life insurance benefits for most retired employees, and also
provides additional postretirement life insurance benefits for certain key
employees. The majority of the life insurance benefits are accrued over the
working lives of active employees.
 
  For retired employees over age sixty-five, Torchmark does not provide
postretirement benefits other than pensions. Torchmark does provide a portion
of the cost for health insurance benefits for employees who retired before
February 1, 1993 and before age sixty-five, covering them until they reach age
sixty-five. Eligibility for this benefit was generally achieved at age fifty-
five with at least fifteen years of service. This subsidy is minimal to
employees who did not retire before February 1, 1993. This plan is unfunded.
 
  Net periodic postretirement benefit cost included the following components:
 

 
  The following table sets forth the plans' combined benefit obligation with
the amount shown in Torchmark's balance sheet:
 

 

 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
              (DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
NOTE 11--POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS (CONTINUED)
 
  For measurement purposes, a 7.5% to 10.0% annual rate of increase in a per
capita cost of covered healthcare benefits was assumed for 1996. These rates
were assumed to decrease gradually to ranges of 4.5% to 6.5% by the year 2005.
The health care cost trend rate assumption has a significant effect on the
amounts reported. To illustrate, increasing the health care cost trend by one
percentage point in each year would increase the accumulated postretirement
benefit obligation as of December 31, 1996 by $1.3 million and would increase
the net periodic postretirement cost for the year ended December 31, 1996 by
approximately $425 thousand.
 
  The weighted average discount rate used in determining the accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation was 7.5% in 1996 and 7.0% to 8.0% in 1995.
 
NOTE 12--NOTES PAYABLE
 
  An analysis of notes payable is as follows:
 

 
  The amount of debt that becomes due during each of the next five years is:
1997, $40.9 million; 1998, $200.1 million; 1999, $150 thousand; 2000, $-0-;
and 2001, $-0-.
 
  The Sinking Fund Debentures, due March 1, 2017, are carried at $200 million
principal amount less unamortized issue expenses and bear interest at 8 5/8%,
payable on March 1 and September 1. A sinking fund provides for mandatory
repayment at par of not less than $8 million principal amount per year from
March 1, 1998 through March 1, 2016. At Torchmark's option, an additional $12
million principal amount per year may be redeemed at par according to the same
schedule. The option to make such additional repayments is not cumulative and
if not availed of in any year will terminate. Furthermore, Torchmark may, at
its option, redeem the entire issue at prices ranging from 104.59% to 100.0%
of par, subject to certain restrictions. The Sinking Fund Debentures have
equal priority with other Torchmark unsecured indebtedness.
 
  The Senior Notes, due May 1, 1998, are not redeemable prior to maturity.
They were issued in the principal amount of $200 million. Interest is payable
on May 1 and November 1 of each year at a rate of 9 5/8%. These notes have
equal priority with other Torchmark unsecured indebtedness.
 
  The Senior Debentures, principal amount of $100 million, are due August 15,
2009. They bear interest at a rate of 8 1/4%, with interest payable on
February 15 and August 15 of each year. The Senior Debentures, which are not
redeemable at the option of Torchmark prior to maturity, provided the holder
with an option to require Torchmark to repurchase the debentures on August 15,
1996 at principal amount plus accrued interest. Pursuant to this option, $550
thousand debentures were repurchased in 1996. The Senior Debentures have equal
priority with other Torchmark unsecured indebtedness.
 

 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
              (DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
NOTE 12--NOTES PAYABLE (CONTINUED)
 
  The Notes, due May 15, 2023, were issued in May, 1993 in the principal
amount of $200 million. Proceeds of the issue, net of issue costs, were $196
million. Interest is payable on May 15 and November 15 of each year at a rate
of 7 7/8%. These notes are not redeemable prior to maturity and have equal
priority with other Torchmark unsecured indebtedness.
 
  The Notes, due August 1, 2013, were issued in July, 1993 in the principal
amount of $100 million for net proceeds of $98 million. Interest is payable on
February 1 and August 1 of each year at a rate of 7 3/8%. These notes are not
redeemable prior to maturity and have equal priority with other Torchmark
unsecured indebtedness.
 
  Torchmark has entered into revolving credit agreements with a group of
lenders under which it may borrow on an unsecured basis up to $600 million.
One-third of the commitment matures October 23, 1997 and the balance matures
October 24, 2001. Borrowings, pro rata under each facility, are at interest
rates selected by Torchmark based on either the corporate base rate or the
Eurodollar rate at the time of borrowings. At December 31, 1996 and December
31, 1995 there were no borrowings under the revolving credit agreements. The
revolving credit agreements are designed to back up a commercial paper program
which began in 1995. The short-term borrowings under the revolving credit
agreements and in the commercial paper market averaged $103 million during
1996, and were made at an average yield of 5.42%. At December 31, 1996,
commercial paper was outstanding in the face amount of $41.0 million.
Torchmark is subject to certain covenants for the revolving credit agreements
regarding capitalization and earnings, for which it was in compliance at
December 31, 1996, and pays a facility fee based on size of the lines.
 
  Interest in the amount of $1.4 million, $1.6 million and $1.8 million was
capitalized during 1996, 1995, 1994, respectively.
 
NOTE 13--MONTHLY INCOME PREFERRED SECURITIES
 
  In October, 1994, Torchmark, through its wholly-owned finance subsidiary,
Torchmark Capital L.L.C., completed a public offering of eight million shares
of 9.18% MIPS at a face amount of $200 million. The securities are subject to
a mandatory redemption in full at September 30, 2024, although Torchmark may
elect to extend the MIPS for up to an additional 20 years if certain
conditions are met. They are redeemable at Torchmark's option after September
30, 1999. Torchmark subsequently entered into a ten-year swap agreement with
an unaffiliated party whereby Torchmark agreed to pay a variable rate on the
$200 million face amount in exchange for payment of the fixed dividend. In a
related transaction, Torchmark purchased a five-year cap on the swap agreement
that insures that the variable rate cannot exceed 10.39% through September 30,
1999. The interest rate was 6.95% at December 31, 1996 and 7.25% at December
31, 1995. Torchmark pays a yearly fee of $860 thousand for the cap agreement.
The market value of the swap agreement was a benefit of $14.7 million at
December 31, 1996 and a benefit of $26.5 million at December 31, 1995. The
market value of the cap agreement, net of the present value of future annual
payments, was an obligation of $1.3 million at December 31, 1996 and an
obligation of $2.1 million at December 31, 1995. Except as otherwise described
in "Note 3--Investments" on page 43 of this report, Torchmark is a party to no
other derivative instruments as defined by SFAS 119.
 
  Net proceeds from the MIPS offering of approximately $193 million were
loaned from Torchmark Capital to Torchmark to provide part of the financing of
the acquisition of American Income Holding, Inc. The carrying value of the
MIPS at December 31, 1996 and 1995 was $193 million.
 

 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
              (DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 14--SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
  Share Data: A summary of preferred and common share activity is as follows:
 

 

 
  Preferred Stock: One million shares of adjustable rate preferred stock were
issued in 1983 at an issue price of $100 per share. Prior to 1993, Torchmark
acquired 530 thousand shares which were reported as treasury stock and had a
total cost basis of $47.8 million and a total redemption value of $52.9
million. During 1994, Torchmark acquired the remaining 470 thousand shares at
a cost of $100 per share plus accrued dividends. The acquisition was completed
at an aggregate price of $47 million. The preferred treasury stock was
immediately retired.
 
  Acquisition of Common Shares: Torchmark shares are acquired from time to
time for the following reasons: (1) open market purchases under the Torchmark
stock repurchase program, in which share purchases in the amount of $107
million for 2.3 million shares, and $59 million for 1.5 million shares were
made in 1996 and 1994, respectively, (2) for future employee stock option
exercises, and (3) for payment of the option price and taxes upon exercise of
stock options by employees.
 
  Grant of Restricted Stock: A grant of 60,000 Torchmark shares was made on
May 1, 1991 to a Torchmark senior officer. The shares are restricted as to
resale, vesting 6,000 shares per year for 10 years on the anniversary date of
the grant. The market value of Torchmark stock was $34.92 per share on the
grant date.
 
  Restrictions: Restrictions exist on the flow of funds to Torchmark from its
insurance subsidiaries. Statutory regulations require life insurance
subsidiaries to maintain certain minimum amounts of capital and surplus. These
restrictions generally limit the payment of dividends by insurance
subsidiaries to statutory net gain on an annual noncumulative basis in the
absence of special approval. Additionally, insurance companies are not
permitted to distribute the excess of shareholders' equity as determined on a
GAAP basis over that determined on a statutory basis. In 1997, $275 million
will be available to Torchmark for dividends from insurance subsidiaries in
compliance with statutory regulations without prior regulatory approval.
 

 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
              (DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
NOTE 15--EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTIONS
 
  Certain employees and directors have been granted options to buy shares of
Torchmark stock generally at the market value of the stock on the date of
grant under the provisions of the Torchmark Corporation 1987 Stock Incentive
Plan ("1987 Option Plan"). The options are exercisable during the period
commencing from three months to three years after grant until expiring ten
years or ten years and two days after grant. Employee stock options granted
under the 1987 Option Plan generally vest one-half in two years and one-half
in three years. Director grants generally vest in six months. At December 31,
1996, approximately 11.4 million shares were authorized for grants of options
under this plan. In October, 1993, Torchmark implemented a policy to issue
shares for the exercise of stock options out of treasury stock.
 
  In October, 1995, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued
Statement No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" ("SFAS 123"),
effective for Torchmark beginning January 1, 1996. SFAS 123 defines a "fair
value method" of accounting for employee stock options. It also allows
accounting for such options under the "intrinsic value method" in accordance
with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued
to Employees" ("APB 25") and related interpretations. If a company elects to
use the intrinsic value method, then pro forma disclosures of earnings and
earnings per share are required as if the fair value method of accounting was
applied. The effects of applying SFAS 123 in the pro forma disclosures are not
necessarily indicative of future amounts because the pro forma disclosures do
not take into account the amortization of the fair value of awards prior to
1995. Additionally, Torchmark is expected to grant additional awards in future
years.
 
  Torchmark has elected to account for its stock options under the intrinsic
value method as outlined in APB 25. The fair value method requires use of the
Black-Scholes option valuation model to value employee stock options, upon
which a compensation expense is based. The Black-Scholes option valuation
model was not developed for use in valuing employee stock options. Instead,
this model was developed for use in estimating the fair value of traded
options which have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. In
addition, option valuation models require the input of highly subjective
assumptions including the expected stock price volatility. Because Torchmark's
employee stock options have characteristics significantly different from those
of traded options, and because changes in the subjective input assumptions can
materially affect the fair value estimate, it is management's opinion that the
existing models do not provide a reliable measure of the fair value of its
employee stock options. Under the intrinsic value method, compensation expense
is only recognized if the exercise price of the employee stock option is less
than the market price of the underlying stock on the date of grant.
 
  In accordance with SFAS 123, the fair value for Torchmark's employee stock
options was estimated at the date of grant using a Black-Scholes option
pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions for 1996 and
1995.
 

 
  For purposes of pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value of the
options is amortized to expense over the options' vesting period. Torchmark's
pro forma information follows (in thousands except for earnings per share
information):
 

 

 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
              (DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 15--EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTIONS (CONTINUED)
 
 
  A summary of Torchmark's stock option activity, and related information for
the years ended December 31, 1996 and 1995 follows:
 

 
  The weighted average fair value of options granted during the years ended
December 31, 1996 and 1995 were $49.61 and $43.14, respectively.
 
 
  The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding
at December 31, 1996:
 

- --------
* Issued when the market price was $49.625.
 

 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
              (DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
NOTE 16--COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
 
 
  Reinsurance: Insurance affiliates of Torchmark reinsure that portion of
insurance risk which is in excess of their retention limits. Retention limits
for ordinary life insurance range up to $2.5 million per life. Life insurance
ceded represents less than 1.0% of total life insurance in force at December
31, 1996. Insurance ceded on life and accident and health products represents
1.0% of premium income for 1996. Torchmark would be liable for the reinsured
risks ceded to other companies to the extent that such reinsuring companies
are unable to meet their obligations.
 
  Insurance affiliates also assume insurance risks of other companies. Life
reinsurance assumed represents 3.1% of life insurance in force at December 31,
1996 and reinsurance assumed on life and accident and health products
represents 1.8% of premium income for 1996.
 
  Leases: Torchmark leases office space and office equipment under a variety
of operating lease arrangements. These leases contain various renewal options,
purchase options, and escalation clauses. Rental expense for operating leases
was $7.0 million, $6.3 million, and $7.9 million for 1996, 1995, and 1994,
respectively. Future minimum rental commitments required under operating
leases having remaining noncancelable lease terms in excess of one year at
December 31, 1996 are as follows: 1997, $3.9 million; 1998, $2.4 million;
1999, $1.5 million; 2000, $726 thousand; 2001, $157 thousand; and in the
aggregate, $8.7 million.
 
  Restrictions on cash: A portion of the cash held in financial service
subsidiaries that function as broker-dealers has been segregated for the
benefit of customers in compliance with security regulations. This amount was
$15.0 million at December 31, 1996 and $11.8 million at December 31, 1995.
 
  Concentrations of Credit Risk: Torchmark maintains a highly-diversified
investment portfolio with limited concentration in any given region, industry,
or economic characteristic. At December 31, 1996, the investment portfolio
consisted of securities of the U.S. government or U.S. government-backed
securities (22%); non government-guaranteed mortgage-backed securities (5%);
short-term investments, which generally mature within one month (1%);
securities of state and municipal governments (12%); securities of foreign
governments (1%); and investment-grade corporate bonds (46%). The remainder of
the portfolio was in oil and gas investments (1%) and real estate (3%), which
are not considered financial instruments according to GAAP; policy loans (4%),
which are secured by the underlying insurance policy values; and equity
securities, mortgages, noninvestment grade corporate securities and other
long-term investments (5%). Investments in municipal governments and
corporations are made throughout the U.S. with no concentration in any given
state. Most of the investments in foreign government securities are in
Canadian government obligations. Corporate equity and debt investments are
made in a wide range of industries. At December 31, 1996, 1% or more of the
portfolio was invested in the following industries: Financial services (18%);
regulated utilities (5%); chemicals and allied products (5%); food and kindred
products (4%); transportation (4%); technology (3%); media (2%); paper and
allied products (2%); petroleum (2%); and retailing (1%). Otherwise, no
individual industry represented 1% or more of Torchmark's investments. At
year-end 1996, 5% of the carrying value of fixed maturities was rated below
investment grade (Ba or lower as rated by Moody's service or the equivalent
NAIC designation). Par value of these investments was $237.7 million,
amortized cost was $239.8 million, and market value was $243.4 million. While
these investments could be subject to additional credit risk, such risk should
generally be reflected in market value.
 
  Collateral Requirements: Torchmark requires collateral for investments in
instruments where collateral is available and is typically required because of
the nature of the investment. Since the majority of Torchmark's investments
are in government, government-secured, or corporate securities, the
requirement for collateral is rare. Torchmark's mortgages are secured by
collateral.
 
  Litigation: Torchmark and its subsidiaries continue to be named as parties
to pending or threatened legal proceedings. These lawsuits involve tax
matters, alleged breaches of contract, torts, including bad faith and fraud
claims based on alleged wrongful or fraudulent acts of agents of Torchmark's
subsidiaries, employment discrimination, and miscellaneous other causes of
action. Many of these lawsuits involve claims for punitive damages in state
courts of Alabama, a jurisdiction particularly recognized for its large
punitive damage verdicts. A number of such actions involving Liberty also name
Torchmark as a
 

 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
              (DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
NOTE 16--COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (CONTINUED)
 
defendant. As a practical matter, a jury's discretion regarding the amount of
a punitive damage award is not limited by any clear, objective criteria under
Alabama law. Accordingly, the likelihood or extent of a punitive damage award
in any given case is virtually impossible to predict. As of December 31, 1996,
Liberty was a party to approximately 282 active lawsuits (including 25
employment related cases and excluding interpleaders and stayed cases), more
than 250 of which were Alabama proceedings in which punitive damages were
sought. Liberty faces trial settings in these cases on an on-going basis.
 
  Torchmark has previously reported the entry of an Order and Final Judgment
by the Circuit Court of Barbour County, Alabama in Robertson v. Liberty
National Life Insurance Company (Case No. CV-92-021) approving a cancer policy
class action settlement involving legal and equitable relief valued at a total
of $55 million. In July 1994, certain intervenors in the Robertson litigation
filed a notice of appeal of the Order and Final Judgment with the Supreme
Court of Alabama. On December 22, 1995, the Alabama Supreme Court unanimously
affirmed the Robertson class action settlement and on February 16, 1996,
issued a notice overruling the petition for a rehearing in Robertson filed by
certain intervenors. A petition for writ of certiorari to the Supreme Court of
the United States was then filed by intervenors. The U.S. Supreme Court
granted certiorari in Robertson on October 1, 1996. Oral arguments on the
intervenors' petition, which alleged that class members had not received due
process in the class certification procedure and should be allowed to opt out
of the class action settlement to pursue separate litigation, were heard by
the U.S. Supreme Court on January 14, 1997. On March 3, 1997, the U.S. Supreme
Court dismissed, as improvidently granted, the writ of certiorari previously
granted in Robertson. The ruling effectively ends direct appeals from the
Robertson class action settlement and Liberty will proceed with administration
of benefits under the class settlement.
 
  As previously reported, Liberty is subject to 76 individual cancer policy
lawsuits pending in Alabama and Mississippi, which were stayed or otherwise
held in abeyance pending final resolution of the Robertson case. Liberty will
file motions to dismiss these lawsuits based upon the U.S. Supreme Court
opinion in Robertson. If these cases are dismissed, no collateral attacks on
the cancer class action settlement will remain at this time.
 
  As previously reported, Dismukes v. Torchmark Corporation (Case No. CV-94-
1006-P-M), which was filed on December 30, 1994 and is presently pending in
the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
Alabama, is the only remaining purported class action litigation brought by
Torchmark shareholders alleging untimely and inadequate disclosure of material
contingent liabilities arising out of insurance policy litigation involving
Liberty. The U.S. District Court entered an order granting partial summary
judgment on behalf of the defendants on April 16, 1996. Claims for damages
based on Section 10b-5 of the Securities Exchange Act, on state securities
laws and for common law fraud remain pending in the case.
 
  As previously reported, Torchmark, its insurance subsidiaries Globe and
United American, and certain Torchmark officers were named as defendants in
litigation filed April 22, 1994, as a purported class action in the District
Court of Oklahoma County, Oklahoma (Moore v. Torchmark Corporation, Case No.
CJ-94-2784-65). The suit claims damages on behalf of individual health
policyholders who are alleged to have been induced to terminate such policies
and to purchase Medicare Supplement and/or other insurance coverages. The
complaint seeks actual and punitive damages for each class member in excess of
$10,000. Subsequent to the filing of this case, one of the plaintiffs was
dismissed and the named plaintiff died. The complaint was amended to include
new plaintiffs purporting to represent the class and restyled Tabor v.
Torchmark Corporation. No class has been certified. A motion to dismiss filed
by the defendants was denied and limited discovery as permitted by the
Oklahoma Supreme Court is proceeding.
 
  Prior filings have reported that in July 1994, a purported class action
alleging fraudulent and deceitful practices in premium billing and lapses of
coverage on a payroll deduction insurance plan was filed in the Superior Court
for Gordon County, Georgia against Liberty (Bryant v. Liberty National Life
Insurance Company, Civil Action No. 28979). The complaint alleged actual
damages in excess of $10 million and punitive damages of not less than $50
million as well as premium reimbursements. Liberty removed this
 

 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
              (DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
NOTE 16--COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (CONTINUED)
case to federal court, but the case was subsequently remanded to the state
court. The Bryant case was settled on an individual basis by the parties on
December 23, 1996. No class was ever certified.
 
  Litigation was filed on April 26, 1995, in the Circuit Court of Houston
County, Alabama against Liberty involving the sale of health insurance
coverage alleged to be in conflict with provisions of the Omnibus Budget
Reconciliation Act of 1990 (Stewart v. Liberty National Life Insurance
Company, Case No. CV-95-345L; Tolar v. Liberty National Life Insurance
Company, Case No. CV-95-346J; Ingram v. Liberty National Life Insurance
Company, Case No. CV-95-348L; Burkett v. Liberty National Life Insurance
Company, Case No. CV-95-347H). The Stewart case has been dismissed with
prejudice and the other cases remain pending.
 
  A purported class action was filed on August 8, 1995, against Liberty in the
Circuit Court of Jefferson County, Alabama on behalf of Liberty cancer
policyholders eligible for Medicare who submitted claims during an
approximately two month period in 1993 (Adkins v. Liberty National Life
Insurance Company, Case No. CV-95-5634). Beginning in September 1993, in
reliance on federal law concerning the amount health care providers could
collect from Medicare eligible individuals, Liberty limited the payment of
benefits to such individuals to the amounts collectible by the providers under
federal law. In November, 1993 Liberty discontinued this practice and
recalculated and repaid all claims in full as it had prior to September 1993
together with interest. Nearly two years after this refund, the Adkins case
was filed. The claims made in Adkins are identical to the individual claims in
Allen v. Liberty National Life Insurance Company (Case No. CV-94-3634), an
individual case reversed and remanded by the Alabama Supreme Court on March 7,
1997 after an appeal regarding the remitted verdict of $2.7 million. A class
certification order, which does not address the merits of the litigation, was
entered by the Court in Adkins on July 26, 1996. Liberty filed a petition for
writ of mandamus or prohibition with the Alabama Supreme Court in August 1996
asserting abuse of discretion by the trial court in certifying the Adkins
class. The Alabama Supreme Court has stayed further proceedings as to the
class issues in Adkins pending its ruling on the propriety of class
certification.
 
  On August 25, 1995, a purported class action was filed against Torchmark,
Globe, United American and certain officers of these companies in the United
States District Court for the Western District of Missouri on behalf of all
former agents of Globe (Smith v. Torchmark Corporation, Case No.: 95-3304-CV-
S-4). This action alleges that the defendants breached independent agent
contracts with the plaintiffs by treating them as captive agents and engaged
in a pattern of racketeering activity wrongfully denying income and renewal
commissions to the agents, restricting insurance sales, mandating the purchase
of worthless leads, terminating agents without cause and inducing the
execution of independent contracts based on misrepresentations of fact.
Monetary damages in an unspecified amount are sought. A plaintiff class was
certified by the District Court on February 26, 1996, although the
certification does not go to
the merit of the allegations in the complaint. On December 31, 1996, the
plaintiffs filed an amended complaint in Smith to allege violations of various
provisions of the Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. Discovery
is presently proceeding in this case.
 
  It has been previously reported that Liberty is a party to individual
lawsuits and a purported class action (Carlton v. Liberty National Life
Insurance Company, Case No. CV-96-22) in the Circuit Court of Chambers County,
Alabama, in which allegations are made that an interest sensitive life
insurance policy would become paid-up or self-sustaining after a specified
number of years. Currently, Liberty is a party to more than 100 individual
interest sensitive cases, 53 of which were filed by a single lawyer in
Chambers County, Alabama. Additionally, Torchmark has previously reported the
case of Lawson v. Liberty National Life Insurance Company, filed in the
Circuit Court of Jefferson County, Alabama (Civil Action No.: CV-96-01119),
where the plaintiffs were seeking class certification on behalf of such
policyholders including those who were allegedly induced to exchange life
insurance policies or the existing policy's cash value was allegedly depleted.
On May 14, 1996, the Circuit Court of Jefferson County, Alabama entered an
order conditionally certifying a plaintiffs claim in Lawson in order to
preserve the Court's jurisdiction over the class action question, subject to a
full evidentiary hearing on class certification at a future date yet to be
determined.
 

 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
              (DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
NOTE 16--COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (CONTINUED)
 
  In 1978, the United States District Court for the Northern District of
Alabama entered a final judgment in Battle v. Liberty National Life Insurance
Company, et al. (CV-70-H-752-S), class action litigation involving Liberty, a
class composed of all owners of funeral homes in Alabama and a class composed
of all insureds (Alabama residents only) under burial or vault policies
issued, assumed or reinsured by Liberty. The final judgment fixed the rights
and obligations of Liberty and the funeral directors authorized to handle
Liberty burial and vault policies as well as reforming the benefits available
to the policyholders under the policies. Although class actions are inherently
subject to subsequent collateral attack by absent class members, the Battle
decree remains in effect to date. A motion filed in February 1990 to challenge
the final judgment under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 60(b) was rejected by
both the District Court in 1991 and the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals in
1992 and a Writ of Certiorari was denied by the U.S. Supreme Court in 1993.
 
  In November 1993, an attorney (purporting to represent the funeral director
class) filed a petition in the District Court seeking "alternative relief"
under the final judgment. This petition was voluntarily withdrawn on November
8, 1995, by petitioners. On February 23, 1996, Liberty filed a petition with
the District Court requesting that it order certain contract funeral directors
to comply with their obligations under the Final Judgment in Battle and their
funeral service contracts. A petition was filed on April 8, 1996 on behalf of
a group of funeral directors seeking to modify the 1978 decree in Battle in
light of changed economic circumstances. Liberty is actively opposing this
petition.
 
  Purported class action litigation was filed on January 2, 1996 against
Torchmark, Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated ("Torch Energy"), and certain
Torch Energy subsidiaries and affiliated limited partnerships in the Circuit
Court of Pickens County, Alabama (Pearson v. Torchmark Corporation, Case No.
CV-95-140). Plaintiff alleges improper payment of royalties and overriding
royalties on coalbed methane gas produced and sold from wells in Robinson's
Bend Coal Degasification Field, seeks certification of a class and claims
unspecified compensatory and punitive damages on behalf of such class. On
April 11, 1996, Torchmark's motion to change venue was granted and the case
has been transferred to the Circuit Court of Tuscaloosa County, Alabama. The
Company's motion to dismiss remains pending while discovery is proceeding.
 
  It has been previously reported that the Company, its subsidiaries United
American and Globe and certain individual corporate officers are parties to
purported class action litigation filed April 5, 1996 in the U.S. District
Court for the Northern District of Georgia (Crichlow v. Torchmark Corporation,
Case No.: 4:96-CV 0086-HLM). The complaint alleged RICCO violations, fraud,
breach of contract, conspiracy, violations of the Oklahoma Consumer Protection
Act and breach of the duty of good faith and fair dealing on behalf of all
persons who purchased, at any time between 1987 and the present, certain
hospitalization and surgical insurance policies issued by Globe and United
American. The plaintiffs asserted that they purchased these policies and
subsequently incurred improper claim denials, wrongful recision and "rate-ups"
and post-claim underwriting. On December 4, 1996, the U.S. District Court
dismissed the RICCO counts, the Oklahoma Consumer Protection Act and contract
counts as to certain defendants and ordered plaintiffs to file an amended
complaint. On December 23, 1996, the plaintiffs filed
the amended complaint as ordered, alleging breach of contract, fraud,
conspiracy and breach of the duty of good faith and fair dealing on behalf of
a purported class of persons who purchased Globe, but not United American,
policies from 1987 to the present. Defendants have filed motions to dismiss
and for partial summary judgment.
 
  On April 19, 1996, a $5 million punitive judgment was entered against
LIberty by a jury in Mobile, Alabama in Strickland v. Liberty National Life
Insurance Company (CV-95-1399). In the Strickland case, the plaintiff, who was
in his sixties, cancelled several small life insurance policies and purchased
a substantial amount of new coverage. The plaintiff contended that certain
supplemental benefits which were present in the smaller policies were not
included in the new coverage (i.e. accidental death and premium waiver). The
trial judge held that Strickland was not entitled to recover compensatory
damages. Nevertheless the jury awarded $100 in nominal damages in addition to
the punitive award. Liberty has filed various motions for the post-trial
relief with the Circuit Court, which held a post trial hearing on the
propriety of the punitive damage award on February 12, 1997. On March 11,
1997, the Circuit Court judge reduced the Strickland judgment to $37,500.
 

 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
              (DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
NOTE 16--COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (CONTINUED)
 
  A jury in Chambers County, Alabama Circuit Court returned a verdict of
$333,000 compensatory damages and $17.2 million in punitive damages against
Liberty on June 11, 1996, in McQuiston v. Liberty National Life Insurance
Company (CV-94-234). The case arose out of a claim which had been denied due
to an alleged misrepresentation in the application. There was a recorded
telephone interview with the applicant in which a statement was given which
Liberty alleges was a misrepresentation of the health of the proposed insured.
After the litigation was filed, it was learned that one signature on the
application was not that of the insured. Upon notice of this fact, Liberty
paid the $20,000 claim proceeds into court. Liberty has filed motions for
post-trial relief with the Court, subject to completion of post-trial
discovery. A post-trial hearing on the propriety of the punitive damage award
is scheduled for March 28, 1997.
 
  Based upon information presently available, and in light of legal and other
factual defenses available to Torchmark and its subsidiaries, contingent
liabilities arising from threatened and pending litigation are not presently
considered by management to be material. It should be noted, however, that the
frequency of large punitive damage awards bearing little or no relation to
actual damages awarded by juries in jurisdictions in which Torchmark has
substantial business, particularly in Alabama, continues to increase
universally, creating the potential for unpredictable material adverse
judgments in any given punitive damage suit.
 
NOTE 17--INDUSTRY SEGMENTS
 
  Torchmark operates primarily in two industry segments, insurance and asset
management. Operations in the insurance industry involve the sale and
administration of life insurance, health insurance and annuities. It also
includes investment operations related to insurance segment investments.
Operations in the asset management industry include the management,
distribution, and servicing of various mutual funds. Torchmark markets its
products in all fifty states.
 
  Certain insurance company investments are managed by the asset management
segment. Additionally, the asset management segment markets certain insurance
products for the insurance segment and manages the mutual funds for the
insurance segment's variable products.
 
  Total revenues by segment include revenues from other segments in addition
to unaffiliated parties. Intersegment revenues include commission revenue and
investment income which eliminate in consolidation. Pre-tax income for
operating segments is total revenue less operating costs and expenses for the
segment. Corporate pre-tax income includes transactions which are nonoperating
in nature and are not related to the activities of a segment. Such items
include parent company interest expense, goodwill amortization, and similar
items.
 

 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
              (DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 17--INDUSTRY SEGMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
  A summary of segment data is as follows:

 
NOTE 18--RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
 
  Investment in Related Parties: Other long-term investments include
investment by Torchmark subsidiaries in the United Group of Mutual Funds and
certain other funds for which Waddell & Reed, Inc. is sole advisor. These
investments were $30.3 million and $26.2 million at December 31, 1996 and
1995, respectively. Investment income derived from these investments is
included in net investment income.
 
  Rental Income: Torchmark leases office space to Vesta Insurance Group, Inc.
("Vesta"), a 27% owned subsidiary. Total rental income received from Vesta was
$508 thousand, $494 thousand, and $461 thousand, for the years ended December
31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.
 
NOTE 19--SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES FOR CASH FLOW STATEMENT
 
  The following table summarizes Torchmark's noncash transactions, which are
not reflected on the Statement of Cash Flow as required by GAAP:
 

 
  The following table summarizes certain amounts paid during the period:
 

 

 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
              (DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
NOTE 20--SELECTED QUARTERLY DATA (UNAUDITED)
 
  The following is a summary of quarterly results for the two years ended
December 31, 1996. The information is unaudited but includes all adjustments
(consisting of normal accruals) which management considers necessary for a
fair presentation of the results of operations for these periods.
 

 

 
         ITEM 9. DISAGREEMENTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
  No disagreements with accountants on any matter of accounting principles or
practices or financial statement disclosure have been reported on a Form 8-K
within the twenty-four months prior to the date of the most recent financial
statements.
 
                                   PART III
 
            ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF REGISTRANT
 
  Information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the
sections entitled "Election of Directors," "Profiles of Directors and
Nominees," "Executive Officers" and Section 16(a) "Beneficial Ownership
Reporting Compliance" of the Securities Exchange Act in the Proxy Statement
for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 24, 1997 (the "Proxy
Statement"), which is to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
                        ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
  Information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the
section entitled "Compensation and Other Transactions with Executive Officers
and Directors" in the Proxy Statement.
 
    ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS OF MANAGEMENT
 
  (a)Security ownership of certain beneficial owners:
 
   Information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the
   section entitled "Principal Stockholders" in the Proxy Statement.
 
  (b)Security ownership of management:
 
   Information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the
   section entitled "Stock Ownership" in the Proxy Statement.
 
  (c)Changes in control:
 
   Torchmark knows of no arrangements, including any pledges by any person
   of its securities, the operation of which may at a subsequent date result
   in a change of control.
 
            ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
  Information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the
section entitled "Compensation and Other Transactions with Executive Officers
and Directors" in the Proxy Statement.
 

 
                                    PART IV
 
   ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
(a)Index of documents filed as a part of this report:
 

 
  Schedules not referred to have been omitted as inapplicable or not required by
Regulation S-X.
 

 
                                    EXHIBITS
 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 
(b)  Reports on Form 8-K.
 
  A Form 8-K dated October 2, 1996 was filed to report the United States
  Supreme Court's grant of intervenors' petition for writ of certiorari in
  Robertson v. Liberty National Life Insurance Company. No exhibits were
  required to be filed.
 
(c)  Exhibits
 
 
Exhibit 11. Statement re computation of per share earnings
 
            TORCHMARK CORPORATION COMPUTATION OF EARNINGS PER SHARE
 

 
There were no common stock equivalents included in weighted average shares
outstanding.
 
Exhibit 21. Subsidiaries of the Registrant
 
The following table lists subsidiaries of the registrant which meet the
definition of "significant subsidiary" according to Regulation S-X:
 

 
All other exhibits required by Regulation S-K are listed as to location in the
"Index of documents filed as a part of this report" on pages 67 through 69 of
this report. Exhibits not referred to have been omitted as inapplicable or not
required.
 

 
                     TORCHMARK CORPORATION (PARENT COMPANY)
           SCHEDULE II. CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                            CONDENSED BALANCE SHEET
                             (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)
 

 
 
 
                 See accompanying Independent Auditors' Report
 

 
                             TORCHMARK CORPORATION
                                (PARENT COMPANY)
     SCHEDULE II. CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT (continued)
                       CONDENSED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
                             (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)
 

 
 
                 See accompanying Independent Auditors' Report.
 

 
                             TORCHMARK CORPORATION
                               (PARENT COMPANY)
    SCHEDULE II. CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT--(continued)
                       CONDENSED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOW
                            (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)
 

 
* Includes an $80.3 million note payable to subsidiary which was forgiven in
  1994 in the form of a dividend from the subsidiary.
 
                             TORCHMARK CORPORATION
                               (PARENT COMPANY)
                    NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)
 
NOTE A--DIVIDENDS FROM SUBSIDIARIES
 
  Cash dividends paid to Torchmark from the consolidated subsidiaries were as
follows:
 

 
                See accompanying Independent Auditors' Report.
 

 
                             TORCHMARK CORPORATION
        SCHEDULE III. SUPPLEMENTARY INSURANCE INFORMATION (CONSOLIDATED)
                             (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)
 

 
 
 
                 See accompanying Independent Auditors' Report.
 

 
                             TORCHMARK CORPORATION
                    SCHEDULE IV. REINSURANCE (CONSOLIDATED)
                             (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)
 

 
- --------
* Excludes policy charges
 
 
                 See accompanying Independent Auditors' Report.
 

 
                                  SIGNATURES
 
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 12 or 15(d) of the Securities Act of
1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
                             Torchmark Corporation
 
                     By: ________________________________
                           R.K. RICHEY, CHAIRMAN, CHIEF
                          EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND DIRECTOR
 
                     By: ________________________________
                          KEITH A. TUCKER, VICE CHAIRMAN
                        AND DIRECTOR (PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL
                                     OFFICER)
 
                     By: ________________________________
                         GARY L. COLEMAN, VICE PRESIDENT
                           AND CHIEF ACCOUNTING OFFICER
                          (PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING OFFICER)
 
Date: March 20, 1997
 
  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
 
By: ________________________________       By: ________________________________
       DAVID L. BOREN DIRECTOR                  HAROLD T. MCCORMICK DIRECTOR
 
 
By: ________________________________       By: ________________________________
      JOSEPH M. FARLEY DIRECTOR                  GEORGE J. RECORDS DIRECTOR
 
 
By: ________________________________       By: ________________________________
      LOUIS T. HAGOPIAN DIRECTOR               YETTA G. SAMFORD, JR. DIRECTOR
 
By: ________________________________
         C.B. HUDSON DIRECTOR
 
By: ________________________________
    JOSEPH L. LANIER, JR. DIRECTOR
 
Date: March 20, 1997
 
*By: _______________________________
   GARY L. COLEMAN ATTORNEY-IN-FACT
 
 

