
10-K405
DUN & BRADSTREET CORPORATION




- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                            ------------------------
                                   FORM 10-K

(MARK ONE)
[X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
     ACT OF 1934

                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999

                                       OR

[ ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

       FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM                TO                .

                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-14037

                        THE DUN & BRADSTREET CORPORATION
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)



      REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: (908) 665-5000.
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:



        SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT: NONE

     Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant: (1) has filed all reports
required by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days.  Yes  [X]  No  [ ]

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  [X]

     As of December 31, 1999, 160,823,809 shares of Common Stock of The Dun &
Bradstreet Corporation were outstanding and the aggregate market value of such
Common Stock held by nonaffiliates* (based upon its closing transaction price on
the Composite Tape on such date) was approximately $4,738.6 million.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

     Portions of the Registrant's definitive proxy statement for use in
connection with its annual meeting of shareholders scheduled to be held on April
18, 2000, are incorporated into Part III of this Form 10-K.

The Index to Exhibits is located on Pages 61-63 of this Form 10-K
- ---------------
* Calculated by excluding all shares held by executive officers and directors of
  the Registrant without conceding that all such persons are "affiliates" of the
  Registrant for purposes of federal securities laws.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

     (a)(1) The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation (the "Company") is the parent
holding company for the Dun & Bradstreet operating company ("D&B operating
company") and Moody's Investors Service ("Moody's") and their respective
subsidiaries.

     On December 15, 1999, the Company announced that it would pursue the
separation of Moody's and the D&B operating company into two independent,
publicly traded companies. On February 16, 2000, the Company announced that the
separation would be accomplished by spinning off, through a tax-free
distribution to shareholders (the "2000 Distribution"), a subsidiary corporation
comprising the business of the D&B operating company. The 2000 Distribution is
subject to final approval by the Company's Board of Directors and obtaining a
favorable ruling from the Internal Revenue Service with respect to the tax-free
treatment of the distribution. After the 2000 Distribution, the business of the
Company will consist entirely of the business conducted by Moody's, and the D&B
operating company business will comprise the business of a new publicly traded
company that will succeed to the name "The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation." The
Company expects to complete the reorganization by the end of the third quarter
of 2000.

     On June 30, 1998 (the "1998 Distribution Date"), the company then known as
The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation ("Old D&B") separated into two publicly traded
companies -- The New Dun & Bradstreet Corporation ("New D&B" or the "Company")
and R.H. Donnelley Corporation. The separation (the "1998 Distribution") of the
two companies was accomplished through a tax-free dividend by Old D&B of the
Company, which was a new entity comprising Moody's and the D&B operating
company. New D&B changed its name to "The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation," and the
continuing entity (i.e., Old D&B), consisting of R.H. Donnelley Inc., the
operating company, and the DonTech partnership, changed its name to "R.H.
Donnelley Corporation" ("Donnelley"). The tax-free stock dividend was issued on
the 1998 Distribution Date to shareholders of record at the close of business on
June 17, 1998. Due to the relative significance of Moody's and the D&B operating
company, the transaction was accounted for as a reverse spin-off, and, as such,
Moody's and the D&B operating company were classified as continuing operations
and R.H. Donnelley Inc. and DonTech were classified as discontinued operations.

     For purposes of effecting the 1998 Distribution and of governing certain of
the continuing relationships between the Company and Donnelley after the
transaction, the two companies have entered into various agreements, including a
Distribution Agreement (the "1998 Distribution Agreement"), a Tax Allocation
Agreement (the "1998 Tax Allocation Agreement") and an Employee Benefits
Agreement (the "1998 Employee Benefits Agreement"). The material terms of such
agreements are described below. These descriptions are qualified by reference to
the texts of such agreements, which are incorporated herein by reference.

                          1998 DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT

     The 1998 Distribution Agreement provided for, among other things, certain
corporate transactions required to effect the 1998 Distribution and other
arrangements between Old D&B (i.e., Donnelley) and the Company subsequent to the
1998 Distribution.

     In particular, the 1998 Distribution Agreement defines the assets and
liabilities that were allocated to and assumed by the Company and those that
remained with Donnelley. The 1998 Distribution Agreement also defines what
constitutes the "New D&B Business" and what constitutes the "R.H. Donnelley
Business".

     Pursuant to the 1998 Distribution Agreement, Old D&B transferred or caused
to be transferred to the Company all its right, title and interest in the assets
comprising the New D&B Business and other assets not specifically included in
the R.H. Donnelley Business, and the Company transferred or caused to be
transferred to Donnelley all its right, title and interest in the assets
comprising the R.H. Donnelley Business. All assets were transferred without any
representation or warranty, "as is-where is," and the relevant transferee bears
the risk that any necessary consent to transfer was not obtained. Each party
also agreed to exercise its respective


commercially reasonable efforts promptly to obtain any necessary consents and
approvals and to take such actions as may be reasonably necessary or desirable
to carry out the purposes of the 1998 Distribution Agreement and the other
agreements summarized below.

     In general, pursuant to the terms of the 1998 Distribution Agreement, all
assets of Old D&B prior to the 1998 Distribution Date, other than those relating
to the R.H. Donnelley Business, became assets of the Company. The 1998
Distribution Agreement also provides for assumptions of liabilities and cross
indemnities designed generally to allocate to the Company, effective as of the
1998 Distribution Date, financial responsibility for all liabilities of Old D&B,
other than those specified to be transferred to Donnelley on or prior to the
1998 Distribution Date or to remain with Donnelley subsequent to the 1998
Distribution Date (which liabilities primarily relate to the R.H. Donnelley
Business or the indebtedness incurred in connection with the 1998 Distribution).
The 1998 Distribution Agreement provides for the allocation generally to the
Company of the financial responsibility for the liabilities arising out of or in
connection with former businesses, other than those formerly conducted by
Donnelley prior to the 1998 Distribution.

     The 1998 Distribution Agreement provides that the Company will comply with
and otherwise not take action inconsistent with each representation and
statement made to the Internal Revenue Service in connection with Old D&B's
request for a ruling letter as to certain tax aspects of the 1998 Distribution.
The Company agreed to maintain its status as a company engaged in the active
conduct of a trade or business, as defined in Section 355(b) of the Internal
Revenue Code, to continue to own stock of certain operating subsidiaries
constituting control (within the meaning of Section 368(c) of the Internal
Revenue Code) of such operating subsidiaries and to maintain at least 90% of the
fair market value of its assets in the form of stock and securities of certain
operating subsidiaries, in each case until June 30, 2000, the second anniversary
of the 1998 Distribution Date. The Company does not expect this limitation to
inhibit the Company's financing or other activities, the Company's ability to
implement the 2000 Distribution or its ability to respond to unanticipated
developments. As a result of the representations in the request for a ruling
letter and the covenants in the 1998 Distribution Agreement, the acquisition of
control of the Company prior to the second anniversary may be more difficult or
less likely to occur because of the potential substantial liabilities associated
with a breach of such representations or covenants. The 1998 Distribution
Agreement requires a party that takes or fails to take any action that
contributes to a determination that the 1998 Distribution is not tax-free to Old
D&B (i.e., Donnelley), the Company or their stockholders to indemnify the other
party and its stockholders from any taxes arising therefrom.

                         1998 TAX ALLOCATION AGREEMENT

     Under the 1998 Tax Allocation Agreement, the Company is generally liable
for all income taxes of Old D&B (i.e., Donnelley) and its subsidiaries
attributable to periods prior to the 1998 Distribution, provided that in the
case of any separate company, state or local income taxes, Donnelley and its
subsidiaries and the Company and its subsidiaries are liable for their own
liabilities arising from any audit adjustment. For income taxes attributable to
periods beginning after the 1998 Distribution, the Company is liable for taxes
relating to the Company and its subsidiaries, and Donnelley is liable for taxes
relating to Donnelley and its subsidiaries. For all other taxes, the Company and
its subsidiaries and Donnelley and its subsidiaries are responsible for their
own liabilities for all periods.

                        1998 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS AGREEMENT

     The 1998 Employee Benefits Agreement allocates responsibility for certain
employee benefits matters on and after the 1998 Distribution Date.

     Under the 1998 Employee Benefits Agreement, Donnelley adopted a new defined
benefit pension plan and a new defined contribution savings plan for its
employees; the Company assumed and became the sponsor of the Old D&B defined
benefit pension plan and the Old D&B defined contribution savings plan for the
benefit of its employees and in general former employees who terminated
employment on or prior to the 1998 Distribution Date ("Former Old D&B
Employees"). Assets and liabilities of the Old D&B pension plan and



account balances under the Old D&B savings plan that were attributable to
Donnelley employees were transferred to the applicable new Donnelley plan.

     Generally, the Company assumed and became the sponsor of Old D&B's
nonqualified supplemental pension plans for the benefit of persons who, prior to
the 1998 Distribution Date, were participants thereunder -- provided, however,
that with respect to Donnelley employees, the Company generally retained only
those liabilities that were vested prior to the 1998 Distribution Date.
Donnelley is required to guarantee payment of the benefits under these plans to
its employees in the event that the Company is unable to satisfy its
obligations.

     The 1998 Employee Benefits Agreement required Donnelley to adjust
outstanding equity-based grants (i.e., Old D&B stock options, restricted stock
and performance share opportunities) held by Donnelley employees as of the 1998
Distribution Date in a manner intended to preserve, as closely as possible, the
economic value of the pre-spin-off grants. Similarly, outstanding equity-based
grants held by Company employees as of the 1998 Distribution Date were canceled
and then converted into Company Common Stock-based grants in a manner intended
to preserve, as closely as possible, the economic value of the pre-spin-off
grants. Former Old D&B Employees holding Old D&B stock options were given the
choice of receiving either adjusted Donnelley stock options or replacement
Company stock options.

     Except as otherwise provided in the 1998 Employee Benefits Agreement, as of
the 1998 Distribution Date, Donnelley employees generally ceased participation
in Old D&B's employee benefits plans, and Donnelley and the Company will each
generally recognize, among other things, its respective employees' past service
with Old D&B under its employee benefits plans.

                          1996 DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENTS

     On November 1, 1996 (the "1996 Distribution Date"), the company then known
as The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation ("Historical D&B") reorganized into three
publicly traded, independent companies by spinning off, through a tax-free
dividend, two of its businesses to shareholders (the "1996 Distribution"). The
1996 Distribution resulted in the following three companies: (1) Old D&B, (2)
ACNielsen Corporation ("ACNielsen") and (3) Cognizant Corporation ("Cognizant").
For purposes of effecting the transaction and of governing certain of the
continuing relationships among Old D&B, Cognizant and ACNielsen after the 1996
Distribution, the three companies entered into various agreements, including a
Distribution Agreement (the "1996 Distribution Agreement"), a Tax Allocation
Agreement (the "1996 Tax Allocation Agreement"), an Employee Benefits Agreement
(the "1996 Employee Benefits Agreement") and an Indemnity and Joint Defense
Agreement (the "1996 Indemnity and Joint Defense Agreement"). The following
descriptions summarize some of the material terms of such agreements but are
qualified by reference to the texts of such agreements, which are incorporated
herein by reference.

     The 1996 Distribution Agreement provided for, among other things,
assumptions of liabilities and cross indemnities designed generally to allocate
to Old D&B, effective as of the 1996 Distribution Date, financial responsibility
for all liabilities of Historical D&B, except for certain liabilities arising
out of or in connection with the businesses that became part of Cognizant or
ACNielsen as a result of the 1996 Distribution. Similarly, the 1996 Distribution
Agreement provided for the allocation generally to Old D&B of the financial
responsibility for the liabilities arising out of or in connection with
then-former businesses, including those formerly conducted by or associated with
Cognizant or ACNielsen, provided that liabilities related to certain prior
business transactions were allocated to Cognizant if such liabilities exceed
certain specified amounts. See Note 14 (Contingencies) in Part II, Item 8 on
Pages 49-51 of this Form 10-K.

     Except as otherwise provided in the 1996 Distribution Agreement, the 1996
Tax Allocation Agreement provided, among other things, that Old D&B must pay
Historical D&B's entire consolidated tax liability for the tax years that
Cognizant and ACNielsen were included in Historical D&B's consolidated Federal
income tax return. For periods prior to the 1996 Distribution Date, Old D&B is
generally liable for state and local taxes measured by income or imposed in lieu
of income taxes. The 1996 Tax Allocation Agreement allocated



liability to Old D&B, Cognizant and ACNielsen for their respective shares of
other state and local taxes, as well as any foreign taxes attributable to
periods prior to the 1996 Distribution Date.

     The 1996 Employee Benefits Agreement provided, among other things, that Old
D&B retains responsibility for (i) benefits owed to former employees who
terminated employment with Historical D&B on or prior to the 1996 Distribution
Date under Historical D&B's defined benefit pension plan, defined contribution
savings plan and welfare plans; (ii) all benefits under Historical D&B's
nonqualified supplemental pension plans that were vested prior to the 1996
Distribution Date; (iii) unexercised Historical D&B stock options held by Old
D&B employees and Historical D&B retirees and disabled employees as of the 1996
Distribution Date, which options were adjusted to reflect the 1996 Distribution;
and (iv) all employee benefits litigation liabilities that were asserted prior
to the 1996 Distribution Date (but not such liabilities that relate to the
retirement and savings plan assets of Cognizant or ACNielsen employees that were
transferred to Cognizant and ACNielsen, respectively).

     Pursuant to the 1996 Indemnity and Joint Defense Agreement, Old D&B,
Cognizant and ACNielsen agreed (i) to certain arrangements allocating potential
liabilities arising out of the legal action filed by Information Resources, Inc.
("IRI") on July 29, 1996 and, (ii) to conduct a joint defense of such action.
See Note 14 (Contingencies) in Part II, Item 8 on Pages 49-51 of this Form 10-K.

     Pursuant to the terms of the 1996 Distribution Agreement, as a condition to
the 1998 Distribution, the Company undertook to be jointly and severally liable
with Old D&B (i.e., Donnelley) to Cognizant and ACNielsen for any liabilities
arising under the 1996 Distribution Agreement and related agreements. Pursuant
to the 1998 Distribution Agreement, as between Donnelley and the Company, all
liabilities and rights of Old D&B under the 1996 Distribution Agreement and
related agreements became liabilities and rights of the Company, and the Company
must indemnify Donnelley against any such liabilities.

     On June 30, 1998, Cognizant completed a spin-off of its IMS Health
Incorporated subsidiary, after which Cognizant's name was changed to "Nielsen
Media Research, Inc." Pursuant to the terms of the 1996 Distribution Agreement,
as a condition to the Cognizant spin-off, IMS Health Incorporated undertook to
be jointly and severally liable with Cognizant (i.e., Nielsen Media Research,
Inc.) to Old D&B (i.e., Donnelley) and ACNielsen for any liabilities arising
under the 1996 Distribution Agreement and related agreements. As between
Donnelley and the Company, Donnelley's rights under this IMS Health Incorporated
undertaking were assigned to the Company pursuant to the provision of the 1998
Distribution Agreement described in the immediately preceding paragraph.

     (a)(2) Not applicable.

     (b) Operating segment data for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and
1997 are included in Note 17 (Segment Information) in Part II, Item 8 on Pages
52-56 of this Form 10-K.

     (c) The Company is a non-operating holding company whose revenue is derived
primarily from dividends received from its subsidiaries. As of December 31,
1999, the number of full-time equivalent employees of the Company was
approximately 12,200.

                     THE DUN & BRADSTREET OPERATING COMPANY

GENERAL

     The D&B operating company is the world's largest provider of
business-to-business credit, marketing and purchasing information and commercial
receivables management services. It has been in business since 1841 and in 1999
had $1.4 billion in revenue. The D&B operating company operates offices in 36
countries, conducts operations in four other countries through minority
interests in joint-venture companies, and operates through independent
correspondents in more than 150 additional countries.

     At the core of the D&B operating company's products and services is its
global database, the largest and most comprehensive database of its kind in the
world, containing information on more than 57 million public and private
businesses from more than 200 countries. In addition, the D&B operating
company's D&B


D-U-N-S(R) Numbering System (a numerical system used to identify companies and
company affiliations) is an internationally recognized common company identifier
that is recommended or endorsed by the U.S. Government, the European Commission,
the International Standards Organization, the United Nations Edifact Council and
other global standard-setting organizations. The D&B operating company uses its
global database, the D&B D-U-N-S(R) Number's hierarchical information and its
expertise in organizing and rationalizing data to help customers determine
creditworthiness, predict market demand, pinpoint prospective clients and
increase purchasing efficiency. The D&B operating company's goal is to help
customers grow profitably by ensuring that their business strategies, decisions
and actions are based on a consistent flow of quality information throughout
their supply and demand chains.

     The D&B operating company's 1999 revenue was derived from CREDIT
INFORMATION SERVICES (65.5%), MARKETING INFORMATION SERVICES (22.2%), PURCHASING
INFORMATION SERVICES (2.0%) and RECEIVABLES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (10.3%). The
revenues contributed by each of these product lines during each of the last
three fiscal years is included in Note 17 (Segment Information) in Part II, Item
8 on Pages 52-56 of this Form 10-K. Within these product lines, a further
differentiation may be made between the D&B operating company's traditional
products and services ("Traditional Products") and its value-added products and
services ("Value-Added Products").

     In general, Traditional Products consist of standard-format reports
(typically credit reports and marketing lists and labels) containing information
from the D&B operating company's global database, whereas Value-Added Products
integrate customer and D&B data and provide decision-support tools and services
through the use of software and Internet solutions. Value-Added Products provide
easy, open access to the D&B operating company's database and are scalable for
use on individual desktops, in networks and on computer hosts. They are designed
to improve customers' decision making, speed-of-action and productivity and to
help customers realize greater value from their information and technology
investments. The D&B operating company also offers value-added services by which
it cleanses, consolidates and migrates legacy client and vendor data to a
customer's enterprise application software systems and links these data with the
D&B D-U-N-S(R) Number ("Data Rationalization Services").

     The D&B operating company has begun to expand its Value-Added Products
through alliances with major enterprise application software providers, such as
Oracle Corporation ("Oracle"), Siebel Systems, Inc. ("Siebel") and SAP AG
("SAP"). Through these alliances the D&B operating company can offer real-time,
online access to its global database through the customer's enterprise
applications software. Management intends to improve customers' processes by
electronically integrating information from the D&B operating company's global
database into enterprise decision-support applications and believes that this
represents a significant opportunity for the D&B operating company.

     Value-Added Products, including alliances with software providers, account
for an increasingly significant portion of the D&B operating company's revenues,
having grown since their introduction in 1994 to about $265 million in 1999.

     Customers use the D&B operating company's CREDIT INFORMATION SERVICES to
help them extend commercial credit, approve loans and leases, underwrite
insurance, evaluate clients and make other financial and risk assessment
decisions. The D&B operating company's largest customers for this information
are major manufacturers and wholesalers, insurance companies, banks and other
credit and financial institutions. Its core credit information is available
through a variety of Traditional Products, including the Business Information
Report, which contains commercial credit information that may include basic
background information, financial and public records data and information on
financial strength and payment history. Distribution of Credit Information
Services is primarily through electronic methods (including desktop and
enterprise software applications and the Internet). Credit Information Services
are also distributed by a number of other firms, including leading vendors of
online and Internet information services, such as Lexis-Nexis, Dialog, Dow Jones
Interactive and Westlaw, and through enterprise software vendors such as Oracle,
Siebel and SAP.

     Credit Information Services also include Value-Added Products such as
Predictive Scoring Services and Decision Support Services. Predictive Scoring
Services use statistical models to help customers predict the likelihood of
delinquent payment, failure to pay within terms, discontinuation of operations
or the filing of a bankruptcy petition. Decision Support Services include
desktop decision-support systems, such as Risk



Assessment Manager(TM) and DecisionMaker(TM), which use customers' rules to
automate credit decisions using internal and external information, including
information from the D&B operating company's global database.

     The D&B operating company's MARKETING INFORMATION SERVICES provide
business-to-business marketing information and analysis designed to help
customers conduct market segmentation, client profiling, prospect selection and
marketing list development using information from the D&B operating company's
global database. Marketing Information Services' Traditional Products are
delivered over the Internet, through online and Internet information services,
such as Lexis-Nexis, Dialog, Dow Jones Interactive and Westlaw, and in print, on
diskette, magnetic tape and CD-ROM. Marketing Information Services also include
Value-Added Products such as Market Spectrum(TM), a suite of database marketing
products and services that enhance internal customer data with external
information and analysis that can help customers target their most profitable
clients and prospects; analyze market penetration, territory alignment and
market segmentation; and perform demand estimation. Marketing Information
Services are also available through enterprise software vendors such as Siebel
and through an alliance with Acxiom Corporation ("Acxiom") that was entered into
in 1999.

     The D&B operating company's PURCHASING INFORMATION SERVICES help customers
better understand their supplier base, providing them the tools to rationalize
their supplier rosters, leverage buying power, minimize supply-related risks and
identify and evaluate new sources of supply. Customers of these services are
able to use reports containing information from the D&B operating company's
global database delivered in a variety of ways and access Value-Added Products
such as Supplier Spend Analysis and Supplier Assessment Manager(TM). Supplier
Spend Analysis integrates customers' supplier data with information from the D&B
operating company's global database and from third parties and then applies
analytical and benchmarking techniques designed to identify opportunities for
reducing purchasing costs and risks. Supplier Assessment Manager(TM) uses
decision-support software to automate the scoring and monitoring of supplier
performance, capabilities and risks using internal and external information. The
D&B operating company has introduced a unique commodity coding system, the
Standard Product and Service Codes ("UN/SPSC") endorsed by the United Nations.
Commodity coding helps companies determine the specific types of products and
services comprising the supply base of their firm and allows them to identify
further vendor consolidation opportunities. Through an alliance with SAS
Institute, the D&B operating company also markets a joint purchasing solution
that includes Purchasing Information Services and SAS products.

     The D&B operating company's RECEIVABLES MANAGEMENT SERVICES ("RMS")
business collects and services delinquent commercial receivables on behalf of
approximately 30,000 customers, primarily in the business-to-business market.
Principal markets include insurance, telecommunications and transportation
industries. RMS also provides cross-border commercial receivables services in
which the RMS worldwide offices service cross-border claims.

     Revenues in the RMS business are generally earned on a contingent fee
basis. In addition, RMS is expanding its business to customers who outsource
their commercial accounts receivable function to RMS. Services provided in the
RMS business also include debt verification and collection, customer service
functions and analytical reporting.

     Certain jurisdictions require licensing for consumer and commercial debt
collection. RMS and in some instances, the individual collectors must be
licensed in order to conduct business in these jurisdictions. The laws under
which such licenses are granted generally require annual license renewal and
provide for denial, suspension or revocation for improper actions or other
reasons.

GEOGRAPHIC BUSINESS SEGMENTS; COMPETITION

     The D&B operating company manages its business globally through three
geographic segments: United States and Canada, Europe/Africa/Middle East, and
Asia Pacific and Latin America. Prior to January 1, 2000, the D&B operating
company's Canadian business was managed by its Asia Pacific and Latin America
geographic segment. Effective January 1, 2000, management of the D&B operating
company's Canadian business was moved to its U.S. geographic segment to take
advantage of marketing synergies between the U.S. and Canada. None of the D&B
operating company's business segments is dependent on a single customer or a few
customers, such that a loss of any one would have a material adverse effect on
that business segment.



  Dun & Bradstreet United States

     The D&B operating company's United States segment ("D&B U.S.") had 1999
revenue of $891.5 million, comprising Credit Information Services (62.8%),
Marketing Information Services (25.4%), Purchasing Information Services (3.0%)
and Receivables Management Services (8.8%).

     D&B U.S.'s Credit Information Services is the leading commercial
credit-reporting agency in the U.S. However, it faces substantial competition
from in-house operations of the businesses it seeks as customers and from other
general and specialized credit-reporting agencies, other information services
providers and the Internet. The principal competitive factors in its market
sector are price, information quality, availability and service.

     D&B U.S.'s Marketing Information Services, while a market leader in its
industry, faces competition from data providers that have competitive prices,
information quality, availability and service.

     D&B U.S.'s Purchasing Information Services enjoys a unique position as a
provider of business information that can be used to reduce purchasing costs. In
this area, D&B U.S. faces competition from in-house operations of the businesses
it seeks as customers and from other general and specialized information and
professional services providers. It believes the principal attributes in judging
the competition are price, information quality, availability and service.

     RMS is the leader in the commercial receivables management industry in the
U.S. There are several consumer collection agencies that have larger receivables
portfolios, particularly health-care and credit card collection providers. The
third-party commercial collection market is highly fragmented, with more than
5,000 collection agencies. The outsourcing market has relatively fewer
competitors due to the need for larger-scale operations by the receivables
providers. Both markets are very price-competitive, with status, statistical
reporting and speed-of-service being key qualitative attributes.

  Dun & Bradstreet Europe/Africa/Middle East

     The D&B operating company's Europe/Africa/Middle East segment ("D&B
Europe") had 1999 revenue of $420.6 million, comprising Credit Information
Services (70.7%), Marketing Information Services (17.2%), Purchasing Information
Services (.3%) and Receivables Management Services (11.8%). D&B Europe began
offering Purchasing Information Services in 1999.

     D&B Europe has operations in 20 countries and conducts operations in three
other countries through minority interests in joint-venture companies. D&B
Europe is believed to be the largest single supplier of commercial credit
information services in Europe. However, the competitive environment varies
considerably from country to country. In some countries, leadership positions
exist, whereas in others the markets are highly fragmented. The competition is
primarily local, and D&B Europe has a competitive edge with its range of global
services and capabilities. D&B Europe faces competition from banks, credit
insurance companies, public information suppliers (such as company registries),
consumer information companies, application software developers, online content
providers and in-house operations of businesses, as well as direct competition
from businesses providing similar services.

     Management believes that the increase in cross-border trade expected to
result from the European Monetary Union ("EMU") may create opportunities for D&B
Europe over time since it is the leading pan-European commercial data provider.
The transition to a single European currency also entails certain risks to D&B
Europe's business, as described under the caption "New European Currency" in
Part II, Item 7 on Pages 27-28 of this Form 10-K.

     D&B Europe continues to invest in data systems and has successfully rolled
out a new technology platform in the Netherlands, Belgium and Germany. D&B
Europe will continue to invest in its technology platform, which is expected to
result in enhanced product/service flexibility as well as opportunities to
streamline operations. In addition, D&B Europe plans to shift certain technology
development and maintenance to lower cost regions, which is expected to reduce
overall technology costs.



     D&B Europe is subject to the usual risks inherent in doing business in
certain countries outside of the U.S., including currency fluctuations and
possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, changes in the
availability of data from public sector sources, limits on collecting certain
types of personal information or on providing information across borders or
other restrictive governmental actions. Management believes that the risks of
nationalization or expropriation are reduced because its basic service is the
delivery of information rather than the production of products that require
manufacturing facilities or the use of natural resources.

  Dun & Bradstreet Asia Pacific, Canada and Latin America

     The D&B operating company's Asia Pacific, Canada and Latin America segment
("D&B APCLA") had 1999 revenue of $95.6 million, comprising Credit Information
Services (67.5%), Marketing Information Services (14.5%), Purchasing Information
Services (.1%) and Receivables Management Services (17.9%). D&B APCLA began
offering Purchasing Information Services in 1999. Management of the Canadian
business was moved to the U.S. segment effective January 1, 2000.

     D&B APCLA has operations in 15 countries and conducts operations in one
other country through a minority interest in a joint-venture company. It faces
competition from banks, credit insurance companies, public information suppliers
(such as company registries), consumer information companies, application
software developers, online and Internet based content providers and in-house
operations of businesses, as well as direct competition from businesses
providing similar services. The competition is primarily local, and D&B APCLA
has a competitive edge with its range of global services and capabilities.

     D&B APCLA provides cross-border services originating in Latin America
through local affiliates, small local operations centers and an operations
center in Florida. In the Asia Pacific region, D&B APCLA has entered into
joint-venture and distribution arrangements to leverage its staff and data
sourcing and distribution capabilities and is exploring additional such
opportunities.

     D&B APCLA is subject to the usual risks inherent in doing business in
certain countries outside of the U.S., including currency fluctuations and
possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, changes in the
availability of data from public sector sources, limits on collecting certain
types of personal information or on providing information across borders or
other restrictive governmental actions. Management believes that the risks of
nationalization or expropriation are reduced because its basic service is the
delivery of information rather than the production of products that require
manufacturing facilities or the use of natural resources.

THE D&B OPERATING COMPANY'S STRATEGY

     As technology changes and evolves, the D&B operating company is changing
the way it provides solutions to customers. The D&B operating company's strategy
is to integrate its information in business processes through both back-office
and front-office solutions and directly into e-commerce transactions. This means
extending its business beyond a core transaction-based product
offering -- primarily credit reports and marketing lists and labels -- to the
provision of quality business information through technology-based packaged
applications and the Internet. The D&B operating company is pursuing new
opportunities to increase revenue growth and profitability by building on its
core competencies in providing business information and analysis to companies
worldwide. The following are the key components of this strategy:

     - EXPANDING THE USE OF TRADITIONAL PRODUCTS.  Traditional Products annually
       generate more than $1 billion in revenue worldwide. Increased
       distribution of these products and services will be pursued through new
       customer sales efforts and through expanded use of the Internet. The D&B
       operating company will also leverage partners in this area both to expand
       the database and to reach more customers. The alliance entered into in
       1999 with Acxiom will help it achieve both of these objectives, by giving
       the D&B operating company access to certain of Acxiom's data and products
       and by distributing Traditional Products through Acxiom. Because many of
       these products are used in conjunction with or are accessed through
       Value-Added Products, including enterprise software applications, the D&B
       operating company will seek to increase the distribution and sale of
       Traditional Products globally through the sale of Value-Added Products
       and through alliances with enterprise software vendors and companies that
       implement such systems for customers.


     - FOCUSING RESOURCES ON THE DEVELOPMENT AND DEPLOYMENT OF VALUE-ADDED
       PRODUCTS.  Revenues from Value-Added Products are expected to continue to
       grow through the accelerated rollout of Value-Added Products around the
       world, as well as through the expansion of the D&B operating company's
       Global Accounts Program. The Global Accounts Program targets large
       customers having multi-country operations spanning the D&B operating
       company's three geographic segments.

     - BECOMING A MAJOR CONTENT PROVIDER FOR USERS OF ENTERPRISE
       DECISION-SUPPORT SOFTWARE APPLICATIONS. The D&B operating company aims to
       become the leading business information provider to the enterprise
       decision-support software applications market. The D&B operating company
       recently entered into alliances with Oracle, Siebel and SAP, all leading
       providers of enterprise application solutions, to provide Data
       Rationalization Services, utilizing the D&B D-U-N-S(R) Number and online
       access to the D&B operating company's global database through such
       companies' products. The D&B operating company recently entered into an
       alliance with Deloitte Consulting LLC, an implementor of enterprise
       application solutions, to promote Data Rationalization Services. The
       alliance with SAS Institute will offer joint solutions to the purchasing
       market. The UN/SPSC is used to allow customers to further consolidate
       vendors identified within their enterprise system. The D&B operating
       company is actively pursuing alliances with other major business
       application software providers, as well as with firms that assist
       customers with the implementation of these systems.

     - IDENTIFYING AND DEVELOPING ELECTRONIC COMMERCE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES.  In
       1999, the D&B operating company began offering solutions to establish
       itself as a major provider of information for business-to-business
       electronic commerce via the Internet. Use of D&B data for verification,
       authentication and registration services could help both buyers and
       sellers as well as network providers to identify dependable business
       partners. Management of the D&B operating company believes that the
       significant growth anticipated in the electronic commerce marketplace
       will create the need for a trusted, independent third party to provide
       such services. The D&B operating company intends to identify and pursue
       opportunities to participate in these processes and to develop new
       products and services and reposition existing products and services for
       the electronic commerce market. Distribution of these products and
       services can occur directly from the D&B operating company or through
       partners. In November 1999, the D&B operating company launched
       eccelerate.com to take advantage of opportunities in this market.
       eccelerate.com has entered into a relationship with Verisign, Inc., a
       leading provider of digital certificate services, to introduce a range of
       services for online business-to-business exchanges, including D&B
       D-U-N-S(R)Number-embedded digital certificates for corporate users and
       Web sites and real-time business verification and certificate validation
       services to accelerate the growth of transactions conducted via the
       Internet. In 1999, eccelerate.com also named Mitsubishi Corporation, one
       of the world's largest trading companies, as a global distributor of
       eccelerate.com products and as a partner in the development of localized
       products for the Japanese market.

     - IMPROVING THE PROFITABILITY OF INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS.  The accelerated
       rollout of Value-Added Products around the world and the expansion of the
       Global Accounts Program are expected to be key factors in improving
       international profitability. In addition, cost structures have been and
       will continue to be reviewed with the intent of implementing further
       efficiencies and improving international profitability. For example, a
       global data warehouse is currently being built that is expected to
       eliminate redundant development efforts and reduce ongoing systems
       maintenance costs. Further, the global data warehouse will support the
       Value-Added Products and electronic commerce initiatives. This data
       warehouse is expected to be available globally in 2000. Further, in
       October and December 1999, the D&B operating company announced certain
       initiatives aimed at improving international profitability, such as
       globalizing certain sales, marketing, data collection and technology
       functions in an effort to avoid redundancies and duplication of efforts,
       while facilitating a more efficient decision-making process, increasing
       the amount of technology development and maintenance done in lower cost
       regions and improving efficiencies in sales and data collection
       operations through office consolidations, organizational changes, vendor
       renegotiations and other actions.



                        MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE, INC.

GENERAL

     Moody's is a leading global credit rating agency. Moody's publishes credit
opinions, research and ratings on fixed-income securities, issuers of securities
and other credit obligations. Credit ratings help investors analyze the credit
risks associated with fixed-income securities. Ratings also create efficiencies
in fixed-income markets by providing reliable, credible and independent
assessments of credit risk. For issuers, Moody's services are designed to
increase market liquidity and may reduce transaction costs.

     Moody's employs more than 700 analytic staff and has more than 1,400
associates located around the world. Moody's maintains offices in 13 countries
and has expanded into developing markets through joint ventures or affiliation
agreements with local rating agencies. Moody's provides ratings and credit
research on governmental and commercial entities in approximately 100 countries.
Moody's customers for its ratings and credit research services include
investors; depositors, creditors, investment banks, commercial banks and other
financial intermediaries; and a wide range of corporate and governmental issuers
of securities. Moody's is not dependent on a single customer or a few customers,
such that a loss of any one would have a material adverse effect on its
business.

     Moody's publishes rating opinions on a broad range of credit obligations.
These include various United States corporate and governmental obligations,
international cross-border notes and bonds, domestic obligations in foreign
local markets, structured finance securities and commercial paper programs. In
recent years, Moody's has moved beyond its traditional bond ratings activities,
assigning ratings to issuers of securities, insurance company obligations, bank
loans, derivative product companies, bank deposits and other bank debt, managed
funds and derivatives. At the end of 1999, Moody's had outstanding ratings on
approximately 100,000 corporate and more than 68,000 public finance obligations.
Ratings are disseminated to the public through a variety of print and electronic
media, including real-time systems widely used by securities traders and
investors.

     In addition to its rating activities, Moody's publishes investor-oriented
credit research for more than 15,600 subscribers globally. Moody's publishes
more than 100 research products, including in-depth research on major issuers,
industry studies, special comments and summary credit opinion handbooks.
Detailed descriptions of both the rated issue and issuer, along with a summary
of the rationale for the assignment of the specific rating, also appear in
various Moody's credit research products. These research products include
insurance, utilities, speculative grade instruments, structured finance, bank
and global credit research.

     Moody's Risk Management Services, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of
Moody's, develops and distributes credit risk assessment software used by banks
and other financial institutions in their commercial lending activities as well
as credit education materials, seminars and computer-based lending simulations.
On January 27, 2000, Moody's Risk Management Services acquired the Software
Products Group division of Crowe, Chizek and Company LLP. The Software Products
Group also provides credit risk assessment software to banks and other financial
institutions.

     Moody's is registered as an investment adviser under the Investment
Advisers Act of 1940. Moody's has been designated as a Nationally Recognized
Statistical Rating Organization ("NRSRO") by the SEC. The SEC is currently
engaged in a rule-making process to establish the criteria for designation as an
NRSRO; such criteria, if enacted, may impose operating requirements upon
Moody's. Moody's is also subject to regulation in certain countries outside the
United States.

PROSPECTS FOR GROWTH

     Over the past decade, the global public fixed-income markets have more than
doubled in outstanding principal amount. Moody's believes that the global credit
markets will continue to increase in size. In addition, the securities being
issued in the global fixed-income markets are becoming more complex. Moody's
expects that these trends will increase the demand for its high-quality,
independent credit opinions.



     The size of the world capital markets is increasing because, in general,
the global political and economic climate has promoted economic growth and
productive capital investment. Moody's believes that the outlook is generally
favorable for the continued growth of the world capital markets, particularly in
Europe as a consequence of financial market integration under the EMU.

     Lower-cost technology makes information about investment alternatives
available throughout the world. This technology enables investors to obtain
information about securities issued outside their national markets. Investors
are also able to obtain information about new financing techniques and new types
of securities that they may wish to purchase or sell. This availability of
information promotes globalization and integration of financial markets. A
number of new "emerging" capital markets have been created. Investor and
intermediary interest in domestic currency debt obligations from such markets
are now being sold cross-border in unprecedented volumes.

     Another trend that is increasing the size of the world capital markets is
the ongoing disintermediation of the world's financial system. Issuers are
increasingly financing in the global public capital markets, rather than through
traditional financial intermediaries. Moreover, financial intermediaries are
selling assets in the global public capital markets, in addition to or instead
of retaining those assets. Structured finance securities markets for many types
of assets have developed in many countries and are contributing to those trends.

     The complexity of capital market instruments is also growing. Consequently,
assessing the credit risk of such instruments is a challenge for financial
intermediaries and asset managers. In the credit markets, third-party ratings
represent an increasingly viable alternative to traditional in-house research as
the geographic scope and complexity of market instruments grow.

     Rating fees paid by issuers account for most of Moody's revenues.
Therefore, a substantial portion of Moody's revenues are dependent upon the
volume of debt securities issued in the global capital markets. Accordingly,
Moody's is dependent on the prospects of the major world economies and the
fiscal and monetary policies pursued by their governments. However, annual fee
arrangements with frequent debt issuers and annual fees from commercial paper
and medium-term note programs, bank and insurance company financial strength
ratings and mutual fund ratings are less dependent on the volume of debt
securities issued in the global capital markets.

     Moody's non-U.S. operations are subject to the usual risks inherent in
carrying on business in certain countries outside the United States, including
currency fluctuations and possible nationalization, expropriation, price
controls, changes in the availability of data from public sector sources, limits
on providing information across borders or other restrictive governmental
actions. Management believes that the risks of nationalization or expropriation
are reduced because its basic service is the creation and dissemination of
information, rather than the production of products that require manufacturing
facilities or the use of natural resources.

COMPETITION

     Moody's competes with other credit rating agencies and with investment
banks and brokerage firms that offer credit opinions. Institutional investors
also have in-house credit research capabilities. Credit rating agencies compete,
in addition, with other methods of addressing credit risk, such as credit
insurance and credit derivatives. Moody's most direct competitor in the global
credit rating business is Standard and Poor's Corporation ("S&P"), a division of
The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. There are some rating markets, based on
industry, geography and/or instrument type, in which Moody's has made
investments and obtained market positions superior to S&P's. In other markets
the reverse is true. Moody's believes that its rating revenues for 1999 were
similar to S&P's.

     Other rating agency competitors of Moody's are Duff & Phelps and Fitch
IBCA. Although Moody's and S&P are larger than Duff & Phelps and Fitch IBCA,
increased competition from these two rating agencies can be expected. In
addition, it is possible that one or more significant rating agencies will
emerge in Europe over the next few years in response to the growth in the
European capital markets and development of the EMU.



     Over the last decade, additional rating agencies have been established,
primarily in developing markets and primarily as a result of local capital
market regulation. Regulators worldwide have recognized that credible,
independent credit ratings can further regulatory objectives for the development
of public fixed-income securities markets. The result of such regulatory
activity has been the creation of a number of primarily national ratings
agencies in various countries around the world. Regulation may stimulate the
production of less credible ratings over time and tends to make all rating
systems appear undifferentiated, to the detriment of Moody's high-quality rating
opinions.

     Regulators of financial institutions are attempting to improve their
approach to supervision. They are shifting away from rule-based systems that
address only specific risk components and institution-specific protections
toward more sophisticated, prudential supervision. The regulators' evolving
approach includes their making qualitative judgments about the sophistication of
each financial institution's risk management processes and systems, in terms of
both market and credit risk. While such regulatory trends present additional
opportunities for the use of Moody's ratings, they may also result in additional
competition for Moody's.

MOODY'S STRATEGY

     Moody's intends to focus its business strategy on the following
opportunities:

     - CONTINUING INTERNATIONAL EXPANSION.  Moody's maintains a global network
       of offices and business affiliations, including full-service rating and
       marketing operations in the major global financial centers of Frankfurt,
       Hong Kong, London, Paris and Tokyo. Moody's expects that these centers
       will position it to benefit from the expansion in global capital markets
       and offer the greatest potential for its revenue growth. Moody's also
       expects accelerated growth of its ratings activities as a consequence of
       financial market integration under the EMU and from ongoing global
       development of non-traditional financial instruments (e.g., derivatives,
       credit-linked bonds and catastrophe bonds). Moody's expects to continue
       its expansion into developing markets through joint ventures or
       affiliations.

     - DEVELOPING NEW RATING PRODUCTS.  Moody's is pursuing initiatives that
       expand credit ratings from securities markets to other sectors with
       credit risk exposures. Moody's has a committed effort to extend its
       opinion franchise to the global bank counterparty universe through
       emerging market ratings, including bank financial strength ratings.
       Insurance financial strength ratings in the property and casualty,
       reinsurance, and life insurance markets represent additional growth
       opportunities. Moody's has also introduced issuer ratings for mid-sized
       corporations not active in the debt markets and Moody's is investigating
       numerous non-traditional opportunities to extend its opinion franchise.
       As the loan and capital markets converge, Moody's expects to continue to
       expand coverage for ratings of bank loans. Moody's has also introduced
       equity mutual fund indices and fund analyzers for institutional fund
       managers.

     - PURSUING OPPORTUNITIES IN SECURITIZATION.  The repackaging of financial
       assets has had a profound effect on the U.S. fixed-income market. New
       patterns of securitization are expected to emerge in the next decade.
       Although, the bulk of assets securitized in the past five years are
       consumer assets owned by banks, commercial assets, principally commercial
       mortgages, term receivables and corporate loans, are now increasingly
       being securitized. Securitization concepts are rapidly being exported to
       Europe and Asia, evolving into a strategic corporate finance tool.
       Moody's is aggressively pursuing opportunities in these areas.

     - PURSUING CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT SERVICES.  Moody's will continue to
       provide banks and other financial institutions with credit risk
       management services. Moody's believes that there will be increased demand
       for such services because of recent proposals by international bank
       regulatory authorities to recognize bank internal credit risk management
       systems for the purposes of determining regulatory capital.

     - PURSUING GROWTH OF RESEARCH PRODUCTS.  Moody's will continue to expand
       its research products business by seeking customers in new geographic
       areas, producing and acquiring by arrangements with others additional
       research products and pursuing growth by means of Internet delivery.
       Internet



       delivery enables Moody's to provide services to more individuals within a
       client organization than paper-based products and to offer higher-value
       services because customers do not need to handle paper-based reports.

                             INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

     The Company owns and controls a number of trade secrets, confidential
information, trademarks, trade names, copyrights, patents and other intellectual
property rights that, in the aggregate, are of material importance to the
Company's business. Management of the Company believes that each of the "Dun &
Bradstreet" and "Moody's" names and related names, marks and logos are of
material importance to the Company. The Company is licensed to use certain
technology and other intellectual property rights owned and controlled by
others, and, similarly, other companies are licensed to use certain technology
and other intellectual property rights owned and controlled by the Company. The
Company considers its trademarks, service marks, databases, software and other
intellectual property to be proprietary, and the Company relies on a combination
of copyright, trademark, trade secret, patent, non-disclosure and contract
safeguards for protection.

     The names of the Company's products and services referred to herein are
trademarks, service marks or registered trademarks or service marks owned by or
licensed to the Company or one or more of its subsidiaries.

     (d) Financial information about foreign and domestic markets is included in
Note 17 (Segment Information) in Part II, Item 8 on Pages 52-56 of this Form
10-K.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

     The executive offices of the Company are located at One Diamond Hill Road,
Murray Hill, New Jersey, in a 184,000-square-foot property owned by the Company.
This property also serves as the executive offices of D&B U.S. and D&B Asia
Pacific and Latin America.

     The Company's other properties are geographically distributed to meet sales
and operating requirements worldwide. These properties are generally considered
to be both suitable and adequate to meet current operating requirements, and
virtually all space is being utilized. The most important of these other
properties include the following sites that are owned by the Company: (i) a
300,000-square-foot office building in New York, New York, that serves as the
executive offices of Moody's; (ii) two commercial office buildings (totaling
114,200 square feet) in Berkeley Heights, New Jersey, used as data processing
facilities for the U.S. operations of the D&B operating company and Moody's;
(iii) a 147,000-square-foot office building in Parsippany, New Jersey housing
personnel from the sales, marketing and technology groups of the D&B operating
company; and (iv) a 236,000-square-foot office building in High Wycombe,
England, that houses operational and technology services for D&B Europe. The
Company's operations are also conducted from 70 other offices located throughout
the U.S. (all of which are leased) and 99 non-U.S. office locations (95 of which
are leased).

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     Information in response to this Item is included in Note 14 (Contingencies)
in Part II, Item 8 on Pages 49-51 of this Form 10-K.

     The following summarizes certain developments with respect to the IRI case
discussed in Note 14:

     On October 15, 1996, defendants moved for an order dismissing all claims in
the complaint. On May 6, 1997, the United States District Court for the Southern
District of New York issued a decision dismissing IRI's claim of attempted
monopolization in the United States, with leave to replead within 60 days. The
Court denied defendants' motion with respect to the remaining claims in the
complaint. On June 3, 1997, defendants filed an answer denying the material
allegations in IRI's complaint, and A.C. Nielsen Company filed a counterclaim
alleging that IRI had made false and misleading statements about its services
and commercial activities. On July 7, 1997, IRI filed an Amended and Restated
Complaint repleading its alleged claim of monopolization in the United States
and realleging its other claims. By notice of motion dated August 18,


1997, defendants moved for an order dismissing the amended claim. On December 1,
1997, the Court denied the motion. Discovery in this case is ongoing.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     Not applicable.

                      EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     Officers are elected by the Board of Directors to hold office until their
respective successors are chosen and qualified.

     Listed below are the executive officers of the Registrant at February 16,
2000, and brief summaries of their business experience during the past five
years. Information concerning officer titles at The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation
reflects titles with (i) Old D&B and Historical D&B, as applicable, for periods
prior to the 1998 Distribution Date and (ii) the Company for periods after the
1998 Distribution Date.



     Mr. Alexander has served as chairman and chief executive officer of the
Company since October 1999 and as a director since February 1993. Mr. Alexander
is also president of Alexander & Associates, Inc., a private consulting firm
specializing in work-force inclusiveness, which he founded in 1981.

     Mr. Sowinski has served as president - Dun & Bradstreet operating company,
since September 1999, and executive vice president of The Dun & Bradstreet
Corporation since October 1999. Prior thereto, Mr. Sowinski served as senior
vice president and chief financial officer of The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation
from November 1996 to September 1999, as well as executive vice
president - global marketing of the Dun & Bradstreet operating company from
October 1997 to September 1999. He also previously served the Dun & Bradstreet
operating company as executive vice president - applications and alliances from
November 1996 to September 1997, as executive vice president - applications,
mass marketing and alliances from October 1994 to October 1996, as executive
vice president - marketing from April 1993 to September 1994 and as senior vice
president - finance & planning from August 1989 to March 1993.

     Mr. Doescher has served as senior vice president and chief communications
officer of The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation since November 1996. He is also
senior vice president-global communications of the Dun & Bradstreet operating
company, a position he has held since April 1992.

     Ms. Hessamfar has served as senior vice president and chief technology
officer of The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation since August 1997. Prior thereto,
she served as chief information officer of Turner Broadcasting System from July
1993 to July 1997 and as vice president - information systems of PAC Bell
Directories from May 1987 to June 1993.

     Mr. Ross has served as senior vice president and business affairs officer
of The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation since November 1999. The Business Affairs
function comprises the Corporate Legal, Human Resources and Business Practices
departments. Prior thereto, he served as senior vice president and chief human
resources officer of The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation from November 1996 to
November 1999. He is also senior vice president - human resources of the Dun &
Bradstreet operating company, a position he has held since June 1988.


     Mr. Geveda has served as vice president and controller of The Dun &
Bradstreet Corporation and as senior vice president - finance of the Dun &
Bradstreet operating company since November 1996. In September 1999 he was
appointed to the additional position of acting chief financial officer of the
Company. Prior thereto, he served as senior vice president - finance and
planning of the Dun & Bradstreet operating company from April 1993 to October
1996 and as senior vice president - finance and administration of Dun &
Bradstreet Europe/Africa/Middle East from September 1990 to March 1993.

                                    PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
        MATTERS

     Information in response to this Item is set forth under the captions
"Dividends" and "Common Stock Information" in Part II, Item 7 on Page 28 of this
Form 10-K.



ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

               THE DUN & BRADSTREET CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



- ---------------
(1) 1999 included a charge of $41.2 million in conjunction with the
    restructuring of the Dun & Bradstreet operating company. 1998 included a
    charge of $28.0 million for reorganization costs associated with the 1998
    Distribution. 1996 included charges of $161.2 million for reorganization
    costs associated with the 1996 Distribution and a loss of $68.2 million on
    the sale of American Credit Indemnity. 1995 included a charge of $188.5
    million partially offset by gains of $90.0 million and $28.0 million from
    the sale of



    Interactive Data Corporation and warrants received in connection with the
    sale of Donnelley Marketing, respectively.

(2) 1999 included gains related to the sale of Financial Information Services
    ("FIS"), the publishing unit of Moody's Investors Service, of $12.2 million
    and on the settlement of litigation of $11.9 million. 1998 included a gain
    on the sale of FIS of $9.6 million (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial
    statements).

(3) Income taxes on Discontinued Operations were $22.5 million, $52.2 million,
    $145.1 million and $73.4 million in 1998, 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

(4) 1997 included the impact of a change in revenue recognition policies (see
    "Accounting Changes" in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements).

(5) The exercise of diluted shares has not been assumed for the year ended
    December 31, 1996, since the result is antidilutive.

(6) Included Net Assets of Discontinued Operations of $296.5 million, $430.6
    million and $1,652.2 million in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.



ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS

OVERVIEW

     To facilitate an analysis of the Company's operating results, certain
significant events should be considered.

  1998 Distribution

     On June 30, 1998, the company then known as The Dun & Bradstreet
Corporation ("Old D&B") separated into two publicly traded companies -- The New
Dun & Bradstreet Corporation ("New D&B" or the "Company") and R.H. Donnelley
Corporation. The separation (the "1998 Distribution") of the two companies was
accomplished through a tax-free dividend by Old D&B of the Company, which was a
new entity comprising Moody's Investors Service ("Moody's") and the Dun &
Bradstreet operating company ("D&B"). New D&B changed its name to "The Dun &
Bradstreet Corporation," and the continuing entity (i.e., Old D&B) consisting of
R.H. Donnelley Inc., the operating company, and the DonTech partnership changed
its name to R.H. Donnelley Corporation ("Donnelley"). The tax-free stock
dividend was issued on June 30, 1998, to shareholders of record at the close of
business on June 17, 1998. Due to the relative significance of Moody's and D&B,
the transaction has been accounted for as a reverse spin-off, and, as such,
Moody's and D&B have been classified as continuing operations and, R.H.
Donnelley Inc. and DonTech have been classified as discontinued operations. For
purposes of effecting the 1998 Distribution and of governing certain of the
continuing relationships between the Company and Donnelley after the
transaction, the two companies have entered into various agreements as described
in Note 2 to the Company's consolidated financial statements.

     Pursuant to Accounting Principles Board Opinion ("APB") No. 30, "Reporting
the Results of Operations -- Reporting the Effects of Disposal of a Segment of a
Business, and Extraordinary, Unusual and Infrequently Occurring Events and
Transactions," the consolidated financial statements of the Company have been
reclassified to reflect the 1998 Distribution. Accordingly, revenues, costs and
expenses, and cash flows of Donnelley have been excluded from the respective
captions in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows. The net operating results of these entities have been
reported, net of applicable income taxes, as "Income from Discontinued
Operations," and the net cash flows of these entities have been reported as "Net
Cash (Used in) Provided by Discontinued Operations."

  1999 Restructuring Charge

     During the fourth quarter of 1999, the Company's Board of Directors
approved plans to restructure the Dun & Bradstreet operating company. The
restructuring comprises three major components:

     - D&B's International Operations are being realigned and streamlined
       through a series of office consolidations and organizational changes. In
       order to reduce the cost infrastructure in Europe, actions have been
       taken to improve efficiencies in sales and data collection operations.

     - D&B's Global Technology Organization has been realigned and streamlined
       and will significantly increase the level of software and product
       development outsourced to resources outside the United States and Europe.

     - D&B's U.S. business has reengineered its data collection process so that
       it now relies solely on telephonic data collection. This resulted in the
       closure of 15 field data collection centers.

     As a result of these actions, a pre-tax restructuring charge of $41.2
million ($27.9 million after-tax, $.17 per share basic and diluted) was included
in operating income in 1999. For management reporting purposes such charges are
not allocated to the business segments. Employee severance costs from planned
terminations of approximately 700 employees comprised $32.7 million (including
severance for two former corporate executives). The severance costs were based
on the amounts that will be paid to the affected employees pursuant to the
Company's policies and certain foreign governmental regulations. The balance of
the charge relates to the write-off of certain assets made obsolete or redundant
and abandoned by the restructuring and



leasehold termination obligations arising from office closures. The Company
anticipates completion of its restructuring in fiscal 2000, including the
payment of the majority of the associated costs.

     The restructuring actions are designed to strengthen customer service
worldwide, improve operating efficiencies and lower structural costs. The
Company expects savings of approximately $30 million in 2000 and $40 million in
2001 that it intends to reinvest in future revenue growth initiatives.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

OPERATING SEGMENTS

     The Company's reportable segments are Dun & Bradstreet United States ("D&B
U.S."), Dun & Bradstreet Europe/Africa/Middle East ("D&B Europe"), Dun &
Bradstreet Asia Pacific/Canada/Latin America ("D&B APCLA") and Moody's.
Effective January 1, 2000, management of the Canadian business was moved to the
U.S. segment.

     The three Dun & Bradstreet segments, managed on a geographical basis,
provide business-to-business Credit Information Services ("Credit"), Marketing
Information Services ("Marketing"), Purchasing Information Services
("Purchasing") and Receivables Management Services ("RMS"). The Moody's segment
provides credit opinions on investment securities and assigns ratings to
fixed-income securities and other credit obligations. Moody's also offers
investor-oriented credit research and credit risk assessment software for banks
and other financial institutions, as well as credit training. The Company
evaluates performance and allocates resources based on segment operating income.

  Year Ended December 31, 1999, Compared with Year Ended December 31, 1998

     For the year ended December 31, 1999, the Company reported net income of
$256.0 million, or $1.58 per share basic and $1.56 per share diluted. This
compares with 1998 income from continuing operations of $246.4 million and
earnings per share from continuing operations of $1.45 basic and $1.44 diluted.
1999 results included the $41.2 million pre-tax restructuring charge discussed
above ($27.9 million after-tax, $.17 per share basic and diluted), a $12.2
million pre-tax gain resulting from an adjustment to the July 1998 sale of
Financial Information Services ("FIS"), the financial publishing unit of Moody's
($7.5 million after-tax, $.05 per share basic and diluted), and an $11.9 million
pre-tax gain related to the settlement of outstanding litigation ($6.6 million
after-tax, $.04 per share basic and diluted). The 1998 results included
reorganization costs associated with the 1998 Distribution of $28.0 million
($23.2 million after-tax, $.14 per share basic, $.13 per share diluted) and a
gain of $9.6 million ($5.3 million after-tax, $.03 per share basic and diluted)
on the sale of FIS. 1998 net income of $280.1 million included income from
discontinued operations of $33.7 million. For the year ended December 31, 1998,
earnings per share of $1.65 basic and $1.63 diluted include earnings per share
from discontinued operations of $.20 basic and $.19 diluted.

     Operating revenues grew 1.9% to $1,971.8 million in 1999 from $1,934.5
million in 1998. Excluding the results of FIS, which was sold in July 1998,
revenue increased 2.9%. Revenue growth for the year reflects continued strong
growth of 13.8% at Moody's offset by a decline of .8% at the D&B operating
company. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, D&B operating
company revenues were flat. The D&B operating company's results reflect a
decrease in usage of traditional credit services products, offset by growth in
Value-Added Products, including revenues from partnerships with providers of
enterprise software solutions. Excluding the results of FIS in 1998 and the
impact of foreign currency translation, the Company's operating revenues
increased 3.4% in 1999 compared with 1998.

     Operating expenses decreased 1.5% to $559.5 million in 1999 compared with
$568.2 million in 1998. Operating expenses at the D&B operating company were
lower, resulting from expense control initiatives worldwide, while Moody's
operating expenses were increased to support its growth in revenues. Selling and
administrative expenses increased by 2.0% to $791.3 million in 1999 compared
with $776.0 million in 1998, resulting from the D&B operating company's
investment in Value-Added Products and partnerships with providers of enterprise
software solutions and Moody's continued business expansion. Operating costs in
1999 also included the $41.2 million charge for the restructuring of the D&B
operating company discussed above.



In 1998, operating costs included $28.0 million in reorganization costs incurred
in conjunction with the 1998 Distribution.

     Operating income grew 4.3% in 1999 to $438.9 million from $420.7 million in
1998. Excluding the $41.2 million restructuring charge in 1999 and the $28.0
million of reorganization costs in 1998, operating income in 1999 grew 7.0%
compared with 1998. This growth reflects the strong revenue results for Moody's
and the impact of expense control initiatives worldwide, offset by lower
revenues and increased selling and administrative expense at the D&B operating
company and Moody's.

     Non-operating expense -- net was $4.0 million in 1999 compared with $20.9
million in 1998. Included in non-operating expense -- net is interest income and
expense, minority interest expense (which remained level when comparing 1999 and
1998) and other income (expense) -- net. Interest income of $3.0 million in 1999
was lower than 1998 due to lower cash levels, while interest expense of $5.0
million in 1999 was significantly lower than in 1998 as a result of the lower
debt levels in 1999 compared with 1998. Other income (expense) -- net was $20.4
million in 1999 compared with $7.3 million in 1998. Other income (expense) --
net included the gains in connection with the sale of FIS of $12.2 million and
$9.6 million in 1999 and 1998, respectively. 1999 other income (expense) -- net
also included a gain of $11.9 million on the settlement of litigation that arose
from a transaction related to the sale of Dun & Bradstreet Software in 1996.
These gains were offset by other miscellaneous non-operating income and expense
items, which were comparable in 1999 and 1998.

     The Company's effective tax rate was 41.1% in 1999, compared with 38.4% in
1998. This increase resulted from a number of factors, including taxes imposed
on the proceeds from the settlement of litigation, the non-deductibility of
certain restructuring expenses and refinements of certain estimates.

     Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, was $33.7 million
for the year ended December 31, 1998.

     Segment Results

     D&B U.S. revenues were $891.5 million in 1999, down 1.2% from 1998
revenues. In comparing 1999 and 1998 revenues, Credit decreased 6.5% to $560.1
million, Marketing increased 5.5% to $226.1 million, Purchasing increased 17.4%
to $27.0 million and RMS increased 18.8% to $78.3 million. The decline in Credit
revenues resulted from a number of factors, including sales force
reorganization, compensation and training issues, as well as increased
competition, including free or lower-cost information from online vendors and
other Internet sources. Additionally, the shift by former annual contract
customers to the monthly discount plan negatively affected revenues, as selling
incremental projects to those customers was more challenging. The growth in
Marketing, Purchasing and RMS was largely driven by revenues from Value-Added
Products, including from partnerships with providers of enterprise software
solutions. In addition to the restructuring plan approved by the Board of
Directors in the fourth quarter of 1999, management has implemented several
other actions also intended to improve revenue growth and address the issues
affecting the business. The Company is accelerating its Internet strategy to
focus on ways to better capitalize on electronic commerce. Senior sales
management has been changed, the sales organization has been realigned to
clarify product and channel responsibilities and provide better sales and
marketing support, the sales compensation plans have been revised, and the
pricing model for its products and services was changed.

     D&B U.S. operating income was $258.2 million in 1999, down 4.3% from $269.9
million in the prior year due to the lower revenues and higher selling and
administrative expenses resulting from the investment in Value-Added Products
and partnerships with providers of enterprise software solutions.

     D&B Europe's revenues were $420.6 million in 1999, down 1.7% when compared
with 1998 revenues of $427.7 million. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange,
D&B Europe's revenues were up 1.3%. In comparing 1999 with 1998, European Credit
revenues decreased 5.0% to $297.4 million, while Marketing revenues increased
10.7% to $72.2 million, and RMS revenues were flat at $49.6 million. D&B Europe
also reported revenues from newly introduced Purchasing products of $1.4 million
during 1999. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, D&B Europe would have
reported in 1999 a decrease in Credit revenues of 2.2%,



an increase in Marketing revenues of 14.3% and an increase in RMS revenues of
2.8% in comparison with 1998. The decline in European Credit revenues resulted
from ongoing price erosion in the local credit markets, as well as increased
competition, including the availability of free or lower-cost information from
online vendors and other Internet sources. Marketing revenue growth was largely
attributable to Value-Added Products. D&B Europe reported an operating loss of
$8.9 million in 1999, compared with a loss of $4.2 million in 1998. Europe's
loss resulted largely from investment in sales and marketing support for
Value-Added Products and partnerships with providers of enterprise software
solutions and higher costs for new technology and systems in the region. The
Company expects that the restructuring actions implemented in the fourth quarter
of 1999 will improve the profitability in Europe by reducing its cost structure.
Additionally, the Company is reviewing various strategic alternatives in Europe
and APCLA to accelerate revenue growth, improve efficiencies and improve
profitability.

     D&B APCLA reported operating revenues of $95.6 million in 1999, up 7.9%
from 1998. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, revenues would have been up
3.6%. In comparing 1999 with 1998, APCLA Credit revenues increased 14.2% to
$64.5 million, Marketing revenues decreased 9.2% to $13.9 million, and RMS
revenues increased 1.8% to $17.1 million. D&B APCLA also reported revenues from
the newly introduced Purchasing products of $.1 million during 1999. Excluding
the impact of foreign exchange, D&B APCLA would have reported in 1999 an
increase in Credit revenues of 8.0%, an increase in Marketing revenues of 3.4%
and a decrease in RMS revenues of 10.4% in comparison with 1998. D&B APCLA
reported an operating loss of $5.7 million in 1999, compared with a loss of $9.1
million in 1998. The decrease in operating losses in 1999 compared with 1998 is
due to expense control initiatives and revenue improvements.

     Moody's revenues of $564.1 million in 1999 were up 13.8% from 1998
(excluding the 1998 results of FIS) due to gains in corporate bonds, structured
ratings and commercial paper. Strong international volumes drove growth in
corporate bonds. International issuance increased more than 50% over the prior
year, principally due to the introduction of a common currency for the European
Monetary Union, coupled with a significant increase in merger-related financing.
Structured ratings revenue grew more than 20% led by strength in the
asset-backed and derivatives markets in the U.S., Europe and Japan. In the
short-term markets, the level of commercial paper outstanding increased 20% from
a year ago. These revenue gains were partially offset by the effects of volume
declines in the high yield and U.S. municipal markets versus their strong
performances in 1998.

     Moody's operating income of $273.9 million in 1999 was up 22.6% from 1998,
reflecting continued strong revenue growth partially offset by higher expenses.
Expenses versus last year show increased analytic headcount (both U.S. and
international) to support business growth. Analytic resources have been
increased particularly in Europe and in the structured groups to meet strong
market demands.

  Year Ended December 31, 1998, Compared with Year Ended December 31, 1997

     For the year ended December 31, 1998, the Company reported income from
continuing operations of $246.4 million and earnings per share from continuing
operations of $1.45 basic and $1.44 diluted. This compares with 1997 income from
continuing operations of $219.0 million and earnings per share from continuing
operations of $1.28 basic and $1.27 diluted. The Company's basic earnings per
share for 1998 were $1.65 compared with $1.08 per share in 1997, including
earnings per share from discontinued operations of $.20 and $.54 in 1998 and
1997, respectively. On a diluted basis, the Company's earnings per share in 1998
of $1.63 were up from the 1997 diluted earnings per share of $1.07, including
diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations of $.19 and $.53 in 1998
and 1997, respectively. The 1998 results include reorganization costs associated
with the 1998 Distribution of $28.0 million ($23.2 million after-tax, $.14 per
share basic, $.13 per share diluted) and a gain of $9.6 million ($5.3 million
after-tax, $.03 per share basic and diluted) on the sale of FIS. The 1997
results include a one-time, non-cash charge for the cumulative effect of
accounting changes ($.74 per share basic, $.73 per share diluted), with respect
to certain of the Company's revenue recognition methods.

     Operating revenues grew 6.8% to $1,934.5 million in 1998 from $1,811.0
million in 1997. Excluding the results of FIS, revenues increased 7.8%. Revenue
growth for 1998 reflects significant growth at Moody's and



strong growth at D&B U.S. offset by a decline at D&B APCLA. D&B Europe was
essentially unchanged. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, operating
revenues for the Company grew 8.2% in 1998 from 1997.

     1998 operating expenses increased 16.7% to $568.2 million, largely
attributable to increased Year 2000 spending, costs incurred by D&B Europe for
new systems and technology, and costs associated with the introduction of new
products and services. Selling and administrative expenses decreased slightly.

     Operating income in 1998 of $420.7 million increased 4.2% from $403.7
million in 1997. 1998 operating income included $28.0 million in reorganization
costs incurred in conjunction with the 1998 Distribution. Excluding
reorganization costs, operating income increased 11.1%. Operating income growth
reflected strong growth at Moody's and D&B U.S.

     Non-operating expense-net of $20.9 million in 1998, primarily comprising
interest income and expense, minority interest expense and other income
(expense) -- net, decreased by $50.4 million compared with 1997. The sharp
decrease was due to significantly lower interest expense and higher interest
income, as 1998 debt levels were lower than 1997 levels (see further discussion
in the Liquidity and Financial Position section).

     In 1998, the Company's effective tax rate from continuing operations was
38.4%, compared with 34.1% in 1997. This increase resulted from an increase in
the estimated underlying effective tax rate to 36.8% and the non-deductibility
of certain reorganization costs.

     Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, was $33.7 million
in 1998 and $92.0 million in 1997. Discontinued operations represents six months
of Donnelley operating results in 1998, compared with the full year of Donnelley
operating results reported as discontinued operations in 1997. Donnelley's
operating income was historically lower during the first half of the year.

     Segment Results

     D&B U.S. revenues were $902.5 million in 1998, up 8.4% from 1997, including
increases in Credit of 3.5% to $599.3 million, Marketing of 18.5% to $214.3
million, Purchasing of 46.5% to $23.0 million and RMS of 15.8% to $65.9 million.
The growth rates are largely attributable to the growth in revenues from Value-
Added Products, which increased by 60.6% to $198.0 million from the prior year.
D&B U.S. operating income was $269.9 million in 1998, up 6.7% from the prior
year, driven by the higher revenues, partially offset by higher expenses
incurred for selling, advertising, new product development and Year 2000
remediation.

     D&B Europe's 1998 revenues of $427.7 million were flat compared with 1997,
due largely to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar. European Credit revenues
decreased .8% to $312.9 million in 1998, while Marketing revenues increased
16.6% to $65.2 million in 1998, and RMS decreased 9.3% to $49.6 million in 1998.
Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, D&B Europe would have reported a 3.8%
increase in revenues in 1998, including an increase in Credit revenues of 2.7%,
an increase in Marketing of 19.7% and a decrease in RMS of 6.3% from 1997.
Increases in product usage were partially offset by price erosion resulting from
the competitive environment in Europe. D&B Europe reported an operating loss of
$4.2 million, reflecting the continued investments in new technology and systems
in Europe and increased Year 2000 remediation costs.

     D&B APCLA reported a 5.5% decrease in operating revenues to $88.6 million
in 1998 from $93.8 million in 1997, resulting from the negative impact of
foreign exchange rates. In 1998, APCLA Credit revenues decreased 5.7% to $56.5
million, Marketing revenues decreased 24.6% to $15.3 million, and RMS revenues
increased 23.5% to $16.8 million. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, D&B
APCLA would have reported a 5.9% increase in revenues in 1998, comprising a 4.1%
increase in Credit, a 1.3% increase in Marketing and a 15.9% increase in RMS.
D&B APCLA reported an operating loss of $9.1 million in 1998, compared with an
operating loss of $6.3 million in 1997, due to lower reported operating revenues
and higher expenses, including Year 2000 costs and employee-related costs in
Asia.

     Moody's revenues (excluding the results of FIS) of $495.5 million in 1998
were up 17.1% from 1997, driven by gains in corporate and municipal bonds,
structured ratings and commercial paper. Despite the market disruptions
occurring during the second half of 1998, issuance of high-yield corporate and
municipal



bonds increased significantly when compared with 1997. Structured ratings
revenues grew more than 40% in 1998 compared with 1997 fueled by strength in the
mortgage-backed and derivative markets in the U.S. and Europe. Moody's operating
income of $223.5 million in 1998 was up 20.4% from 1997, reflecting strong
revenue growth.

RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

     In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 133,
"Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" ("SFAS No. 133").
This statement establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative
instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other
contracts, and for hedging activities. It requires recognition of all
derivatives as either assets or liabilities on the balance sheet and measurement
of those instruments at fair value. If certain conditions are met, a derivative
may be designated specifically as: (a) a hedge of the exposure to changes in the
fair value of a recognized asset or liability or an unrecognized firm commitment
(a fair value hedge); (b) a hedge of the exposure to variable cash flows of a
forecasted transaction (a cash flow hedge); or (c) a hedge of the foreign
currency exposure of a net investment in a foreign operation, an unrecognized
firm commitment, an available-for-sale security, or a
foreign-currency-denominated forecasted transaction. In June, the Financial
Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 137 delaying the effective date of
SFAS No. 133. The provisions of SFAS No. 133 are effective for all fiscal
quarters of all fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2000. The Company
currently hedges foreign-currency-denominated transactions and expects to adopt
SFAS No. 133 beginning January 1, 2001. The effect of adopting SFAS No. 133 is
not expected to be material.

MARKET RISK SENSITIVE INSTRUMENTS

     The Company operates in 37 countries through wholly or with majority-owned
entities and uses the capital markets to fund its operations. As such, the
Company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates and
interest rates, which could affect its results of operations and financial
condition. In order to reduce the risk from fluctuations in foreign currencies
and interest rates, the Company currently uses forward foreign exchange
contracts and in the past has used interest rate swap agreements. These
derivative financial instruments are viewed by the Company as risk management
tools that are entered into for hedging purposes only. The Company does not use
derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.

     The Company also has investments in fixed-income marketable securities.
Consequently, the Company is exposed to fluctuations in rates on these
marketable securities. Market risk associated with investments in marketable
securities is immaterial and has been excluded from the sensitivity discussions.

     A discussion of the Company's accounting policies for derivative financial
instruments is included in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in
Note 1 to the Company's consolidated financial statements, and further
disclosure relating to financial instruments is included in Note 6 -- Financial
Instruments with Off-Balance Sheet Risks. The following analysis presents the
sensitivity of the fair value of the Company's market risk sensitive instruments
to changes in market rates and prices.

  Interest Rate Risk

     The Company is exposed to market risk through its commercial paper program,
in which it borrows at prevailing short-term commercial paper rates. At December
31, 1999, the Company had $124.7 million of short-term commercial paper
outstanding with various maturities through February 2000, partially offset by
short-term investments of $47.6 million. As such, the market risk is immaterial
when calculated utilizing estimates of the termination value based upon a 10%
increase or decrease in interest rates from their December 31, 1999, levels.

     The Company has in the past entered into interest rate swap agreements to
manage exposure to changes in interest rates. Interest rate swaps have allowed
the Company to raise funds at floating rates and effectively swap them into
fixed rates that are lower than those available to it if fixed-rate borrowings
were to be made directly. During 1998, in connection with the 1998 Distribution
and repayment of outstanding notes payable, Old D&B canceled all of its interest
rate swap agreements. The Company has not entered into any interest rate


swap agreements since the 1998 Distribution and therefore is not subject to
interest rate risk on interest rate swaps.

  Foreign Exchange Risk

     The Company's non-U.S. operations generated approximately 33% of total
revenues in 1999. As of December 31, 1999, approximately 35% of the Company's
assets were located outside the U.S., and no single country had a significant
concentration of cash.

     The Company follows a policy of hedging substantially all cross-border
intercompany transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional
currency applicable to each of its various subsidiaries. The Company only uses
forward foreign exchange contracts to implement its hedging strategy. Typically,
these contracts have maturities of six months or less. These forward contracts
are executed with creditworthy institutions and are denominated primarily in the
British pound sterling, the Euro and the Swedish krona.

     The fair value of foreign currency risk is calculated by using estimates of
the cost of closing out all outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts,
given a 10% increase or decrease in forward rates from their December 31, 1999,
levels. At December 31, 1999, the Company had approximately $138 million in
forward foreign exchange contracts outstanding, with various expiration dates
through March 2000 (see Note 6 -- Financial Instruments with Off-Balance Sheet
Risks). At December 31, 1999, net unrealized gains related to the Company's
forward contracts were $.6 million. If forward rates were to increase by 10%
from December 31, 1999, levels, the unrealized loss on these contracts would be
$6.7 million. If forward rates were to decrease by 10% from December 31, 1999,
levels, the unrealized gain on these contracts would be $7.9 million. However,
the estimated potential gain or loss on forward contracts is expected to be
offset by changes in the dollar value of underlying transactions. Therefore, the
net impact of a 10% movement in foreign exchange rates would be immaterial.

LIQUIDITY AND FINANCIAL POSITION

     The Company generates sufficient cash flow from its business operations to
fund its operating needs, service debt and pay dividends. The Company accesses
the commercial paper market from time to time to fund working capital needs and
share repurchases. Such borrowings have been supported by the Company's bank
credit facilities.

     On December 15, 1999, the Company announced that it will pursue the
separation of Moody's and the D&B operating company into two independent,
publicly traded companies. On February 16, 2000, the Company announced that the
separation would be accomplished by spinning off, through a tax-free
distribution to shareholders (the "2000 Distribution"), a subsidiary corporation
comprising the business of the D&B operating company. The 2000 Distribution is
subject to final approval by the Company's Board of Directors and obtaining a
favorable ruling from the Internal Revenue Service with respect to the tax-free
treatment of the distribution. After the 2000 Distribution, the business of the
Company will consist entirely of the business conducted by Moody's, and the D&B
operating company business will comprise the business of a new publicly traded
company that will succeed to the name "The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation." The
Company expects to complete the 2000 Distribution by the end of the third
quarter of 2000.

     Although the capital structures of the two independent companies have not
been finalized, it is expected that operating cash flows, supplemented as needed
with financing arrangements, will be sufficient to meet the needs of the two
companies in the future.

     At December 31, 1999, cash and cash equivalents totaled $113.2 million, an
increase from $90.6 million in 1998. During 1999, the Company's share repurchase
program, discussed below, and commercial paper borrowings needed to support the
repurchase program affected cash flows. In 1998, cash and cash equivalents were
affected by the assumption of $500 million of debt by Donnelley in connection
with the separation (see further details below) offset by the paydown of
short-term borrowings outstanding at the time of the 1998 Distribution of $287.1
million and funds used to begin the share repurchase program.



     Operating activities generated net cash of $344.7 million in 1999 compared
with $325.5 million from continuing operations in 1998. Moody's cash flows from
operations remain strong consistent with its operating results. D&B U.S.'s
operating cash flows have improved in 1999, as the change to the new business
model implemented effective January 1, 1998 (whereby customers have the option
of purchasing Credit products and services on a monthly or annual contract
plan), is no longer negatively affecting cash flows. Higher payments made in
1999 for income taxes partially offset these increases in operating cash flows.
Operating activities of discontinued operations generated $16.7 million in 1998.

     Net cash used in investing activities totaled $110.1 million in 1999,
compared with $104.7 million in 1998. 1998 cash flows used in investing
activities included proceeds from the sale of FIS of $26.5 million and cash used
in investing activities of discontinued operations of $3.1 million. In 1999,
spending for capital expenditures, computer software and other intangibles by
continuing operations totaled $122.8 million, compared with $147.1 million in
1998, due to higher expenditures in the prior year for certain back office
systems that were implemented in 1999. Currently, the Company has no material
commitments for capital expenditures.

     Net cash used in financing activities was $211.7 million during 1999
compared with $227.3 million in 1998. Payments of dividends accounted for $120.1
million in 1999 compared with $137.4 million in 1998, due to the decrease in
dividends after the 1998 Distribution. The Company's share repurchase program
and commercial paper borrowings discussed below also affected the net cash used
in financing activities.

     During 1999, the Company completed its special stock repurchase program,
authorized by the Board of Directors in June 1998, by purchasing 4.2 million
shares for $150.0 million. During 1999, the Company also repurchased 2.6 million
shares for $87.9 million to offset awards made under stock incentive plans and
in connection with the Company's Employee Stock Purchase Plan. In comparison,
during 1998, the Company repurchased 5.7 million shares for a total of $150.0
million under the special stock repurchase program and purchased 2.3 million
shares to offset awards made under stock incentive plans for a total of $70.2
million. Proceeds received in connection with the Company's stock incentive
plans were $48.4 million in 1999 compared with $41.0 million in 1998.

     In June 1999, the Company renewed its $300 million 364-day revolving credit
facility. The Company has an additional $300 million facility maturing in June
2003. Under these facilities, the Company has the ability to borrow at
prevailing short-term interest rates. The Company has had no borrowings
outstanding under these facilities since they were established in June 1998. The
Company had commercial paper borrowings of $124.7 million and $35.9 million at
December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

     The Company intends to replace its existing revolving credit facilities
with new facilities for each of the new companies prior to the 2000 Distribution
and replace its commercial paper program with a new program for the new Dun &
Bradstreet Corporation.

     In connection with the 1998 Distribution, during June 1998, R.H. Donnelley
Inc. borrowed $500 million, which was used to repay existing indebtedness
(commercial paper and other short-term borrowings) of Old D&B in the amount of
$287.1 million at the time of the 1998 Distribution. The Company used the excess
proceeds for general corporate purposes, including the payment of reorganization
costs. The $500 million of debt became an obligation of Donnelley upon the 1998
Distribution.

     In connection with the 1998 Distribution and repayment of indebtedness, Old
D&B canceled all of its interest rate swap agreements and recorded into income
the previously unrecognized fair value loss at the time of termination. At the
time of the cancellation, the fair value of the interest rate swaps was a loss
of $12.7 million, of which $3.8 million ($.6 million in the first quarter of
1998 and $3.2 million in 1997) had been recognized in income relating to swaps
that did not qualify for settlement accounting. The previously unrecognized loss
of $8.9 million was recorded during the second quarter of 1998 and included in
reorganization costs.

     On April 1, 1997, Old D&B raised $300 million of minority interest
financing involving a third-party investor. Funds raised by this financing were
used to repay outstanding short-term debt. Also during 1997, Old D&B reentered
the commercial paper market and used the proceeds to repay additional amounts
outstanding under its short-term debt facility. The Company maintained the
financing following the 1998 Distribution. At



December 31, 1999 and 1998, the Company had $300 million of minority interest
financing. Under the terms of the financing, the third-party investor has a
right to take steps that would result in termination of the financing during or
after December 2000. Furthermore, the third-party investor would also have the
right to terminate the financing within 60 days after the 2000 Distribution if
the third-party investor has not consented to the 2000 Distribution. The Company
intends to replace the minority interest financing with new financing prior to
any such termination.

     The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is continuing its review of the
Company's utilization of certain capital losses generated during 1989 and 1990.
The Company believes that the total cash obligation to the IRS in respect of
this matter is approximately $550 million for taxes and accrued interest as of
December 31, 1999. Pursuant to a series of agreements, IMS Health Incorporated
and Nielsen Media Research, Inc. are jointly and severally liable to pay
one-half, and the Company the other half, of any payments for taxes and accrued
interest arising from this matter and certain other potential tax liabilities
after the Company pays the first $137 million. The Company's share of the taxes
and accrued interest in respect to this matter is approximately $345 million as
of December 31, 1999, of which $183 million represents tax-deductable interest.
The Company expects that an assessment will be issued from the IRS during the
second quarter of 2000. At that time, the Company will consider its options,
which include satisfying its obligation to the IRS for its share of the
liability. The funds that would be needed to make such a payment are expected to
come from external borrowings.

YEAR 2000

     The Company's systems worldwide made a smooth transition to the Year 2000
and are operating in a business-as-usual capacity.

     The Company initiated an extensive Year 2000 preparation program in 1996,
when it began actively addressing the information-technology-related components
of the Year 2000 issue. The program focused on the Company's products and
services (including its databases, software that manipulates these databases and
software provided to customers); billing, ordering and tracking systems;
technical infrastructure (such as LANs, WANs, voice and e-mail systems and Web
sites); desktop computers; suppliers; business operation support systems (such
as payroll) and facilities and equipment. The Company's proactive preparations
were substantially completed as of September 30, 1999.

     Pursuant to the Company's detailed contingency and rollover plans, the
Company completed backups of systems on December 30 and 31, 1999. Critical
systems, including customer access and communication infrastructure, were put
through a series of carefully orchestrated tests during the rollover weekend to
simulate customer usage. No significant issues arose, and a monitoring and rapid
response program remains in place in the event of any future issues. These
business recovery plans are expected to be effective in addressing
technology-related issues going forward.

     External and internal costs associated with modifying software for Year
2000 readiness were expensed as incurred and were funded through operating cash
flow. The Company believes no major issues will occur in the future; therefore,
the Company does not expect to incur significant further costs. The aggregate
cost of the Company's Year 2000 program was approximately $78 million. Through
December 31, 1999, the Company had incurred approximately $76 million ($11
million in 1997, $43 million in 1998 and $22 million in 1999) and expects to
incur $2 million in 2000. These figures do not include the costs of software and
systems that were replaced or upgraded in the normal course of business.

NEW EUROPEAN CURRENCY

     On January 1, 1999, 11 of the countries in the European Union began a
three-year transition to the euro to replace the national currency of each
participating country. The Company intends to phase in its transition to the
euro over the next two years. The Company has established a task force to
address issues related to the euro. The Company believes that the euro
conversion may have a material impact on its operations and financial condition
if it fails to successfully address such issues. The task force has prepared a
project plan and is proceeding with the implementation of that plan.


     The Company's project plan includes the following: ensuring that the
Company's information technology systems that process data for inclusion in the
Company's products and services can appropriately handle amounts denominated in
euro contained in data provided to the Company by third-party data suppliers;
modification of the Company's products and services to deal with euro-related
issues; and modification of the Company's internal systems (such as payroll,
accounting and financial reporting) to deal with euro-related issues. The
Company does not believe that the cost of such modifications will have a
material effect on the Company's results of operations or financial condition.
There is no guarantee that all problems will be foreseen and corrected, or that
no material disruption of the Company's business will occur. The conversion to
the euro may have competitive implications for the Company's pricing and
marketing strategies, that could be material in nature; however, any such impact
is not known at this time.

DIVIDENDS

     The Company paid a quarterly dividend of $.185 per share during 1999 and
for the third and fourth quarters of 1998. Old D&B paid quarterly dividends of
$.22 per share during the first half of 1998, resulting in a full-year dividend
per share paid of $.74 and $.81 for 1999 and 1998, respectively.

COMMON STOCK INFORMATION

     The Company's common stock (symbol DNB) is listed on the New York Stock
Exchange. The number of shareholders of record was 9,202 at December 31, 1999.

     The following table summarizes price and cash dividend information for Old
D&B's and the Company's common stock as reported in the periods shown. The
first-quarter 1998 and 1999 dividend declarations were made in the fourth
quarters of 1997 and 1998, respectively, although the record and payment dates
are both in the ensuing first quarters.



FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

     Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking.
These may be identified by the use of forward-looking words or phrases, such as
"believe," "expect," "anticipate," "should," "aims," "intends," "planned,"
"estimated," "potential," "target" and "goal," among others. All such
forward-looking statements are based on the Company's reasonable expectations at
the time they are made. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
provides a "safe harbor" for such forward-looking statements. In order to comply
with the terms of the safe harbor, the Company notes that a variety of factors
could cause the Company's actual results and experience to differ materially
from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed in such
forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties that may affect the
operations, performance, development and results of the Company's businesses
include: (1) complexity and uncertainty regarding the development of new
high-technology products; (2) possible loss of market share through competition;
(3) introduction of competing products or technologies by other companies; (4)
pricing pressures from competitors and/or customers; (5) changes in the business
information and risk management industries and markets; (6) the Company's
ability to protect proprietary information and technology or to obtain necessary
licenses on commercially reasonable terms; (7) the Company's ability to complete
the implementation of its euro plans on a timely basis and the competitive
implications that the conversion to the euro may have on the Company's pricing
and marketing strategies; (8) the possible loss of key employees to


investment or commercial banks, or elsewhere; (9) fluctuations in foreign
currency exchange rates; (10) changes in the interest rate environment; (11) the
outcome of the IRS's review of the Company's utilization of capital losses
described above under the Liquidity and Financial Position section and the
associated cash flow implications; (12) the ability to complete pending
restructurings at the D&B operating company in a timely fashion at forecasted
costs without adverse effects on operations; and (13) the ability to implement
the 2000 Distribution on a timely basis without adverse impact on the conduct of
the Company's business.

     The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly release any revision to
any forward-looking statement to reflect any future events or circumstances.

     The Company may from time to time make oral forward-looking statements. In
connection with the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the Company is hereby identifying important
factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those
contained in any such forward-looking statement made by or on behalf of the
Company. Any such statement is qualified by reference to the factors set forth
above.

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

     Information in response to this Item is set forth under the caption "Market
Risk Sensitive Instruments" in Part II, Item 7 on Pages 24-25 of this Form 10-K.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

                  INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULES



SCHEDULES

     Schedules are omitted as not required or inapplicable or because the
required information is provided in the consolidated financial statements,
including the notes thereto.



                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of The Dun & Bradstreet
Corporation:

     In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the
accompanying index present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation and Subsidiaries at December 31,
1999 and 1998, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the
years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States. These financial statements
are the responsibility of the Company's management; our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We
conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with auditing standards
generally accepted in the United States, which require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements,
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We
believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed
above.

     As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the
Company changed certain revenue recognition accounting policies in 1997.

/s/ PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

New York, New York
February 2, 2000, except as to Note 16
  which is as of February 16, 2000.



        STATEMENT OF MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

To the Shareholders of The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation:

     Management has prepared and is responsible for the consolidated financial
statements and related information that appear in Items 6 and 7 and on pages
32-58 of this Form 10-K. The consolidated financial statements, which include
amounts based on the estimates of management, have been prepared in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Other
financial information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is consistent with that
in the consolidated financial statements.

     Management believes that the Company's internal control systems provide
reasonable assurance at reasonable cost that assets are safeguarded against loss
from unauthorized use or disposition, and that the financial records are
reliable for preparing financial statements and maintaining accountability for
assets. These systems are augmented by written policies, an organizational
structure providing division of responsibilities, careful selection and training
of qualified financial personnel and a program of internal audits.

     The independent accountants are engaged to conduct an audit of and render
an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards. These standards include an assessment of the systems of
internal controls and tests of transactions to the extent considered necessary
by them to support their opinion.

     The Board of Directors, through its Audit Committee, consisting solely of
outside directors of the Company, is responsible for reviewing and monitoring
the Company's financial reporting and accounting practices.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and the internal auditors each have full and free
access to the Audit Committee and meet with it regularly, with and without
management.

                                          /s/ CLIFFORD L. ALEXANDER, JR.
                                          --------------------------------------
                                          Clifford L. Alexander, Jr.
                                          Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

                                          /s/ CHESTER J. GEVEDA, JR.
                                          --------------------------------------
                                          Chester J. Geveda, Jr.
                                          Vice President and Controller and
                                          Acting Chief Financial Officer



               THE DUN & BRADSTREET CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS



   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
                                  statements.


               THE DUN & BRADSTREET CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
                                  statements.


               THE DUN & BRADSTREET CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
                                  statements.


               THE DUN & BRADSTREET CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY


   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
                                  statements.



               THE DUN & BRADSTREET CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
           TABULAR DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA

NOTE 1 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION.  The consolidated financial statements include
those of The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation (the "Company") and its subsidiaries
and investments in which the Company has a controlling interest. Investments in
companies over which the Company has significant influence but not a controlling
interest are carried on an equity basis. The effects of all significant
intercompany transactions have been eliminated.

     The financial statements of subsidiaries outside the United States and
Canada reflect a fiscal year ended November 30 to facilitate timely reporting of
the Company's consolidated financial results.

     As discussed more thoroughly in Note 2, R.H. Donnelley Corporation is
presented as discontinued operations.

     CASH EQUIVALENTS.  Marketable securities that mature within 90 days of
purchase date are considered cash equivalents and are stated at cost, which
approximates fair value.

     MARKETABLE SECURITIES.  In accordance with Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in
Debt and Equity Securities," marketable securities at December 31, 1999 and
1998, are classified as "available for sale" and are reported at fair value,
with net unrealized gains and losses reported in shareholders' equity.

     The fair value of current and non-current marketable securities was
estimated based on quoted market prices. Realized gains and losses on marketable
securities are determined on the specific identification method.

     The Company's marketable securities, $45.4 million and $49.7 million at
December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively, consisted primarily of debt securities
of the U.S. Government and its agencies.

     PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT.  Buildings, machinery and equipment are
depreciated principally using the straight-line method over a period of three to
40 years. Leasehold improvements are amortized on a straight-line basis over the
shorter of the term of the lease or the estimated useful life of the
improvement.

     COMPUTER SOFTWARE, GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS.  Effective January 1,
1999, the Company adopted Statement of Position ("SOP") 98-1, "Accounting for
the Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use." Among
other provisions, SOP 98-1 requires that entities capitalize certain
internal-use software costs once certain criteria are met. Under SOP 98-1,
overhead, general and administrative and training costs are not capitalized. In
addition, certain computer software costs are capitalized in accordance with
SFAS No. 86, "Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software to Be Sold, Leased
or Otherwise Marketed," and are reported at the lower of unamortized cost or net
realizable value. Costs incurred in connection with business process
reengineering are expensed as incurred.

     Other intangibles result from acquisitions and database enhancements.
Computer software and other intangibles are being amortized, using the
straight-line method, over three to five years and three to 15 years,
respectively. Goodwill represents the excess purchase price over the fair value
of identifiable net assets of businesses acquired and is amortized on a
straight-line basis over five to 40 years.

     In accordance with SFAS No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of
Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of," the Company
reviews for impairment of long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangibles
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of
an asset may not be recoverable. In general, the Company will recognize an
impairment loss when the sum of undiscounted expected future cash flows is less
than the carrying amount of such assets. The measurement for such an impairment
loss is then based on the fair value of the asset.


               THE DUN & BRADSTREET CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     At each balance sheet date, the Company reviews the recoverability of
goodwill, not identified with long-lived assets, based on estimated undiscounted
future cash flows from operating activities compared with the carrying value of
goodwill, and recognizes any impairment on the basis of such comparison. The
recognition and measurement of goodwill impairment is assessed at the
business-unit level.

     REVENUE RECOGNITION.  The Company recognizes revenue as services are
performed, information is delivered and products and services are used by its
customers. Amounts billed for service and subscriptions are credited to unearned
subscription income and reflected in operating revenues as used over the
subscription term, which is generally one year.

     ACCOUNTING CHANGES.  Effective January 1, 1997, the Company changed its
revenue recognition method for its Credit Information Services business to
recognize revenue as products and services are used by its customers.
Previously, the Company recognized revenue ratably over the contract period.
This change is consistent with the Company's change in focus from a sales
contract basis to a product usage basis. Additionally, the Company changed its
revenue recognition method for its Moody's Investors Service ("Moody's")
business to recognize revenue over the service period from previously
recognizing revenue and costs at the time of billing. In the opinion of
management, these accounting changes bring revenue recognition methods more in
line with the economics of the business and provide a better measure of
operating results.

     In accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion ("APB") No. 20,
"Accounting Changes," the cumulative effect of changing the accounting for
certain of the Company's revenue recognition policies resulted in a pre-tax
non-cash charge of $214.7 million ($127.0 million after-tax or $.74 per share
basic, $.73 per share diluted).

     FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION.  For all operations outside the United States
where the Company has designated the local currency as the functional currency,
assets and liabilities are translated using the end-of-year exchange rates, and
revenues and expenses are translated using average exchange rates for the year.
For these countries, currency translation adjustments are accumulated in a
separate component of shareholders' equity, whereas realized transaction gains
and losses are recognized in other income (expense) -- net. For operations in
countries that are considered to be highly inflationary, where the U.S. dollar
is designated as the functional currency, monetary assets and liabilities are
translated using end-of-year exchange rates, and nonmonetary accounts are
translated using historical exchange rates. Translation and transaction gains of
$.1 million, $1.0 million and $.9 million in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively,
are recognized in other income (expense) -- net.

     EARNINGS PER SHARE OF COMMON STOCK.  In accordance with SFAS No. 128,
"Earnings per Share" ("SFAS No. 128"), basic earnings per share are calculated
based on the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding
during the reporting period. Diluted earnings per share are calculated giving
effect to all potentially dilutive common shares, assuming such shares were
outstanding during the reporting period.

     FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS.  At times, the Company uses forward foreign exchange
contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge existing assets, liabilities and firm
commitments. The Company does not use any derivatives for trading or speculative
purposes.

     Gains and losses on forward foreign exchange contracts that qualify as
hedges of existing assets or liabilities are included in the carrying amounts of
those assets or liabilities and are ultimately recognized in income as part of
those carrying amounts. Gains and losses related to qualifying hedges of firm
commitments are also deferred and are recognized in income or as adjustments of
carrying amounts when the hedged transactions occur. For forward foreign
exchange contracts, the risk reduction is assessed on a transaction basis, and
contract amounts and terms are matched to existing intercompany transactions.


               THE DUN & BRADSTREET CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The Company has in the past used interest rate swaps to hedge interest rate
risk on commercial paper. Settlement accounting is accorded to the swaps that
have contractual, periodic payment terms considered to be aligned to the
expected future commercial paper issuances. Periodic swap payments and receipts
under interest rate swaps are recorded as part of interest expense. Neither the
swap contracts nor the gains or losses on these contracts, which are designated
and effective as hedges, are recognized in the financial statements.

     If a hedging instrument is sold or terminated prior to maturity, gains and
losses will continue to be deferred until the hedged item is recognized in
income. If a hedging instrument ceases to qualify for settlement accounting, any
subsequent gains and losses are recognized currently in income.

     ESTIMATES.  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates. Estimates are used in the
determination of allowances for doubtful accounts, employee benefits plans,
taxes and contingencies, and depreciation rates for property, plant and
equipment, computer software, goodwill and other capitalized costs, among
others.

     RECLASSIFICATIONS.  As discussed in Note 2, the consolidated financial
statements have been reclassified to identify separately the results of
operations and cash flows of the Company's discontinued operations. In addition,
certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 1999
presentation.

NOTE 2 REORGANIZATION AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

     Pursuant to APB No. 30, "Reporting the Results of Operations -- Reporting
the Effects of Disposal of a Segment of a Business, and Extraordinary, Unusual
and Infrequently Occurring Events and Transactions," the consolidated financial
statements of the Company have been reclassified to reflect as discontinued
operations, the companies that constituted the Company's Directory Information
Services business segment as a result of the 1998 Distribution.

     On June 30, 1998, the company then known as The Dun & Bradstreet
Corporation ("Old D&B") separated into two publicly traded companies -- The New
Dun & Bradstreet Corporation ("New D&B" or the "Company") and R.H. Donnelley
Corporation. The separation (the "1998 Distribution") of the two companies was
accomplished through a tax-free dividend by Old D&B of the Company, which was a
new entity comprising Moody's and the Dun & Bradstreet operating company
("D&B"). The new entity is now known as "The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation," and
the continuing entity (i.e., Old D&B), consisting of R.H. Donnelley Inc., the
operating company, and the DonTech partnership, changed its name to R.H.
Donnelley Corporation ("Donnelley"). Due to the relative significance of the new
entity, the transaction has been accounted for as a reverse spin-off and, as
such, Moody's and D&B have been classified as continuing operations, and
Donnelley and DonTech have been classified as discontinued operations. On June
3, 1998, following receipt of a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS")
that the transaction would be tax-free to Old D&B and its U.S. shareholders, the
Board of Directors of Old D&B declared a dividend distribution to shareholders
of record on June 17, 1998, consisting of one share of New D&B for each share of
Old D&B common stock held as of the record date. The 1998 Distribution was
effected on June 30, 1998, and resulted in an increase to shareholders' equity
of $188.5 million. During the fourth quarter of 1998, adjustments to the
dividend of $5.0 million were recorded, primarily as a result of employee
benefits plan revisions.

     For purposes of governing certain of the ongoing relationships between the
Company and Donnelley following the 1998 Distribution, the companies entered
into various agreements, including a Distribution Agreement, Tax Allocation
Agreement, Employee Benefits Agreement, Intellectual Property Agreement, Shared
Transaction Services Agreement, Data Services Agreement and Transition Services
Agreements.


               THE DUN & BRADSTREET CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The net operating results of the Directory Information Services segment
have been reported in the caption "Income from Discontinued Operations" in the
consolidated statements of operations. Summarized operating results for the
Directory Information Services segment for the years ended December 31 were as
follows:



NOTE 3 RESTRUCTURING

     During the fourth quarter of 1999, the Company recorded a restructuring
charge of $41.2 million, or $27.9 million on an after-tax basis. The
restructuring includes: (1) office consolidations and organization changes in
both Europe and other international locations and improvements in sales and data
collection operations in Europe; (2) realigning and streamlining the Company's
global technology organization and outsourcing certain software and product
development to resources outside the United States and Europe and (3) migrating
data collection in the U.S. to telephonic data collection and closing 15 U.S.
field data collection offices.

     The restructuring charge includes $32.7 million related to severance costs
in connection with the termination of approximately 700 associates, including
two former corporate executives. The severance costs were determined based on
the amounts that will be paid pursuant to the Company's policies and certain
foreign governmental regulations. The balance of the charge relates to the
write-off of certain assets made obsolete or redundant and abandoned by the
restructuring and leasehold termination obligations arising from office
closures. The Company anticipates completion of the restructuring in fiscal
2000. The components of the restructuring charge are summarized in the table
below:



     The restructuring actions are designed to strengthen customer service
worldwide, improve operating efficiencies, lower structural costs and facilitate
investment in future revenue growth initiatives.

     During 1999, severance payments of $2.5 million were made to 161 terminated
associates, and payments of $.1 million were made for lease obligations. At
December 31, 1999, $34.7 million of the restructuring reserve remains, of which
$30.2 million relates to severance, which will be paid out to the affected
former associates during the next 12 to 18 months, and $4.5 million relates to
lease obligations, which will be paid out over the term of the lease
commitments. Assets made obsolete or redundant and abandoned by restructuring
actions have been written off at December 31, 1999.

NOTE 4 NON-RECURRING ITEMS

     During the fourth quarter of 1999, the Company received $11.9 million to
settle litigation that arose from a transaction related to the 1996 sale of the
Dun & Bradstreet Software Company. The Company recorded the $11.9 million gain
in other income (expense) -- net.


               THE DUN & BRADSTREET CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     During the third quarter of 1999, certain agreements related to the sale in
July 1998 of Financial Information Systems ("FIS"), the financial publishing
unit of Moody's, expired or were completed. As a result, estimated liabilities
established at the time of the sale in connection with these agreements, which
were determined to be no longer required, were adjusted. These adjustments
resulted in a gain of $12.2 million included in other income (expense) -- net.

     In July 1998, the Company sold FIS. The Company received $26.5 million in
cash and recorded within other income (expense) -- net a pre-tax gain of $9.6
million on the transaction. Also in 1998, the Company incurred pre-tax expenses
of $28.0 million in connection with the separation of Donnelley (primarily
professional fees of $19.1 million and costs resulting from the termination of
interest rate swaps of $8.9 million).

NOTE 5 RECONCILIATION OF WEIGHTED AVERAGE SHARES



     As required by SFAS No. 128, the Company has provided a reconciliation of
basic weighted average shares to diluted weighted average shares within the
tables outlined above. Options to purchase 3.0 million, 3.4 million and 3.1
million shares of common stock were outstanding at December 31, 1999, 1998 and
1997, respectively, but were not included in the computation of diluted earnings
per share because the options' exercise prices were greater than the average
market price of the Company's common stock. The Company's options generally
expire 10 years after the initial grant date.

     Upon the 1998 Distribution, employees of the Company were granted
substitute options, preserving the economic value, as closely as possible, of
the options that existed immediately prior to the 1998 Distribution and any
awards or options held by them in respect of Donnelley were canceled.

NOTE 6 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS WITH OFF-BALANCE SHEET RISKS

     The Company uses forward foreign exchange contracts and in the past has
used interest rate swap agreements to reduce exposure to fluctuations in foreign
exchange rates and in interest rates. The Company does not use derivative
financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. If a hedging
instrument ceases to qualify as a hedge, any subsequent gains and losses are
recognized currently in income. Collateral is generally not required for these
types of instruments.

     By their nature, all such instruments involve risk, including the credit
risk of non-performance by counterparties. However, at December 31, 1999 and
1998, in management's opinion there was no significant risk of loss in the event
of non-performance of the counterparties to these financial instruments. The
Company controls its exposure to credit risk through monitoring procedures.

FOREIGN EXCHANGE

     In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations,
the Company follows a policy of hedging substantially all cross-border
intercompany transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional
currency applicable to each of its various subsidiaries. The financial
instruments used to hedge


               THE DUN & BRADSTREET CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

these cross-border intercompany transactions are forward foreign exchange
contracts with maturities of six months or less. These forward contracts are
executed with creditworthy institutions and are denominated primarily in the
British pound sterling, the euro and the Swedish krona. The gains and losses on
these forward contracts are recorded to income or expense and are essentially
offset by the gains and losses on the underlying foreign currency transactions.

     At December 31, 1999 and 1998, the Company had approximately $138 million
and $117 million of forward foreign exchange contracts outstanding with various
expiration dates through March 2000 and March 1999, respectively. At December
31, 1999, unrealized gains on these contracts were $.9 million, and the
unrealized losses were $.3 million. At December 31, 1998, unrealized gains on
these contracts were $.9 million, and the unrealized losses were $.4 million.

INTEREST RATE SWAP AGREEMENTS

     In the past, the Company has entered into interest rate swap agreements to
manage exposure to changes in interest rates. Interest rate swaps allowed the
Company to raise funds at floating rates and effectively swap them into fixed
rates that were lower than those available to it if fixed-rate borrowings were
to be made directly.

     In connection with the 1998 Distribution and repayment of outstanding notes
payable, Old D&B canceled all of its interest rate swap agreements (which fixed
interest rates on $300 million of variable rate debt through January 2005) and
recorded into income the previously unrecognized fair value loss at the time of
termination. At the time of the cancellation, the fair value of the interest
rate swaps was a loss of $12.7 million, of which $3.8 million ($.6 million in
the first quarter of 1998 and $3.2 million in 1997) had been recognized in
income relating to swaps that did not qualify for settlement accounting. The
previously unrecognized loss of $8.9 million was recorded during the second
quarter of 1998 and included in reorganization costs.

NOTE 7 PENSION AND POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS




               THE DUN & BRADSTREET CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)



     The benefit obligation and accumulated benefit obligation for pension plans
with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets were $176.9
million and $162.5 million in 1999 and $185.9 million and $167.7 million in
1998. Grantor trusts are used to fund these obligations. At December 31, 1999
and 1998, the balances of those trusts were $45.2 million and $46.9 million,
respectively.



     1997 net periodic (income) cost includes expense attributable to
discontinued operations of $1.0 million and $1.7 million for pension plans and
postretirement plans, respectively.



     For measurements purposes, a 6.5% annual rate of increase in the per capita
cost of covered health-care benefits was assumed for 2000. The rate was assumed
to decrease gradually to 5.0% for 2021 and remain at that level thereafter.


               THE DUN & BRADSTREET CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Assumed health-care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the
amounts reported for the health-care plans. A one-percentage-point change in the
assumed health-care cost trend rates would have the following effects.



PROFIT PARTICIPATION PLAN

     The Company also has a profit participation plan covering substantially all
U.S. employees, that provides for an employee salary deferral contribution and
Company contributions. Employees may contribute up to 16% of their pay. The
Company contributes an amount equal to 50% of employee contributions, up to 6%
of the employee's pay. The Company also makes contributions to the plan if
certain objectives are met, based on performance over a two-year period. The
Company recognized expense associated with the plan of $12.1 million, $16.4
million and $13.3 million in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

NOTE 8 EMPLOYEE STOCK PLANS

     Under its 1998 Key Employees' Stock Incentive Plan, the Company has granted
options to certain associates to purchase shares of its common stock at the
market price on the date of the grant. Options granted in December 1999 vest in
three equal installments, beginning on the third anniversary of the grant, while
other options granted under the plan vest 100% after five years, with the
opportunity for accelerated vesting if certain conditions are met. These options
expire 10 years from the date of the grant. The 1998 Key Employees Stock
Incentive Plan, adopted upon the 1998 Distribution, provides for the granting of
up to 16.5 million shares.

     At the 1998 Distribution date, employees of the Company were granted
substitute options and other equity-based awards (under the 1998 Dun &
Bradstreet Corporation Replacement Plan for Certain Employees Holding Dun &
Bradstreet Corporation Equity-Based Awards), preserving the economic value, as
closely as possible, of the awards that existed immediately prior to the 1998
Distribution, and any awards held by them in respect to Donnelley were
surrendered. For employees of Donnelley, awards were adjusted immediately
following the 1998 Distribution to preserve, as closely as possible, the
economic value of the awards that existed immediately prior to the 1998
Distribution. The remaining holders of unexercised options, including retirees
and certain other former employees of the Company, were offered the choice of
converting their options to the Company's or continuing to hold Donnelley
options.

     The Company applies APB No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,"
and related interpretations in accounting for its plans. Accordingly, no
compensation cost has been recognized for the stock option plans. The Company
has adopted the disclosure-only provisions of SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation" ("SFAS No. 123"). Had compensation cost for the
Company's stock option plans been determined based on the fair value at the
grant date for awards in 1999, 1998 and 1997 (excluding awards granted to
employees of discontinued operations) consistent with the provisions of SFAS No.
123, the


               THE DUN & BRADSTREET CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

Company's income from continuing operations and earnings per share would have
been reduced to the pro-forma amounts indicated below:



     The pro-forma disclosures shown are not representative of the effects on
income and earnings per share in future years.

     The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using
the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted average
assumptions:



     Options outstanding at December 31, 1999, were originally granted during
the years 1990 through 1999 and are exercisable over periods ending not later
than 2009. At December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, options for 7,899,386 shares,
8,527,343 shares and 8,133,155 shares of common stock, respectively, were
exercisable and 9,087,997 shares, 12,427,373 shares and 1,450,195 shares,
respectively, were available for future grants under the plans.

     Changes in stock options for the three years ended December 31, 1999, are
summarized as follows:




               THE DUN & BRADSTREET CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)



     The weighted average fair value of options granted during 1999, 1998 and
1997 was $8.78, $7.13 and $5.52, respectively.

     The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding
at December 31, 1999:



     The plans also provide for the granting of stock appreciation rights
("SARs") and limited stock appreciation rights ("LSARs") in tandem with stock
options to certain key employees. Upon the 1998 Distribution, the Old D&B SARs
and LSARs were adjusted or converted in substantially the same manner as the
unexercised Old D&B stock options. At December 31, 1999 and 1998, there were
78,353 and 30,400 SARs and 761,191 and 1,518,215 LSARs attached to stock
options, which are exercisable only if, and to the extent that, the related
option is exercisable and, in the case of LSARs, only upon the occurrence of
specified contingent events.

     Upon the 1998 Distribution, Old D&B restricted stock that had been granted
to key associates of the Company under the 1989 Key Employees Restricted Stock
Plan was forfeited and replaced with New D&B stock, preserving the economic
value that existed immediately prior to the 1998 Distribution. During 1999 and
1998, no new awards of restricted stock were granted, and during 1998, 36,620
shares were replaced. During 1997 restricted share grants of 20,000 were awarded
under the plan. There were no forfeitures during 1999, 1998 and 1997. The
restrictions on the majority of such shares lapse over a period of three years
from the date of the grant, and the cost is charged to compensation expense
ratably.

     Under the 1998 Key Employees' Stock Incentive Plan, key employees may be
granted shares of the Company's stock based on the achievement of two-year
revenue growth goals or other key operating objectives, where appropriate. At
the end of the performance period, Company performance at target will yield


               THE DUN & BRADSTREET CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

the targeted amount of shares, whereas Company performance above or below target
will yield larger or smaller share awards, respectively. Awards that were
outstanding at the 1998 Distribution were canceled and replaced, preserving the
economic value that existed prior to the 1998 Distribution. Recorded in selling
and administrative expenses was compensation expense of $14.9 million, $16.0
million and $14.6 million in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively, for the plans.

NOTE 9 INCOME TAXES

     Income (loss) from continuing operations before provision for income taxes
consisted of:



The provision (benefit) for income taxes consisted of:



     The following table summarizes the significant differences between the U.S.
Federal statutory tax rate and the Company's effective tax rate for financial
statement purposes.



     Income taxes paid were $165.1 million, $136.5 million and $170.3 million in
1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. Income taxes refunded were $26.7 million,
$32.1 million and $37.6 million in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.


               THE DUN & BRADSTREET CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Deferred tax assets (liabilities) comprised the following at December 31:



     At December 31, 1999, undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries
aggregated $133.9 million. Deferred tax liabilities have not been recognized for
these undistributed earnings because it is management's intention to reinvest
such undistributed earnings outside the U.S. If all undistributed earnings were
remitted to the U.S., the amount of incremental U.S. Federal and foreign income
taxes payable, net of foreign tax credits, would be $49.8 million.

     During the three-year period ended December 31, 1983, the Company invested
$304.4 million in tax-leasing transactions, varying in length from 4.5 to 25
years. These leases provided the Company with significant benefits from tax
deductions in excess of taxable income for Federal income tax purposes. These
amounts are included in deferred income taxes.

NOTE 10 NOTES PAYABLE

     Notes payable consisted of the following at December 31:



     The Company had commercial paper borrowings of $124.7 million at December
31, 1999. The interest rates on these commercial paper borrowings ranged from
5.82% to 6.00%.

     In June 1999, the Company renewed its $300 million 364-day revolving credit
facility. The Company has an additional $300 million facility maturing in June
2003. Under these facilities, the Company has the ability to borrow at
prevailing short-term interest rates. The Company has had no borrowings
outstanding under these facilities since they were established in June 1998.


               THE DUN & BRADSTREET CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     At December 31, 1999, the Company also had non-committed lines of credit of
$27.1 million with $1.5 million of borrowings outstanding under these lines of
credit as of that date. These arrangements have no material commitment fees or
compensating balance requirements.

     The weighted average interest rates on commercial paper and notes payable
at December 31, 1999 and 1998, were 5.90% and 6.06%, respectively.

     Interest paid totaled $4.5 million, $12.1 million and $49.6 million for the
years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

     In connection with the 1998 Distribution, during June 1998, R.H. Donnelley
Inc. borrowed $350 million under the R.H. Donnelley Inc. credit facility and
issued $150 million of senior subordinated notes under the R.H. Donnelley Inc.
indenture. This $500 million of debt remained an obligation of R.H. Donnelley
Inc. after the 1998 Distribution. A portion of the proceeds of this borrowing
was used by Old D&B to repay outstanding indebtedness at the time of the 1998
Distribution of $287.1 million. The Company used the remainder for general
corporate purposes, including the payment of costs and expenses associated with
the reorganization.

NOTE 11 INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIPS

     During 1993, the Company participated in the formation of a limited
partnership to invest in various securities, including those of the Company.
Third-party investors held limited-partner and special investors' interests
totaling $500 million. During the fourth quarter of 1996, the Company redeemed
these partnership interests. This redemption was financed with short-term
borrowings.

     The partnership is presently engaged in the business of licensing database
assets and computer software. One of the Company's subsidiaries serves as
managing general partner, and two subsidiaries hold limited-partner interests.
In April 1997, the partnership raised $300 million of minority interest
financing from a third-party investor. The Company's subsidiaries contributed
assets to the partnership, and the third-party investor contributed cash ($300
million) in exchange for a limited-partner interest. Funds raised by the
partnership were loaned to the Company and used to repay existing short-term
debt in April 1997. Under the terms of the partnership agreement, the
third-party investor has a right to take steps that would result in termination
of the minority interest financing during or after December 2000. Furthermore,
the third-party investor would also have the right to terminate the minority
interest financing within 60 days after the 2000 Distribution (see Note 16 to
the consolidated financial statements) if the third-party investor has not
consented to the 2000 Distribution. At December 31, 1999 and 1998, the
third-party investment in this partnership was included in minority interest.

     For financial reporting purposes, the results of operations, assets,
liabilities and cash flows of the partnership described above are included in
the Company's consolidated financial statements.

NOTE 12 CAPITAL STOCK

     Under the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the Company has
authority to issue 420,000,000 shares with a par value of $.01 per share, of
which 400,000,000 represent shares of common stock, 10,000,000 represent shares
of preferred stock and 10,000,000 represent shares of series common stock. The
preferred and series common stock can be issued with varying terms, as
determined by the Board of Directors.

     On June 30, 1998, 171,291,317 shares of New D&B common stock were
distributed to the shareholders of Old D&B. Since New D&B has been treated as
the successor entity for accounting purposes, the Company's historical financial
statements reflect the recapitalization of New D&B in connection with the 1998
Distribution, including the elimination of treasury shares (which shares became
treasury shares of Donnelley), the adjustment of the par value of the preferred
stock and the common stock to $.01 per share, and the authorization of the
series common stock.


               THE DUN & BRADSTREET CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     In connection with the 1998 Distribution, the Company entered into a Rights
Agreement designed to protect shareholders of the Company in the event of
unsolicited offers to acquire the Company and other coercive takeover tactics
which, in the opinion of the Board of Directors, could impair its ability to
represent shareholder interests. Under the Rights Agreement, each share of the
common stock has a right that trades with the stock until the right becomes
exercisable. Each right entitles the registered holder to purchase 1/1000 of a
share of Series A junior participating preferred stock, par value $.01 per
share, at a price of $150 per 1/1000 of a share, subject to adjustment. The
rights will generally not be exercisable until a person or group ("Acquiring
Person") acquires beneficial ownership of, or commences a tender offer or
exchange offer that would result in such person or group having beneficial
ownership of 15% or more of the outstanding common stock.

     In the event that any person or group becomes an Acquiring Person, each
right will thereafter entitle its holder (other than the Acquiring Person) to
receive, upon exercise, shares of stock having a market value of two times the
exercise price in the form of the Company's common stock or, where appropriate,
the Acquiring Person's common stock. The Company may redeem the rights, which
expire in June 2008, for $.01 per right, under certain circumstances.

NOTE 13 LEASE COMMITMENTS

     Certain of the Company's operations are conducted from leased facilities,
which are under operating leases that expire over the next 10 years. The Company
also leases certain computer and other equipment under operating leases that
expire over the next five years. These leases are frequently renegotiated or
otherwise changed as advancements in computer technology produce opportunities
to lower costs and improve performance. Additionally, the Company has agreements
with various third parties to purchase certain data processing and
telecommunications services extending beyond one year. Rental expenses under
operating leases were $79.3 million, $66.8 million and $80.9 million for the
years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. Future minimum lease
payments under noncancelable leases at December 31, 1999, are as follows:



NOTE 14 CONTINGENCIES

     The Company and its subsidiaries are involved in legal proceedings, claims,
litigation and tax matters arising in the ordinary course of business. In the
opinion of management, the outcome of such matters could have a material effect
on quarterly or annual operating results or cash flows. However, in the opinion
of management, these matters will not materially affect financial position when
resolved in a future period.

     In addition, the Company also has certain other contingencies discussed
below.

  Information Resources, Inc.

     On July 29, 1996, Information Resources, Inc. ("IRI") filed a complaint in
the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, naming
as defendants Old D&B, A.C. Nielsen Company (a subsidiary of ACNielsen) and IMS
International, Inc. (formerly a subsidiary of Cognizant and currently a
subsidiary of IMS Health Incorporated).

     The complaint alleges various violations of United States antitrust laws,
including alleged violations of Sections 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act. The
complaint also alleges a claim of tortious interference with a contract and a
claim of tortious interference with a prospective business relationship. These
claims relate to the acquisition by defendants of Survey Research Group Limited
("SRG"). IRI alleges SRG violated an


               THE DUN & BRADSTREET CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

alleged agreement with IRI when it agreed to be acquired by the defendants and
that the defendants induced SRG to breach that agreement.

     IRI's complaint alleges damages in excess of $350 million, which amount IRI
asked to be trebled under antitrust laws. IRI also seeks punitive damages in an
unspecified amount.

     In connection with the IRI action, on October 28, 1996, Cognizant,
ACNielsen and Old D&B entered into an Indemnity and Joint Defense Agreement (the
"Indemnity and Joint Defense Agreement") pursuant to which they have agreed (i)
to certain arrangements allocating potential liabilities ("IRI Liabilities")
that may arise out of or in connection with the IRI action and (ii) to conduct a
joint defense of such action. In particular, the Indemnity and Joint Defense
Agreement provides that ACNielsen will assume exclusive liability for IRI
Liabilities up to a maximum amount to be calculated at such time such
liabilities, if any, become payable (the "ACN Maximum Amount"), and that Old D&B
and Cognizant will share liability equally for any amounts in excess of the ACN
Maximum Amount. The ACN Maximum Amount will be determined by an investment
banking firm as the maximum amount that ACNielsen is able to pay after giving
effect to (i) any plan submitted by such investment bank that is designed to
maximize the claims-paying ability of ACNielsen without impairing the investment
banking firm's ability to deliver a viability opinion (but which will not
require any action requiring stockholder approval), and (ii) payment of related
fees and expenses. For these purposes, financial viability means the ability of
ACNielsen, after giving effect to such plan, the payment of related fees and
expenses and the payment of the ACN Maximum Amount, to pay its debts as they
become due and to finance the current and anticipated operating and capital
requirements of its business, as reconstituted by such plan, for two years from
the date any such plan is expected to be implemented.

     In connection with the 1998 Distribution, the Company and Donnelley entered
into an agreement whereby the Company has assumed all potential liabilities of
Old D&B arising from the IRI action and agreed to indemnify Donnelley in
connection with such potential liabilities.

     During 1998, Cognizant separated into two new companies, IMS Health
Incorporated ("IMS") and Nielsen Media Research, Inc. ("NMR"). IMS and NMR are
each jointly and severally liable for all Cognizant liabilities under the
Indemnity and Joint Defense Agreement.

     Management is unable to predict at this time the final outcome of the IRI
action or whether the resolution of this matter could materially affect the
Company's results of operations, cash flows or financial position.

  Tax matters

     The Company enters into global tax planning initiatives in the normal
course of business. These initiatives are subject to review by tax authorities.
As a result of the review process, uncertainties exist, and it is possible that
some of these matters could be resolved unfavorably for the Company.

     The IRS, as part of its audit process, is continuing its review of the
Company's utilization of certain capital losses generated during 1989 and 1990.
While the Company has not received a formal assessment with respect to these
transactions, the Company expects that the IRS will challenge the Company's
utilization of these capital losses and expects to receive an assessment during
the second quarter of 2000. The Company believes that the total cash obligation
to the IRS is approximately $550 million for taxes and accrued interest at
December 31, 1999. Pursuant to a series of agreements, IMS and NMR are jointly
and severally liable to pay one-half, and the Company the other half of any
payments for taxes and accrued interest arising from this matter and certain
other potential tax liabilities after the Company pays the first $137 million.


               THE DUN & BRADSTREET CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     In connection with the 1998 Distribution, the Company and Donnelley entered
into an agreement whereby the Company has assumed all potential liabilities
arising of Old D&B from these tax matters and has agreed to indemnify Donnelley
in connection with such potential liabilities.

     As of December 31, 1999, the Company has accrued its anticipated share of
the probable liability (approximately $345 million, including $183 million of
tax-deductible interest) arising from the Company's utilization of these capital
losses in 1989 and 1990. As a result, the final resolution of this matter will
not have a material effect on the results of operations, but could have a
material effect on cash flows and financial position.

NOTE 15 SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL DATA








               THE DUN & BRADSTREET CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)



- ---------------
(1) Impact of foreign currency fluctuations.



NOTE 16 REORGANIZATION PLAN

     On December 15, 1999, the Company announced that it will pursue the
separation of Moody's and the D&B operating company into two independent,
publicly traded companies. On February 16, 2000, the Company announced that the
separation would be accomplished by spinning off, through a tax-free
distribution to shareholders (the "2000 Distribution"), a subsidiary corporation
comprising the business of the D&B operating company. The 2000 Distribution is
subject to final approval by the Company's Board of Directors and obtaining a
favorable ruling from the Internal Revenue Service with respect to the tax-free
treatment of the distribution. After the 2000 Distribution, the business of the
Company will consist entirely of the business conducted by Moody's, and the D&B
operating company business will comprise the business of a new publicly traded
company that will succeed to the name "The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation." The
Company expects to complete the reorganization by the end of the third quarter
of 2000.

NOTE 17 SEGMENT INFORMATION

     In accordance with SFAS No. 131 ("Disclosures about Segments of an
Enterprise and Related Information"), the segment information is being reported
consistent with the Company's method of internal reporting, which excludes
divested operations from the segments. The Company's reportable segments for
1999 were Dun & Bradstreet United States ("U.S."), Dun & Bradstreet
Europe/Africa/Middle East ("Europe"), Dun & Bradstreet Asia Pacific/Canada/Latin
America ("APCLA") and Moody's Investors


               THE DUN & BRADSTREET CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

Service. The three Dun & Bradstreet segments, managed on a geographical basis,
provide business-to-business credit, marketing and purchasing information and
receivables management services. The Moody's Investors Service segment provides
credit opinions on investment securities and assigns ratings to fixed-income
securities and other credit obligations. The accounting policies of the segments
are the same as those described in Note 1 -- Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies. The Company evaluates performance and allocates resources based on
segment operating income. Intersegment sales are immaterial.




               THE DUN & BRADSTREET CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)




               THE DUN & BRADSTREET CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)



- ---------------
(1) The following tables itemize "All Other":




               THE DUN & BRADSTREET CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)



(2) Includes depreciation and amortization of Property, Plant and Equipment,
    Computer Software, Goodwill and Other Intangibles.

NOTE 18 QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)




               THE DUN & BRADSTREET CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)



- ---------------
(1) The following tables itemize "All Other" for Operating Revenues and
    Operating Income:




               THE DUN & BRADSTREET CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)



(2) Net Income included an after-tax gain related to an adjustment on the sale
    of Financial Information Services, the publishing unit of Moody's Investors
    Service, of $7.5 million in the quarter ended September 30, an after-tax
    gain on the settlement of outstanding litigation of $6.6 million and
    after-tax restructuring expenses of $27.9 million.
(3) Income from Continuing Operations, Net of Income Taxes included after-tax
    reorganization costs of $.5 million and $22.7 million incurred in the
    quarters ended March 31 and June 30, respectively, and an after-tax gain on
    the sale of Financial Information Services, the publishing unit of Moody's
    Investors Service, of $5.3 million incurred in the quarter ended September
    30.
(4) The number of weighted average shares outstanding changes as common shares
    are issued for employee plans and other purposes or as shares are
    repurchased. For this reason, the sum of quarterly earnings per share may
    not be the same as earnings per share for the year.



ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     Not applicable.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     Except for the information relating to the executive officers of the
Company set forth in Part I of this Form 10-K, the information called for by
Items 10-13 will be contained in the Company's definitive proxy statement for
use in connection with its annual meeting of shareholders scheduled to be held
on April 18, 2000, and is incorporated herein by reference.

                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     (a) List of documents filed as part of this report.

        (1) Financial Statements.
            See Index to Financial Statements and Schedules in Part II, Item 8
            on Page 29 of this Form 10-K.

        (2) Financial Statement Schedules.
            None.

        (3) Exhibits.
            See Index to Exhibits on Pages 61-63 of this Form 10-K.

     (b) Reports on Form 8-K.

     On October 26, 1999, the Company filed a report on Form 8-K concerning the
resignation of Volney (Terry) Taylor as Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and a
Director of the Company, and the appointment of Clifford L. Alexander, Jr., as
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.

     (c) Exhibits.
         See Index to Exhibits on Pages 61-63 of this Form 10-K.

     (d) Financial Statement Schedules.
         None.



                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                          THE DUN & BRADSTREET CORPORATION
                                                       (Registrant)

                                          By: /s/
                                               CLIFFORD L. ALEXANDER, JR.
                                            ------------------------------------
                                                 Clifford L. Alexander, Jr.
                                            Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

Date: February 16, 2000

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.



Date: February 16, 2000



                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS



3  ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION AND BY-LAWS









- ---------------
* Filed herewith

+ Represents a management contract or compensatory plan


