10-K


y95090e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K

FORM 10-K


SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(MARK ONE)

x

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM      TO      .

COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-14037

MOODY’S CORPORATION

(EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)

DELAWARE

(STATE OF INCORPORATION)

13-3998945

(I.R.S. EMPLOYER IDENTIFICATION NO.)

99 CHURCH STREET, NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10007

(ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES)

(ZIP CODE)

REGISTRANT’S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: (212) 553-0300.

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE

TITLE OF EACH CLASS

ON WHICH REGISTERED

COMMON STOCK, PAR VALUE $.01 PER SHARE

NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE

PREFERRED SHARE PURCHASE RIGHTS

NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT: NONE

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant: (1) has filed all reports
required by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements
for the past 90 days. Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of Registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is an accelerated filer (as
defined in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2). Yes

x

No

o

The aggregate market value of Moody’s Corporation Common Stock held by
nonaffiliates* on June 30, 2003 (based upon its closing transaction price on
the Composite Tape on such date) was approximately $7.9 billion.

As of January 31, 2004, 148.6 million shares of Common Stock of Moody’s
Corporation were outstanding.



DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Registrant’s definitive proxy statement for use in
connection with its annual meeting of stockholders scheduled to be held on
April 27, 2004, are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K.

The Index to Exhibits is included as Part IV, Item 15(a)(3) of this Form 10-K.

*

Calculated by excluding all shares held by executive officers and
directors of the Registrant without conceding that all such persons are
“affiliates” of the Registrant for purposes of federal securities laws.




PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Background

As used in this report, except where the context indicates otherwise, the terms
“Moody’s” or “Company” refer to Moody’s Corporation and its subsidiaries. The
Company’s executive offices are located at 99 Church Street, New York, NY 10007
and its telephone number is (212) 553-0300.

Prior to September 30, 2000, the Company operated as part of The Dun &
Bradstreet Corporation (“Old D&B”). On September 8, 2000, the Board of
Directors of Old D&B approved a plan to separate into two publicly traded
companies – the Company and The New D&B Corporation (“New D&B”). On September
30, 2000 (“the Distribution Date”), Old D&B distributed to its shareholders all
of the outstanding shares of New D&B common stock (the “2000 Distribution”).
New D&B comprised the business of Old D&B’s Dun & Bradstreet operating company
(the “D&B Business”). The remaining business of Old D&B consisted solely of the
business of providing ratings and related research and credit risk management
services (the “Moody’s Business”) and was renamed “Moody’s Corporation”.

New D&B is the accounting successor to Old D&B, which was incorporated under
the laws of the State of Delaware on April 8, 1998. Old D&B began operating as
an independent publicly-owned corporation on July 1, 1998 as a result of its
June 30, 1998 spin-off (the “1998 Distribution”) from the corporation now known
as “R.H. Donnelley Corporation” and previously known as “The Dun & Bradstreet
Corporation” (“Donnelley”). Old D&B became the accounting successor to
Donnelley at the time of the 1998 Distribution.

Prior to the 1998 Distribution, Donnelley was the parent holding company for
subsidiaries then engaged in the businesses currently conducted by New D&B,
Moody’s and Donnelley. Prior to November 1, 1996, it also was the parent
holding company of subsidiaries conducting business under the names Cognizant
Corporation (“Cognizant”) and ACNielsen Corporation (“ACNielsen”). On that date
Donnelley effected a spin-off of the capital stock of Cognizant and ACNielsen
to its stockholders (the “1996 Distribution”). Cognizant subsequently changed
its name to Nielsen Media Research, Inc. in connection with its 1998 spin-off
of the capital stock of IMS Health Incorporated (“IMS Health”).

For purposes of governing certain ongoing relationships between the Company and
New D&B after the 2000 Distribution and to provide for an orderly transition,
the Company and New D&B entered into various agreements including a
Distribution Agreement, Tax Allocation Agreement, Employee Benefits Agreement,
Shared Transaction Services Agreement, Insurance and Risk Management Services
Agreement, Data Services Agreement and Transition Services Agreement.

Detailed descriptions of the 1996, 1998 and 2000 Distributions are contained in
the Company’s 2000 annual report on Form 10-K, filed on March 15, 2001.

The Company

Moody’s is a provider of credit ratings, research and analysis covering debt
instruments and securities in the global capital markets and a provider of
quantitative credit assessment services, credit training services and credit
process software to banks and other financial institutions. Founded in 1900,
Moody’s employs approximately 2,300 people worldwide. Moody’s maintains offices
in 19 countries and has expanded into developing markets through joint ventures
or affiliation agreements with local rating agencies. Moody’s customers include
a wide range of corporate and governmental issuers of securities as well as
institutional investors, depositors, creditors, investment banks, commercial
banks, and other financial intermediaries. Moody’s is not dependent on a single
customer or a few customers, such that a loss of any one would have a material
adverse effect on its business.

Moody’s operates in two reportable segments: Moody’s Investors Service and
Moody’s KMV.

Moody’s Investors Service publishes rating opinions on a broad range of credit
obligations issued in domestic and international markets, including various
corporate and governmental obligations, structured finance securities and
commercial paper programs. It



also publishes investor-oriented credit research, including in-depth research
on major debt issuers, industry studies, special comments and credit opinion
handbooks. Moody’s credit ratings and research help investors analyze the
credit risks associated with fixed-income securities. Such independent credit
ratings and research also contribute to efficiencies in markets for
fixed-income and other obligations, such as insurance policies and derivative
transactions, by providing credible and independent assessments of credit risk.
Moody’s provides ratings and credit research on governmental and commercial
entities in approximately 100 countries. Moody’s global and increasingly
diverse services are designed to increase market efficiency and may reduce
transaction costs. At the end of 2003, Moody’s had provided credit ratings and
analysis on more than $30 trillion in debt, covering over 150,000 securities,
including industrial corporations, financial institutions, governmental
entities and structured finance issuers with more than 10,000 corporate
relationships and over 75,000 public finance obligations issued in the U.S.
market

.

Ratings are disseminated via press releases to the public through a
variety of print and electronic media, including the Internet and real-time
information systems widely used by securities traders and investors.

Beyond credit rating services for issuers, Moody’s provides research services,
data, and analytic tools that are utilized by institutional investors and other
credit and capital markets professionals. Moody’s services cover various
segments of the debt capital markets, and are sold to more than 3,000
institutions worldwide. Within these institutions, over 22,000 users accessed
Moody’s research web site (www.moodys.com) during calendar year 2003. In
addition to these clients, more than 130,000 other individuals visited Moody’s
web site to retrieve current ratings and other information made freely
available to the public.

The Moody’s KMV business consists of the combined businesses of KMV LLC and KMV
Corporation (“KMV”), acquired in April 2002, and Moody’s Risk Management
Services. Moody’s KMV is a provider of credit risk management products for
banks and investors in credit-sensitive assets, and serves over 1,500 clients
operating in over 80 countries, including most of the world’s largest financial
institutions. Moody’s KMV’s quantitative credit analysis tools include models
that estimate the probability of default for over 26,000 publicly traded firms
globally, updated daily. In addition, Moody’s KMV’s RiskCalc

TM

models extend
the availability of these probabilities to privately held firms in many of the
world’s economies. Moody’s KMV also offers services to value and improve the
performance of credit-sensitive portfolios. Other services include credit
training and software products to assist financial institutions in commercial
lending activities.

Prospects for Growth

Over the past decade, global public and private fixed-income markets have grown
significantly in terms of outstanding principal amount and types of securities.
While there is potential for periodic cyclical disruption in these
developments, Moody’s believes that the overall trend and outlook remain
favorable for the continued growth in capital market activity worldwide. In
addition, the securities being issued in the global fixed-income markets are
becoming more complex. Moody’s expects that these trends will provide continued
long-term demand for high-quality, independent credit opinions. These phenomena
are especially apparent in Europe, where economic and monetary union is driving
increased use of public fixed-income markets for corporate financing
activities, and factors such as increased adoption and enabling regulation have
driven growth in structured finance issuance.

Technology, such as the Internet, makes information about investment
alternatives widely available throughout the world. This technology facilitates
issuers’ ability to place securities outside their national markets and
investors’ capacity to obtain information about securities issued outside their
national markets. Issuers and investors are also more readily able to obtain
information about new financing techniques and new types of securities that
they may wish to purchase or sell, many of which may be unfamiliar to them.
This availability of information promotes worldwide financial markets and a
greater need for credible and globally comparable credit ratings. As a result,
a number of new capital markets have emerged. In addition, more issuers and
investors are accessing traditional capital markets.

Another trend that is increasing the size of the world capital markets is the
ongoing disintermediation of financial systems. Issuers are increasingly
financing in the global public capital markets, in addition to, or in
substitution for, traditional financial intermediaries. Moreover, financial
intermediaries are selling assets in the global public capital markets, in
addition to or instead of retaining those assets. Structured finance securities
markets for many types of assets have developed in many countries and are
contributing to these trends.



The complexity of capital market instruments is also growing. Consequently,
assessing the credit risk of such instruments becomes more of a challenge for
financial intermediaries and asset managers. In the credit markets, reliable
third-party ratings increasingly supplement or substitute for traditional
in-house research as the geographic scope and complexity of financial markets
grow.

Growth in issuance of structured finance securities has been stronger than
growth in corporate and financial institutions issuance, and Moody’s expects
that trend to continue. Growth in structured finance has reflected increased
adoption of structured finance as an acceptable financing mechanism, regulatory
changes that facilitate the use of structured finance, and increases in
consumer debt that forms collateral for structured securities.

Rating fees paid by debt issuers account for most of the revenue of Moody’s
Investors Service. Therefore, a substantial portion of Moody’s revenue is
dependent upon the volume and number of debt securities issued in the global
capital markets. Moody’s is therefore affected by the performance of, and the
prospects for, the major world economies and by the fiscal and monetary
policies pursued by their governments. However, annual fee arrangements with
frequent debt issuers, and annual fees from commercial paper and medium-term
note programs, bank and insurance company financial strength ratings, mutual
fund ratings, subscription-based research and other areas are less dependent
on, or independent of, the volume or number of debt securities issued in the
global capital markets.

Moody’s operations are also subject to various risks inherent in carrying on
business internationally. Such risks include currency fluctuations and possible
nationalization, expropriation, exchange and price controls, changes in the
availability of data from public sector sources, limits on providing
information across borders and other restrictive governmental actions.
Management believes that the risks of nationalization or expropriation are
reduced because the Company’s basic service is the creation and dissemination
of information, rather than the production of products that require
manufacturing facilities or the use of natural resources. Nationalization in
the form of a new government-sponsored regional or global rating agency also
poses a risk to Moody’s growth prospects. However, management believes the
risk is reduced because of the likelihood that substantial investments over a
sustained period would be required, compared to other regulatory changes under
consideration for the credit rating industry.

Legislative bodies and regulators in both U.S. and Europe continue to conduct
regulatory reviews of credit rating agencies, which may result in an increased
number of competitors, restrictions on certain business expansion activities or
increased costs of doing business for Moody’s. At present, Moody’s is unable
to assess the nature and effect any regulatory changes may have on future
growth opportunities. See “Regulation” below.

Growth in Moody’s KMV is expected from increased adoption of quantitative
credit management techniques and of integrated risk-management solutions by
financial institutions globally and by corporations managing trade receivables.
Increased use of credit models is expected under the forthcoming revised
international bank regulatory regime, known as “Basel II”. Moody’s KMV also
expects to introduce new products.

Competition

The Moody’s Investors Service business competes with other credit rating
agencies and with investment banks and brokerage firms that offer credit
opinions and research. Institutional investors also have in-house credit
research capabilities. Moody’s largest competitor in the global credit rating
business is Standard & Poor’s Ratings (“S&P”), a division of The McGraw-Hill
Companies, Inc. There are some rating markets, based on industry, geography
and/or instrument type, in which Moody’s has made investments and obtained
market positions superior to S&P’s. In other markets the reverse is true.

Another rating agency competitor of Moody’s is Fitch, a subsidiary of Fimalac
S.A. Although Moody’s and S&P are each larger than Fitch, competition is
expected to increase. One or more additional significant rating agencies also
may emerge in the United States if the Securities and Exchange Commission
(“SEC”) expands the number of Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating
Organizations (“NRSRO”). In February 2003, the SEC designated Dominion Bond
Rating Service, Ltd. of Canada (“DBRS”) a NRSRO. Competition may also emerge
from niche companies that provide ratings for particular types of financial
products or issuers, such as A.M. Best Company in the insurance industry.
Competition may also emerge in developed markets outside the United States over
the next few years, for example, in response to the growth in the European
capital markets, and in developing markets. Any such rating agencies that may
emerge may receive support from local governments or other institutions.



Over the last decade, additional rating agencies have been established,
primarily in emerging markets and as a result of local capital market
regulation. Regulators worldwide have perceived that credit ratings can further
regulatory objectives for the development of public fixed-income securities
markets. The result of such regulatory activity has been the creation of a
number of primarily national rating agencies in various countries. Certain of
these regulatory efforts may have the unintended effect of producing less
credible ratings over time. Attempts to standardize ratings systems or criteria
may make all rating systems and agencies appear undifferentiated, obscuring
variations in the quality of the ratings providers. In addition, since Moody’s
believes that some of its most significant challenges and opportunities will
arise outside the United States, it will have to compete with rating agencies
that may have a stronger local presence or a longer operating history in those
markets.

Financial regulators are reviewing their approach to supervision and are
seeking comments on changes to the global regulatory framework. Bank
regulators, under the oversight of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision,
have proposed using refined risk assessments as the basis for minimum capital
requirements. The proposed Standardized Approach relies on rating agency
opinions, while the proposed Internal Ratings Based Approach relies on systems
and processes maintained by the regulated bank. The increased regulatory focus
on credit risk presents both opportunities and challenges for Moody’s. Global
demand for credit ratings and risk management services may rise, but regulatory
actions may result in a greater number of rating agencies and/or additional
regulation of Moody’s and its competitors. Alternatively, banking or securities
market regulators could seek to reduce the use of ratings in regulations,
thereby reducing certain elements of demand for ratings, or otherwise seek to
control the analysis or business of rating agencies.

Credit rating agencies such as Moody’s also compete with other means of
managing credit risk, such as credit insurance. Competitors that develop
quantitative methodologies for assessing credit risk also may pose a
competitive threat to Moody’s.

Moody’s KMV’s main competitors for quantitative measures of default risk
include the RiskMetrics Group, S&P, CreditSights, R&I’s Financial Technology
Institute (in Japan), and other smaller vendors. Other firms may compete in the
future. Baker Hill, a privately held company, is Moody’s KMV’s main competitor
in the software market to assist banks in their commercial lending activities.
Moody’s KMV’s training products have two main competitors: Omega Performance, a
privately held firm; and Risk Management Association (formerly Robert Morris
Associates), a trade association serving the financial services industry. In
addition, Moody’s KMV competes with niche training organizations.

Moody’s Strategy

Moody’s intends to focus on the following opportunities.

Expansion in Financial Centers. Moody’s serves its customers through its global
network of offices and business affiliations. Moody’s currently maintains
full-service rating and marketing operations in global financial centers such
as Frankfurt, Hong Kong, London, Madrid, Milan, New York, Paris, Singapore and
Tokyo. Moody’s expects that its global network will position it to benefit from
the expansion of worldwide capital markets and thereby increase revenue.
Moody’s also expects that the growth of its Moody’s Investors Service business
as a consequence of financial market integration under the European Monetary
Union will continue. Moody’s expects to continue its expansion into developing
markets either directly or through joint ventures.

New Rating Products. Moody’s is pursuing numerous initiatives to expand credit
ratings from public fixed-income securities markets to other sectors with
credit risk exposures. As the loan and capital markets converge, Moody’s
expects to continue to expand its rating coverage of bank loans and project
finance loans and securities. Moody’s has a committed effort to extend its
credit opinion franchise to the global bank counterparty universe through
ratings of emerging market banks, including bank financial strength ratings.
Insurance financial strength ratings in the property and casualty, reinsurance,
and life insurance markets represent additional growth opportunities. Moody’s
has also introduced issuer ratings for corporations not active in the debt
markets. For company ratings, Moody’s seeks to continue to add value by
providing greater scope and depth of analysis of issues related to company
creditworthiness, including enhanced liquidity and cash flow analysis, and
evaluation of accounting, corporate governance and risk transference issues.
Moody’s has also introduced mutual fund indices and style-based analytical
tools to assist in evaluating fund portfolio characteristics and their
performance.

Additional Opportunities in Securitization. The repackaging of financial assets
has had a profound effect on the fixed-income markets. New patterns of
securitization are expected to emerge in the next decade. Although the bulk of
assets securitized in the past five years



have been consumer assets owned by banks, commercial assets — principally
commercial mortgages, term receivables and corporate obligations — are now
increasingly being securitized. Securitization has evolved into a strategic
corporate finance tool in North America, Europe and Japan, and is evolving
elsewhere internationally. Ongoing global development of non-traditional
financial instruments, such as derivatives, future flow securities, hybrids,
credit-linked bonds and catastrophe bonds should continue to support growth.
Moody’s has introduced new services enabling investors to monitor the
performance of their investments in structured finance, covering asset-backed
finance, commercial mortgage finance, residential mortgage finance and credit
derivatives.

Internet-Enhanced Products and Services. Moody’s is expanding its use of the
Internet and other electronic media to enhance client service. Moody’s website
provides the public with instant access to ratings, and provides subscribers
with credit research. Internet delivery also enables Moody’s to provide
services to more individuals within a client organization than paper-based
products and to offer higher-value services because of more timely delivery.
Moody’s expects that access to these applications will increase client use of
Moody’s services. Moody’s expects to continue to invest in electronic media to
capitalize on these and other opportunities.

Expansion of Credit Research Products and Investment Analytic Tools. Moody’s
plans to continue to expand its research and analytic products by producing
additional products through internal development and by acquiring products.
Recent initiatives that have been well-received by clients include new services
providing analysis of default rates and default probabilities, on-line
facilities for retrieving current rating information on demand and risk
analytics and performance data for several structured finance market sectors.
Moody’s plans to develop services for other financial markets, such as credit
default swaps and equity. Finally, the Company is improving its capability to
deliver its research to new customer segments by creating more targeted and
customized research offerings and by licensing Moody’s credit analysis and
research for re-distribution by third party providers.

New Quantitative Credit Assessment Services. Moody’s will continue to provide
banks and other financial institutions with quantitative credit assessment
services. Moody’s believes that there will be increased demand for such
services because they enable customers trading or holding credit-sensitive
assets to produce better performance. Also recent proposals by international
bank regulatory authorities to recognize banks’ internal credit risk management
systems for the purpose of determining regulatory capital will encourage
adoption of such services. Moody’s also expects to provide extensions to
existing services and new services, such as valuations of credit-sensitive
assets.

Regulation

Moody’s Investors Service registers as an investment adviser under the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended. Moody’s has also been designated
as a Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organization (“NRSRO”) by the
SEC. The SEC first applied the NRSRO designation in 1975 to agencies whose
credit ratings could be used by broker-dealers for purposes of determining
their net capital requirements. Since that time, Congress (in certain
mortgage-related legislation), the SEC (in its regulations under the Securities
Act of 1933, as amended, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended and
the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended) and other governmental and
private bodies have used the ratings of NRSROs to distinguish between, among
other things, “investment grade” and “non-investment grade” securities.

Recently, there has been discussion in the U.S. regarding the continued use of
ratings for regulatory purposes under federal securities laws, and the
potential need for either greater or lesser regulation and oversight of credit
rating agencies. In January 2003, the SEC released a report on the role and
function of credit rating agencies in the operation of the securities markets.
The report considered a number of issues that the SEC was required to examine
under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and other issues arising from an
SEC-initiated review of credit rating agencies. More specifically, the SEC
identified five broad areas that deserved further examination:

•

Information Flow in the Credit Rating Process

•

Potential Conflicts of Interest

•

Alleged Anticompetitive or Unfair Practices

•

Reducing Potential Regulatory Barriers to Entry

•

The Appropriate Degree of Regulatory Oversight



In the report, the SEC further stated that it intended to publish a Concept
Release to solicit comments on issues affecting the role and operation of
credit rating agencies and expected thereafter to propose rules in response to
those comments. Subsequent to releasing its report, in February 2003 the SEC
designated Dominion Bond Rating Service, Ltd. of Canada as a fourth NRSRO,
together with Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch.

On June 4th the SEC issued its Concept Release regarding the credit ratings
industry. The Release restated many questions first raised in the Commission’s
January 2003 report, and requested public comment on those questions. Questions
were grouped under three broad themes:

•

Whether credit rating agencies should continue to be used for
regulatory purposes under the federal securities laws?

•

If ratings continue to be used in federal securities laws, what
should be the process for approving rating agencies?

•

If ratings continue to be used in federal securities laws, what
should be the nature and extent of oversight?

Numerous market participants, including Moody’s, responded to the call for
comment. Moody’s response can be found on the Company’s website at

www.moodys.com

. At present, Moody’s is unable to assess the likelihood of any
regulatory changes that may result from the SEC’s ongoing review, nor the
nature and effect of any such regulatory changes.

Moody’s is also subject to regulation in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions in
which it operates.

First, as a consequence of the new French Securities Law, rating agencies
operating in France have a new document retention obligation and will be
required annually to produce and submit a report to the newly established
French regulatory authority on their operation. Secondly, implementation
guidelines proposed by the Committee of European Securities Regulators
(“CESR”), and implemented by the European Commission (“Commission”) for the
Commission’s Market Abuse Directive (“Directive”) are applicable to all
participants in the European capital markets. Credit rating agencies, however,
have been explicitly carved out of the Directive’s provisions which address the
manner of production and presentation of research. However, when the Directive
is incorporated into individual national legislation, depending on the form in
which the implementation guidelines are ultimately adopted at the national
level, such guidelines could be interpreted by some European Union countries to
control the functioning of credit rating agencies in their jurisdiction. If so,
new regulation may, among other things, alter rating agencies’ communications
with issuers as part of the rating assignment process, and increase Moody’s
cost of doing business in Europe and the legal risk associated with such
business.

Finally, in February 2004 the European Parliament (“Parliament”) adopted
resolutions regarding rating agencies in Europe pursuant to an internal study
and report. The resolutions call on the Commission to conduct an analysis for
registration of rating agencies in Europe, and possible registration criteria.
The resolutions further ask the Commission and certain other European
authorities to make specific recommendations by July 31, 2005 in light of any
further developments or conclusions reached by the Financial Services Forum,
the International Organization of Securities Commissions (“IOSCO”), and the
U.S. SEC. Also in February 2004, a Technical Committee of the IOSCO announced
that under the Chairmanship of U.S. SEC Commissioner Roel Campos it would
develop, with the contribution of the credit rating agencies, a code of conduct
for credit rating agencies.

The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision is preparing a new capital adequacy
framework to replace the framework proposed in 1988. Under this framework as
now proposed, ratings assigned by a credit rating agency would be an
alternative available to certain banks to determine the risk weights for many
of their credit exposures. The Basel Committee’s proposal would
institutionalize ratings of certain rating agencies as an alternative in the
credit measurement processes of internationally active financial institutions
and subject rating agencies to a broader range of oversight. Because the
content of the proposal is not yet finalized, Moody’s cannot predict at this
time the final form of any such regulation. However, Moody’s does not believe
that this proposal, if adopted in its present form, would materially affect
Moody’s Investors Service’s financial position or results of operations, or the
manner in which it conducts its business.

Other legislation and regulation relating to credit rating and research
services has been considered from time to time by local, national and
multinational bodies and is likely to be considered in the future. In certain
countries, governments may provide financial or other



support to locally-based rating agencies. In addition, governments may from
time to time establish official rating agencies or credit ratings criteria or
procedures for evaluating local issuers. If enacted, any such legislation and
regulation could significantly change the competitive landscape in which
Moody’s operates. In addition, the legal status of rating agencies has been
addressed by courts in various decisions and is likely to be considered and
addressed in legal proceedings from time to time in the future. Management of
Moody’s cannot predict whether these or any other proposals will be enacted,
the outcome of any pending or possible future legal proceedings, or the
ultimate impact of any such matters on the competitive position, financial
position or results of operations of Moody’s.

Intellectual Property

Moody’s owns and controls a variety of trade secrets, confidential information,
trademarks, trade names, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property
rights that, in the aggregate, are of material importance to Moody’s business.
Management of Moody’s believes that each of the “Moody’s”, “Moody’s KMV” and
“KMV” name and related names, marks and logos are of material importance to
Moody’s. Moody’s is licensed to use certain technology and other intellectual
property rights owned and controlled by others, and, similarly, other companies
are licensed to use certain technology and other intellectual property rights
owned and controlled by Moody’s. Moody’s considers its trademarks, service
marks, databases, software and other intellectual property to be proprietary,
and Moody’s relies on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret,
patent, non-disclosure and contract safeguards for protection. In 2002 Moody’s
formed a new subsidiary, MIS Quality Management Corp., to own, manage, protect,
and license the trademarks of Moody’s and its affiliates.

The names of Moody’s products and services referred to herein are trademarks,
service marks or registered trademarks or service marks owned by or licensed to
Moody’s or one or more of its subsidiaries.

Employees

As of December 31, 2003, the number of full-time equivalent employees of
Moody’s was approximately 2,300.

Available Information

Moody’s investor relations Internet website is http://ir.moodys.com/. Under the
“SEC Filings” tab at this website, the Company makes available free of charge
its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current
reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably
practicable after they are filed with the SEC.



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Name, Age and Position

Biographical Data

John Rutherfurd, Jr., 64

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

Mr. Rutherfurd has served as Chairman of
the Board since October 2003 and the
Company’s Chief Executive Officer since
October 1, 2000 and has been a member of
the Board of Directors since May 30, 2000.
Mr. Rutherfurd served as President of
Moody’s Corporation from October 2000
until October 2003 and President of
Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. from
January 1998 until November 2001. Prior
thereto, he was the Chief Administrative
Officer from 1996 until January 1998. Mr.
Rutherfurd also served as Managing
Director of Moody’s Holdings Inc. from
1995 until 1996, and served as President
of Interactive Data Corporation (“IDC”), a
wholly owned subsidiary of Old D&B, from
1985 to 1989 and from 1990 until IDC was
sold by Old D&B in September 1995. Mr.
Rutherfurd is also a director of NASD and
ICRA Limited, a credit rating agency in
India.

Jeanne M. Dering, 48

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Ms. Dering has served as the Company’s
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer since October 1, 2000 and has had
senior management responsibility for
Moody’s Information Technology group since
January 2004. Ms. Dering joined Moody’s
Investors Service, Inc., in 1997 as
Managing Director, Finance Officer, and
became its Chief Financial Officer in
1998. Prior thereto, she spent over 10
years at Old D&B in a number of financial
management positions, including Director
of Budgets & Financial Analysis and
Director of Financial Planning —
Acquisitions and New Business Development.

John J. Goggins, 43

Senior Vice President and General Counsel

Mr. Goggins has served as the Company’s
Senior Vice President and General Counsel
since October 1, 2000. Mr. Goggins joined
Moody’s Investors Service, Inc., in
February 1999 as Vice President and
Associate General Counsel and became
General Counsel in 2000. Prior thereto, he
served as counsel at Dow Jones & Company
from 1995 to 1999, where he was
responsible for securities, acquisitions
and general corporate matters. Prior to
Dow Jones, he was an associate at
Cadwalader, Wickersham, & Taft from 1985
to 1995, where he specialized in mergers
and acquisitions.

Raymond W. McDaniel, Jr., 46

Chief Operating Officer, Moody’s Corporation and
President, Moody’s Investors Service, Inc.

Mr. McDaniel has served as Chief Operating
Officer of Moody’s Corporation since
January 2004, a member of the Board of
Directors since April 2003 and President
of Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. since
November 2001. Mr. McDaniel also served as
Executive Vice President of the Company
from April



Name, Age and Position

Biographical Data

2003 to January 2004 and Senior
Vice President from October 1, 2000 until
January 2004. He served as Senior
Managing Director, Global Ratings and
Research, of Moody’s Investors Service,
Inc., from November 2000 until November
2001. Prior thereto, he had served as
Managing Director, International, since
1996 and served as Managing Director,
Europe, from 1993 until 1996. He also
served as Associate Director in Moody’s
Structured Finance Group from 1989 until
1993, and as Senior Analyst in the
Mortgage Securitization Group from 1988 to
1989.

Chester V. A. Murray, 48

Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources
Officer

Mr. Murray has served as the Company’s
Senior Vice President and Chief Human
Resources Officer since October 2002 and
has served as Executive Vice
President-International of Moody’s
Investors Service since January 2004. Mr.
Murray served as Senior Managing Director
of Moody’s Investors Service, Inc., from
November 2001 until October 2002; Group
Managing Director-Europe from 1996 until
November 2001; Managing Director of the
Financial Institutions Group from 1993
until 1996; and Associate Director of the
Financial Institutions Group from 1990
until 1993. He was a Senior Analyst for
the Financial Institutions Group from 1985
until 1990. Prior thereto, Mr. Murray was
a lending officer in the Latin American
division of Irving Trust Company from 1981
until 1985.

Douglas M. Woodham, 47

Senior Vice President, Moody’s Corporation and
President, Moody’s KMV

Mr. Woodham has served as the Company’s
Senior Vice President since October 2001.
In January 2003, Mr. Woodham was also
appointed President, Moody’s KMV. Prior to
joining Moody’s, he served as managing
director for EFINANCEWORKS from 2000 to
October 2001. Mr. Woodham was a partner,
member of the Operating Committee and east
coast manager for the Business Technology
Office at McKinsey & Company from 1997 to
2000. He served as vice president for
Enron from 1994 to 1997 and was a partner
at McKinsey & Company from 1985 to 1994.
Mr. Woodham was an economist at the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York from 1982
to 1985.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

The executive offices of Moody’s are located at 99 Church Street, New York, New
York, in a 297,000-square-foot property owned by Moody’s. Moody’s operations
are also conducted from 8 other U.S. offices and 21 non-U.S. office locations,
all of which are leased. These other properties are geographically distributed
to meet sales and operating requirements worldwide. These properties are
generally considered to be both suitable and adequate to meet current operating
requirements, and virtually all space is being utilized.



ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

From time to time, Moody’s is involved in legal and tax proceedings, claims and
litigation that are incidental to the Company’s business, including claims
based on ratings assigned by Moody’s. Management periodically assesses the
Company’s liabilities and contingencies in connection with these matters, based
upon the latest information available. For those matters where the probable
amount of loss can be reasonably estimated, the Company believes it has
recorded appropriate reserves in the consolidated financial statements. In
other instances, because of the uncertainties related to both the probable
outcome and amount or range of loss, management is unable to make a reasonable
estimate of a liability, if any. As additional information becomes available,
the Company adjusts its assessments and estimates of such liabilities
accordingly.

The discussion of the litigation under the heading “Legacy Contingencies” under
Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations”, commencing at page 30 of this annual report on Form
10-K, is incorporated into this Item 3 by reference.

Based on its review of the latest information available, in the opinion of
management, the ultimate liability of the Company in connection with pending
legal and tax proceedings, claims and litigation will not have a material
adverse effect on Moody’s financial position, results of operations or cash
flows, subject to the contingencies described below and in Part II, Item 7.
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations - Contingencies”.

L’Association Francaise des Porteurs d’ Emprunts Russes

On June 20, 2001 a summons was served in an action brought by L’Association
Francaise des Porteurs d’ Emprunts Russes (“AFPER”) against Moody’s France SA
(a subsidiary of the Company) and filed in the Court of First Instance of
Paris, France. In this suit, AFPER, a group of holders of bonds issued by the
Russian government prior to the 1917 Bolshevik Revolution, makes claims against
Moody’s France SA and Standard & Poor’s SA for lack of diligence and prudence
in their ratings of Russia and Russian debt since 1996. AFPER alleges that, by
failing to take into account the post-Revolutionary repudiation of
pre-Revolutionary Czarist debt by the Soviet government in rating Russia and
new issues of Russian debt beginning in 1996, the rating agencies enabled the
Russian Federation to issue new debt without repaying the old obligations of
the Czarist government. Alleging joint and several liability, AFPER seeks
damages of Euro 2.8 billion (approximately U.S. $3.5 billion as of December 31,
2003) plus legal costs. Moody’s believes the allegations lack legal or factual
merit and intends to vigorously contest the action. As such, no amount in
respect of this matter has been accrued in the financial statements of the
Company. However, if the plaintiffs in this action were to prevail, then the
outcome of this matter could have a material adverse effect on Moody’s
financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The case has been
fully briefed, oral argument was heard before the Court on January 20, 2004,
and the Court announced that judgment would be rendered on April 6, 2004.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

During the fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this annual report on
Form 10-K, no matter was submitted to a vote of Security Holders.

PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS

Information in response to this Item is set forth under the captions “Common
Stock Information” and “Dividends” in Item 7 of this annual report on Form
10-K.



ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The Company’s selected consolidated financial data should be read in
conjunction with Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations” and the Moody’s Corporation consolidated
financial statements and notes thereto.

The Company’s consolidated financial statements are presented as if the Company
were a separate entity for all periods presented. Through September 30, 2000,
the Distribution Date, Moody’s expenses included allocations of costs from Old
D&B for employee benefits, centralized services and other corporate overhead.
Expenses related to these services were allocated to Moody’s based on
utilization of specific services or, where such an estimate could not be
determined, based on Moody’s revenue in proportion to Old D&B’s total revenue.
Although management believes these expense allocations are reasonable, they are
not necessarily indicative of the costs that would have been incurred if the
Company had performed or obtained these services as a separate entity. The
allocations included in expenses in the consolidated statements of operations
were $13.3 million in 2000 and $17.2 million in 1999. There were no such
allocations subsequent to the Distribution Date. The financial data included
herein may not necessarily reflect the results of operations and financial
position of Moody’s in the future or what they would have been had it been a
separate entity.

Year Ended December 31,

amounts in millions, except per share data






Results of operations (3)

Revenue

$

1,246.6

$

1,023.3

$

796.7

$

602.3

$

564.2

Expenses

583.5

485.2

398.2

313.8

293.8

Operating income

663.1

538.1

398.5

288.5

270.4

Non-operating (expense) income, net (1) (2)

(6.7

)

(20.7

)

(16.6

)

(4.5

)

8.5

Income before provision for income taxes

656.4

517.4

381.9

284.0

278.9

Provision for income taxes

292.5

228.5

169.7

125.5

123.3

Net income

$

363.9

$

288.9

$

212.2

$

158.5

$

155.6

Earnings per share (1)

Basic

$

2.44

$

1.88

$

1.35

$

0.98

$

0.96

Diluted

$

2.39

$

1.83

$

1.32

$

0.97

$

0.95

Weighted average shares outstanding

Basic

148.9

153.9

157.6

161.7

162.3

Diluted

152.3

157.5

160.2

163.0

164.3

Dividends declared per share

$

0.180

$

0.180

$

0.180

$

0.045

$

—

As of December 31,






Balance sheet data

Total assets

$

941.4

$

630.8

$

505.4

$

398.3

$

274.8

Long-term debt

$

300.0

$

300.0

$

300.0

$

300.0

—

Shareholders’ equity

$

(32.1

)

$

(327.0

)

$

(304.1

)

$

(282.5

)

$

(223.1

)

(1)

Included in 1999 non-operating (expense) income, net is a pre-tax gain of
$9.2 million ($0.03 per basic and diluted share) related to the Financial
Information Services (“FIS”) business that was sold in July 1998.

(2)

Non-operating (expense) income, net includes $23.5 million, $23.5
million, $22.9 million and $5.8 million, in 2003, 2002, 2001 and 2000
respectively, of interest expense that principally relates to the
Company’s $300 million of notes payable issued in October 2000. Interest
expense was immaterial in 1999. The 2003 amount also includes a gain of
$13.6 million on an insurance recovery related to the September 11

th

tragedy.

(3)

The 2002 results of operations include revenue of $42.1 million, expenses
of $42.8 million and an operating loss of $0.7 million related to KMV,
which was acquired in April 2002.



ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

This discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations
should be read in conjunction with the Moody’s Corporation consolidated
financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this annual report
on Form 10-K.

Certain of the statements below are forward-looking statements within the
meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In addition,
any projections of future results of operations and cash flows are subject to
substantial uncertainty. See “Forward-Looking Statements” on page 37 and
“Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results” on page 27.

The Company

Except where otherwise indicated, the terms “Moody’s” and the “Company” refer
to Moody’s Corporation and its subsidiaries. Moody’s is a provider of credit
ratings, research and analysis covering debt instruments and securities in the
global capital markets and a provider of quantitative credit assessment
services, credit training services and credit process software to banks and
other financial institutions. Moody’s operates in two reportable segments:
Moody’s Investors Service and Moody’s KMV.

Moody’s Investors Service publishes rating opinions on a broad range of credit
obligations issued in domestic and international markets, including various
corporate and governmental obligations, structured finance securities and
commercial paper programs, as well as rating opinions on issuers of credit
obligations. It also publishes investor-oriented credit research, including
in-depth research on major issuers, industry studies, special comments and
credit opinion handbooks.

The Moody’s KMV business consists of the combined businesses of KMV LLC and KMV
Corporation (“KMV”), acquired in April 2002, and Moody’s Risk Management
Services. Moody’s KMV develops and distributes quantitative credit assessment
products and services for banks and investors in credit-sensitive assets,
credit training services and credit process software.

The Company operated as part of The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation (“Old D&B”)
until September 30, 2000 (the “Distribution Date”), when Old D&B separated into
two publicly traded companies — Moody’s Corporation and The New D&B Corporation
(“New D&B”). At that time, Old D&B distributed to its shareholders shares of
New D&B stock. New D&B comprised the business of Old D&B’s Dun & Bradstreet
operating company (the “D&B Business”). The remaining business of Old D&B
consisted solely of the business of providing ratings and related research and
credit risk management services (the “Moody’s Business”) and was renamed
“Moody’s Corporation”. The method by which Old D&B distributed to its
shareholders its shares of New D&B stock is hereinafter referred to as the
“2000 Distribution”.

Critical Accounting Estimates

Moody’s discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of
operations are based on the Company’s consolidated financial statements, which
have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires
Moody’s to make estimates and judgments that affect reported amounts of assets,
liabilities and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the
dates of the financial statements and revenue and expenses during the reporting
periods. These estimates are based on historical experience and on other
assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. On an
ongoing basis, Moody’s evaluates its estimates, including those related to
revenue recognition, accounts receivable allowances, contingencies, goodwill,
pension and other post-retirement benefits and stock-based compensation. Actual
results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or
conditions. The following accounting estimates are considered critical because
they are particularly dependent on management’s judgment about matters that are
uncertain at the time the accounting estimates are made and changes to those
estimates could have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated results of
operations or financial condition.

Revenue Recognition

In recognizing revenue related to ratings, Moody’s uses judgments to allocate
billed revenue between ratings and the future monitoring of ratings in cases
where the Company does not charge ongoing monitoring fees for a particular
issuer. These judgments are not dependent on the outcome of future
uncertainties, but rather relate to allocating revenue across accounting
periods. In such



cases, the Company defers portions of rating fees that will be attributed to
future monitoring activities and recognizes the deferred revenue ratably over
the estimated monitoring periods.

The portion of the revenue to be deferred is determined based on annual
monitoring fees charged for similar securities or issuers and the level of
monitoring effort required for a type of security or issuer. The estimated
monitoring period over which the deferred revenue will be recognized is
determined based on factors such as the frequency of issuance by the issuers
and the lives of the rated securities. Currently, the estimated monitoring
periods range from three to ten years. At December 31, 2003 and 2002, deferred
revenue included approximately $26 million and $20 million, respectively,
related to such deferred monitoring fees.

Moody’s estimates revenue for ratings of commercial paper for which, in
addition to a fixed annual monitoring fee, issuers are billed quarterly based
on amounts outstanding. Related revenue is accrued each quarter based on
estimated amounts outstanding, and is billed subsequently when actual data is
available. The estimate is determined based on the issuers’ most recent
reported quarterly data. At December 31, 2003 and 2002, accounts receivable
included approximately $26 million and $22 million, respectively, of accrued
commercial paper revenue. Historically, the Company has not had material
differences between the estimated revenue and the actual billings.

Accounts Receivable Allowance

Moody’s records as reductions of revenue provisions for estimated future
adjustments to customer billings based on historical experience and current
conditions. Such provisions are reflected as additions to the accounts
receivable allowance. Adjustments to and write-offs of accounts receivable are
charged against the allowance. Moody’s evaluates its accounts receivable by
reviewing and assessing historical collection experience and the current status
of customer accounts. Moody’s also considers the economic environment of the
customers, both from a marketplace and geographic perspective, in evaluating
the need for allowances. Based on its reviews, Moody’s establishes or adjusts
allowances for specific customers and the accounts receivable balance as a
whole, as considered appropriate. This process involves a high degree of
judgment and estimation and frequently involves significant dollar amounts.
Accordingly, Moody’s results of operations can be affected by adjustments to
the allowance. Management believes that the allowance for uncollectible
accounts is adequate to cover anticipated adjustments and write-offs under
current conditions. However, significant changes in any of the above-noted
factors, or actual write-offs or adjustments that differ from the estimated
amounts, could result in allowances that are greater or less than Moody’s
estimates. In each of 2003 and 2002, the Company reduced its provision rates
and its allowances to reflect its current estimate of the appropriate level of
accounts receivable allowance.

Contingencies

Accounting for contingencies, including those matters described in the
“Contingencies” section of this management’s discussion and analysis, requires
the use of judgments and estimates in assessing their magnitude and likely
outcome. In many cases, the outcomes of such matters will be determined by
third parties, including governmental or judicial bodies. The provisions made
in the consolidated financial statements, as well as the related disclosures,
represent management’s best estimates of the current status of such matters and
their potential outcome based on a review of the facts and in consultation with
outside legal counsel where deemed appropriate

.

For the year ended December 31,
2003, the provision for income taxes reflected an increase of $16.2 million in
reserves for legacy income tax exposures that were assumed by Moody’s in
connection with its separation from The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation in October
2000. These tax matters are discussed under “Legacy Tax Matters” below. Since
the potential exposure on many of these matters is material, and it is possible
that these matters could be resolved in amounts that are greater than the
Company has reserved, their resolution could have a material effect on Moody’s
future reported results and financial position. In addition, potential cash
outlays related to the resolution of these exposures could be material.

Goodwill

Moody’s evaluates its goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently if
impairment indicators arise in accordance with Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”.
Moody’s goodwill balance is material ($126.4 million at December 31, 2003), and
the evaluation of goodwill requires that the Company make important
assumptions and judgments about future operating results and cash flows as well
as terminal values and discount rates. In estimating future operating results
and cash flows, Moody’s considers internal budgets and strategic plans,
expected long term growth rates, and the effects of external factors and market
conditions. If actual future operating results and cash flows or external
conditions differ from



the Company’s judgments, or if changes in assumed terminal values or discount
rates are made, an impairment charge may be necessary to reduce the carrying
value of goodwill, which charge could be material to the Company’s financial
position and results of operations.

Pension and Other Post-Retirement Benefits

The expenses, assets, liabilities and obligations that Moody’s reports for
pension and other post-retirement benefits are dependent on many assumptions
concerning the outcome of future events and circumstances. These assumptions
include the following:

•

Future compensation increases, based on the Company’s long-term actual experience and future outlook.

•

Discount rates, based on current yields on high grade corporate long-term bonds.

•

Long-term return on pension plan assets, based on the expected future average annual return for each major asset class
within the plan’s portfolio (which is principally comprised of equity and fixed-income investments).

In determining such assumptions, the Company consults with outside actuaries
and other advisors where deemed appropriate. In accordance with relevant
accounting standards, if actual results differ from the Company’s assumptions,
such differences are deferred and amortized over the estimated future working
life of the plan participants. While the Company believes that the assumptions
used in its calculations are reasonable, differences in actual experience or
changes in assumptions could have a significant effect on the expenses, assets
and liabilities related to the Company’s pension and other post-retirement
benefits.

The table below shows the estimated effect that a one percentage point increase
in each of these assumptions would have had on Moody’s pre-tax expense in 2003
(dollars in millions):

Estimated Impact on Pre-

Assumption Used for

tax Expense in 2003


(decrease)/increase

Discount Rate

6.75

%

($

2.5

)

Weighted Average
Assumed Compensation
Growth Rate

3.91

%

$

1.0

Assumed Long-Term
Rate of Return on
Pension Assets

8.10

%

($

1.0

)

Stock-Based Compensation

On January 1, 2003, the Company adopted, on a prospective basis, the fair value
method of accounting for stock-based compensation under the provisions of SFAS
No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation”, as amended by SFAS No. 148,
“Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation - Transition and Disclosure - an amendment of FASB Statement No. 123”. Therefore, employee stock options granted
on and after January 1, 2003 are being expensed by the Company over the option
vesting period, based on the estimated fair value of the option award on the
date of grant. The estimated fair value is calculated based on a Black-Scholes
option pricing model using assumptions and estimates that the Company believes
are reasonable. Some of the assumptions and estimates, such as share price
volatility and expected option holding period, are based in part on Moody’s
experience during the period since becoming a public company, which is limited.
The use of different assumptions and estimates in the Black-Scholes option
pricing model could produce materially different estimated fair values for
option awards and related expense to be recognized over the option vesting
period.



An increase in the following assumptions would have had the following estimated
effect on pre-tax expense in 2003 (dollars in millions):

Estimated Impact on

Assumption Used for

Amount of Increase in

Pre-tax Expense in 2003


Assumption

(decrease)/increase

Expected Dividend
Yield

0.41

%

0.10

%

($

0.1

)

Expected Share
Price Volatility


%


%

$

1.2

Expected Option
Holding Period

5.0 years

1.0 year

$

1.1

Other Estimates

In addition, there are other accounting estimates within Moody’s consolidated
financial statements, including recoverability of deferred tax assets,
anticipated distributions from non-U.S. subsidiaries, realizability of
long-lived and intangible assets and valuation of investments in affiliates.
Management believes the current assumptions and other considerations used to
estimate amounts reflected in Moody’s consolidated financial statements are
appropriate. However, if actual experience differs from the assumptions and
other considerations used in estimating amounts reflected in Moody’s
consolidated financial statements, the resulting changes could have a material
adverse effect on Moody’s consolidated results of operations or financial
condition.

See Note 2 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements for further
information on key accounting policies that impact Moody’s.

Operating Segments

Prior to 2002, the Company operated in one reportable business segment –
Ratings, which accounted for approximately 90% of the Company’s total revenue.
With the April 2002 acquisition of KMV and its combination with Moody’s Risk
Management Services to form Moody’s KMV, Moody’s now operates in two reportable
business segments: Moody’s Investors Service and Moody’s KMV. Accordingly, in
the second quarter of 2002, the Company restated its segment information for
corresponding prior periods to conform to the current presentation. In
discussing periods prior to 2002, the Moody’s KMV segment is referred to as
Moody’s Risk Management Services (“MRMS”), the predecessor business. In order
to provide additional information relating to Moody’s operating results, the
discussion below includes information analyzing operating results as if the
acquisition of KMV had been consummated as of January 1, 2002. This information
is presented in a manner consistent with Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards (“SFAS”) No. 141, “Business Combinations,” and is described in more
detail in Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.

The Moody’s Investors Service business consists of four rating groups —
structured finance, corporate finance, financial institutions and sovereign
risk, and public finance — that generate revenue principally from the
assignment of credit ratings on fixed-income instruments in the debt markets,
and research, which primarily generates revenue from the sale of
investor-oriented credit research, principally produced by the rating groups.
Given the dominance of Moody’s Investors Service to Moody’s overall results,
the Company does not separately measure or report corporate expenses, nor are
they allocated to the Company’s business segments. Accordingly, all corporate
expenses are included in operating income of the Moody’s Investors Service
segment and none have been allocated to the Moody’s KMV segment.

The Moody’s KMV business develops and distributes quantitative credit
assessment products and services for banks and investors in credit-sensitive
assets, credit training services and credit process software.

Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current
presentation.



Results of Operations

Year Ended December 31, 2003 Compared With Year Ended December 31, 2002

Total Company Results

Moody’s revenue for 2003 was $1,246.6 million, an increase of $223.3 million or
21.8% from $1,023.3 million in the prior year. Assuming that Moody’s had
acquired KMV on January 1, 2002, Moody’s pro forma 2002 revenue would have been
$1,038.4 million and year-to-year pro forma growth in 2003 would have been
20.1%. Moody’s strong revenue growth was achieved despite expectations early in
the year that the Company would encounter a difficult macroeconomic and capital
markets environment. The Company benefited from better-than-expected revenue in
a number of U.S. ratings sectors, including residential mortgage-backed
securities, home equity loan securitizations and the high yield segment of the
corporate bond market, and from strong corporate issuance in Europe in the
second half of the year. Moody’s research business produced very strong results
and Moody’s KMV also generated good growth. In addition, foreign currency
translation accounted for approximately 200 basis points of reported revenue
growth.

Revenue in the United States was $795.3 million for 2003, an increase of $114.5
million or 16.8% from $680.8 million in 2002. Assuming that Moody’s had
acquired KMV on January 1, 2002, pro forma United States revenue for 2002 would
have been $688.4 million and year-to-year pro forma growth would have been
15.5%. Strong growth was achieved within Moody’s Investors Service, led by
structured finance, corporate finance and research.

Moody’s international revenue was $451.3 million in 2003, an increase of $108.8
million or 31.8% over $342.5 million in 2002. Assuming that Moody’s had
acquired KMV on January 1, 2002, pro forma international revenue for 2002 would
have been $350.0 million and year-to-year pro forma growth would have been
28.9%. Growth was driven by strong performance in Europe and several other
regions, and foreign currency translation accounted for approximately 650 basis
points of reported revenue growth. International revenue accounted for 36% of
Moody’s total revenue in 2003, compared with 33% in the prior year.

Overall, Moody’s expenses of $550.9 million in 2003 were $90.3 million or 19.6%
greater than $460.6 million in 2002. Compensation and benefits continues to be
Moody’s largest expense, accounting for approximately two-thirds of total
expenses in 2003 and 2002. Moody’s increased its overall staffing by almost 200
people, or 9%, during 2003 to support continued growth in the business. The
table below shows Moody’s staffing at year-end 2003 compared with year-end
2002.

December 31,

December 31, 2002

United States

International

Total

United States

International

Total

Moody’s Investors Service

1,258


1,913

1,171


1,777

Moody’s KMV







Total

1,576


2,300

1,447


2,110

Operating expenses were $347.3 million in 2003, an increase of $62.0 million or
21.7% from $285.3 million in 2002. Assuming that Moody’s had owned KMV for all
of 2002, pro forma operating expenses would have been $290.1 million in 2002,
and year-to-year growth would have been $57.2 million or 19.7%. The largest
contributor to this increase was growth in compensation and benefits expense of
$48 million. This reflected compensation increases as well as increased
staffing in Europe, the global structured finance business, the specialist
teams that support Moody’s enhanced analysis initiative, and MKMV. The
year-to-year operating expense increase also reflected $8 million related to
the Company’s change in accounting for stock-based compensation, mainly for
options granted in February 2003.

Selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses were $203.6 million in
2003, an increase of $28.3 million or 16.1% from $175.3 million in 2002.
Assuming that Moody’s had owned KMV for all of 2002, pro forma SG&A expenses
would have been $183.1 million in 2002, and year-to-year growth would have been
$20.5 million or 11.2%. Year-to-year expense increases included higher
professional fees of $4 million, mainly for legal costs, increased compensation
and benefits of approximately $4 million and higher rent and occupancy costs to
support business expansion, and $2 million related to the Company’s change in
accounting for stock-based compensation, mainly for options granted in February
2003.



Depreciation and amortization expense increased to $32.6 million in 2003 from
$24.6 million in 2002. Amortization of acquired software and intangible assets
related to the KMV acquisition was $8.8 million in 2003 compared with $6.3
million in 2002. If the acquisition of KMV had been completed as of January 1,
2002, pro forma depreciation and amortization would have been $27.7 million in
2002 and the pro forma year-to-year increase would have been $4.9 million.
This increase was principally related to computer hardware and software placed
into service during 2003.

Operating income of $663.1 million in 2003 rose $125.0 million or 23.2% from
$538.1 million in 2002. This increase was primarily the result of the revenue
growth mentioned above. The strength of foreign currencies, especially the
Euro, relative to the U.S. dollar accounted for approximately 150 basis points
of reported operating income growth. Moody’s operating margin for 2003 was
53.2% compared to 52.6% in 2002. The increase reflected the strong growth in
revenue in the Moody’s Investors Service business without a proportional
increase in expenses. Partially offsetting this impact were: (1) growth in
Moody’s KMV revenue at a lower incremental margin than the Moody’s Investors
Service business; and (2) 2003 expense of $10.5 million related to stock-based
compensation with no counterpart in 2002.

Interest and other non-operating expense, net was $6.7 million in 2003 compared
with $20.7 million in 2002. The 2003 amount included a gain of $13.6 million on
an insurance recovery related to the September 11th tragedy, as discussed in
Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements. Interest expense was $23.5
million in 2003 and 2002. The amounts in both periods included $22.8 million of
interest expense on Moody’s $300 million of private placement debt. Interest
income was $1.7 million in 2003, down from $2.3 million in 2002 despite higher
invested cash, due to lower U.S. interest rates in 2003 compared to 2002.
Foreign exchange gains were $2.2 million in 2003 and $0.3 million in 2002.

Moody’s effective tax rate was 44.6% in 2003 compared to 44.2% in 2002. The
2003 effective tax rate included the impact of a $16.2 million increase in
reserves related to legacy income tax exposures that were assumed by Moody’s in
connection with its separation from The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation in
October, 2000 (see Contingencies – Legacy Tax Matters, below). This item
accounted for a 250 basis point increase in the effective rate in 2003. This
increase was partially offset by the favorable impacts of continued operating
growth in jurisdictions with lower tax rates than New York and tax benefits
from the establishment of a New York captive insurance company during 2002.

Net income was $363.9 million in 2003, an increase of $75.0 million or 26.0%
from $288.9 million in 2002. Earnings per share were $2.44 basic and $2.39
diluted in 2003, compared with $1.88 basic and $1.83 diluted in 2002.

Segment Results

Moody’s Investors Service

Revenue at Moody’s Investors Service for 2003 was $1,134.7 million, up $192.9
million or 20.5% from $941.8 million in 2002. Good growth was achieved in a
number of ratings sectors as well as in research. Foreign currency translation
accounted for approximately 225 basis points of reported revenue growth. Price
increases also contributed to year-to-year growth in reported revenue.

Structured finance revenue was $460.6 million for 2003, an increase of $76.3
million or 19.9% from $384.3 million in 2002. Approximately $48 million of this
increase was in United States revenue, which grew in the mid-teens percent
range, and $28 million was in international, which grew in the low twenty
percent range. In the United States, the residential mortgage sector
contributed $15 million of revenue growth, as low interest rates drove strong
refinancing activity. Refinancing activity has slowed significantly in recent
months, and Moody’s expects a decline in this sector in 2004 as discussed
below. Good growth was also achieved in revenue from ratings of asset backed
securities, reflecting year-to-year growth of about 10% in issuance volumes,
particularly student loans, and higher average prices due to more complex
transactions. Revenue from ratings of credit derivatives also grew
year-to-year. Outside the United States, European structured finance was the
main growth driver, contributing $24 million of year-to-year revenue growth.
This principally reflected growth in collateralized debt obligations and
residential mortgage backed securities. Foreign currency translation and price
increases also contributed to year-to-year growth in global structured finance
revenue.

Corporate finance revenue was $278.8 million in 2003, up $51.1 million or 22.4%
from $227.7 million in 2002. Revenue grew by $27 million in the United States,
where the number of speculative grade issues rose significantly year-to-year
due to refinancings and new issuers. In addition, the number of investment
grade issuance transactions increased nearly 10% year-to-year although dollar
issuance



declined. U.S. revenue growth was also derived from areas not related to public
debt issuance such as syndicated bank loan ratings and relationship-based fees.
In Europe, revenue grew by $19 million year-to-year. The dollar volume of
issuance was up nearly 40% due primarily to refinancing activity, as spreads
tightened and new issuers accessed the market. Price increases also
contributed to year-to-year growth in global corporate finance revenue.

Revenue in the financial institutions and sovereign risk group was $181.2
million for 2003, an increase of $26.2 million or 16.9% from $155.0 million for
2002. The year-to-year growth was almost wholly due to Europe, where revenue
growth exceeded 40%. This reflected a substantial year-to-year increase in
issuance and the addition of new issuers. In the U.S., revenue was flat versus
strong prior year comparisons. Price increases also contributed to global
financial institutions revenue growth over the prior year period.

Public finance revenue of $87.2 million for 2003 was up $6.0 million or 7.4%
from $81.2 million in 2002. Dollar issuance in the municipal bond market grew
5% versus 2002, but issuance of short-term notes declined year-to-year.
Refinancings represented 34% of total dollar issuance in 2003 versus 33% in
2002. Moody’s expects that public finance issuance and revenue will decline in
2004, as discussed below.

Research revenue increased $33.3 million or 35.6% to $126.9 million for 2003,
compared with $93.6 million for 2002. Revenue grew by $18 million in the U.S.
and $13 million in Europe. The strong performance was driven by growth in
licensing of Moody’s information to financial customers for internal use and
redistribution, sales of new products to existing clients and new clients.
Foreign currency translation also contributed to year-to-year growth in
reported revenue.

Moody’s Investors Service operating, selling, general and administrative
expenses, including corporate expenses, were $462.2 million in 2003, an
increase of $76.5 million or 19.8% from $385.7 million in 2002. Compensation
and benefits expense accounted for $52 million of the total expense growth.
This reflected compensation increases and staffing growth in Europe and the
global structured finance business as well as the specialist teams that support
Moody’s enhanced analysis initiative. Despite the increase in staffing,
incentive compensation decreased slightly year-to-year due to lower growth in
the Company’s operating results in 2003 compared with 2002. Other year-to-year
expense increases included: $9 million related to the Company’s change in
accounting for stock-based compensation (mainly for options granted in February
2003); $7 million for increased professional fees, mainly for legal fees and
technology consulting costs; and $4 million related to rent, occupancy and
travel related costs in connection with business expansion. Foreign currency
translation also contributed to year-to-year growth in reported expenses.
Depreciation and amortization expense was $15.4 million in 2003 versus $12.7
million in 2002. The year-to-year increase of $2.7 million principally related
to computer hardware and software placed into service during 2003.

Moody’s Investors Service operating income of $657.1 million in 2003 was up
$113.7 million or 20.9% from $543.4 million in 2002.

Moody’s KMV

The following table shows Moody’s KMV reported results for 2003 compared with
the reported results for 2002 (the “reported comparisons”), and compared with
2002 on a pro forma basis presented as if Moody’s had acquired KMV on January
1, 2002 (the “pro forma comparisons”), in a manner consistent with SFAS No. 141
and as further described in Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.
The discussion of MKMV results of operations that follows is based on the pro
forma comparisons.

Reported Comparisons

Pro Forma Comparisons

2003 Variance to 2002

2003 Variance to 2002

(dollars in millions)



$

%


$

%

Revenue

$

111.9

$

81.5

$

30.4

37.3

%

$

96.6

$

15.3

15.8

%

Operating expenses

88.7

74.9

13.8

18.4

%

87.5

1.2

1.4

%

Depreciation and
amortization

17.2

11.9

5.3

44.5

%

15.0

2.2

14.7

%

Operating income (loss)

$

6.0

($5.3

)

$

11.3

($5.9

)

$

11.9



MKMV’s pro forma year-to-year revenue increase in 2003 principally reflected
$12 million of growth in subscription revenue from credit risk assessment
products, including Credit Edge

TM

, RiskCalc

TM

, and Portfolio Manager

TM

. Revenue
from license fees and maintenance related to credit decisioning software grew
$2 million year-to-year.

Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses in 2003 increased
slightly compared to pro forma 2002 expenses. Compensation and benefits expense
was flat year to year. The impacts of compensation increases and higher
staffing to support the continued growth of the business were offset by lower
expenses for incentive compensation due to below target operating performance
in 2003 whereas performance was above target in 2002. Commission expense for
third party distributors declined due to lower sales from this source in 2003.
Expenses in 2003 included $1 million related to the Company’s change in
accounting for stock-based compensation, mainly for options granted in February
2003. Pro forma depreciation and amortization expense reflected $8.8 million of
amortization of acquired KMV software and intangible assets in each period. The
pro forma year-to-year increase in depreciation and amortization expense was
primarily due to increased amortization of capitalized software development
costs.

Year Ended December 31, 2002 Compared With Year Ended December 31, 2001

Total Company Results

Moody’s revenue for 2002 was $1,023.3 million, an increase of $226.6 million or
28.4% from $796.7 million in the prior year. The Company’s revenue performance
reflected strong gains in a number of sectors of the ratings business, with
global structured finance contributing nearly half of the year-to-year growth.
MKMV accounted for $50.7 million of year-to-year growth, including $42.1
million of revenue from the April 2002 acquisition of KMV.

Revenue in the United States was $680.8 million in 2002, an increase of $120.1
million or 21.4% from $560.7 million in 2001. The 2002 increase reflected $85
million of growth in ratings revenue, with higher issuance volumes in several
market sectors due to the favorable interest rate environment. Structured
finance contributed $66 million of the U.S. ratings revenue growth, with the
residential mortgage sector increasing approximately $29 million and other
sectors contributing to growth as well. MKMV contributed $23 million of
growth, including $19 million of post-acquisition revenue from KMV.

Moody’s international revenue was $342.5 million in 2002, an increase of 45.1%
from $236.0 million in 2001. International growth was primarily driven by
structured finance, with European structured finance growing by over $30
million. MKMV contributed $28 million of growth, including
$23 million of post-acquisition revenue from KMV. In 2002, international revenue accounted for 33%
of total Moody’s revenue, up from 30% in 2001.

Operating expenses of $285.3 million in 2002 grew $45.7 million or 19.1% from
$239.6 million in 2001. The largest driver of the increase was compensation and
benefits expense, which grew by $26 million year-to-year. This reflected
compensation increases, higher benefits expenses, and increases in staffing.
Staffing increases principally occurred to support business expansion in Europe
and the global structured finance business. In addition, the April 2002
acquisition of KMV resulted in an increase in operating expenses of $12.2
million compared with the prior year. Operating expense increases also included
consulting costs to support new product development, and higher occupancy and
travel related costs in connection with business expansion.

Selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses of $175.3 million in 2002
were up $33.7 million or 23.8% versus $141.6 million in 2001. This increase was
principally due to $23.1 million of expenses related to KMV, which was acquired
in April 2002. Other increases included higher compensation and benefits of $3
million to support business expansion; higher professional fees of $4 million
primarily for technology infrastructure and financial systems; and higher legal
fees of $3 million primarily due to U.S. and European regulatory inquiries.

Depreciation and amortization expense increased to $24.6 million in 2002 from
$17.0 million in 2001. The increase was principally due to $7.5 million of
KMV-related expenses, including $6.3 million for amortization of acquired
software and intangible assets. The 2001 amount included $2.1 million for
amortization of goodwill, which was discontinued in 2002 with the
implementation of SFAS No. 142.



Operating income of $538.1 million in 2002 was up 35.0% from $398.5 million in
2001. Moody’s operating margin for 2002 was 52.6%, up from 50.0% in 2001. The
strong operating income growth in 2002 principally reflected the Company’s high
revenue growth without a proportional increase in expenses.

Interest and other non-operating expense was $20.7 million in 2002 compared
with $16.6 million in 2001. The amount in each year included interest expense
of $22.8 million related to Moody’s $300 million of private placement debt.
Interest income was $2.3 million in 2002 compared with $6.5 million in 2001.
The lower interest income in 2002 was principally due to lower interest rates,
and the use of cash on hand to fund the KMV acquisition and greater share
repurchases.

Moody’s effective tax rate was 44.2% in 2002 compared to 44.4% in 2001. Net
income was $288.9 million in 2002 compared with $212.2 million in 2001.
Earnings per share were $1.88 basic and $1.83 diluted in 2002, compared with
$1.35 basic and $1.32 diluted in 2001.

Segment Results

Moody’s Investors Service

Moody’s Investors Service revenue was $941.8 million in 2002, up 23.0% from
$765.9 million in 2001. The increase was principally driven by strong growth in
global structured finance, financial institutions and research revenue, as well
as in U.S. public finance.

Structured finance revenue was $384.3 million in 2002, an increase of $110.5
million or 40.4% from $273.8 million in 2001. The U.S. structured finance
business accounted for $66 million of this growth, with nearly $29 million of
growth in the residential mortgage sector and over $10 million of growth in
revenue from credit derivatives. The largest component of international
structured finance revenue growth was Europe, with a year-to-year increase of
over $30 million. The credit derivatives sector was the largest growth driver
in Europe. Structured finance revenue in Japan grew approximately $7 million
year-to-year, principally in commercial mortgage-backed securities.

Corporate finance revenue was $227.7 million in 2002, up 0.9% from $225.7
million in 2001. U.S. corporate finance revenue declined $9 million
year-to-year. This reflected a year-to-year decline of 17% in the number of
issues, with weakness in corporate investment spending, lower merger and
acquisition activity and slower refinancing activity. Price increases and
growth in relationship-based revenue partially offset the impact of this
decline. European corporate finance contributed approximately $4 million of
revenue growth in 2002 despite lower issuance volumes, primarily due to new
rating customers and growth in relationship-based revenue. The consolidation of
Korea Investors Service starting in January 2002 added approximately $5 million
of year-to-year revenue growth.

Revenue in the financial institutions and sovereign risk sector was $155.0
million in 2002, an increase of $24.3 million or 18.6% from $130.7 million in
2001. In the U.S., growth of $11 million reflected a 6% increase in the number
of financial institutions issues in 2002 compared to 2001, due to refinancing
of short-term debt to long-term debt and increased investor demand for issues
in this sector. In Europe, revenue increased $8 million as the number of
transactions in this sector was up 17% from the prior year.

Public finance revenue increased 26.5% to $81.2 million in 2002, from $64.2
million in 2001. Year-to-year growth of 25% in the dollar volume of U.S.
municipal bond issuance was the main driver of this performance. Issuance
volumes were strong for both new issues and refinancings, reflecting the
favorable interest rate environment as well as less pay-as-you-go financing by
municipal borrowers.

Research revenue grew 30.9% to $93.6 million in 2002, up from $71.5 million in
2001. Revenue in the United States grew $12 million year-to-year, and
international revenue increased $10 million, mainly in Europe. Increased
investor focus on credit risk helped to drive higher sales of products to
current customers and the addition of new customers. In addition, increased
revenue from licensing Moody’s information to financial customers for internal
use and redistribution contributed to the growth

.

Moody’s Investors Service operating, selling, general and administrative
expenses, including corporate expenses, were $385.7 million in 2002, an
increase of $32.8 million or 9.3% over 2001. The largest driver of the increase
was compensation and benefits expense, which grew by $24 million year-to-year.
This reflected compensation increases, higher benefits expenses, and increases
in staffing. Staffing increases principally occurred to support business
expansion in Europe and the global structured finance business. Other



expense increases included $4 million for consulting costs related to
investments in technology infrastructure and financial systems, $3 million for
legal fees related to U.S. and European regulatory inquiries and higher rent,
occupancy and travel related costs in connection with business expansion.
Included in 2001 expenses was a $3.4 million write-down of investments in two
Argentine rating agencies due to the currency devaluation and the unstable
economic and political situation. The expense increases were partially offset
by lower costs for production and delivery of research products due to the
continued shift to Internet delivery. Depreciation and amortization expense was
$12.7 million in 2002 versus $11.5 million in 2001.

Moody’s Investors Service operating income of $543.4 million in 2002 was up
35.3% from $401.5 million in 2001.

Moody’s KMV

Moody’s KMV reported revenue of $81.5 million in 2002 compared to $30.8 million
in 2001. The April 2002 acquisition of KMV accounted for $42.1 million of the
year-to-year revenue growth. The remaining $8.6 million of revenue growth
reflected increased subscriptions for RiskCalc™ credit assessment products as
additional country-specific models were introduced, and license fees for new
sales and upgrades of credit decisioning software.

Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses of Moody’s KMV were
$74.9 million in 2002 compared with $28.3 million in 2001, an increase of $46.6
million. Post-acquisition operating expenses of KMV accounted for $35.3 million
of the year-to-year expense growth. The remaining increase principally
reflected growth of $5 million in compensation and benefit costs to support
growth in the legacy MRMS business, and higher consulting costs related to new
product development. Moody’s KMV depreciation and amortization expense was
$11.9 million in 2002 versus $5.5 million in 2001; the year-to-year increase
primarily reflected $6.3 million of amortization expense related to acquired
KMV software and intangible assets. The 2001 amount included $1.5 million of
goodwill amortization, which was discontinued in 2002 with the implementation
of SFAS No. 142.

Moody’s KMV reported an operating loss of $5.3 million in 2002, compared to an
operating loss of $3.0 million in 2001.

Market Risk

Moody’s maintains operations in 19 countries outside the United States.
Approximately 15% of the Company’s revenue was billed in currencies other than
the U.S. dollar in 2003, principally the Euro. Approximately 30% of the
Company’s expenses were incurred in currencies other than the U.S. dollar in
2003, principally the Euro and the British Pound. As such, the Company is
exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates.

As of December 31, 2003, approximately 10% of Moody’s assets were located
outside the U.S. Of Moody’s aggregate cash and cash equivalents of $269.1
million at December 31, 2003, approximately $56.8 million was located outside
the United States (with $35.5 million in the U.K.), making the Company
susceptible to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The effects of changes
in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar on assets and
liabilities of non-U.S. operations are charged or credited to the cumulative
translation adjustment in shareholders’ equity.

Moody’s cash equivalents consist of investments in high quality short-term
securities within and outside the United States. By policy, the Company limits
the amount it can invest with any one issuer and allocates its cash equivalents
among various money market mutual funds, short-term certificates of deposit or
issuers of high-grade commercial paper.

The Company has not engaged in foreign currency hedging transactions nor does
the Company have any derivative financial instruments. However, the Company
continues to assess the need to enter into hedging transactions to limit its
risk due to fluctuations in exchange rates and may enter into such transactions
in the future.



Liquidity and Capital Resources

Cash Flow Overview

Cash and cash equivalents increased $229.2 million during 2003, to $269.1
million. Moody’s net cash provided by operating activities was $468.4 million,
and proceeds from stock plans were $79.0 million. Significant uses of this
cash flow were $171.7 million for share repurchases, $107.1 million for the
repayment of short-term bank debt outstanding at year-end 2002, dividend
payments of $26.8 million and capital expenditures of $17.9 million.

Cash Flow Analysis

The Company is currently financing its operations and capital expenditures
through cash flow from operations. Net cash provided by operating activities
was $468.4 million, $334.8 million and $321.4 million for the years ended
December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

Moody’s net cash provided by operating activities in 2003 increased by $133.6
million compared with 2002. The two largest factors affecting the year-to-year
increase were growth in net income of $75.0 million, and a year-over-year
decrease of $16.0 million in income tax payments despite an increase of $64.0
million in the income tax provision. Income tax payments totaled $210.6
million in 2003 compared to $226.6 million in 2002. The 2002 amount included
$50 million of tax payments that were deferred from 2001 to 2002 due to the
September 11th tragedy. In addition, the 2003 amount was favorably affected by
timing of tax payments. In addition to the two factors noted above, increases
in deferred revenue accounted for $21.9 million of the year-to-year increase in
net cash provided by operating activities in 2003, and higher non-cash expenses
for depreciation and amortization and stock-based compensation accounted for an
additional $18.8 million of favorable variance. Partially offsetting these
impacts, Moody’s investment in accounts receivable increased by $75.2 million
year-to-year. This increase reflected continued growth in the business,
significant year-to-year growth in billings in the fourth quarter of 2003 and
an increase in days billings outstanding during 2003.

Cash provided by operating activities in 2002 increased by $13.4 million
compared with 2001, in part reflecting growth in net income of $76.7 million
and increased tax benefits from the exercise of stock options of $12.4 million.
Partially offsetting these impacts were the payment of approximately $50
million of U.S. federal income taxes related to 2001 that were deferred into
2002 as a result of the September 11th tragedy, and higher payments for prior
year incentive compensation (approximately $38 million). The increase in other
liabilities in 2002 included increased reserves related to pension and other
post-retirement benefits.

Net cash used in investing activities was $17.1 million, $223.6 million and
$30.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001,
respectively. Investing activities in each year principally consisted of
acquisitions, capital expenditures and investments in affiliates. The 2003
amount included $1.1 million of cash acquired in connection with an increase in
the Company’s ownership of Argentine rating agencies, as described in Note 5 to
the consolidated financial statements. Cash used for acquisitions included
$205.4 million (net of cash acquired) for KMV in 2002 and $9.6 million for
Korea Investors Service during 2001. The Company made investments in
international rating agencies totaling $5.6 million in 2001. Cash used for the
purchase of property and equipment and the capitalization of internally
developed software costs totaled $17.9 million, $18.1 million and $14.8 million
in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

Net cash used in financing activities was $227.7 million, $236.6 million and
$248.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001,
respectively. During 2003 the Company repaid $107.1 million of borrowings that
were outstanding under the Company’s bank revolving credit facility at December
31, 2002. Spending for share repurchases totaled $171.7 million in 2003, $369.9
million in 2002 and $267.6 million in 2001. These amounts were offset in part
by proceeds from stock plans of $79.0 million in 2003, $54.0 million in 2002
and $47.8 million in 2001. In addition, dividends paid were $26.8 million,
$27.8 million and $28.3 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

During 2002, Moody’s funded the acquisition of KMV with a combination of cash
on hand and short-term borrowings from its bank credit facilities, which were
subsequently repaid. During 2002, Moody’s also borrowed under its bank credit
facilities to fund share repurchases, and the Company has benefited from
favorable short-term borrowing costs. Management may consider pursuing
long-term financing when it is appropriate in light of cash requirements for
share repurchase and other strategic opportunities, which would



result in higher financing costs. At December 31, 2003, Moody’s had no
outstanding borrowings under its bank credit facilities and $300 million of
long-term financing payable in October 2005.

Future Cash Requirements

Moody’s currently expects to fund expenditures as well as liquidity needs
created by changes in working capital from internally generated funds. The
Company believes that it has the financial resources needed to meet its cash
requirements for the next twelve months and expects to have positive operating
cash flow for fiscal year 2004. Cash requirements for periods beyond the next
twelve months will depend among other things on the Company’s profitability and
its ability to manage working capital requirements.

The Company currently intends to use the majority of its cash flow provided by
operating activities to continue its share repurchase program. The Company also
currently intends to use a portion of its cash flow to pay a quarterly
dividend, which the Board of Directors raised from $0.045 per share to $0.075
per share in December 2003. The continued payment of dividends at this rate is
subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors. As described above, the
Company has borrowed from time to time under its bank revolving credit facility
and may obtain more permanent financing when it is appropriate in light of cash
requirements for share repurchases and other strategic opportunities.

In addition, the Company will from time to time consider cash outlays for
acquisitions of or investments in complementary businesses, products, services
and technologies. The Company may also be required to make future cash outlays,
including during 2004, to pay to New D&B its share of potential liabilities
related to the legacy tax and legal contingencies and to satisfy any
adverse
judgment rendered in the action in France that, in each instance, are discussed
in this Management’s Discussion and Analysis under “Contingencies”. These
potential cash outlays could be material and might affect liquidity
requirements and cause the Company to pursue additional financing. There can be
no assurance that financing to meet cash requirements will be available in
amounts or on terms acceptable to the Company, if at all.

Indebtedness

At December 31, 2003 and 2002, the Company had outstanding long-term financing
of $300 million and a bank revolving credit facility with no borrowings
outstanding at December 31, 2003 and $107.1 million outstanding at December 31,
2002.

The $300 million of long-term financing was secured in connection with the 2000
Distribution, as that term is defined in Note 1 to the consolidated financial
statements. In connection with the 2000 Distribution, Moody’s was allocated
$195.5 million of debt at September 30, 2000. Moody’s funded this debt with
borrowings under a $160 million unsecured bank revolving credit facility and a
bank bridge line of credit. On October 3, 2000, the Company issued $300 million
of notes payable (the “Notes”) in a private placement. The cash proceeds from
the Notes were used in part to repay the outstanding balance on the revolving
credit facility and to repay the bridge line of credit. The Notes have a
five-year term and bear interest at an annual rate of 7.61%, payable
semi-annually. In the event that Moody’s pays all or part of the Notes in
advance of their maturity, (the “prepaid principal”), such prepayment will be
subject to a penalty calculated based on the excess, if any, of the discounted
value of the remaining scheduled payments, as defined in the agreement, over
the prepaid principal.

The revolving credit facility (the “Facility”) consists of an $80 million
5-year facility that expires in September 2005 and an $80 million 364-day
facility that expires in September 2004. Interest on borrowings under the
5-year facility is payable at rates that are based on the London InterBank
Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) plus a premium that can range from 18 basis points to 50
basis points depending on the Company’s ratio of total indebtedness to earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“Earnings Coverage
Ratio”), as defined in the related agreement. At December 31, 2003, such
premium was 18 basis points. Interest on borrowings under the 364-day facility
is payable at rates that are based on LIBOR plus a premium of 30.5 basis
points. The Company also pays annual facility fees, regardless of borrowing
activity under the Facility. The annual fees for the 5-year facility can range
from 7 basis points of the facility amount to 12.5 basis points, depending on
the Company’s Earnings Coverage Ratio, and were 7 basis points at December 31,
2003. The annual fees for the 364-day facility are 7 basis points. Under each
facility, the Company also pays a utilization fee of 12.5 basis points on
borrowings outstanding when the aggregate amount outstanding under such
facility exceeds 33% of the facility amount.



The Company initially borrowed under the revolving credit facility during the
second quarter of 2002 to fund a portion of the acquisition price for KMV, and
subsequently repaid those borrowings. During 2002, Moody’s also borrowed under
the facility to fund share repurchases, and has benefited from favorable
short-term borrowing costs. Interest paid under the Facility for the years
ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 was $0.6 million and $0.3 million,
respectively. Management may consider pursuing long-term financing when it is
appropriate in light of cash requirements for share repurchase and other
strategic opportunities, which would result in higher financing costs.

The Notes and the Facility (the “Agreements”) contain covenants that, among
other things, restrict the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries, without
the approval of the lenders, to engage in mergers, consolidations, asset sales
and sale-leaseback transactions or to incur liens. The Notes and the Facility
also contain financial covenants that, among other things, require the Company
to maintain an interest coverage ratio, as defined in the Agreements, of not
less than 3 to 1, and an Earnings Coverage Ratio, as defined in the Agreements,
of not more than 4 to 1. At December 31, 2003, the Company was in compliance
with such covenants. If an event of default were to occur (as defined in the
Agreements) and was not remedied by the Company within the stipulated
timeframe, an acceleration of the Notes and restrictions on the use of the
Facility could occur.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

At December 31, 2003 and 2002, Moody’s did not have any relationships with
unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often
referred to as special purpose or variable interest entities, which would have
been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements
or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. As such, Moody’s is not
exposed to any financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise if
it had engaged in such relationships.

Share Repurchases

During October 2002, Moody’s completed the $300 million share repurchase
program that had been authorized by the Board of Directors in October 2001. On
October 22, 2002, the Board of Directors authorized an additional $450 million
share repurchase program, which includes both special share repurchases and
systematic repurchases of Moody’s common stock to offset the dilutive effect of
share issuance under the Company’s employee stock plans.

For the year ended December 31, 2003, Moody’s repurchased 3.5 million shares at
a total cost of $171.7 million, including 3.2 million shares to offset
issuances under employee stock plans. Since becoming a public company in
September 2000 and through the end of 2003, Moody’s has repurchased 23.0
million shares at a total cost of $881.0 million, including 9.3 million shares
to offset issuances under employee stock plans.

Contractual Obligations

The following table presents payments due under the Company’s contractual
obligations as of December 31, 2003.

Payments Due by Period

Less Than 1

(in millions)

Total

Year

1-3 Years

4-5 Years

Over 5 Years

Notes payable

$

300.0

$

—

$

300.0

$

—

$

—

Operating lease obligations

54.5

17.2

21.4

10.8

5.1

Capital lease obligations

2.5

1.2

1.3

—

—

Contingent payment related
to acquisition of Korea
Investors Service (1)

4.0

—

4.0

—

—

Purchase obligations (2)

11.3

5.4

4.8

1.1

—

Total

$

372.3

$

23.8

$

331.5

$

11.9

$

5.1



(1)

This amount reflects Moody’s current estimate of the contingent payment
related to the acquisition of Korea Investors Service, which will be
determined based on the net income of Korea Investors Service for the
three-year period ending December 31, 2004. See Note 5 to the
consolidated financial statements.

(2)

Purchase obligations include contracts for telecommunications, data
processing services and back-up facilities, and professional services.

Outlook

Moody’s outlook for 2004 is based on assumptions about many macroeconomic and
capital market factors, including interest rates, consumer spending, corporate
profitability and business investment spending, and capital markets issuance
activity. There is an important degree of uncertainty surrounding these
assumptions and, if actual conditions differ from these assumptions, Moody’s
results for the year may differ significantly from the outlook presented below.

The Company expects interest rates in the United States to rise during 2004,
with reduced refinancings of debt and continued weak demand for financing to
support business investment. As a result, Moody’s expects to see lower
issuance in the U.S. corporate bond market, both in the investment grade sector
and in the high yield sector, which posted record issuance in 2003. Despite
the issuance declines, revenue from new products and growth in
relationship-based revenue should produce modest growth in both the U.S.
corporate finance and financial institutions sectors. The Company is
continuing to introduce the Enhanced Analysis Initiative, consisting of
financial reporting, off-balance sheet risk transference and corporate
governance assessment reports, and Moody’s plans to cover approximately 350
corporations and financial institutions in North America by the end of 2004.

Moody’s also expects good growth in consumer spending in 2004. As a result,
the Company expects that growth in revenue from rating asset-backed
securitizations, together with moderate growth in the commercial mortgage
securitization and credit derivatives segments of the business, will
substantially offset an important decline in revenue from rating residential
mortgage-backed securities as the very strong refinancing activity of the past
two years declines. In the public finance ratings business Moody’s expects a
revenue decline of approximately 20% in 2004, reflecting projected slowing of
issuance related to both refinancings and “new money” borrowings. The Company
expects continued strong growth in the U.S. research business.

Outside the U.S. Moody’s expects to see double-digit revenue growth in the
corporate and financial institutions ratings businesses. The Company is also
projecting strong year-over-year growth for structured finance ratings revenue
and in the research business, all producing approximately 20% international
revenue growth in ratings and research, including the effects of currency
translation. Finally, Moody’s expects high teens percent revenue growth
globally at Moody’s KMV.

Moody’s expenses for 2004 will likely reflect continued investment spending on
improving and increasing the transparency of ratings practices, technology
initiatives and product development and continued hiring to support growth
areas of the business. The Company will continue investment in the Enhanced
Analysis Initiative. Moody’s expects its operating margin to decline about 100
basis points in 2004 from the level achieved in 2003 due to investments being
made and the faster growth of the lower margin MKMV business. An additional 100
basis point decline in operating margin is expected due to higher expense for
stock-based compensation. Since the Company adopted expensing of stock-based
compensation prospectively effective January 1, 2003, the higher expense is due
in part to the phasing in of expense over the current four-year option vesting
period.

Overall for 2004, Moody’s expects that year-over-year
revenue growth will be in
the mid- to high single digit percent range. With the impact of a slightly
lower effective tax rate and share repurchases, the Company expects that
diluted earnings per share will grow in the mid- to high single digit percent
range on a reported basis. Reported earnings per share in 2003 included the
impacts of the insurance gain, the legacy tax reserve increase and the
expensing of stock-based compensation discussed above. The impact of expensing
stock-based compensation will also be included in reported earnings per share
in 2004, and is expected to be approximately $0.10 to $0.11 per share in 2004
compared with $0.04 per share in 2003.

Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results

The following risk factors and other information included in this annual report
on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties
described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks and
uncertainties not presently



known to the Company or that the Company’s management currently deems
immaterial also may impair its business operations. If any of the following
risks occur, Moody’s business, financial condition, operating results and cash
flows could be materially adversely affected.

Changes in the Volume of Debt Securities Issued in Domestic and/or Global
Capital Markets and Changes in Interest Rates and Other Volatility in the
Financial Markets

Approximately 80% of Moody’s revenue in 2003 was derived from ratings, a
significant portion of which was related to the issuance of credit-sensitive
securities in the global capital markets. Moody’s enjoyed revenue growth from
these sources in 2003 that was greater than its historical averages,
principally due to strong growth in global structured finance and corporate
finance issuance volumes, the U.S. components of which were driven by a highly
favorable interest rate environment. The Company anticipates that a substantial
part of its business will continue to be dependent on the number and dollar
volume of debt securities issued in the capital markets. Therefore, the
Company’s results could be adversely affected by a reduction in the level of
debt issuance.

Unfavorable financial or economic conditions that either reduce investor demand
for debt securities or reduce issuers’ willingness or ability to issue such
securities could reduce the number and dollar volume of debt issuance for which
Moody’s provides ratings services. In addition, increases in interest rates,
volatility in financial markets or the interest rate environment, significant
political or economic events, defaults of significant issuers and other market
and economic factors may negatively impact the general level of debt issuance,
the debt issuance plans of certain categories of borrowers, and/or the types of
credit-sensitive products being offered. A sustained period of market decline
or weakness could also have a material adverse affect on Moody’s business and
financial results.

Possible Loss of Market Share or Revenue through Competition or Regulation

The markets for credit ratings, research and credit risk management services
are intensely competitive. Moody’s competes on the basis of a number of
factors, including quality of ratings, client service, research, reputation,
price, geographic scope, range of products and technological innovation.
Moody’s faces increasing competition from S&P, Fitch, DBRS, local rating
agencies in a number of jurisdictions and niche companies that provide ratings
for particular types of financial products or issuers (such as A.M. Best
Company in the insurance industry). Since Moody’s believes that some of its
most significant challenges and opportunities will arise outside the U.S., it
will have to compete with rating agencies that may have a stronger local
presence or a longer operating history in those markets. These local providers
or comparable competitors that may emerge in the future may receive support
from local governments or other institutions.

Currently, Moody’s, S&P, Fitch, and DBRS are designated as NRSROs by the SEC.
On June 4, 2003, the SEC issued a Concept Release regarding the credit ratings
industry, wherein it posed and requested public comment on a series of
questions categorized into three broad areas: 1) should credit ratings continue
to be used for regulatory purposes under the federal securities laws; 2) if so,
what should be the process for determining whose credit ratings to use; and, 3)
if credit ratings continue to be used in federal securities laws, what is the
appropriate level of oversight for the agencies whose ratings are used?
Elimination of the NRSRO concept, retention of the NRSRO concept with different
regulatory oversight, or SEC recognition of additional NRSROs could result in
loss of market share or revenue for Moody’s, or higher costs of operations.

Introduction of Competing Products or Technologies by Other Companies

The markets for credit ratings, research and credit risk management services
are increasingly competitive. The ability to provide innovative products and
technologies that anticipate customers’ changing requirements and utilize
emerging technological trends is a key factor in maintaining market share.
Competitors may develop quantitative methodologies for assessing credit risk
that customers and market participants may deem preferable to or more
cost-effective than the credit risk assessment methods currently employed by
Moody’s.

Increased Pricing Pressure from Competitors and/or Customers

In the credit rating, research and credit risk management markets, competition
for customers and market share has spurred more aggressive tactics by some
competitors in areas such as pricing and service. Moody’s intends to continue
providing the highest quality



products and the best service to its customers and the capital markets.
However, if its pricing and services are not sufficiently competitive with its
current and future competitors, Moody’s may lose market share.

Possible Loss of Key Employees to Investment or Commercial Banks or Elsewhere
and Related Compensation Cost Pressures

Moody’s success depends in part upon recruiting and retaining highly skilled,
experienced financial analysts and other professionals. Competition for
qualified staff in the financial services industry is intense, and Moody’s
ability to attract staff could be impaired if it is unable to offer competitive
compensation and other incentives. Investment banks and other competitors for
analyst talent may be able to offer higher compensation than Moody’s. Moody’s
also may not be able to identify and hire employees outside the U.S. with the
required experience or skills to perform sophisticated credit analysis. Moody’s
ability to effectively compete will continue to depend, among other things, on
its ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate existing
employees.

Exposure to Litigation Related to Moody’s Rating Opinions

Moody’s faces litigation from time to time from parties claiming damages
relating to ratings actions. In addition, as Moody’s international business
expands, these types of claims may increase because foreign jurisdictions may
not have legal protections or liability standards comparable to those in the
U.S. (such as protections for the expression of credit opinions as is provided
by the First Amendment). These risks often may be difficult to assess or
quantify and their existence and magnitude often remains unknown for
substantial periods of time.

Potential Emergence of Government-Sponsored Credit Rating Agencies

When governments adopt regulations that require debt securities to be rated,
establish criteria for credit ratings or authorize only certain entities to
provide credit ratings, the competitive balance among rating agencies and the
level of demand for ratings may be positively or negatively affected.
Government-mandated ratings criteria may also have the effect of displacing
objective assessments of creditworthiness. In these circumstances, issuers may
be less likely to base their choice of rating agencies on criteria such as
independence and credibility, and more likely to base their choice on their
assumption as to which credit rating agency might provide a higher rating,
which may negatively affect the Company.

Proposed U.S., Foreign, State and Local Legislation and Regulations, Including
Those Relating to Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations

In the U.S. and other countries, the laws and regulations applicable to credit
ratings and rating agencies continue to evolve. Recently there has been
discussion in the U.S. regarding the potential need for greater regulation of
credit rating agencies. In January 2003, the SEC released a report on the role
and function of credit rating agencies in the operation of the securities
markets. The report considered a number of issues that the SEC was required to
examine under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other issues arising from a
SEC-initiated review of credit rating agencies. In June 2003 the SEC released a
Concept Release which posed questions about the continued use of credit ratings
for regulatory purposes in federal securities laws, the process for determining
rating agencies whose ratings could be so used, and the appropriate level of
oversight of such rating agencies. In February 2004, the European Parliament
adopted resolutions calling on the European Commission to conduct an analysis
for registration of rating agencies in Europe and possible registration
criteria. At present, Moody’s is unable to assess the nature and effect of any
regulatory changes that may result from ongoing reviews by the SEC or other
regulatory bodies.

Implementation guidelines proposed by the Committee of European Securities
Regulators under the European Commission’s Market Abuse Directive are
applicable to all participants in the European capital markets. Credit rating
agencies are excluded from control under the guidelines. However, depending on
the form in which the implementation guidelines are ultimately adopted by
national regulators or lawmakers, such guidelines could include controls over
credit rating agencies in some European Union countries. If so, the guidelines
could, among other things, alter rating agencies’ communications with issuers
as part of the rating assignment process, and increase Moody’s cost of doing
business in Europe and the legal risk associated with such business.



Multinational Operations

Moody’s maintains offices outside the U.S. and derives a significant portion of
its revenue from sources outside the U.S. Operations in several different
countries expose Moody’s to a number of legal, economic and regulatory risks
such as:

•

changes in legal and regulatory requirements affecting either Moody’s operations or its customers’ use of ratings

•

possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls and other restrictive governmental actions

•

restrictions on the ability to convert local currency into U.S. dollars

•

currency fluctuations

•

export and import restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers

•

difficulty in staffing and managing offices as a result of, among other things, distance, travel, cultural differences and
intense competition for trained personnel

•

longer payment cycles and problems in collecting receivables

•

political and economic instability

•

potentially adverse tax consequences

Although such factors have not historically had a material adverse effect on
the business, financial condition and results of operations of the Company, any
of these factors could have such an effect in the future.

Contingencies

From time to time, Moody’s is involved in legal and tax proceedings, claims and
litigation that are incidental to the Company’s business, including claims
based on ratings assigned by Moody’s. Management periodically assesses the
Company’s liabilities and contingencies in connection with these matters, based
upon the latest information available. For those matters where the probable
amount of loss can be reasonably estimated, the Company believes it has
recorded appropriate reserves in the consolidated financial statements. In
other instances, because of the uncertainties related to both the probable
outcome and amount or range of loss, management is unable to make a reasonable
estimate of a liability, if any. As additional information becomes available,
the Company adjusts its assessments and estimates of such liabilities
accordingly.

Based on its review of the latest information available, in the opinion of
management, the ultimate liability of the Company in connection with pending
legal and tax proceedings, claims and litigation will not have a material
adverse effect on Moody’s financial position, results of operations or cash
flows, subject to the contingencies described below.

Discussion of contingencies is segregated between those matters that relate to
Old D&B, its predecessors and their affiliated companies (“Legacy
Contingencies”) and those that relate to Moody’s business and operations
(“Moody’s Matters”).

Legacy Contingencies

To understand the Company’s exposure to the potential liabilities described
below, it is important to understand the relationship between Moody’s and New
D&B, and the relationship among New D&B and its predecessors and other parties
who, through various corporate reorganizations and related contractual
commitments, have assumed varying degrees of responsibility with respect to
such matters.

In November 1996, The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation through a spin-off separated
into three separate public companies: The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation,
ACNielsen Corporation (“ACNielsen”) and Cognizant Corporation (“Cognizant”)
(the “1996 Distribution”).



In June 1998, The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation through a spin-off separated
into two separate public companies: The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation and R.H.
Donnelley Corporation (“Donnelley”) (the “1998 Distribution”). During 1998,
Cognizant through a spin-off separated into two separate public companies: IMS
Health Incorporated (“IMS Health”) and Nielsen Media Research, Inc. (“NMR”). In
September 2000, The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation (“Old D&B”) through a spin-off
separated into two separate public companies: New D&B and Moody’s, as further
described in Note 1, Description of Business and Basis of Presentation.

Information Resources, Inc.

In July 1996, Information Resources, Inc. (“IRI”) filed a complaint in the U.
S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, naming as defendants
the corporation then known as The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation, A.C. Nielsen
Company (a subsidiary of ACNielsen) and IMS International, Inc. (a subsidiary
of the company then known as Cognizant). At the time of the filing of the
complaint, each of the other defendants was a subsidiary of The Dun &
Bradstreet Corporation.

The complaint alleges various violations of United States antitrust laws under
Sections 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act. The complaint also alleges a claim of
tortious interference with a contract and a claim of tortious interference with
a prospective business relationship. These claims relate to the acquisition by
defendants of Survey Research Group Limited (“SRG”). IRI alleges SRG violated
an alleged agreement with IRI when it agreed to be acquired by the defendants
and that the defendants induced SRG to breach that agreement.

IRI’s antitrust claims allege that the defendants developed and implemented a
plan to undermine IRI’s ability to compete within the U.S. and foreign markets
in North America, Latin America, Asia, Europe and Australia/New Zealand through
a series of anti-competitive practices, including: unlawfully tying/bundling
services in the markets in which defendants allegedly had monopoly power with
services in markets in which ACNielsen competed with IRI; entering into
exclusionary contracts with retailers in certain countries to deny IRI’s access
to sales data necessary to provide retail tracking services or to artificially
raise the cost of that data; predatory pricing; acquiring foreign market
competitors with the intent of impeding IRI’s efforts to expand; disparaging
IRI to financial analysts and clients; and denying IRI access to capital
necessary for it to compete.

IRI’s complaint originally alleged damages in excess of $350 million, which IRI
asked to be trebled under antitrust laws. IRI has since revised its allegation
of damages to exceed $650 million, which IRI also asked to be trebled. IRI
also seeks punitive damages of an unspecified amount.

In April 2003, the court denied a motion for partial summary judgment by the
defendants that sought to dismiss certain of IRI’s claims and granted in part a
motion by IRI seeking reconsideration of certain summary judgment rulings the
Court had previously made in favor of the defendants.

In December of 2003, IRI was acquired by the Gingko Acquisition Corporation, an
affiliate of Symphony Technology II – A. L. P. and certain other parties. As
part of that transaction, a statutory trust called the Information Resources,
Inc. Litigation Contingent Payment Rights Trust (the “Trust”) was formed. The
Trust was created, in part, to issue contingent value rights certificates
(“CVRs”), which represent an interest in the IRI lawsuit. The CVRs are
governed by a Contingent Value Rights Agreement among IRI and the acquirers,
and are a tradeable security listed on the OTC Bulletin Board. As part of the
purchase consideration, each IRI stockholder received one CVR for each share of
IRI common stock owned, entitling the selling stockholders to a pro rata
portion of the proceeds from the IRI lawsuit, if any, allocated to the Trust.
The Trust will be entitled to receive an amount equal to 68% of any proceeds
from the IRI lawsuit to the extent that such proceeds are equal to or less than
$200 million and 75% of any such proceeds in excess of $200 million. The
remaining proceeds, if any, will be the property of IRI. A body consisting of
five rights agents was appointed to direct and supervise the IRI Litigation on
behalf of IRI and CVR holders. Gingko Corporation named two of the rights
agents, IRI named two of the rights agents and these four rights agents
selected the fifth “independent” rights agent. Under the Contingent Value
Rights Agreement, a majority of the rights agents (other than the independent
rights agent) must approve any settlement of the IRI lawsuit. The information
contained in this paragraph is solely based on the tender offer statement filed
by Gingko Acquisition Corporation and other persons and the registration
statement filed by the Trust in connection with the acquisition of IRI.

In connection with the 1996 Distribution, NMR (then known as Cognizant
Corporation), ACNielsen and Donnelley (then known as The Dun & Bradstreet
Corporation) entered into an Indemnity and Joint Defense Agreement (the
“Indemnity and Joint Defense



Agreement”), pursuant to which they agreed to:

•

allocate potential liabilities that may relate to, arise out of or result from the IRI lawsuit (“IRI Liabilities”); and

•

conduct a joint defense of such action.

In particular, the Indemnity and Joint Defense Agreement provides that:

•

ACNielsen will assume exclusive liability for IRI Liabilities up to a
maximum amount to be calculated at such time as such liabilities become
payable as a result of a final non-appealable judgment or any settlement
permitted under the Indemnity and Joint Defense Agreement (the “ACN
Maximum Amount”); and

•

Donnelley and NMR will share liability equally for any amounts in
excess of the ACN Maximum Amount.

As noted above, ACNielsen is responsible for the IRI Liabilities up to the ACN
Maximum Amount. The Indemnity and Joint Defense Agreement provides that
ACNielsen initially is to determine the amount that it will pay at the time of
settlement or a final judgment, if any, in IRI’s favor (the “ACN Payment”).
The ACN Payment could be less than the ACN Maximum Amount. The Indemnity and
Joint Defense Agreement also provides for each of Donnelley and NMR to pay IRI
50% of the difference between the settlement or judgment amount and the ACN
Payment, and for ACNielsen to issue a secured note (the “ACN Note”), subject to
certain limits, to each of Donnelley and NMR for the amount of their payment.
The principal amount of each ACN Note issued to Donnelley and NMR, however, is
limited to 50% of the difference between the ACN Maximum Amount and the ACN
Payment, and is subject to a further limitation that it cannot exceed 50% of
the amount of any proceeds from any recapitalization plan designed to maximize
ACNielsen’s claims paying ability. The ACN Notes would become payable upon the
completion of any such recapitalization plan.

The Indemnity and Joint Defense Agreement also provides that if it becomes
necessary to post any bond pending an appeal of an adverse judgment, then NMR
and Donnelley shall obtain the bond required for the appeal, and each shall pay
50% of the costs of such bond, if any, which cost will be added to IRI
Liabilities. Under the terms of the 2000 Distribution, Moody’s would be
responsible for 25% of the total costs of any bond.

The ACN Maximum Amount will be determined by an investment banking firm as the
maximum amount that ACNielsen is able to pay after giving effect to:

•

any recapitalization plan submitted by such investment bank that is
designated to maximize the claims-paying ability of ACNielsen without
impairing the investment banking firm’s ability to deliver a viability
opinion and without requiring shareholder approval; and

•

payment of interest on the ACN Notes and related fees and expenses.

For these purposes, “viability” means the ability of ACNielsen, after giving
effect to such recapitalization plan, the payment of interest on the ACN Notes,
the payment of related fees and expenses and the payment of the ACN Maximum
Amount, to:

•

pay its debts as they become due; and

•

finance the current and anticipated operating and capital
requirements of its business, as reconstituted by such recapitalization
plan, for two years from the date any such recapitalization plan is
expected to be implemented.

In 2001, ACNielsen was acquired by VNU N.V. VNU N.V. assumed ACNielsen’s
liabilities under the Indemnity and Joint Defense Agreement, and pursuant to
the Indemnity and Joint Defense Agreement, VNU N.V. is to be included with
ACNielsen for purposes of determining the ACN Maximum Amount.

In connection with the 1998 Distribution, Old D&B and Donnelley (then known as
The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation) entered into an agreement (the “1998
Distribution Agreement”) whereby Old D&B assumed all potential liabilities of
Donnelley arising from the IRI action and agreed to indemnify Donnelley in
connection with such potential liabilities. Under the terms of the 2000
Distribution, New D&B undertook to be jointly and severally liable with Moody’s
for Old D&B’s obligations to Donnelley under the 1998 Distribution Agreement,
including any liabilities arising under the Indemnity and Joint Defense
Agreement, and arising from the IRI action itself. However, as between New D&B
and Moody’s, it was agreed that under the 2000 Distribution, each of New D&B
and Moody’s will be responsible for 50% of any payments required to be made to
or on behalf of Donnelley with respect to the IRI action under the terms of the
1998 Distribution Agreement, including legal fees or expenses related to the
IRI action.



As a result, the Company will be responsible for the payment of 25% of the
portion of any judgment or settlement in excess of the ACN Maximum Amount (as
adjusted to include VNU N.V.). New D&B will be responsible for the payment of
an additional 25% (together constituting Donnelley’s liability under the
Indemnity and Joint Defense Agreement for 50% of such amount) and NMR will be
responsible for payment of the remaining 50% of liability in excess of the ACN
Maximum Amount. In addition, each of the above parties, in accordance with the
foregoing percentages, may be required to advance a portion of the amount, if
any, by which the ACN Maximum Amount exceeds the amount of the ACN Payment.
However, because liability for violations of the antitrust laws is joint and
several and because many of the rights and obligations relating to the
Indemnity and Joint Defense Agreement are based on contractual relationships,
the failure of a party to the Indemnity and Joint Defense Agreement to fulfill
its obligations could result in the other parties bearing a greater share of
the IRI Liabilities.

As a result of their 1998 separation and pursuant to the related distribution
agreement, IMS Health and NMR are each jointly and severally liable for all
Cognizant liabilities under the Indemnity and Joint Defense Agreement.

Discovery in the lawsuit is ongoing, and although the court earlier set a trial
date for September 2004, the court rescinded that date in January 2004 and
there is currently no trial date set. Moody’s is unable to predict at this
time the outcome of the IRI action or the financial condition of ACNielsen and
VNU N.V. at the time of any such outcome (and hence the Company cannot estimate
the amount of the ACN Payment, the ACN Maximum Amount and the portion of any
judgment to be paid by VNU N.V. and ACNielsen under the Indemnity and Joint
Defense Agreement).

Therefore, Moody’s is unable to predict at this time whether the resolution of
this matter could materially affect the Company’s financial position, results
of operations, or cash flows. Accordingly, no amount in respect of this matter
has been accrued in the Company’s consolidated financial statements. If,
however, IRI were to prevail in whole or in part in this action or if Moody’s
is required to pay or advance a significant portion of any settlement or
judgment, the outcome of this matter could have a material adverse effect on
Moody’s financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.

Legacy Tax Matters

Old D&B and its predecessors entered into global tax planning initiatives in
the normal course of business, including through tax-free restructurings of
both their foreign and domestic operations. These initiatives are subject to
normal review by tax authorities.

Pursuant to a series of agreements, as between themselves, IMS Health and NMR
are jointly and severally liable to pay one-half, and New D&B and Moody’s are
jointly and severally liable to pay the other half, of any payments for taxes,
penalties and accrued interest resulting from unfavorable IRS rulings on
certain tax matters (excluding the matter described below as “Amortization
Expense Deductions” for which New D&B and Moody’s are solely responsible) and
certain other potential tax liabilities after New D&B and/or Moody’s pays the
first $137 million, which amount was paid in connection with the matter
described below as “Utilization of Capital Losses”.

In connection with the 2000 Distribution and pursuant to the terms of the
related Distribution Agreement, New D&B and Moody’s have, between themselves,
agreed to each be financially responsible for 50% of any potential liabilities
that may arise to the extent such potential liabilities are not directly
attributable to their respective business operations.

Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, three specific tax matters
are discussed below.

Royalty Expense Deductions

During the second quarter of 2003, New D&B received an Examination Report from
the IRS with respect to a partnership transaction entered into in 1993. In this
Report, the IRS stated its intention to disallow certain royalty expense
deductions claimed by Old D&B on its tax returns for the years 1993 through
1996. New D&B disagrees with the position taken by the IRS in its Report.
During the third quarter of 2003, New D&B filed a protest with the Appeals
Office of the IRS to contest the Examination Report. If the IRS Appeals Office
were to uphold the Examination Report, then New D&B could either: (1) accept
and pay the IRS assessment; (2) challenge the assessment in U.S. Tax Court; or
(3) challenge the assessment in U.S. District Court or the U.S. Court of
Federal Claims, where payment of the disputed amount would be required in
connection with such challenge. Should any such payments be made by New D&B,
then pursuant to the terms of the 2000 Distribution Agreement, Moody’s would
have to pay to New D&B its 50% share.



Moody’s estimates that its share of the required payment to the IRS could be up
to approximately $57 million (including penalties and interest, and net of tax
benefits). Moody’s also could be obligated for future interest payments on its
share of such liability.

In a related matter, during the second quarter of 2003, New D&B received an
Examination Report from the IRS stating its intention to ignore the partnership
structure that had been established in 1993 in connection with the above
transaction, and to reallocate to Old D&B income and expense items that had
been reported in the partnership tax return for 1996. During the third quarter
of 2003, the partnership filed a protest with the Appeals Office of the IRS to
contest the Examination Report. If the IRS Appeals Office were to uphold the
Examination Report, then New D&B could either: (1) accept and pay the IRS
assessment; (2) challenge the assessment in U.S. Tax Court; or (3) challenge
the assessment in U.S. District Court or the U.S. Court of Federal Claims,
where payment of the assessment would be required in connection with such
challenge. Should any such payments be made by New D&B, then pursuant to the
terms of the 2000 Distribution Agreement, Moody’s would have to pay to New D&B
its 50% share. Moody’s estimates that its share of the required payment to the
IRS for this matter could be up to approximately $50 million (including
penalties and interest, and net of tax benefits). Such exposure could be in
addition to the amount described in the preceding paragraph, and Moody’s also
could be obligated for future interest payments on its share of such liability.

During the fourth quarter of 2003 and the first quarter of 2004, New D&B
participated in meetings with the IRS Appeals Office on the two matters
described above.

In addition, in the first quarter of 2004, New D&B received an Examination
Report relating to Old D&B’s participation in the partnership structure for the
first quarter of 1997. In this Report the IRS stated its intention to disallow
certain royalty expense deductions claimed by Old D&B on its tax return for the
1997 tax year. New D&B also received an Examination Report issued to the
partnership with respect to its 1997 tax year. In this Examination Report, the
IRS stated its intention to ignore the partnership structure that had been
established in 1993 in connection with the above transaction, and to reallocate
to Old D&B income and expense items that had been reported in the partnership
tax return for 1997. New D&B disagrees with the positions taken by the IRS in
its Reports and will pursue the same remedies with the same possible
consequences described above. Moody’s estimates that its share of the required
payment to the IRS in relation to the two Examination Reports could be up to
approximately $1.5 million and $0.3 million, respectively (including penalties
and interest, and net of tax benefits).

Moody’s believes that the IRS’s proposed assessments of tax against Old D&B and
the proposed reallocations of partnership income and expense to Old D&B are
inconsistent with each other. Accordingly, while it is possible that the IRS
could ultimately prevail in whole or in part on one of such positions, Moody’s
believes that it is unlikely that the IRS will prevail on both.

Amortization Expense Deductions

During the fourth quarter of 2003, New D&B received a Notice of Proposed
Adjustment from the IRS with respect to a partnership transaction entered into
in 1997 that could result in amortization expense deductions from 1997 through
2012. In this Notice the IRS proposed to disallow the amortization expense
deductions related to this partnership that were claimed by Old D&B on its 1997
and 1998 tax returns. New D&B disagrees with the position taken by the IRS.
IRS audits of Old D&B’s or New D&B’s tax returns for years subsequent to 1998
could result in the issuance of similar Notices of Proposed Adjustment. If the
IRS were to issue a formal assessment consistent with the Notices for 1997 and
1998 or for future years, then New D&B could either: (1) accept and pay the IRS
assessment; (2) challenge the assessment in U.S Tax Court; or (3) challenge the
assessment in U.S. District Court or the U.S. Court of Federal Claims, where
payment of the disputed amount would be required in connection with such
challenge. Should any such payments be made by New D&B, then pursuant to the
terms of the 2000 Distribution Agreement, Moody’s would have to pay to New D&B
its 50% share. In addition, should New D&B discontinue claiming the
amortization deductions on future tax returns, Moody’s would be required to
repay to New D&B an amount equal to the discounted value of its 50% share of
the related future tax benefits. New D&B had paid the discounted value of
future tax benefits from this transaction in cash to Moody’s at the
Distribution Date. Moody’s estimates that the Company’s current potential
exposure related to this matter is $92 million (including penalties and
interest, and net of tax benefits). This exposure could increase by
approximately $3 million to $6 million per year, depending on actions that the
IRS may take and on whether New D&B continues claiming the amortization
deductions on its tax returns.

Also during the fourth quarter of 2003, New D&B received a Notice of Proposed
Adjustment from the IRS with respect to the partnership transaction entered
into in 1997. In this Notice the IRS proposed to disallow certain royalty
expense deductions claimed by Old D&B on its 1997 and 1998 tax returns. In
addition, the IRS proposed to disregard the partnership structure and to
reallocate



to Old D&B certain partnership income and expense items that had been reported
in the partnership tax returns for 1997 and 1998. New D&B disagrees with the
positions taken by the IRS. If the IRS were to issue a formal assessment
consistent with the Notices for 1997 and 1998 or for future years, then New D&B
could either: (1) accept and pay the IRS assessment; (2) challenge the
assessment in U.S. Tax Court; (3) challenge the assessment in U.S. District
Court or the U.S Court of Federal Claims, where payment of the assessment would
be required in connection with such challenge. Should any such payments be
made by New D&B, then pursuant to the terms of the 2000 Distribution Agreement,
Moody’s would have to pay to New D&B its 50% share of New D&B’s payments to the
IRS for the period from 1997 through the Distribution Date. Moody’s estimates
that its share of the potential payment to the IRS could be up to approximately
$125 million (including penalties and interest, and net of tax benefits).
Moody’s also could be obligated for future interest payments on its share of
such liability.

Moody’s believes that the IRS’s proposed assessments of tax against Old D&B and
the proposed reallocations of partnership income and expense to Old D&B are
inconsistent with each other. Accordingly, while it is possible that the IRS
could ultimately prevail in whole or in part on one of such positions, Moody’s
believes that it is unlikely that the IRS will prevail on both.

Utilization of Capital Losses

The IRS has completed its review of the utilization of certain capital losses
generated during 1989 and 1990. On June 26, 2000, the IRS, as part of its audit
process, issued a formal assessment with respect to the utilization of these
capital losses and Old D&B responded by filing a petition for a refund in the
U.S. District Court on September 21, 2000, after the payments described below
were made. The case is expected to go to trial in 2005.

On May 12, 2000, an amended tax return was filed for the 1989 and 1990 tax
periods, which reflected $561.6 million of tax and interest due. Old D&B paid
the IRS approximately $349.3 million of this amount on May 12, 2000; 50% of
such payment was allocated to Moody’s and had previously been accrued by the
Company. IMS Health informed Old D&B that it paid to the IRS approximately
$212.3 million on May 17, 2000. The payments were made to the IRS to stop
further interest from accruing, and New D&B is contesting the IRS’ assessment.
New D&B has indicated that it would also contest the assessment of penalties or
other amounts, if any, in excess of the amounts paid. With the possible
exception of the matter described in the following sentence, Moody’s does not
anticipate any further income statement charges or cash payments related to IRS
assessments for this matter. If the IRS were to disallow prior deductions of
all transaction costs associated with this matter, Moody’s estimates that its
exposure for its share of the additional taxes, penalties and interest (net of
tax benefits) on this matter would be approximately $5 million.

Subsequent to making its May 2000 payment to the IRS, IMS Health sought partial
reimbursement from NMR under their 1998 distribution agreement (the “IMS/NMR
Agreement”). NMR paid IMS Health less than the amount sought by IMS Health
under the IMS/NMR Agreement and, in 2001, IMS Health filed an arbitration
proceeding against NMR to recover the difference. IMS Health sought to include
Old D&B in this arbitration, arguing that if NMR should prevail in its
interpretation of the IMS/NMR Agreement, then IMS Health could seek the same
interpretation in an alternative claim against Old D&B. Neither Old D&B nor any
of its predecessors was a party to the IMS/NMR Agreement. On April 29, 2003, an
arbitration panel ruled in favor of IMS Health in the arbitration proceeding,
awarding IMS Health its full claim plus interest in a decision binding on all
parties. As a result, IMS Health’s contingent claim against Old D&B (and
consequently Moody’s and New D&B) in connection with this matter has been
rendered moot. As no amount with respect to this matter had been accrued by
Moody’s, the arbitration panel ruling is not expected to have an impact on the
Company’s consolidated financial statements.

Summary of Moody’s Exposure to Three Legacy Tax Matters

The Company considers from time to time the range and probability of potential
outcomes related to the three legacy tax matters discussed above and
establishes reserves that it believes are appropriate in light of the relevant
facts and circumstances. In doing so, Moody’s makes estimates and judgments as
to future events and conditions and evaluates its estimates and judgments on an
ongoing basis. As of December 31, 2003, Moody’s had reserves of approximately
$126 million with respect to such matters, which reflected an increase of
approximately $16 million during the fourth quarter of 2003 relating to the
Amortization Expense Deductions matter. Although the matter had previously been
under audit, the Company felt that an increase in the related reserve was
appropriate since the Notices of Proposed Adjustment during the fourth quarter
of 2003 reflected a formalization by the IRS of its position on the matter. It
is possible that the legacy tax matters could be resolved in amounts that are
greater than the amounts reserved by the Company, which could result in
additional charges that may be material to Moody’s future reported results,
financial position and cash



flows. Although Moody’s does not believe it is likely that the Company will
ultimately be required to pay the full amounts presently being sought by the
IRS, potential cash outlays resulting from these matters, which the Company
currently estimates could be as much as $331 million, could be material and
could increase with time as described above. Such amount does not include
potential penalties related to the payments made in May 2000 concerning
Utilization of Capital Losses.

Moody’s Matters

L’Association Francaise des Porteurs d’ Emprunts Russes

On June 20, 2001 a summons was served in an action brought by L’Association
Francaise des Porteurs d’ Emprunts Russes (“AFPER”) against Moody’s France SA
(a subsidiary of the Company) and filed in the Court of First Instance of
Paris, France. In this suit, AFPER, a group of holders of bonds issued by the
Russian government prior to the 1917 Bolshevik Revolution, makes claims against
Moody’s France SA and Standard & Poor’s SA for lack of diligence and prudence
in their ratings of Russia and Russian debt since 1996. AFPER alleges that, by
failing to take into account the post-Revolutionary repudiation of
pre-Revolutionary Czarist debt by the Soviet government in rating Russia and
new issues of Russian debt beginning in 1996, the rating agencies enabled the
Russian Federation to issue new debt without repaying the old obligations of
the Czarist government. Alleging joint and several liability, AFPER seeks
damages of Euro 2.8 billion (approximately U.S. $3.5 billion as of December 31,
2003) plus legal costs. Moody’s believes the allegations lack legal or factual
merit and intends to vigorously contest the action. As such, no amount in
respect of this matter has been accrued in the financial statements of the
Company. However, if the plaintiffs in this action were to prevail, then the
outcome of this matter could have a material adverse effect on Moody’s
financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The case has been
fully briefed, oral argument was heard before the Court on January 20, 2004,
and the Court announced that judgment would be rendered on April 6, 2004.

Dividends

During 2003, 2002 and 2001, the Company paid a quarterly dividend of 4.5 cents
per share of Moody’s common stock, resulting in dividends paid per share of
18.0 cents in each year.

In December 2003, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a first quarter
2004 dividend of 7.5 cents per share, payable on March 10, 2004 to shareholders
of record on February 20, 2004. The payment and level of cash dividends by
Moody’s going forward will be subject to the discretion of Moody’s Board of
Directors.

Common Stock Information

The Company’s common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the
symbol “MCO”. The table below indicates the high and low sales price of the
Company’s common stock and the dividends paid for the periods shown. The number
of registered shareholders of record at January 31, 2004 was 4,781.

Price Per Share

Dividends Paid

High

Low

Per Share

2002:

First quarter

$

42.00

$

35.80

$

0.045

Second quarter

51.74

39.94

0.045

Third quarter

52.40

41.00

0.045

Fourth quarter

50.48

39.80

0.045

Year ended December 31, 2002

$

52.40

$

35.80

$

0.180

2003:

First quarter

$

49.70

$

39.50

$

0.045

Second quarter

54.85

45.38

0.045

Third quarter

56.80

49.85

0.045

Fourth quarter

60.85

54.85

0.045

Year ended December 31, 2003

$

60.85

$

39.50

$

0.180



Forward-Looking Statements

Certain statements contained in this annual report on Form 10-K are
forward-looking statements and are based on future expectations, plans and
prospects for Moody’s business and operations that involve a number of risks
and uncertainties. Those statements appear in the sections entitled “Outlook”
and “Contingencies” under Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” commencing at page 14 of this
annual report on Form 10-K, under “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3, Part I of this
Form 10-K, and elsewhere in the context of statements containing the words
“believes”, “expects”, “anticipates” and other words relating to Moody’s views
on future events, trends and contingencies. The forward-looking statements and
other information are made as of the date of this annual report on Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2003, and the Company disclaims any duty to
supplement, update or revise such statements on a going-forward basis, whether
as a result of subsequent developments, changed expectations or otherwise. In
connection with the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the Company is identifying certain factors that
could cause actual results to differ, perhaps materially, from those indicated
by these forward-looking statements. Those factors include, but are not limited
to, changes in the volume of debt securities issued in domestic and/or global
capital markets; changes in interest rates and other volatility in the
financial markets; possible loss of market share through competition;
introduction of competing products or technologies by other companies; pricing
pressures from competitors and/or customers; the potential emergence of
government-sponsored credit rating agencies; proposed U.S., foreign, state and
local legislation and regulations, including those relating to Nationally
Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations; possible judicial decisions in
various jurisdictions regarding the status of and potential liabilities of
rating agencies; the possible loss of key employees to investment or commercial
banks or elsewhere and related compensation cost pressures; the outcome of any
review by controlling tax authorities of the Company’s global tax planning
initiatives; the outcome of those tax and legal contingencies that relate to
Old D&B, its predecessors and their affiliated companies for which the Company
has assumed portions of the financial responsibility; the outcome of other
legal actions to which the Company, from time to time, may be named as a party;
the ability of the Company to successfully integrate the KMV and MRMS
businesses; a decline in the demand for credit risk management tools by
financial institutions. These factors and other risks and uncertainties that
could cause Moody’s actual results to differ significantly from management’s
expectations, are described in greater detail in “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Additional Factors
That May Affect Future Results” and in other reports of the Company filed from
time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Information in response to this Item is set forth under the caption “Market
Risk” in Part II, Item 7 of this annual report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

PAGE(S)

Report of Independent Auditors


Consolidated Financial Statements:

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2003 and 2002


For the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001:

Consolidated Statements of Operations


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows


Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

43-71

Schedules are omitted as not required or inapplicable or because the required
information is provided in the consolidated financial statements, including the
notes thereto.



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Moody’s Corporation:

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related
consolidated statements of operations, shareholders’ equity and cash flows
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Moody’s
Corporation and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the results
of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 2003 in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America. These financial statements
are the responsibility of the Company’s management; our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We
conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with auditing standards
generally accepted in the United States of America, which require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

On January 1, 2003, the Company adopted the provisions of Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation” (“SFAS No. 123”) as amended by SFAS No. 148, “Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation — Transition and Disclosure — an amendment of SFAS No.
123”. On January 1, 2002, the Company adopted the provisions of Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 141, “Business Combinations” and Statement
No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”. These matters are discussed
in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

New York, New York

February 27, 2004



MOODY’S CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

(amounts in millions, except per share data)

Year Ended December 31,




Revenue

$

1,246.6

$

1,023.3

$

796.7

Expenses

Operating

347.3

285.3

239.6

Selling, general and administrative

203.6

175.3

141.6

Depreciation and amortization

32.6

24.6

17.0

Total expenses

583.5

485.2

398.2

Operating income

663.1

538.1

398.5

Interest expense, net

(21.8

)

(21.2

)

(16.5

)

Other non-operating income (expense), net

15.1

0.5

(0.1

)

Non-operating expense, net

(6.7

)

(20.7

)

(16.6

)

Income before provision for income taxes

656.4

517.4

381.9

Provision for income taxes

292.5

228.5

169.7

Net income

$

363.9

$

288.9

$

212.2

Earnings per share

Basic

$

2.44

$

1.88

$

1.35

Diluted

$

2.39

$

1.83

$

1.32

Weighted average shares outstanding

Basic

148.9

153.9

157.6

Diluted

152.3

157.5

160.2

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.



MOODY’S CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(dollar amounts in millions, except per share data)

December 31,



Assets

Current assets:

Cash and cash equivalents

$

269.1

$

39.9

Accounts receivable, net of allowances
of $15.9 in 2003 and $16.4 in 2002

270.3

178.1

Other current assets

29.6

27.8

Total current assets

569.0

245.8

Property and equipment, net

46.8

50.6

Prepaid pension costs

60.2

59.3

Goodwill

126.4

126.3

Intangible assets, net

77.4

84.4

Other assets

61.6

64.4

Total assets

$

941.4

$

630.8

Liabilities and shareholders’ equity

Current liabilities:

Accounts payable and accrued liabilities

$

217.5

$

184.9

Bank borrowings

—

107.1

Deferred revenue

214.6

170.0

Total current liabilities

432.1

462.0

Non-current portion of deferred revenue

41.1

28.5

Notes payable

300.0

300.0

Other liabilities

200.3

167.3

Total liabilities

973.5

957.8

Commitments and contingencies (Notes 13 and 14)

Shareholders’ equity:

Preferred stock, par value $.01 per share; 10,000,000
shares authorized; no shares issued and outstanding

—

—

Series common stock, par value $.01 per share;
10,000,000 shares authorized; no shares issued and outstanding

—

—

Common stock, par value $.01 per share; 400,000,000
shares authorized; 171,451,136 shares issued
at December 31, 2003 and 2002

1.7

1.7

Capital surplus

76.4

45.5

Retained earnings

558.9

221.8

Treasury stock, at cost; 22,779,500 and
22,560,826 shares of common stock at
December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively

(677.2

)

(597.7

)

Cumulative translation adjustment

8.1

1.7

Total shareholders’ equity

(32.1

)

(327.0

)

Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity

$

941.4

$

630.8

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.



MOODY’S CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(amounts in millions)

Year Ended December 31,




Cash flows from operating activities

Net income

$

363.9

$

288.9

$

212.2

Reconciliation of net income to net cash
provided by operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization

32.6

24.6

17.0

Stock-based compensation expense

10.8

—

—

Deferred income taxes

(0.4

)

(3.6

)

(0.8

)

Tax benefits from exercise of stock options

33.3

27.5

15.1

Write-off of computer software, property and equipment

0.6

1.3

0.6

Write-off of acquired in-process research and development

—

1.1

—

Impairment of investments in affiliates

—

—

3.4

Changes in assets and liabilities:

Accounts receivable

(91.8

)

(16.6

)

(47.6

)

Other current assets

—

0.3

(3.7

)

Prepaid pension costs

(0.9

)

(2.1

)

(3.4

)

Other assets

(0.6

)

(2.9

)

(2.9

)

Accounts payable and accrued liabilities

30.6

(66.8

)

101.6

Deferred revenue

56.8

34.9

24.8

Other liabilities

33.5

48.2

5.1

Net cash provided by operating activities

468.4

334.8

321.4

Cash flows from investing activities

Capital additions

(17.9

)

(18.1

)

(14.8

)

Net cash (used) acquired in connection with business
acquisitions and investments in affiliates

0.8

(205.7

)

(15.2

)

Other

—

0.2

—

Net cash used in investing activities

(17.1

)

(223.6

)

(30.0

)

Cash flows from financing activities

Net (repayments of) proceeds from bank borrowings

(107.1

)

107.1

—

Proceeds from stock plans

79.0

54.0

47.8

Cost of treasury shares repurchased

(171.7

)

(369.9

)

(267.6

)

Payment of dividends

(26.8

)

(27.8

)

(28.3

)

Payments under capital lease obligations

(1.1

)

—

—

Net cash used in financing activities

(227.7

)

(236.6

)

(248.1

)

Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents

5.6

2.1

0.8

Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

229.2

(123.3

)

44.1

Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of the period

39.9

163.2

119.1

Cash and cash equivalents, end of the period

$

269.1

$

39.9

$

163.2

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.



MOODY’S CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

(amounts in millions)

Common Stock

Retained

Cumulative

Treasury Stock

Total

Capital

Earnings

Translation

Shareholders’

Comprehensive

Shares

Amount

Surplus

(Deficit)

Adjustment

Shares

Amount

Equity

Income

Balance at December 31, 2000

171.5

$

1.7

$

7.9

$

(223.2

)

$

(1.9

)

(11.0

)

$

(67.0

)

$

(282.5

)

Net income

212.2

212.2

$

212.2

Dividends paid

(28.3

)

(28.3

)

Proceeds from stock plans,
including tax benefits

62.9

62.9

Net treasury stock activity

(27.1

)

(6.0

)

(240.5

)

(267.6

)

Currency translation adjustment

(0.8

)

(0.8

)

(0.8

)

Comprehensive income

$

211.4

Balance at December 31, 2001

171.5

1.7

43.7

(39.3

)

(2.7

)

(17.0

)

(307.5

)

(304.1

)

Net income

288.9

288.9

$

288.9

Dividends paid

(27.8

)

(27.8

)

Proceeds from stock plans,
including tax benefits

81.5

81.5

Net treasury stock activity

(79.7

)

(5.6

)

(290.2

)

(369.9

)

Currency translation adjustment

4.4

4.4

4.4

Comprehensive income

$

293.3

Balance at December 31, 2002

171.5

1.7

45.5

221.8

1.7

(22.6

)

(597.7

)

(327.0

)

Net income

363.9

363.9

$

363.9

Dividends paid

(26.8

)

(26.8

)

Proceeds from stock plans,
including tax benefits

112.3

112.3

Stock-based compensation

10.8

10.8

Net treasury stock activity

(92.2

)

(0.2

)

(79.5

)

(171.7

)

Currency translation adjustment

6.4

6.4

6.4

Comprehensive income

$

370.3

Balance at December 31, 2003

171.5

$

1.7

$

76.4

$

558.9

$

8.1

(22.8

)

$

(677.2

)

$

(32.1

)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.



MOODY’S CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

TABULAR DOLLAR AND SHARE AMOUNTS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA

Note 1 Description of Business and Basis of Presentation

Moody’s Corporation (“Moody’s” or the “Company”) is a provider of credit
ratings, research and analysis covering debt instruments and securities in the
global capital markets and a provider of quantitative credit assessment
services, credit training services and credit process software to banks and
other financial institutions. Moody’s operates in two reportable segments:
Moody’s Investors Service and Moody’s KMV. Moody’s Investors Service publishes
rating opinions on a broad range of credit obligations issued in domestic and
international markets, including various corporate and governmental
obligations, structured finance securities and commercial paper programs as
well as rating opinions on issuers of credit obligations. It also publishes
investor-oriented credit research, including in-depth research on major
issuers, industry studies, special comments and credit opinion handbooks. The
Moody’s KMV business, which consists of the combined businesses of KMV LLC and
KMV Corporation (“KMV”), acquired in April 2002, and Moody’s Risk Management
Services, develops and distributes quantitative credit assessment services for
banks and investors in credit-sensitive assets, credit training services and
credit process software.

The Company operated as part of The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation (“Old D&B”)
until September 30, 2000 (the “Distribution Date”), when Old D&B separated into
two publicly traded companies — Moody’s Corporation and The New D&B Corporation
(“New D&B”). At that time, Old D&B distributed to its shareholders shares of
New D&B stock. New D&B comprised the business of Old D&B’s Dun & Bradstreet
operating company (the “D&B Business”). The remaining business of Old D&B
consisted solely of the business of providing ratings and related research and
credit risk management services (the “Moody’s Business”) and was renamed
“Moody’s Corporation”. The method by which Old D&B distributed to its
shareholders its shares of New D&B stock is hereinafter referred to as the
“2000 Distribution”.

For purposes of governing certain ongoing relationships between the Company and
New D&B after the 2000 Distribution and to provide for an orderly transition,
the Company and New D&B entered into various agreements including a
Distribution Agreement, Tax Allocation Agreement, Employee Benefits Agreement,
Shared Transaction Services Agreement, Insurance and Risk Management Services
Agreement, Data Services Agreement and Transition Services Agreement.

Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Basis of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include those of Moody’s Corporation and
its majority- and wholly-owned subsidiaries. The effects of all intercompany
transactions have been eliminated. Investments in companies over which the
Company has significant influence but not a controlling interest are carried on
an equity basis. Investments for which the Company does not have the ability to
exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies are
carried on the cost basis of accounting.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

Cash equivalents principally consist of investments in money market funds,
short-term certificates of deposit and commercial paper with maturities of
three months or less when purchased. Interest income on cash and cash
equivalents was $1.7 million, $2.3 million and $6.5 million for the years ended
December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.



Property and Equipment

Property and equipment are stated at cost and are depreciated using the
straight-line method over their estimated useful lives, typically three to ten
years for office and computer equipment and office furniture and fixtures, and
seven to forty years for buildings and building improvements. Expenditures for
maintenance and repairs that do not extend the economic useful life of the
related assets are charged to expense as incurred. Gains and losses on
disposals of property and equipment are reflected in the consolidated
statements of operations. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter
of the term of the lease or the estimated useful life of the improvement.

Computer Software

Costs for the development of computer software that will be sold, leased or
otherwise marketed are capitalized when technological feasibility has been
established in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(“SFAS”) No. 86, “Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software to Be Sold,
Leased, or Otherwise Marketed”. These assets primarily relate to the
development of credit process software and quantitative credit assessment
products to be licensed to customers. The capitalized costs generally consist
of professional services provided by third parties and compensation costs of
employees that develop the software. These costs are amortized on a
straight-line basis over three years, which approximates their useful life, and
are reported at the lower of unamortized cost or net realizable value. At
December 31, 2003 and 2002, such amounts, included in other assets in the
consolidated balance sheets, were $9.0 million and $9.1 million, respectively,
(net of accumulated amortization of $12.1 million and $7.8 million,
respectively). Other assets at December 31, 2003 and 2002 also included $10.9
million and $14.2 million (net of accumulated amortization of $6.2 million and
$2.9 million, respectively) of acquired software resulting from the April 2002
acquisition of KMV. Amortization expense for all such software for the years
ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 was $7.3 million, $5.3 million and $2.1
million, respectively.

The Company capitalizes costs related to software developed or obtained for
internal use in accordance with Statement of Position 98-1, “Accounting for the
Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use”. These
assets, included in property and equipment in the consolidated balance sheets,
relate to the Company’s accounting, product delivery and other systems. Such
costs generally consist of direct costs of third party license fees,
professional services provided by third parties and employee compensation, in
each case incurred either during the application development stage or in
connection with upgrades and enhancements that increase functionality. Such
costs are depreciated over their estimated useful lives, generally three to
five years. Costs incurred during the preliminary project stage of development
as well as maintenance costs are expensed as incurred.

Long-Lived Assets, Including Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangible Assets

Intangible assets and other long-lived assets are reviewed for recoverability
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount
may not be recoverable. If the estimated undiscounted future cash flows are
lower than the carrying amount of the asset, a loss is recognized for the
difference between the carrying amount and the estimated fair value of the
asset.

Effective January 1, 2002, the Company adopted SFAS No. 141, “Business
Combinations” and SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”. SFAS
No. 141 requires all business combinations to be accounted for using the
purchase method. Under SFAS No. 142, goodwill and other intangible assets with
indefinite lives are no longer amortized, but are tested for impairment
annually or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. This testing
requires the Company to estimate the fair value of its applicable identified
reporting units based on the present value of the expected future cash flows of
the units. If the book value of a reporting unit exceeds the estimated fair
value of the unit, a write-down of goodwill is required. The Company completed
its transitional impairment testing during the second quarter of 2002 and its
annual impairment testing in the fourth quarter of 2002 and 2003. In each test,
the estimated fair values of the reporting units exceeded their book values and
therefore no write-down of goodwill was required.

Stock-Based Compensation

In 2002 and prior years, the Company measured the cost of stock-based
compensation using the intrinsic value approach under Accounting Principles
Board (“APB”) Opinion No. 25 rather than applying the fair value method
provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, “Accounting
for Stock-Based Compensation” (“SFAS No. 123”) as amended by SFAS No. 148,
“Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation — Transition and Disclosure — an
amendment of FASB Statement No. 123”.



Accordingly, the Company did not recognize compensation expense related to
grants of employee stock options and shares issued to participants in its
employee stock purchase plan.

On January 1, 2003, the Company adopted, on a prospective basis, the fair value
method of accounting for stock-based compensation under SFAS No. 123.
Therefore, employee stock options granted on and after January 1, 2003 are
being expensed by the Company over the option vesting period, based on the
estimated fair value of the award on the date of grant. In addition, shares
issued to participants in the Company’s employee stock purchase plan are being
expensed by the Company based on the discount from the market price received by
the participants.

The consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2003
includes compensation expense of $10.5 million related to stock options
granted, and stock issued under the employee stock purchase plan, since January
1, 2003. The consolidated statements of operations for the years ended December
31, 2002 and 2001 include no such expense. In addition, the 2003 expense is
less than that which would have been recognized if the fair value method had
been applied to all awards since the original effective date of SFAS No. 123
rather than being applied prospectively. Had the Company determined such
stock-based compensation expense using the fair value method provisions of SFAS
No. 123 since its original effective date, Moody’s net income and earnings per
share would have been reduced to the pro forma amounts shown below.

Year Ended December 31,




Net income:

As reported

$

363.9

$

288.9

$

212.2

Add: Stock-based compensation plan expense
included in reported net income, net of tax

6.6

0.1

0.2

Deduct: Stock-based compensation plan expense
determined under the fair value method,
net of tax

(20.0

)

(14.3

)

(9.5

)

Pro forma net income

$

350.5

$

274.7

$

202.9

Basic earnings per share:

As reported

$

2.44

$

1.88

$

1.35

Pro forma

$

2.35

$

1.78

$

1.29

Diluted earnings per share:

As reported

$

2.39

$

1.83

$

1.32

Pro forma

$

2.30

$

1.75

$

1.27

The pro forma disclosures shown above are not representative of the effects on
net income and earnings per share in future years.

The fair value of stock options used to compute the pro forma net income and
earnings per share disclosures is the estimated present value at grant date
using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, with the following weighted
average assumptions:




Expected dividend yield

0.41

%

0.41

%

0.56

%

Expected stock volatility


%


%


%

Risk-free interest rate

3.03

%

4.13

%

4.27

%

Expected holding period

5.0

yrs

4.5

yrs

4.5

yrs

The estimated weighted average fair value of Moody’s options granted in 2003,
2002 and 2001 was $13.06, $10.97 and $9.38, respectively.



The consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2003
includes compensation expense of $0.3 million related to shares of restricted
stock issued in 2003 to the Company’s Board of Directors under the 1998
Directors Plan. Since no restricted stock was issued in 2002 and prior years,
the consolidated statements of operations for the years ended December 31, 2002
and 2001 include no such expense. The Company recorded compensation expense of
$0.2 million in 2002 and $0.4 million in 2001, related to outstanding
performance share grants for which the performance period ended during 2002. No
compensation expense related to performance share grants was recorded for the
year ended December 31, 2003.

Employee Benefit Plans

The assets, expenses, liabilities and obligations that Moody’s reports for
pension and other post-retirement benefits are dependent on assumptions
concerning the outcome of future events and circumstances. These assumptions
include the following:

•

Future compensation increases, based on the Company’s long-term actual experience and future outlook.

•

Discount rates, based on current yields on high grade corporate long-term bonds.

•

Future healthcare cost trends, based on historical market data, near-term outlooks and assessments of likely long-term trends.

•

Long-term return on pension plan assets, based on the expected future average annual return for each major asset class within
the plan’s portfolio (which is principally comprised of equity and fixed-income investments).

In determining such assumptions, the Company consults with outside actuaries
and other advisors where deemed appropriate. In accordance with relevant
accounting standards, if actual results differ from the Company’s assumptions,
such differences are deferred and amortized over the estimated future working
life of the plan participants. While the Company believes that the assumptions
used in these calculations are reasonable, differences in actual experience or
changes in assumptions could affect the assets, expenses, liabilities and
obligations related to the Company’s pension and other post-retirement
benefits.

Revenue Recognition

The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
104, “Revenue Recognition”. As such, revenue is recognized when an agreement
exists, the services have been provided and accepted by the customer, fees are
determinable and the collection of resulting receivables is considered
probable.

Revenue attributed to ratings of issued securities is recognized when the
rating is issued. Revenue attributed to monitoring of issuers or issued
securities is recognized over the period in which the monitoring is performed.
In most areas of the ratings business, the Company charges issuers annual
monitoring fees and amortizes such fees ratably over the related one-year
period. In the case of commercial mortgaged-backed securities, fees that are
charged for future monitoring are amortized over the lives of the related
securities, which averaged approximately 26 years for the year ended December
31, 2003.

In areas where the Company does not separately charge monitoring fees, the
Company defers portions of the rating fees that will be attributed to future
monitoring activities and recognizes such fees ratably over the applicable
estimated monitoring period. The portion of the revenue to be deferred is
determined based on annual monitoring fees charged for similar securities or
issuers and the level of monitoring effort required for a given type of
security or issuer. The estimated monitoring period is determined based on
factors such as the frequency of issuance by the issuers and the lives of the
rated securities. Currently, the estimated monitoring periods range from three
years to ten years.

Revenue from sales of research products and from credit risk management
subscription products is recognized ratably over the related subscription
period, which is principally one year. Revenue from licenses of credit risk
management software is recognized at the time the product is shipped to
customers, or at such other time as the Company’s obligations are complete.
Related software maintenance revenue is recognized ratably over the annual
maintenance period.

Amounts billed in advance of providing the related products or services are
credited to deferred revenue and reflected in revenue when earned. The
consolidated balance sheets reflect as current deferred revenue amounts that
are expected to be recognized within one year



of the balance sheet date, and as non-current deferred revenue amounts that are
expected to be recognized over periods greater than one year. The majority of
the balance in non-current deferred revenue relates to fees for future
monitoring of commercial mortgage-backed securities.

Accounts Receivable Allowances

Moody’s records as reductions of revenue provisions for estimated future
adjustments to customer billings, based on historical experience and current
conditions. Such provisions are reflected as additions to the accounts
receivable allowance; adjustments to and write-offs of receivables are charged
against the allowance. Moody’s evaluates its estimates on a regular basis and
makes adjustments to its revenue provisions and the accounts receivable
allowance as considered appropriate.

Operating Expenses

Operating expenses are charged to income as incurred. These expenses include
costs associated with the development and production of the Company’s products
and services and their delivery to customers. These expenses principally
include employee compensation and benefits and travel costs that are incurred
in connection with these activities.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

Selling, general and administrative expenses are charged to income as incurred.
These expenses include such items as compensation and benefits for corporate
officers and staff and compensation and other expenses related to sales of
products. They also include items such as office rent, business insurance,
professional fees and gains and losses from sales and disposals of assets.

Foreign Currency Translation

For all operations outside the United States where the Company has designated
the local currency as the functional currency, assets and liabilities are
translated into U.S. dollars using end of year exchange rates, and revenue and
expenses are translated using average exchange rates for the year. For these
operations, currency translation adjustments are accumulated in a separate
component of shareholders’ equity. Transaction gains and losses are reflected
in other non-operating income (expense), net. Transaction gains (losses) were
$2.2 million, $0.3 million and ($0.1) million in 2003, 2002 and 2001,
respectively.

Comprehensive Income

Comprehensive income represents the change in net assets of a business
enterprise during a period due to transactions and other events and
circumstances from non-owner sources including foreign currency translation
impacts. The required disclosures have been included in the consolidated
statements of shareholders’ equity. The net effect of income taxes on
comprehensive income was not significant for any period presented.

Income Taxes

The Company accounts for income taxes under the liability method in accordance
with SFAS No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes”. Therefore, income tax expense
is based on reported income before income taxes, and deferred income taxes
reflect the effect of temporary differences between the amounts of assets and
liabilities that are recognized for financial reporting purposes and the
amounts that are recognized for income tax purposes.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

The Company’s financial instruments include cash, cash equivalents, trade
receivables and payables and bank borrowings, all of which are short-term in
nature and, accordingly, approximate fair value. The fair value of the
Company’s long-term notes payable is estimated using discounted cash flow
analyses based on the prevailing interests rates available to the Company for
borrowings with similar maturities. The carrying amount of the notes payable
was $300.0 million at December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001. The estimated fair
value of the Company’s notes payable were $334.6 million, $346.9 million and
$324.3 million at December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.



Concentration of Credit Risk

Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentration of
credit risk principally consist of cash and cash equivalents and trade
receivables.

Cash equivalents consist of investments in high quality investment grade
securities within and outside the United States. By policy, the Company limits
the amount it can invest with any one issuer. The Company manages its credit
risk exposure by allocating its cash equivalents among various money market
mutual funds, short-term certificates of deposit or issuers of high-grade
commercial paper. As of December 31, 2003, the Company did not maintain any
derivative investments or engage in any hedging activities.

Credit is extended to customers based on an evaluation of their financial
condition. No customer accounted for 10% or more of accounts receivable at
December 31, 2003 or 2002.

Earnings Per Share of Common Stock

In accordance with SFAS No. 128, “Earnings per Share”, basic earnings per share
is calculated based on the weighted average number of shares of common stock
outstanding during the reporting period. Diluted earnings per share is
calculated giving effect to all potentially dilutive common shares, assuming
that such shares were outstanding during the reporting period.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts
of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities
at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenue
and expenses during the period. Actual results could differ from those
estimates. Estimates are used for, but not limited to, revenue recognition,
accounts receivable allowances, income taxes, contingencies, valuation of
investments in affiliates, long-lived and intangible assets and goodwill,
pension and other post-retirement benefits, stock options, and depreciation and
amortization rates for property and equipment and computer software.

Reclassifications

Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior year amounts to conform
to the current year presentation.

Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements

On January 12, 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued
FASB Staff Position (“FSP”) No. 106-1, “Accounting and Disclosure Requirements
Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of
2003”. The FSP permits employers that sponsor post-retirement benefit plans
that provide prescription drug benefits to retirees to make a one-time election
to defer accounting for any effects of the Medicare Prescription Drug,
Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 (the “Act”). Without the FSP, plan
sponsors would be required under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 106, “Employers’ Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than
Pensions”, to account for the effects of the Act in the fiscal period that
includes December 8, 2003, the date the President signed the Act into law. If
deferral is elected, the deferral must remain in effect until the earlier of
(a) the issuance of guidance by the FASB on how to account for the federal
subsidy to be provided to plan sponsors under the Act or (b) the remeasurement
of plan assets and obligations subsequent to January 31, 2004. In accordance
with the FSP, any measures of the accumulated post-retirement benefit
obligation or net periodic post-retirement benefit cost in the financial
statements or accompanying notes do not reflect the effects of the Act on the
Company’s plan and specific authoritative guidance on the accounting for the
federal subsidy is pending and that guidance, when issued, could require the
Company to change previously reported information. The Company has elected the
deferral described above and is in the process of evaluating the effects of the
Act on its post-retirement benefits.



On December 17, 2003, the Staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission
issued Staff Accounting Bulletin (“SAB”) No. 104 (“SAB No. 104”), “Revenue
Recognition”, which supercedes SAB No. 101, “Revenue Recognition in Financial
Statements”. The primary purpose of SAB No. 104 is to rescind accounting
guidance contained in SAB No. 101 related to multiple element revenue
arrangements, which was superceded as a result of the issuance of Emerging
Issues Task Force (“EITF”) No. 00-21, “Accounting for Revenue Arrangements with
Multiple Deliverables.” Additionally, SAB No. 104 rescinds the SEC’s Revenue
Recognition in Financial Statements Frequently Asked Questions and Answers (the
“FAQ”) issued with SAB No. 101 that had been codified in SEC Topic 13, Revenue
Recognition. Selected portions of the FAQ have been incorporated into SAB No.
104. The revenue recognition principles of SAB No. 101 remain largely
unchanged by the issuance of SAB No. 104. Accordingly, the adoption of SAB No.
104 had no effect on the Company’s revenue recognition policies.

Note 3 Reconciliation of Weighted Average Shares Outstanding

Below is a reconciliation of basic weighted average shares outstanding to
diluted weighted average shares outstanding:

Year Ended December 31,




Weighted average number of shares—Basic

148.9

153.9

157.6

Dilutive effect of shares issuable under
stock-based compensation plans

3.4

3.6

2.6

Weighted average number of shares—Diluted

152.3

157.5

160.2

Options to purchase 25,500 shares and 51,800 shares of common stock were
outstanding at December 31, 2003 and 2001, respectively, but were not included
in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the exercise prices of
such options were greater than the average market price of the Company’s common
stock during the applicable period (the “antidilutive options”). There were no
antidilutive options outstanding as of December 31, 2002.

Note 4 Property and Equipment, Net

Property and equipment, net consisted of:

December 31,



Land, building and building improvements

$

24.6

$

24.2

Office and computer equipment

41.6

37.3

Office furniture and fixtures

21.3

19.5

Internal-use computer software

23.7

18.9

Leasehold improvements

33.6

31.6

Property and equipment, at cost

144.8

131.5

Less: accumulated depreciation and amortization

(98.0

)

(80.9

)

Property and equipment, net

$

46.8

$

50.6

The consolidated statements of operations reflect depreciation and amortization
expense related to the above assets of $18.3 million, $14.0 million and $11.8
million for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

In 2002, the Company retired fully depreciated assets with an original cost of
approximately $18.0 million. There was no income statement impact from such
retirement.



Note 5 Acquisitions

KMV

On April 12, 2002, Moody’s acquired the businesses comprising KMV. The
acquisition expands the product offerings and customer base of Moody’s credit
risk assessment business, which was previously operated by Moody’s Risk
Management Services. The results of KMV have been included in Moody’s
consolidated financial statements since the acquisition date.

The aggregate purchase price of $212.6 million consisted of $209.3 million in
cash payments to the sellers and $3.3 million in direct transaction costs,
primarily professional fees. The purchase price was funded by using $128.3
million of Moody’s cash on hand and $81.0 million of borrowings under Moody’s
existing bank credit lines. The Company repaid those borrowings in the second
quarter of 2002.

The acquisition has been accounted for as a purchase. Shown below is the
purchase price allocation, which summarizes the fair values of the assets
acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition.

Current assets

$

21.0

Property and equipment, net

4.6

Intangible assets:

Customer list (12.0 year life)

$

50.7

Trade secrets (not subject to amortization)

25.5

Other intangibles (5.2 year weighted average life)

6.3

Total intangible assets

82.5

In-process research and development

1.1

Goodwill

118.3

Other assets

17.1

Liabilities assumed

(32.0

)

Net assets acquired

$

212.6

In accordance with SFAS No. 142, the acquired goodwill, which has been assigned
to the Moody’s KMV segment, will not be amortized. In accordance with FASB
Interpretation No. 4, “Applicability of FASB Statement No. 2 to Business
Combinations Accounted for by the Purchase Method”, the $1.1 million allocated
to acquired in-process research and development was written off immediately
following the acquisition and is included in selling, general and
administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2002. Current assets
above includes acquired cash of $7.2 million. Other assets include acquired
software of $16.0 million with a life of 5 years. For income tax purposes, the
excess of the purchase price over the acquired net assets is expected to be
amortized over 15 years.

The following unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information, for the
years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, reflect the acquisition of KMV as if it
had been consummated as of the beginning of each respective period, after
giving effect to the following adjustments: (i) elimination of transaction
related charges resulting from the acquisition; (ii) amortization of acquired
intangible assets and software; (iii) Moody’s financing costs for the
transaction, consisting of interest expense that would have been incurred on
the $81.0 million of bank borrowings and interest income that would have been
foregone on the balance of the purchase price; and (iv) related income tax
effects.

Year Ended December 31,

(pro forma)




Revenue

$

1,246.6

$

1,038.4

$

840.9

Net income

$

363.9

$

288.0

$

205.6

Diluted earnings per share

$

2.39

$

1.83

$

1.28



The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information should be read in
conjunction with the Company’s Form 8-K/A filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on June 26, 2002.

The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information is presented for
comparative purposes only and is not intended to be indicative of the actual
consolidated results of operations that would have been achieved had the
transaction been consummated as of the dates indicated above, nor does it
purport to indicate results that may be attained in the future.

Korea Investors Service

In August 1998, the Company made a 10% cost-basis investment in Korea Investors
Service (“KIS”), a Korean rating agency. In December 2001, the Company entered
into a definitive agreement to increase its investment to just over 50%, at a
cost of $9.6 million with a contingent payment of up to 6.9 billion Korean Won
(approximately $5.8 million as of December 31, 2003) in 2005, based on KIS net
income for the three-year period ended December 31, 2004. The purchase price of
$9.6 million was held in escrow pending regulatory approval in Korea, which was
received in January 2002.

The investment was recorded at cost through December 31, 2001; starting in
January 2002, the Company consolidated the results of KIS in its financial
statements. The minority shareholder’s interest has been included in other
long-term liabilities. The purchase price allocation resulted in amortizable
intangible assets of $2.9 million with a weighted average life of 5.6 years and
goodwill of $1.9 million that is not being amortized.

Argentine Rating Agencies

From 1999 through 2002, Moody’s made equity investments totaling $4.4 million
in two Argentine rating agencies.

In January 2002, the Argentine government announced the creation of a dual
currency system in which certain qualifying transactions would be settled at an
expected fixed exchange rate of 1.4 Argentine pesos to one U.S. dollar, while
non-qualifying transactions would be settled using a free floating market
exchange rate. In February 2002, the Argentine government announced a shift to
a single free floating market exchange rate. From 1991 until February 2002, the
Argentine peso had been pegged to the U.S. dollar at the rate of one to one.

Given the significant adverse change in the economic climate in Argentina, the
Company determined that the Argentine ratings businesses and their future
operations and cash flows were materially impacted and that this was not a
temporary change. Therefore, the recoverability of these investments was
reviewed based on a comparison of carrying value to fair value, which was
calculated using estimated future discounted cash flows of the businesses.
Based on that review, it was determined that the fair values of these
investments were $3.4 million less than the aggregate carrying value; this
amount was charged to expense in the fourth quarter of 2001.

As a result of the devaluation of the Argentine peso that occurred in 2002, an
acquisition-related purchase price adjustment was triggered relating to Moody’s
equity-basis investments in the two Argentine rating agencies. The adjustment
resulted in Moody’s receiving additional shares in these rating agencies, which
increased Moody’s ownership position to over 90%. As a result, starting in
January 2003 the Argentine rating agencies are being consolidated in Moody’s
financial statements.



Note 6 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

Effective January 1, 2002, the Company adopted SFAS No. 142, under which
goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives are no longer
amortized but are reviewed annually for recoverability, or more frequently if
impairment indicators arise. The following table reflects net income and basic
and diluted earnings per share giving effect to SFAS No. 142 as if it were
adopted on January 1, 2001:

Year Ended December 31,




Net income, as reported

$

363.9

$

288.9

$

212.2

Add back: goodwill amortization
expense, net of tax

—

—

1.2

Adjusted net income

$

363.9

$

288.9

$

213.4

Basic earnings per share:

As reported

$

2.44

$

1.88

$

1.35

Adjusted

$

2.44

$

1.88

$

1.35

Diluted earnings per share:

As reported

$

2.39

$

1.83

$

1.32

Adjusted

$

2.39

$

1.83

$

1.33

In connection with the 2002 acquisition of KMV, Moody’s acquired goodwill and
intangible assets, which are described in Note 5.

The following table summarizes the activity in goodwill for the periods
indicated:

Year Ended

Year Ended

December 31, 2003

December 31, 2002

Moody's

Moody's

Moody's

Moody's

Investors Service

KMV

Consolidated

Investors Service

KMV

Consolidated

Beginning balance

$

2.3

$

124.0

$

126.3

$

0.4

$

5.6

$

6.0

Net change from
acquisitions

—

—

—

1.9

118.3

120.2

Other

—

0.1

0.1

—

0.1

0.1

Ending balance

$

2.3

$

124.1

$

126.4

$

2.3

$

124.0

$

126.3

The following table summarizes intangible assets subject to amortization at the
dates indicated:

December 31,



Customer lists (11.3 year original weighted average life)

$

57.8

$

57.8

Accumulated amortization

(10.6

)

(5.3

)

Net customer lists

$

47.2

$

52.5

Other intangible assets (5.6 year original weighted
average life)

$

8.2

$

8.2

Accumulated amortization

(3.5

)

(1.8

)

Net other intangible assets

$

4.7

$

6.4

Total

$

51.9

$

58.9

Amortization expense for intangible assets subject to amortization for the
years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 was $7.0 million, $5.3 million and
$1.0 million, respectively.

Estimated future annual amortization expense for intangible assets subject to
amortization is as follows:

Year Ending December 31,


$

6.9


6.5


6.2


5.5


4.5

Thereafter

22.3



As of December 31, 2003, $25.5 million in trade secrets acquired with the
acquisition of KMV were not subject to amortization. Current circumstances and
conditions continue to support an indefinite useful life.

Note 7 Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities

Accounts payable and accrued liabilities consisted of the following:

December 31,



Accounts payable

$

4.4

$

1.3

Accrued income taxes (see Note 10)

36.4

11.3

Accrued compensation and benefits

126.1

117.3

Other

50.6

55.0

Total

$

217.5

$

184.9

Note 8 Pension and Other Post-Retirement Benefits

Moody’s maintains both funded and unfunded noncontributory defined benefit
pension plans in which substantially all U.S. employees of the Company are
eligible to participate. The plans provide defined benefits using a cash
balance formula based on years of service and career average salary.

The Company also provides certain healthcare and life insurance benefits for
retired U.S. employees. The health care plans are contributory with
participants’ contributions adjusted annually; the life insurance plans are
noncontributory. The accounting for the health care plans anticipates future
cost-sharing changes to the written plans that are consistent with the
Company’s expressed intent to fix the Company’s share of costs and require
retirees to pay for all future increases in plan costs in excess of the amount
of the per person company contribution in the year 2005.

Effective at the Distribution Date, Moody’s assumed responsibility for pension
and other post-retirement benefits relating to its active employees. New D&B
has assumed responsibility for the Company’s retirees and vested terminated
employees as of the Distribution Date.



Following is a summary of the activity related to these benefit plans for the
years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, as well as the status of the plans at
December 31, 2003. The Company uses a December 31 measurement date for its
pension and other post-retirement plans.

Pension

Other Post-

Plans

Retirement Plans





Change in benefit obligation

Projected benefit obligation,
beginning of the period

$

(53.3

)

$

(41.2

)

$

(6.1

)

$

(4.6

)

Service cost

(6.9

)

(5.1

)

(0.4

)

(0.3

)

Interest cost

(4.1

)

(2.9

)

(0.3

)

(0.3

)

Benefits paid

0.6

0.4

0.1

0.1

Plan amendment

(0.5

)

—

0.5

(1.0

)

Curtailment charge

0.6

—

—

—

Special termination benefit charge

(1.0

)

—

—

—

Actuarial gain/(loss)

(8.4

)

(2.9

)

0.5

0.3

Assumption change

(6.7

)

(1.6

)

(0.4

)

(0.3

)

Projected benefit obligation,
end of the period

$

(79.7

)

$

(53.3

)

$

(6.1

)

$

(6.1

)

Change in plan assets

Fair value of plan assets,
beginning of the period

$

71.5

$

79.4

$

—

$

—

Actual return on plan assets

15.2

(7.5

)

—

—

Benefits paid

(0.6

)

(0.4

)

(0.1

)

(0.1

)

Contributions

—

—

0.1

0.1

Fair value of plan assets, end of
the period

$

86.1

$

71.5

$

—

$

—

Reconciliation of funded
status to total amount recognized

Funded status of the plans

$

6.4

$

18.2

$

(6.1

)

$

(6.1

)

Unrecognized actuarial loss

38.3

32.5

0.4

0.6

Unrecognized prior
service cost

2.1

2.1

0.4

1.0

Net amount recognized

$

46.8

$

52.8

$

(5.3

)

$

(4.5

)

Amounts recognized in the
consolidated balance sheets

Prepaid pension cost

$

60.2

$

59.3

$

—

$

—

Pension and post-retirement
benefits liability

(15.2

)

(8.0

)

(5.3

)

(4.5

)

Intangible asset

1.8

1.5

—

—

Net amount recognized

$

46.8

$

52.8

$

(5.3

)

$

(4.5

)

The curtailment charge and special termination benefit charge relate to a
benefit enhancement provided under a Supplemental Executive Benefit Plan
maintained by the Company.

The accumulated benefit obligation related to the
pension plans totaled $53.7 million and $36.4 million as of December 31, 2003
and 2002.



Other Post-

Pension Plans

Retirement Plans







Components of net periodic
(income) expense

Service cost

$

6.9

$

5.1

$

4.4

$

0.4

$

0.3

$

0.4

Interest cost

4.1

2.9

2.4

0.3

0.3

0.2

Expected return on plan assets

(7.7

)

(9.0

)

(8.3

)

—

—

—

Amortization of net loss
from earlier periods

1.2

0.1

0.3

—

—

—

Amortization of unrecognized
prior service costs

0.2

0.2

0.1

0.2

—

—

Net periodic (income) expense

$

4.7

$

(0.7

)

$

(1.1

)

$

0.9

$

0.6

$

0.6

The following information is for pension plans with an accumulated benefit
obligation in excess of plan assets

:



Projected benefit obligation

32.4

13.0

Accumulated benefit obligation

14.6

5.4

Fair value of plan assets

—

—

Additional Information:

Assumptions

Weighted-average
assumptions used to determine benefit obligations at December 31:

Other Post-

Pension Plans

Retirement Plans





Discount rate

6.25

%

6.75

%

6.25

%

6.75

%

Rate of compensation increase

3.91

%

3.91

%

—

—

Cash balance accumulation/conversion rate

5.00

%

5.00

%

—

—

Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost for
years ended December 31:

Pension Plans

Other Post-Retirement Plans







Discount rate

6.75

%

7.25

%

7.50

%

6.75

%

7.25

%

7.50

%

Expected return on plan assets

8.10

%

9.75

%

9.75

%

—

—

—

Rate of compensation increase

3.91

%

4.41

%

4.66

%

—

—

—

Cash balance
accumulation/conversion rate

5.00

%

5.50

%

5.75

%

—

—

—

For 2003, the Company used an assumed return on pension plan assets of
approximately 8.1%, which was determined based on explicit long-term return
assumptions for each major asset class within the Company’s pension plan
portfolio. Moody’s works with third party consultants to determine assumptions
for long-term rates of return for the asset classes that are included in its
pension plan investment portfolio. These return assumptions reflect a long
term time horizon. They also reflect a combination of historical performance
analysis and forward looking views of the financial markets including
consideration of inflation, current yields on long-term bonds and
price-earnings ratios of the major stock market indices.



Assumed Healthcare Cost Trend Rates at December 31:




Healthcare cost trend rate assumed for the
following year, for both pre-age 65 and post-age

10.0

%

11.0

%

8.5

%

Ultimate rate to which the cost trend rate is
assumed to decline (ultimate trend rate), for
both pre-age 65 and post-age 65

6.0

%

6.0

%

5.0

%

Year that the rate reaches the ultimate trend rate




Assumed healthcare cost trend rates can have a significant effect on the
amounts reported for the post-retirement healthcare plans. A one
percentage-point change in assumed healthcare cost trend rates would have had
the following effects on Moody’s pre-tax expense in 2003:

One Percentage-Point

Increase

Decrease

Effect on total of service and interest cost

$

—

$

—

Effect on
post-retirement benefit obligation

0.2

(0.1

)

Plan Assets

Moody’s pension plan assets at December 31, 2003 and 2002 were allocated among
the following categories:

Percentage of

Plan Assets

at December 31,

Asset Category



Equity securities


%


%

Debt securities


%


%

Real estate


%


%

Total


%


%

Moody’s investment objective for its pension plan assets is to earn total
returns that will minimize future contribution requirements over the long run
within a prudent level of risk. The Company’s current pension plan asset
allocation targets are for approximately seventy percent of assets to be
invested in equity securities, diversified across U.S. and non-U.S. stocks of
small, medium and large capitalization, twenty percent in investment grade
bonds and the remainder in real estate funds. The use of derivatives
to leverage the portfolio or otherwise is not permitted. The Company’s
monitoring of its Retirement Plan includes ongoing reviews of investment
performance, annual liability measurements, periodic asset/liability studies and
investment portfolio reviews.

Moody’s other post-retirement plans are unfunded and therefore have no plan
assets.

Cash Flows

Future Employer Contributions

Pension Plans

Other Post-Retirement Plans

2004 (expected)

$

—

$

0.1



Profit Participation Plan

Moody’s has a profit participation plan (the “Plan”) covering substantially all
U.S. employees. The Plan provides for an employee salary deferral contribution
and Company contributions. Employees may contribute up to 16% of their pay,
subject to the federal limit. Moody’s contributes an amount equal to 50% of
employee contributions, with Moody’s contribution limited to 3% of the
employee’s pay. Moody’s makes additional contributions to the Plan that are
based on growth in the Company’s earnings per share. Expense associated with
this plan was $18.3 million, $15.1 million and $11.1 million in 2003, 2002 and
2001, respectively.

International Plans

Certain of the Company’s international operations provide pension benefits to
their employees in the form of defined contribution plans. Company
contributions are primarily determined as a percentage of employees’ eligible
compensation. Expense related to these plans for the years ended December 31,
2003, 2002 and 2001 was approximately $2.4 million, $1.6 million and $1.2
million, respectively.

Note 9 Stock-Based Compensation Plans

Prior to the 2000 Distribution, certain employees of Moody’s received grants of
Old D&B stock options under Old D&B’s 1998 Key Employees’ Stock Option Plan
(the “1998 Plan”). At the Distribution Date, all unexercised Old D&B stock
options held by Moody’s employees were converted into separately exercisable
options to acquire Moody’s common stock and separately exercisable options to
acquire New D&B common stock, such that each option had the same ratio of the
exercise price per option to the market value per share, the same aggregate
difference between market value and exercise price, and the same vesting
provisions, option periods and other terms and conditions applicable prior to
the 2000 Distribution. Old D&B stock options held by employees and retirees of
Old D&B were converted in the same manner. Immediately after the 2000
Distribution, the 1998 Plan was amended and adopted by the Company.

Under the 1998 Plan, 16,500,000 shares of the Company’s common stock were
reserved for issuance. The 1998 Plan provides that options are exercisable not
later than ten years from the grant date. The vesting period for awards under
the 1998 Plan is determined by the Board of Directors at the date of the grant
and has principally been four years. Options may not be granted at less than
the fair market value of the Company’s common stock at the date of grant. For
incentive stock options granted to a shareholder of more than 10% of the
Company’s outstanding stock, the exercise price per share cannot be less than
110% of the fair market value of the Company’s common stock at the date of
grant. The 1998 Plan also provides for the granting of restricted stock.

The 2001 Moody’s Corporation Key Employees’ Stock Incentive Plan (the “2001
Plan”) was approved by the Board of Directors in February 2001 and approved by
the Company’s shareholders in April 2001. Under the 2001 plan, 5,800,000 shares
of common stock have been reserved for issuance. Options may not be granted at
less than the fair market value of the Company’s common stock at the date of
grant. The 2001 Plan provides that options are exercisable not later than ten
years from the grant date. The vesting period for awards under the 2001 Plan is
determined by the Board of Directors at the date of the grant and has been four
years. Unlike the 1998 Plan, the 2001 Plan also provides that consultants to
the Company or any of its subsidiaries are eligible to be granted options. The
2001 Plan also provides for the granting of restricted stock.

Under the 1998 and 2001 Plans, key employees of the Company may be granted
shares of common stock based on the achievement of revenue growth goals or
other operating objectives (“Performance Shares”). At the end of the
performance period, Company performance at target will yield the targeted
amount of shares, whereas Company performance above or below target will yield
larger or smaller share awards, respectively. As a result of the 2000
Distribution, outstanding Performance Share grants were converted such that the
Company’s employees would receive a combination of Moody’s shares and cash in
lieu of New D&B shares. In 2001, approximately 100,000 shares of Moody’s common
stock were awarded based on the Company’s revenue performance for 1999 and
2000. Cash payments aggregating $2.5 million were made in lieu of New D&B
shares. There were no new Performance Share grants in 2003, 2002 or 2001. The
Company recorded compensation expense of $0.2 million in 2002 and $0.4 million
in 2001, relating to performance shares granted in 1999, for which the
performance period ended in 2002. No compensation expense relating to
performance share grants was recorded for the year ended December 31, 2003.

The Company maintains a stock plan for its Board of Directors, the 1998
Directors Plan (the “Directors Plan”), which permits the granting of awards in
the form of non-qualified stock options, restricted stock or performance
shares. The Directors Plan provides that



options are exercisable not later than ten years from the grant date. The
vesting period is determined at the date of the grant and is generally one
year. Under the Directors Plan, 400,000 shares of common stock were reserved
for issuance. Any director of the Company who is not an employee of the Company
or any of its subsidiaries as of the date that an award is granted is eligible
to participate in the Directors Plan. During the year ended December 31, 2003,
the Company granted approximately 16,000 shares of restricted stock pursuant to
the Directors Plan, with an aggregate grant date fair value of $675,000.

In February 2004, Moody’s awarded long-term, equity-based compensation as a mix
of stock options and restricted stock, rather than exclusively as stock options
as the Company has done in the past. The aggregate grants were approximately
2.2 million options and 0.4 million shares of restricted stock, all under the
2001 Plan. The options and a portion of the restricted stock vest ratably over
four years. The remaining restricted stock will vest over a period of three to
five years, depending on growth in the Company’s operating
income.

Also in February 2004, Directors of the Company were granted approximately
7,000 shares of restricted stock under the Directors Plan.

Changes in stock options for the three years ended December 31, 2003 are
summarized below:

Weighted

Number

Average

Outstanding

Exercise Price

Options outstanding, December 31, 2000

19.3

$

22.30

Granted

0.1

34.77

Exercised

(2.5

)

17.04

Surrendered or retired

(2.2

)

24.24

Options outstanding, December 31, 2001

14.7

23.00

Granted

3.8

40.01

Exercised

(2.5

)

19.31

Surrendered or retired

(0.7

)

27.43

Options outstanding, December 31, 2002

15.3

27.63

Granted

3.6

42.73

Exercised

(3.1

)

23.87

Surrendered or retired

(0.6

)

32.67

Options outstanding, December 31, 2003

15.2

$

31.78

Below is a summary of Moody’s stock options held by Moody’s employees and by
New D&B employees and retirees as of each date:

New D&B

Moody's

Employees

Employees

and Retirees

Options outstanding at:

December 31, 2001

8.6

6.1

December 31, 2002

11.1

4.2

December 31, 2003

12.6

2.6



The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at
December 31, 2003:

Options Outstanding

Average

Remaining

Weighted

Number

Contractual

Average

Range of Exercise Prices

Outstanding

Life in Years

Exercise Price

$14.54–$19.94

1.3

2.5

$

16.79

$21.42–$23.96

2.5

5.4

$

21.79

$25.13–$28.13

4.5

5.1

$

27.41

$33.92–$39.98

3.1

8.1

$

39.87

$40.59–$43.55

3.7

9.0

$

42.43

$52.05–$60.50

0.1

9.9

$

56.60

Total

15.2

Options Exercisable

Weighted

Number

Average

Range of Exercise Prices

Exercisable

Exercise Price

$14.54–$19.94

1.3

$

16.79

$21.42–$23.96

1.6

$

21.77

$25.13–$28.13

3.4

$

27.26

$33.92–$39.98

0.7

$

39.82

$40.59–$43.55

0.1

$

40.98

$52.05–$60.50

—

Total

7.1

In addition, the Company also sponsors the Moody’s Corporation Employee Stock
Purchase Plan (“ESPP”). The ESPP allows eligible employees to purchase common
stock of the Company on a monthly basis at 85% of its fair market value on the
first trading day of the month. Plan participants can elect an after-tax
payroll deduction of one percent to ten percent of compensation, subject to the
federal limit.

Note 10 Income Taxes

Components of the Company’s income tax provision are as follows:

Year Ended December 31,




Current:

Federal

$

199.7

$

150.5

$

102.4

State and local

63.6

54.4

49.3

Non U.S.

35.3

26.3

16.5

Total current

298.6

231.2

168.2

Deferred:

Federal

(3.8

)

(3.5

)

1.2

State and local

(1.5

)

1.4

0.5

Non U.S.

(0.8

)

(0.6

)

(0.2

)

Total deferred

(6.1

)

(2.7

)

1.5

Total provision for income taxes

$

292.5

$

228.5

$

169.7



A reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory tax rate to the Company’s
effective tax rate on income before provision for income taxes is as follows:

Year Ended December 31,




U.S. statutory tax rate

35.0

%

35.0

%

35.0

%

State and local taxes,
net of federal tax benefit

6.2

7.0

8.5

U.S. taxes on foreign income

0.3

0.7

1.0

Other

3.1

1.5

(0.1

)

Effective tax rate

44.6

%

44.2

%

44.4

%

Income taxes paid were $210.6 million, $226.6 million and $98.6 million in
2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Taxes paid in 2002 included approximately
$50 million of 2001 income tax payments that were deferred due to the September
11th tragedy.

The components of deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:

December 31,



Deferred tax assets:

Current:

Accounts receivable allowances

$

6.9

$

6.7

Accrued compensation and benefits

5.1

4.5

Other

1.0

0.9

Total current

13.0

12.1

Non-current:

Depreciation and amortization

5.3

5.3

Benefit plans

13.5

6.2

State taxes

1.8

7.8

Other

8.0

7.2

Total non-current

28.6

26.5

Total deferred tax assets

41.6

38.6

Deferred tax liabilities:

Current:

Prepaid expenses

(1.4

)

(1.4

)

Total current

(1.4

)

(1.4

)

Non-current:

Prepaid pension costs

(25.1

)

(24.5

)

Amortization of intangibles and
capitalized software

(6.8

)

(4.8

)

Other

(0.1

)

(0.1

)

Total non-current

(32.0

)

(29.4

)

Total deferred tax liabilities

(33.4

)

(30.8

)

Net deferred tax asset

$

8.2

$

7.8

The current deferred tax assets, net of current deferred tax liabilities, as
well as prepaid taxes of $0.7 million and $1.3 million at December 31, 2003 and
2002, respectively, are included in other current assets in the consolidated
balance sheets. Non-current tax receivables of $26.5 million at December 31,
2003 and 2002 are included in other assets. Non-current deferred tax
liabilities, net of non-current deferred tax assets, are included in other
liabilities. Management has determined, based on the Company’s history of prior
and current levels of operating earnings, that no valuation allowance for
deferred tax assets should be provided as of December 31, 2003 and 2002.



At December 31, 2003, undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries
aggregated $80.8 million. Earnings from the United Kingdom, France and Japan
are or will be remitted to the U.S. on a regular basis. As such, taxes related
to anticipated distributions have been provided in the consolidated financial
statements. Deferred tax liabilities have not been recognized for approximately
$16 million of undistributed foreign earnings that management intends to
reinvest outside the U.S. If all such undistributed earnings were remitted to
the U.S., the amount of incremental U.S. federal and foreign income taxes
payable, net of foreign tax credits, would be approximately $1.7 million.

Note 11 Indebtedness

In connection with the 2000 Distribution, Moody’s was allocated $195.5 million
of debt at September 30, 2000. Moody’s funded this debt with borrowings under a
$160 million unsecured bank revolving credit facility and a bank bridge line of
credit.

On October 3, 2000 the Company issued $300 million of notes payable (the
“Notes”) in a private placement. The cash proceeds from the Notes were used in
part to repay the outstanding balance on the revolving credit facility and to
repay the bridge line of credit. The Notes have a five-year term and bear
interest at an annual rate of 7.61%, payable semi-annually. In the event that
Moody’s pays all or part of the Notes in advance of their maturity (the
“prepaid principal”), such prepayment will be subject to a penalty calculated
based on the excess, if any, of the discounted value of the remaining scheduled
payments, as defined in the agreement, over the prepaid principal. Interest
paid under the Notes was $22.8 million, $22.8 million and $22.6 million,
respectively for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001. Total
interest expense was $23.5 million, $23.5 million and $22.9 million,
respectively for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001.

The revolving credit facility (the “Facility”), which had no borrowings
outstanding as of December 31, 2003, consists of an $80 million 5-year facility
that expires in September 2005 and an $80 million 364-day facility that expires
in September 2004. Interest on borrowings under the 5-year facility is payable
at rates that are based on the London InterBank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) plus a
premium that can range from 18 basis points to 50 basis points depending on the
Company’s ratio of total indebtedness to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization (“Earnings Coverage Ratio”), as defined in the
related agreement. At December 31, 2003, such premium was 18 basis points.
Interest on borrowings under the 364-day facility is payable at rates that are
based on LIBOR plus a premium of 30.5 basis points. The Company also pays
annual facility fees, regardless of borrowing activity under the Facility. The
annual fees for the 5-year facility can range from 7 basis points of the
facility amount to 12.5 basis points, depending on the Company’s Earnings
Coverage Ratio, and were 7 basis points at December 31, 2003. The annual fees
for the 364-day facility are 7 basis points. Under each facility, the Company
also pays a utilization fee of 12.5 basis points on borrowings outstanding when
the aggregate amount outstanding under such facility exceeds 33% of the
facility.

In April 2002, Moody’s used the Facility to initially fund a portion of the
purchase price for the KMV acquisition; such borrowings were repaid in the
second quarter of 2002. During 2002, Moody’s also borrowed under the Facility
to fund share repurchases. Interest paid under the Facility was $0.6 million in
2003 and $0.3 million in 2002.

The Notes and the Facility (the “Agreements”) contain covenants that, among
other things, restrict the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries, without
the approval of the lenders, to engage in mergers, consolidations, asset sales
and sale-leaseback transactions or to incur liens. The Notes and the Facility
also contain financial covenants that, among other things, require the Company
to maintain an interest coverage ratio, as defined in the Agreements, of not
less than 3 to 1, and an Earnings Coverage Ratio, as defined in the Agreements,
of not more than 4 to 1. At December 31, 2003, the Company was in compliance
with such covenants. If an event of default were to occur (as defined in the
Agreements) and was not remedied by the Company within the stipulated
timeframe, an acceleration of the Notes and restrictions on the use of the
Facility could occur.

Note 12 Capital Stock

Authorized Capital Stock

The total number of shares of all classes of stock that the Company has
authority to issue under its Restated Certificate of Incorporation is
420,000,000 shares with a par value of $0.01, of which 400,000,000 are shares
of common stock, 10,000,000 are shares of preferred stock and 10,000,000 are
shares of series common stock. The preferred stock and series common stock can
be issued with varying terms, as determined by the Board of Directors.



Rights Agreement

The Company has a Rights Agreement designed to protect its shareholders in the
event of unsolicited offers to acquire the Company and coercive takeover
tactics that, in the opinion of the Board of Directors, could impair its
ability to represent shareholder interests. Under the Rights Agreement, each
share of common stock has a right that trades with the stock until the right
becomes exercisable. Each right entitles the registered holder to purchase
1/1000 of a share of a series A junior participating preferred stock, par value
$0.01 per share, at a price of $100 per 1/1000 of a share, subject to
adjustment. The rights will generally not be exercisable until a person or
group (“Acquiring Person”) acquires beneficial ownership of, or commences a
tender offer or exchange offer that would result in such person or group having
beneficial ownership of, 15% or more of the outstanding common stock at such
time.

In the event that any person or group becomes an Acquiring Person, each right
will thereafter entitle its holder (other than the Acquiring Person) to
receive, upon exercise and payment, shares of stock having a market value equal
to two times the exercise price in the form of the Company’s common stock or,
where appropriate, the Acquiring Person’s common stock. The rights are not
currently exercisable, as no shareholder is currently an Acquiring Person. The
Company may redeem the rights, which expire in June 2008, for $0.01 per right,
under certain circumstances, including for a Board-approved acquirer either
before the acquirer becomes an Acquiring Person or during the window period
after the triggering event as specified in the Rights Agreement.

Share Repurchase Program

During October 2002, Moody’s completed the $300 million share repurchase
program that had been authorized by the Board of Directors in October 2001. On
October 22, 2002, the Board of Directors authorized an additional $450 million
share repurchase program, which includes both special share repurchases and
systematic repurchases of Moody’s common stock to offset the dilutive effect of
share issuance under the Company’s employee stock plans.

For the year ended December 31, 2003, Moody’s repurchased 3.5 million shares at
a total cost of $171.7 million, including 3.2 million shares to offset
issuances under employee stock plans. Since becoming a public company in
September 2000 and through the end of 2003, Moody’s has repurchased 23.0
million shares at a total cost of $881.0 million, including 9.3 million shares
to offset issuances under employee stock plans.

Dividends

During 2003, 2002 and 2001, the Company paid a quarterly dividend of 4.5 cents
per share of Moody’s common stock, resulting in dividends paid per share of
18.0 cents in each year. In December 2003, the Company’s Board of Directors
declared a first quarter 2004 dividend of 7.5 cents per share, payable on March
10, 2004 to shareholders of record on February 20, 2004.

Note 13 Lease Commitments

Moody’s operates its business from various leased facilities, which are under
operating leases that expire over the next nine years. Moody’s also leases
certain computer and other equipment under operating and capital leases that
expire over the next six years. Rent expense under operating leases for the
years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 was $13.3 million, $11.3 million
and $8.0 million, respectively. Rent expense for 2002 and 2001 was net of
sublease rental income of $0.6 million and $1.0 million, respectively. There
was no sublease rental income in 2003.

During 2002, Moody’s recorded approximately $3.9 million of computer equipment
subject to capital lease obligations. Accumulated amortization at December 31,
2003 includes approximately $1.3 million related to capital lease obligations.



The approximate minimum rent for leases that have remaining or original
noncancelable lease terms in excess of one year at December 31, 2003 is as
follows:

Capital

Operating

Year Ending December 31,

Leases

Leases


$

1.3

$

17.2


1.3

12.7


—

8.7


—

6.0


—

4.8

Thereafter

—

5.1

Total minimum lease payments

2.6

$

54.5

Less: amount representing interest

(0.1

)

Present value of net minimum lease payments
under capital leases

$

2.5

Note 14 Contingencies

From time to time, Moody’s is involved in legal and tax proceedings, claims and
litigation that are incidental to the Company’s business, including claims
based on ratings assigned by Moody’s. Management periodically assesses the
Company’s liabilities and contingencies in connection with these matters, based
upon the latest information available. For those matters where the probable
amount of loss can be reasonably estimated, the Company believes it has
recorded appropriate reserves in the consolidated financial statements. In
other instances, because of the uncertainties related to both the probable
outcome and amount or range of loss, management is unable to make a reasonable
estimate of a liability, if any. As additional information becomes available,
the Company adjusts its assessments and estimates of such liabilities
accordingly.

Based on its review of the latest information available, in the opinion of
management, the ultimate liability of the Company in connection with pending
legal and tax proceedings, claims and litigation will not have a material
adverse effect on Moody’s financial position, results of operations or cash
flows, subject to the contingencies described below.

Discussion of contingencies is segregated between those matters that relate to
Old D&B, its predecessors and their affiliated companies (“Legacy
Contingencies”) and those that relate to Moody’s business and operations
(“Moody’s Matters”).

Legacy Contingencies

To understand the Company’s exposure to the potential liabilities described
below, it is important to understand the relationship between Moody’s and New
D&B, and the relationship among New D&B and its predecessors and other parties
who, through various corporate reorganizations and related contractual
commitments, have assumed varying degrees of responsibility with respect to
such matters.

In November 1996, The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation through a spin-off separated
into three separate public companies: The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation,
ACNielsen Corporation (“ACNielsen”) and Cognizant Corporation (“Cognizant”)
(the “1996 Distribution”).

In June 1998, The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation through a spin-off separated
into two separate public companies: The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation and R.H.
Donnelley Corporation (“Donnelley”) (the “1998 Distribution”). During 1998,
Cognizant through a spin-off separated into two separate public companies: IMS
Health Incorporated (“IMS Health”) and Nielsen Media Research, Inc. (“NMR”). In
September 2000, The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation (“Old D&B”) through a spin-off
separated into two separate public companies: New D&B and Moody’s, as further
described in Note 1, Description of Business and Basis of Presentation.



Information Resources, Inc.

In July 1996, Information Resources, Inc. (“IRI”) filed a complaint in the U.
S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, naming as defendants
the corporation then known as The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation, A.C. Nielsen
Company (a subsidiary of ACNielsen) and IMS International, Inc. (a subsidiary
of the company then known as Cognizant). At the time of the filing of the
complaint, each of the other defendants was a subsidiary of The Dun &
Bradstreet Corporation.

The complaint alleges various violations of United States antitrust laws under
Sections 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act. The complaint also alleges a claim of
tortious interference with a contract and a claim of tortious interference with
a prospective business relationship. These claims relate to the acquisition by
defendants of Survey Research Group Limited (“SRG”). IRI alleges SRG violated
an alleged agreement with IRI when it agreed to be acquired by the defendants
and that the defendants induced SRG to breach that agreement.

IRI’s antitrust claims allege that the defendants developed and implemented a
plan to undermine IRI’s ability to compete within the U.S. and foreign markets
in North America, Latin America, Asia, Europe and Australia/New Zealand through
a series of anti-competitive practices, including: unlawfully tying/bundling
services in the markets in which defendants allegedly had monopoly power with
services in markets in which ACNielsen competed with IRI; entering into
exclusionary contracts with retailers in certain countries to deny IRI’s access
to sales data necessary to provide retail tracking services or to artificially
raise the cost of that data; predatory pricing; acquiring foreign market
competitors with the intent of impeding IRI’s efforts to expand; disparaging
IRI to financial analysts and clients; and denying IRI access to capital
necessary for it to compete.

IRI’s complaint originally alleged damages in excess of $350 million, which IRI
asked to be trebled under antitrust laws. IRI has since revised its allegation
of damages to exceed $650 million, which IRI also asked to be trebled. IRI
also seeks punitive damages of an unspecified amount.

In April 2003, the court denied a motion for partial summary judgment by the
defendants that sought to dismiss certain of IRI’s claims and granted in part a
motion by IRI seeking reconsideration of certain summary judgment rulings the
Court had previously made in favor of the defendants.

In December of 2003, IRI was acquired by the Gingko Acquisition Corporation, an
affiliate of Symphony Technology II – A. L. P. and certain other parties. As
part of that transaction, a statutory trust called the Information Resources,
Inc. Litigation Contingent Payment Rights Trust (the “Trust”) was formed. The
Trust was created, in part, to issue contingent value rights certificates
(“CVRs”), which represent an interest in the IRI lawsuit. The CVRs are
governed by a Contingent Value Rights Agreement among IRI and the acquirers,
and are a tradeable security listed on the OTC Bulletin Board. As part of the
purchase consideration, each IRI stockholder received one CVR for each share of
IRI common stock owned, entitling the selling stockholders to a pro rata
portion of the proceeds from the IRI lawsuit, if any, allocated to the Trust.
The Trust will be entitled to receive an amount equal to 68% of any proceeds
from the IRI lawsuit to the extent that such proceeds are equal to or less than
$200 million and 75% of any such proceeds in excess of $200 million. The
remaining proceeds, if any, will be the property of IRI. A body consisting of
five rights agents was appointed to direct and supervise the IRI Litigation on
behalf of IRI and CVR holders. Gingko Corporation named two of the rights
agents, IRI named two of the rights agents and these four rights agents
selected the fifth “independent” rights agent. Under the Contingent Value
Rights Agreement, a majority of the rights agents (other than the independent
rights agent) must approve any settlement of the IRI lawsuit. The information
contained in this paragraph is solely based on the tender offer statement filed
by Gingko Acquisition Corporation and other persons and the registration
statement filed by the Trust in connection with the acquisition of IRI.

In connection with the 1996 Distribution, NMR (then known as Cognizant
Corporation), ACNielsen and Donnelley (then known as The Dun & Bradstreet
Corporation) entered into an Indemnity and Joint Defense Agreement (the
“Indemnity and Joint Defense Agreement”), pursuant to which they agreed to:

•

allocate potential liabilities that may relate to, arise out of or result from the IRI lawsuit (“IRI Liabilities”); and

•

conduct a joint defense of such action.

In particular, the Indemnity and Joint Defense Agreement provides that:

•

ACNielsen will assume exclusive liability for IRI Liabilities up to a
maximum amount to be calculated at such time as such liabilities become
payable as a result of a final non-appealable judgment or any settlement
permitted under the Indemnity and



Joint Defense Agreement (the “ACN Maximum Amount”); and

•

Donnelley and NMR will share liability equally for any amounts in excess of the ACN Maximum Amount.

As noted above, ACNielsen is responsible for the IRI Liabilities up to the ACN
Maximum Amount. The Indemnity and Joint Defense Agreement provides that
ACNielsen initially is to determine the amount that it will pay at the time of
settlement or a final judgment, if any, in IRI’s favor (the “ACN Payment”).
The ACN Payment could be less than the ACN Maximum Amount. The Indemnity and
Joint Defense Agreement also provides for each of Donnelley and NMR to pay IRI
50% of the difference between the settlement or judgment amount and the ACN
Payment, and for ACNielsen to issue a secured note (the “ACN Note”), subject to
certain limits, to each of Donnelley and NMR for the amount of their payment.
The principal amount of each ACN Note issued to Donnelley and NMR, however, is
limited to 50% of the difference between the ACN Maximum Amount and the ACN
Payment, and is subject to a further limitation that it cannot exceed 50% of
the amount of any proceeds from any recapitalization plan designed to maximize
ACNielsen’s claims paying ability. The ACN Notes would become payable upon the
completion of any such recapitalization plan.

The Indemnity and Joint Defense Agreement also provides that if it becomes
necessary to post any bond pending an appeal of an adverse judgment, then NMR
and Donnelley shall obtain the bond required for the appeal, and each shall pay
50% of the costs of such bond, if any, which cost will be added to IRI
Liabilities. Under the terms of the 2000 Distribution, Moody’s would be
responsible for 25% of the total costs of any bond.

The ACN Maximum Amount will be determined by an investment banking firm as the
maximum amount that ACNielsen is able to pay after giving effect to:

•

any recapitalization plan submitted by such investment bank that is
designated to maximize the claims-paying ability of ACNielsen without
impairing the investment banking firm’s ability to deliver a viability
opinion and without requiring shareholder approval; and

•

payment of interest on the ACN Notes and related fees and expenses.

For these purposes, “viability” means the ability of ACNielsen, after giving
effect to such recapitalization plan, the payment of interest on the ACN Notes,
the payment of related fees and expenses and the payment of the ACN Maximum
Amount, to:

•

pay its debts as they become due; and

•

finance the current and anticipated operating and capital
requirements of its business, as reconstituted by such recapitalization
plan, for two years from the date any such recapitalization plan is
expected to be implemented.

In 2001, ACNielsen was acquired by VNU N.V. VNU N.V. assumed ACNielsen’s
liabilities under the Indemnity and Joint Defense Agreement, and pursuant to
the Indemnity and Joint Defense Agreement, VNU N.V. is to be included with
ACNielsen for purposes of determining the ACN Maximum Amount.

In connection with the 1998 Distribution, Old D&B and Donnelley (then known as
The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation) entered into an agreement (the “1998
Distribution Agreement”) whereby Old D&B assumed all potential liabilities of
Donnelley arising from the IRI action and agreed to indemnify Donnelley in
connection with such potential liabilities. Under the terms of the 2000
Distribution, New D&B undertook to be jointly and severally liable with Moody’s
for Old D&B’s obligations to Donnelley under the 1998 Distribution Agreement,
including any liabilities arising under the Indemnity and Joint Defense
Agreement, and arising from the IRI action itself. However, as between New D&B
and Moody’s, it was agreed that under the 2000 Distribution, each of New D&B
and Moody’s will be responsible for 50% of any payments required to be made to
or on behalf of Donnelley with respect to the IRI action under the terms of the
1998 Distribution Agreement, including legal fees or expenses related to the
IRI action.

As a result, the Company will be responsible for the payment of 25% of the
portion of any judgment or settlement in excess of the ACN Maximum Amount (as
adjusted to include VNU N.V.). New D&B will be responsible for the payment of
an additional 25% (together constituting Donnelley’s liability under the
Indemnity and Joint Defense Agreement for 50% of such amount) and NMR will be
responsible for payment of the remaining 50% of liability in excess of the ACN
Maximum Amount. In addition, each of the above parties, in accordance with the
foregoing percentages, may be required to advance a portion of the amount, if
any, by which the ACN Maximum Amount exceeds the amount of the ACN Payment.
However, because liability for violations of the antitrust laws is joint and
several and because many of the rights and obligations relating to the
Indemnity and Joint Defense Agreement are based on



contractual relationships, the failure of a party to the Indemnity and Joint
Defense Agreement to fulfill its obligations could result in the other parties
bearing a greater share of the IRI Liabilities.

As a result of their 1998 separation and pursuant to the related distribution
agreement, IMS Health and NMR are each jointly and severally liable for all
Cognizant liabilities under the Indemnity and Joint Defense Agreement.

Discovery in the lawsuit is ongoing, and although the court earlier set a trial
date for September 2004, the court rescinded that date in January 2004 and
there is currently no trial date set. Moody’s is unable to predict at this
time the outcome of the IRI action or the financial condition of ACNielsen and
VNU N.V. at the time of any such outcome (and hence the Company cannot estimate
the amount of the ACN Payment, the ACN Maximum Amount and the portion of any
judgment to be paid by VNU N.V. and ACNielsen under the Indemnity and Joint
Defense Agreement).

Therefore, Moody’s is unable to predict at this time whether the resolution of
this matter could materially affect the Company’s financial position, results
of operations, or cash flows. Accordingly, no amount in respect of this matter
has been accrued in the Company’s consolidated financial statements. If,
however, IRI were to prevail in whole or in part in this action or if Moody’s
is required to pay or advance a significant portion of any settlement or
judgment, the outcome of this matter could have a material adverse effect on
Moody’s financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.

Legacy Tax Matters

Old D&B and its predecessors entered into global tax planning initiatives in
the normal course of business, including through tax-free restructurings of
both their foreign and domestic operations. These initiatives are subject to
normal review by tax authorities.

Pursuant to a series of agreements, as between themselves, IMS Health and NMR
are jointly and severally liable to pay one-half, and New D&B and Moody’s are
jointly and severally liable to pay the other half, of any payments for taxes,
penalties and accrued interest resulting from unfavorable IRS rulings on
certain tax matters (excluding the matter described below as “Amortization
Expense Deductions” for which New D&B and Moody’s are solely responsible) and
certain other potential tax liabilities after New D&B and/or Moody’s pays the
first $137 million, which amount was paid in connection with the matter
described below as “Utilization of Capital Losses”.

In connection with the 2000 Distribution and pursuant to the terms of the
related Distribution Agreement, New D&B and Moody’s have, between themselves,
agreed to each be financially responsible for 50% of any potential liabilities
that may arise to the extent such potential liabilities are not directly
attributable to their respective business operations.

Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, three specific tax matters
are discussed below.

Royalty Expense Deductions

During the second quarter of 2003, New D&B received an Examination Report from
the IRS with respect to a partnership transaction entered into in 1993. In this
Report, the IRS stated its intention to disallow certain royalty expense
deductions claimed by Old D&B on its tax returns for the years 1993 through
1996. New D&B disagrees with the position taken by the IRS in its Report.
During the third quarter of 2003, New D&B filed a protest with the Appeals
Office of the IRS to contest the Examination Report. If the IRS Appeals Office
were to uphold the Examination Report, then New D&B could either: (1) accept
and pay the IRS assessment; (2) challenge the assessment in U.S. Tax Court; or
(3) challenge the assessment in U.S. District Court or the U.S. Court of
Federal Claims, where payment of the disputed amount would be required in
connection with such challenge. Should any such payments be made by New D&B,
then pursuant to the terms of the 2000 Distribution Agreement, Moody’s would
have to pay to New D&B its 50% share. Moody’s estimates that its share of the
required payment to the IRS could be up to approximately $57 million (including
penalties and interest, and net of tax benefits). Moody’s also could be
obligated for future interest payments on its share of such liability.

In a related matter, during the second quarter of 2003, New D&B received an
Examination Report from the IRS stating its intention to ignore the partnership
structure that had been established in 1993 in connection with the above
transaction, and to reallocate to Old D&B income and expense items that had
been reported in the partnership tax return for 1996. During the third quarter
of 2003, the partnership filed a protest with the Appeals Office of the IRS to
contest the Examination Report. If the IRS Appeals Office were to



uphold the Examination Report, then New D&B could either: (1) accept and pay
the IRS assessment; (2) challenge the assessment in U.S. Tax Court; or (3)
challenge the assessment in U.S. District Court or the U.S. Court of Federal
Claims, where payment of the assessment would be required in connection with
such challenge. Should any such payments be made by New D&B, then pursuant to
the terms of the 2000 Distribution Agreement, Moody’s would have to pay to New
D&B its 50% share. Moody’s estimates that its share of the required payment to
the IRS for this matter could be up to approximately $50 million (including
penalties and interest, and net of tax benefits). Such exposure could be in
addition to the amount described in the preceding paragraph, and Moody’s also
could be obligated for future interest payments on its share of such liability.

During the fourth quarter of 2003 and the first quarter of 2004, New D&B
participated in meetings with the IRS Appeals Office on the two matters
described above.

In addition, in the first quarter of 2004, New D&B received an Examination
Report relating to Old D&B’s participation in the partnership structure for the
first quarter of 1997. In this Report the IRS stated its intention to disallow
certain royalty expense deductions claimed by Old D&B on its tax return for the
1997 tax year. New D&B also received an Examination Report issued to the
partnership with respect to its 1997 tax year. In this Examination Report, the
IRS stated its intention to ignore the partnership structure that had been
established in 1993 in connection with the above transaction, and to reallocate
to Old D&B income and expense items that had been reported in the partnership
tax return for 1997. New D&B disagrees with the positions taken by the IRS in
its Reports and will pursue the same remedies with the same possible
consequences described above. Moody’s estimates that its share of the required
payment to the IRS in relation to the two Examination Reports could be up to
approximately $1.5 million and $0.3 million, respectively (including penalties
and interest, and net of tax benefits).

Moody’s believes that the IRS’s proposed assessments of tax against Old D&B and
the proposed reallocations of partnership income and expense to Old D&B are
inconsistent with each other. Accordingly, while it is possible that the IRS
could ultimately prevail in whole or in part on one of such positions, Moody’s
believes that it is unlikely that the IRS will prevail on both.

Amortization Expense Deductions

During the fourth quarter of 2003, New D&B received a Notice of Proposed
Adjustment from the IRS with respect to a partnership transaction entered into
in 1997 that could result in amortization expense deductions from 1997 through
2012. In this Notice the IRS proposed to disallow the amortization expense
deductions related to this partnership that were claimed by Old D&B on its 1997
and 1998 tax returns. New D&B disagrees with the position taken by the IRS.
IRS audits of Old D&B’s or New D&B’s tax returns for years subsequent to 1998
could result in the issuance of similar Notices of Proposed Adjustment. If the
IRS were to issue a formal assessment consistent with the Notices for 1997 and
1998 or for future years, then New D&B could either: (1) accept and pay the IRS
assessment; (2) challenge the assessment in U.S Tax Court; or (3) challenge the
assessment in U.S. District Court or the U.S. Court of Federal Claims, where
payment of the disputed amount would be required in connection with such
challenge. Should any such payments be made by New D&B, then pursuant to the
terms of the 2000 Distribution Agreement, Moody’s would have to pay to New D&B
its 50% share. In addition, should New D&B discontinue claiming the
amortization deductions on future tax returns, Moody’s would be required to
repay to New D&B an amount equal to the discounted value of its 50% share of
the related future tax benefits. New D&B had paid the discounted value of
future tax benefits from this transaction in cash to Moody’s at the
Distribution Date. Moody’s estimates that the Company’s current potential
exposure related to this matter is $92 million (including penalties and
interest, and net of tax benefits). This exposure could increase by
approximately $3 million to $6 million per year, depending on actions that the
IRS may take and on whether New D&B continues claiming the amortization
deductions on its tax returns.

Also during the fourth quarter of 2003, New D&B received a Notice of Proposed
Adjustment from the IRS with respect to the partnership transaction entered
into in 1997. In this Notice the IRS proposed to disallow certain royalty
expense deductions claimed by Old D&B on its 1997 and 1998 tax returns. In
addition, the IRS proposed to disregard the partnership structure and to
reallocate to Old D&B certain partnership income and expense items that had
been reported in the partnership tax returns for 1997 and 1998. New D&B
disagrees with the positions taken by the IRS. If the IRS were to issue a
formal assessment consistent with the Notices for 1997 and 1998 or for future
years, then New D&B could either: (1) accept and pay the IRS assessment; (2)
challenge the assessment in U.S. Tax Court; (3) challenge the assessment in
U.S. District Court or the U.S Court of Federal Claims, where payment of the
assessment would be required in connection with such challenge. Should any
such payments be made by New D&B, then pursuant to the terms of the 2000
Distribution Agreement, Moody’s would have to pay to New D&B its 50% share of
New D&B’s payments to the IRS for the period from 1997 through the Distribution
Date. Moody’s estimates that its share of the potential payment



to the IRS could be up to approximately $125 million (including penalties and
interest, and net of tax benefits). Moody’s also could be obligated for future
interest payments on its share of such liability.

Moody’s believes that the IRS’s proposed assessments of tax against Old D&B and
the proposed reallocations of partnership income and expense to Old D&B are
inconsistent with each other. Accordingly, while it is possible that the IRS
could ultimately prevail in whole or in part on one of such positions, Moody’s
believes that it is unlikely that the IRS will prevail on both.

Utilization of Capital Losses

The IRS has completed its review of the utilization of certain capital losses
generated during 1989 and 1990. On June 26, 2000, the IRS, as part of its audit
process, issued a formal assessment with respect to the utilization of these
capital losses and Old D&B responded by filing a petition for a refund in the
U.S. District Court on September 21, 2000, after the payments described below
were made. The case is expected to go to trial in 2005.

On May 12, 2000, an amended tax return was filed for the 1989 and 1990 tax
periods, which reflected $561.6 million of tax and interest due. Old D&B paid
the IRS approximately $349.3 million of this amount on May 12, 2000; 50% of
such payment was allocated to Moody’s and had previously been accrued by the
Company. IMS Health informed Old D&B that it paid to the IRS approximately
$212.3 million on May 17, 2000. The payments were made to the IRS to stop
further interest from accruing, and New D&B is contesting the IRS’ assessment.
New D&B has indicated that it would also contest the assessment of penalties or
other amounts, if any, in excess of the amounts paid. With the possible
exception of the matter described in the following sentence, Moody’s does not
anticipate any further income statement charges or cash payments related to IRS
assessments for this matter. If the IRS were to disallow prior deductions of
all transaction costs associated with this matter, Moody’s estimates that its
exposure for its share of the additional taxes, penalties and interest (net of
tax benefits) on this matter would be approximately $5 million.

Subsequent to making its May 2000 payment to the IRS, IMS Health sought partial
reimbursement from NMR under their 1998 distribution agreement (the “IMS/NMR
Agreement”). NMR paid IMS Health less than the amount sought by IMS Health
under the IMS/NMR Agreement and, in 2001, IMS Health filed an arbitration
proceeding against NMR to recover the difference. IMS Health sought to include
Old D&B in this arbitration, arguing that if NMR should prevail in its
interpretation of the IMS/NMR Agreement, then IMS Health could seek the same
interpretation in an alternative claim against Old D&B. Neither Old D&B nor any
of its predecessors was a party to the IMS/NMR Agreement. On April 29, 2003, an
arbitration panel ruled in favor of IMS Health in the arbitration proceeding,
awarding IMS Health its full claim plus interest in a decision binding on all
parties. As a result, IMS Health’s contingent claim against Old D&B (and
consequently Moody’s and New D&B) in connection with this matter has been
rendered moot. As no amount with respect to this matter had been accrued by
Moody’s, the arbitration panel ruling is not expected to have an impact on the
Company’s consolidated financial statements.

Summary of Moody’s Exposure to Three Legacy Tax Matters

The Company considers from time to time the range and probability of potential
outcomes related to the three legacy tax matters discussed above and
establishes reserves that it believes are appropriate in light of the relevant
facts and circumstances. In doing so, Moody’s makes estimates and judgments as
to future events and conditions and evaluates its estimates and judgments on an
ongoing basis. As of December 31, 2003, Moody’s had reserves of approximately
$126 million with respect to such matters, which reflected an increase of
approximately $16 million during the fourth quarter of 2003 relating to the
Amortization Expense Deductions matter. Although the matter had previously been
under audit, the Company felt that an increase in the related reserve was
appropriate since the Notices of Proposed Adjustment during the fourth quarter
of 2003 reflected a formalization by the IRS of its position on the matter. It
is possible that the legacy tax matters could be resolved in amounts that are
greater than the amounts reserved by the Company, which could result in
additional charges that may be material to Moody’s future reported results,
financial position and cash flows. Although Moody’s does not believe it is
likely that the Company will ultimately be required to pay the full amounts
presently being sought by the IRS, potential cash outlays resulting from these
matters, which the Company currently estimates could be as much as $331
million, could be material and could increase with time as described above.
Such amount does not include potential penalties related to the payments made
in May 2000 concerning Utilization of Capital Losses.



Moody’s Matters

L’Association Francaise des Porteurs d’ Emprunts Russes

On June 20, 2001 a summons was served in an action brought by L’Association
Francaise des Porteurs d’ Emprunts Russes (“AFPER”) against Moody’s France SA
(a subsidiary of the Company) and filed in the Court of First Instance of
Paris, France. In this suit, AFPER, a group of holders of bonds issued by the
Russian government prior to the 1917 Bolshevik Revolution, makes claims against
Moody’s France SA and Standard & Poor’s SA for lack of diligence and prudence
in their ratings of Russia and Russian debt since 1996. AFPER alleges that, by
failing to take into account the post-Revolutionary repudiation of
pre-Revolutionary Czarist debt by the Soviet government in rating Russia and
new issues of Russian debt beginning in 1996, the rating agencies enabled the
Russian Federation to issue new debt without repaying the old obligations of
the Czarist government. Alleging joint and several liability, AFPER seeks
damages of Euro 2.8 billion (approximately U.S. $3.5 billion as of December 31,
2003) plus legal costs. Moody’s believes the allegations lack legal or factual
merit and intends to vigorously contest the action. As such, no amount in
respect of this matter has been accrued in the financial statements of the
Company. However, if the plaintiffs in this action were to prevail, then the
outcome of this matter could have a material adverse effect on Moody’s
financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The case has been
fully briefed, oral argument was heard before the Court on January 20, 2004,
and the Court announced that judgment would be rendered on April 6, 2004.

Note 15 Segment Information

The Company reports segment information in accordance with SFAS No. 131,
“Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information”. SFAS No.
131 defines operating segments as components of an enterprise for which
separate financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the
chief operating decision-maker in deciding how to allocate resources and in
assessing performance. Prior to 2002, the Company operated in one reportable
business segment – Ratings, which accounted for approximately 90% of the
Company’s total revenue. With the April 2002 acquisition of KMV, Moody’s now
operates in two reportable business segments: Moody’s Investors Service and
Moody’s KMV. Accordingly, in the second quarter of 2002, the Company restated
its segment information for corresponding prior periods to conform to the
current presentation.

Moody’s Investors Service consists of four rating groups — structured finance,
corporate finance, financial institutions and sovereign risk, and public
finance — that generate revenue principally from the assignment of credit
ratings on fixed-income instruments in the debt markets, and research, which
primarily generates revenue from the sale of investor-oriented credit research,
principally produced by the rating groups. Given the dominance of Moody’s
Investors Service to Moody’s overall results, the Company does not separately
measure or report corporate expenses, nor are they allocated to the Company’s
business segments. Accordingly, all corporate expenses are included in
operating income of the Moody’s Investors Service segment and none have been
allocated to the Moody’s KMV segment.

The Moody’s KMV business consists of the combined businesses of KMV, acquired
in April 2002, and Moody’s Risk Management Services. Moody’s KMV develops and
distributes quantitative credit assessment services for banks and investors in
credit-sensitive assets, credit training services and credit process software.

Assets used solely by Moody’s KMV are separately disclosed within that segment.
All other Company assets, including corporate assets, are reported as part of
Moody’s Investors Service.

Revenue by geographic area is generally based on the location of the customer.

Intersegment sales are insignificant and no single customer accounted for 10%
or more of total revenue.

Below are financial information by segment, Moody’s Investors Service revenue
by business unit and revenue and long-lived asset information by geographic
area, for the years ended and as of December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001. Certain
prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current
presentation.



Financial Information by Segment

Year Ended December 31, 2003

Moody’s

Investors

Moody’s

Service

KMV

Consolidated

Revenue

$

1,134.7

$

111.9

$

1,246.6

Operating expenses

462.2

88.7

550.9

Depreciation and amortization

15.4

17.2

32.6

Operating income

657.1

6.0

663.1

Non-operating expense, net

(6.7

)

Income before provision for
income taxes

656.4

Provision for income taxes

292.5

Net income

$

363.9

Total assets at December 31

$

673.0

$

268.4

$

941.4

Year Ended December 31, 2002

Year Ended December 31, 2001

Moody’s

Moody’s

Investors

Moody’s

Investors

Moody’s

Service

KMV

Consolidated

Service

KMV

Consolidated

Revenue

$

941.8

$

81.5

$

1,023.3

$

765.9

$

30.8

$

796.7

Operating expenses

385.7

74.9

460.6

352.9

28.3

381.2

Depreciation and amortization

12.7

11.9

24.6

11.5

5.5

17.0

Operating income (loss)

543.4

(5.3

)

538.1

401.5

(3.0

)

398.5

Non-operating expense, net

(20.7

)

(16.6

)

Income before provision for
income taxes

517.4

381.9

Provision for income taxes

228.5

169.7

Net income

$

288.9

$

212.2

Total assets at December 31

$

364.2

$

266.6

$

630.8

$

475.5

$

29.9

$

505.4

Moody’s Investors Service Revenue by Business Unit

Year Ended December 31,




Ratings revenue:

Structured finance

$

460.6

$

384.3

$

273.8

Corporate finance

278.8

227.7

225.7

Financial institutions and sovereign risk

181.2

155.0

130.7

Public finance

87.2

81.2

64.2

Total ratings revenue

1,007.8

848.2

694.4

Research revenue

126.9

93.6

71.5

Total Moody’s Investors Service

$

1,134.7

$

941.8

$

765.9



Revenue and Long-lived Asset Information by Geographic Area




Revenue:

United States

$

795.3

$

680.8

$

560.7

International

451.3

342.5

236.0

Total

$

1,246.6

$

1,023.3

$

796.7

Long-lived assets:

United States

$

255.9

$

269.3

$

50.3

International

14.7

15.4

8.9

Total

$

270.6

$

284.7

$

59.2

Note 16 Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

Accounts receivable allowances primarily represent adjustments to customer
billings that are estimated when the related revenue is recognized. In 2002,
the Company reduced its provision rates and allowance to reflect its current
estimate of the appropriate level of accounts receivable allowances. During
2003, the Company reduced its provision rates and in the fourth quarter of
2003, the Company recorded adjustments to the allowances totaling $6.0 million,
of which approximately $3.0 million related to 2002 and $3.0 million related to
prior quarters of 2003. Below is a summary of activity for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2003:

Balance at

Additions

Write-offs

Balance

Beginning

Charged to

and

at End of

of the Year

Revenue

Adjustments

the Year


$

(16.4

)

(16.4

)

16.9

$

(15.9

)


(27.3

)

(20.1

)

31.0

(16.4

)


(24.4

)

(28.8

)

25.9

(27.3

)

Note 17 Insurance Recovery

In February 2003, Moody’s received a $15.9 million insurance recovery related
to the September 11th tragedy, for incremental costs incurred and for lost
profits due to the sharp decline in debt market activity in the weeks following
the disaster. Moody’s had previously received a $4.0 million advance payment in
2002, resulting in a total recovery of $19.9 million. Moody’s had incurred
incremental costs of $6.3 million for property damage and temporary office
facilities, and had fully accrued for the recovery of these costs in its
financial statements. The remainder of the insurance recovery, $13.6 million,
had not been previously accrued as its realizability was not sufficiently
assured. As a result, in the first quarter of 2003 Moody’s recorded a gain of
$13.6 million, included in other non-operating income (expense), net in the
consolidated statements of operations.

Note 18 Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)

Three Months Ended

March 31

June 30

September 30

December 31

Year


Revenue

$

278.2

$

312.7

$

305.0

$

350.7

$

1,246.6

Operating income

149.1

176.7

161.2

176.1

663.1

Net income

91.9

100.9

85.6

85.5

363.9

Basic earnings per share

$

0.62

$

0.68

$

0.57

$

0.57

$

2.44

Diluted earnings per share

$

0.61

$

0.66

$

0.56

$

0.56

$

2.39


Revenue

$

231.6

$

271.5

$

248.3

$

271.9

$

1,023.3

Operating income

134.7

147.0

127.4

129.0

538.1

Net income

72.6

78.7

67.8

69.8

288.9

Basic earnings per share

$

0.47

$

0.51

$

0.44

$

0.46

$

1.88

Diluted earnings per share

$

0.46

$

0.49

$

0.43

$

0.45

$

1.83

Basic and diluted earnings per share are computed independently for each of the
periods presented. The number of weighted average shares outstanding changes as
common shares are issued pursuant to employee stock plans and for other
purposes or as shares are repurchased.



ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

Not applicable.

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures: The Company carried out an
evaluation, as required by Rule 13a-15(b) under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), under the supervision and with the
participation of the Company’s management, including the Company’s Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the
design and operation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures as of
the end of the period covered by this report (the “Evaluation Date”). Based on
such evaluation, such officers have concluded that, as of the Evaluation Date,
the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective in alerting them
on a timely basis to material information relating to the Company (including
its consolidated subsidiaries) required to be included in the Company’s
periodic filings under the Exchange Act.

During 2003 the Company implemented procedures to improve controls relating to
consulting arrangements. The improved procedures were adopted following a
review of the Company’s consulting arrangements, and a determination by the
Company that it was appropriate to reclassify payments made to certain
individuals as salary rather than consulting fees. The Company does not believe
that the impacts of these changes are or will be material to its results of
operations, cash flows or financial position.

In addition, the Company is adopting procedures to improve controls and
processes related to the analysis and determination of accounts receivable
allowances and related accounts. The improved procedures are being adopted
following reviews and adjustments of such accounts during the fourth quarter of
2003.

PART III

Except for the information relating to the executive officers of the Company
set forth in Part I of this annual report on Form 10-K, the information called
for by Items 10-13 is contained in the Company’s definitive proxy statement for
use in connection with its annual meeting of stockholders scheduled to be held
on April 27, 2004, and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

The Audit Committee has established a policy setting forth the requirements for
the pre-approval of audit and permissible non-audit services to be provided by
the Company’s independent auditors. Under the policy, the Audit Committee
pre-approves the annual audit engagement terms and fees, as well as any other
audit services and specified categories of non-audit services, subject to
certain pre-approved fee levels. In addition, pursuant to the policy, the
Audit Committee has authorized its chair to pre-approve other audit and
permissible non-audit services up to $50,000 per engagement and a maximum of
$250,000 per year. The policy requires that the Audit Committee chair report
any pre-approval decisions to the full Audit Committee at its next scheduled
meeting. For the year ended December 31, 2003, the Audit Committee approved
all of the services provided by the Company’s independent auditors, which are
described below.



Audit Fees

The aggregate fees for professional services rendered for the audit of the
Company’s annual financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2003 and
2002, for the review of the financial statements included in the Company’s
Reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K, and for statutory audits of non-U.S.
subsidiaries were approximately $1.0 million (including $0.1 million incurred
but not billed) in 2003 and $0.9 million (including $0.3 million incurred but
not billed) in 2002. All such fees were attributable to PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP.

Audit-Related Fees

The aggregate fees billed for audit-related services rendered to the Company by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 were
approximately $0.4 million and $0.5 million, respectively. Such services
included acquisition due diligence reviews and related audits, employee benefit
plan audits, internal control reviews, and consultations concerning financial
accounting and reporting standards.

Tax Fees

The aggregate fees billed for tax services rendered to the Company by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 were
approximately $0.1 million and $0.6 million, respectively. Tax services
rendered by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP principally related to expatriate tax
services and tax consulting and compliance.

All Other Fees

The aggregate fees billed for all other services rendered to the Company by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 were
approximately $3,000 and $150,000, respectively. In 2002, such fees principally
related to data entry services provided to the Company’s ratings business. The
Company does not anticipate that PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP will provide any
future services in this area.

PART IV

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)

List of documents filed as part of this report.

(1)

Financial Statements.

See Index to Financial Statements, Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

(2)

Financial Statement Schedules.

None.

(3)

Exhibits.

See Index to Exhibits on pages 75-78 of this Form 10-K.

(b)

Reports on Form 8-K.

The Company furnished its third quarter earnings press release in a Current
Report on Form 8-K on October 29, 2003, on which information was reported
under Items 9 and 12.

The Company furnished its fourth quarter earnings press release in a Current
Report on Form 8-K on February 5, 2004, on which information was reported
under Items 9 and 12.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

MOODY’S CORPORATION

(Registrant)

By:

/s/ JOHN RUTHERFURD, JR.

John Rutherfurd, Jr.

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

Date: March 12, 2004

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.

/s/ JOHN RUTHERFURD, JR.

John Rutherfurd, Jr., Chairman of the

Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer

(principal executive officer)

/s/ JEANNE M. DERING

Jeanne M. Dering, Senior Vice President

and Chief Financial Officer

(principal financial officer and principal

accounting officer)

/s/ HALL ADAMS, JR.

/s/ CONNIE MACK

Hall Adams, Jr., Director

Connie Mack, Director

/s/ MARY JOHNSTON EVANS

/s/ RAYMOND W. MCDANIEL, JR.

Mary Johnston Evans, Director

Raymond W. McDaniel, Jr., Director,

Chief Operating Officer

/s/ ROBERT R. GLAUBER

/s/ HENRY A. MCKINNELL, JR. PH.D.

Robert R. Glauber, Director

Henry A. McKinnell, Jr. Ph.D., Director

Date: March 12, 2004



INDEX TO EXHIBITS

S-K

EXHIBIT

NUMBER


ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION AND BY-LAWS

.1

Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant dated June 15, 1998, as amended
effective June 30, 1998, and as further amended effective October 1, 2000 (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Report on Form 8-K of the Registrant, file number 1-14037,
filed October 4, 2000).

.2

Amended and Restated By-laws of the Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 of
the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form 10, file number 1-14037, filed June 18, 1998).


INSTRUMENTS DEFINING THE RIGHTS OF SECURITY HOLDERS, INCLUDING INDENTURES

.1

Specimen Common Stock certificate (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Report on
Form 8-K of the Registrant, file number 1-14037, filed October 4, 2000).

.2

Amended and Restated Rights Agreement between the Registrant, EquiServe Trust Company, N.A.,
as Rights Agent, and The Bank of New York, as successor Rights Agent, dated as of October 22,
2001 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Report on Form 10-K of the Registrant,
file number 1-14037, filed March 22, 2002).

.3

Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of September 11, 2000, among the Registrant, certain
subsidiaries of the Registrant, the lenders party thereto, The Chase Manhattan Bank, as
administrative agent, Citibank, N.A., as syndication agent, and The Bank of New York, as
documentation agent (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Report on Form 8-K of the
Registrant, file number 1-14037, filed October 4, 2000).

.4

Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of September 10, 2001, between Moody’s
Corporation and certain subsidiaries of the Registrant, the lenders party thereto, The Chase
Manhattan Bank, as administrative agent, Citibank, N.A., as syndication agent, and The Bank of
New York, as documentation agent (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Report on
Form 10-Q of the Registrant, file number 1-14037, filed November 14, 2001).

.5

Amended and Restated 364-Day Credit Agreement, dated as of September 8, 2003, between Moody’s
Corporation and certain subsidiaries of the Registrant, the lenders party thereto, JP Morgan
Chase Bank, as administrative agent, Citibank, N.A., as syndication agent, and The Bank of New
York, as documentation agent (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Report on Form
10-Q of the Registrant, file number 1-14037, filed November 12, 2003).


MATERIAL CONTRACTS

.1

Distribution Agreement, dated as of September 30, 2000, between the Registrant and The Dun &
Bradstreet Corporation (f.k.a. The New D&B Corporation) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.1 to the Report on Form 8-K of the Registrant, file number 1-14037, filed October 4, 2000).

.2

Tax Allocation Agreement, dated as of September 30, 2000, between the Registrant and The Dun &
Bradstreet Corporation (f.k.a. The New D&B Corporation) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.2 to the Report on Form 8-K of the Registrant, file number 1-14037, filed October 4, 2000).

.3

Employee Benefits Agreement, dated as of September 30, 2000, between the Registrant and The
Dun & Bradstreet Corporation (f.k.a. The New D&B Corporation) (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.3 to the Report on Form 8-K of the Registrant, file number 1-14037, filed October
4,



S-K

EXHIBIT

NUMBER

2000).

.4

Supplemental Executive Benefit Plan of Moody’s Corporation, dated as of September 30, 2000
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Report on Form 10-K of the Registrant, file
number 1-14037, filed March 22, 2002).

.5

Intellectual Property Assignments, dated as of September 1, 2000, between the Registrant and
The
Dun & Bradstreet Corporation (f.k.a. The New D&B Corporation) (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.4 to the Report on Form 8-K of the Registrant, file number 1-14037, filed October
4, 2000).

.6

Pension Benefit Equalization Plan of Moody’s Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.9 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, file number 1-14037, filed November 14,
2000).

.7

Profit Participation Benefit Equalization Plan of Moody’s Corporation (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.11 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, file number 1-14037,
filed November 14, 2000).

.8

The Moody’s Corporation Nonfunded Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, file
number 1-14037, filed November 14, 2000).

.9

1998 Moody’s Corporation Replacement Plan for Certain Non-Employee Directors Holding Dun &
Bradstreet Corporation Equity-Based Awards (incorporated by reference to Exhibit to
Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, file number 1- 14037, filed November 14, 2000).

.10

1998 Moody’s Corporation Replacement Plan for Certain Employees Holding Dun & Bradstreet
Corporation Equity-Based Awards (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14 to Registrant’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, file number 1-14037, filed November 14, 2000).

.11

1998 Moody’s Corporation Non-Employee Directors’ Stock Incentive Plan (as amended on April 23,
2001) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to the Report on Form 10-K of the
Registrant, file number 1-14037, filed March 22, 2002).

.12

1998 Moody’s Corporation Key Employees’ Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.16 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, file number 1-14037, filed
November 14, 2000).

.13

Moody’s Corporation Career Transition Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17 to
Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, file number 1-14037, filed March 15, 2001).

.14

Distribution Agreement, dated as of June 30, 1998, between R.H. Donnelley Corporation (f.k.a.
The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation) and the Registrant (f.k.a. The New Dun & Bradstreet
Corporation) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q, filed August 14, 1998).

.15

2001 Moody’s Corporation Key Employees Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.15 to the Report on Form 10-K of the Registrant, file number 1-14037, filed March
22, 2002).

.16

Tax Allocation Agreement, dated as of June 30, 1998, between R.H. Donnelley Corporation (f.k.a.
The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation) and the Registrant (f.k.a. The New Dun & Bradstreet
Corporation) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on
Form
10-Q, filed August 14, 1998).



S-K

EXHIBIT

NUMBER

.17

Employee Benefits Agreement, dated as of June 30, 1998, between R.H. Donnelley Corporation
(f.k.a. The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation) and the Registrant (f.k.a. The New Dun & Bradstreet
Corporation) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on
Form
10-Q, filed August 14, 1998).

.18

Distribution Agreement, dated as of October 28, 1996, among R.H. Donnelley Corporation (f.k.a.
The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation), Cognizant Corporation and ACNielsen Corporation
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(x) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of R.H.
Donnelley
Corporation (f.k.a. The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation) for the year ended December 31, 1996,
file number 1-7155, filed March 27, 1997).

.19

Tax Allocation Agreement, dated as of October 28, 1996, among R.H. Donnelley Corporation
(f.k.a. The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation), Cognizant Corporation and ACNielsen Corporation
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(y) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of R.H. Donnelley
Corporation (f.k.a. The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation) for the year ended December 31, 1996,
file number 1-7155, filed March 27, 1997).

.20

Employee Benefits Agreement, dated as of October 28, 1996, among R.H. Donnelley Corporation
(f.k.a. The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation), Cognizant Corporation and ACNielsen Corporation
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(z) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of R.H. Donnelley
Corporation (f.k.a. The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation) for the year ended December 31, 1996,
file number 1-7155, filed March 27, 1997).

.21

Indemnity and Joint Defense Agreement, dated as of October 28, 1996, among R.H. Donnelley
Corporation (f.k.a. The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation), Cognizant Corporation and ACNielsen

Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(aa) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of
R.H. Donnelley Corporation (f.k.a. The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation) for the year ended
December 31, 1996, file number 1-7155, filed March 27, 1997).

.22

Separation Agreement and General Release, dated as of April 10, 2001, between Moody’s
Investors Service, Inc. and Donald Noe (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
Report
on Form 10-Q of the Registrant, file number 1-14037, filed May 15, 2001).

.23

Separation Agreement and General Release, dated as of April 10, 2001, between Moody’s
Investors Service, Inc. and Kenneth J. H. Pinkes (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to
the Report on Form 10-Q of the Registrant, file number 1-14037, filed May 15, 2001).

.24

Agreement and Plan of Merger and Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of February 10, 2002, by
and among Moody’s Corporation, XYZ Acquisition LLC, KMV LLC, KMV Corporation and the principal
members of KMV LLC and the shareholders of KMV Corporation identified therein (incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Report on Form 8-K of the Registrant, file number 1-14037,
filed February 22, 2002).

.25

Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 3, 2000, among the Registrant and the purchasers
named therein (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.25 to the Report on Form 10-K of the
Registrant, file number 1-14037, filed March 21, 2003).

.26

Form of 7.61% Senior Notes due 2005 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.25 to the Report
on Form 10-K of the Registrant, file number 1-14037, filed March 21, 2003).

21*

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT List of Active Subsidiaries as of January 31, 2004.

23*

CONSENTS OF EXPERTS Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.


CERTIFICATIONS PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002



S-K

EXHIBIT

NUMBER

1*

Chief Executive Officer Certification Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002.

2*

Chief Financial Officer Certification Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002.


1*

Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. (The Company has furnished this certification and does not intend
for it to be considered filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or incorporated by
reference into future filings under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934.)

2*

Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. (The Company has furnished this certification and does not intend
for it to be considered filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or incorporated by
reference into future filings under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934.)

*

Filed herewith

78