10-K


y83456e10vk.htm

MOODY'S CORPORATION

MOODY'S CORPORATION


SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(MARK ONE)

x

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM          TO         .

COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-14037

MOODY’S CORPORATION

(EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)

DELAWARE

(STATE OF INCORPORATION)

13-3998945

(I.R.S. EMPLOYER IDENTIFICATION NO.)

99 CHURCH STREET, NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10007

(ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES)

(ZIP CODE)

REGISTRANT’S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: (212) 553-0300.

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE

TITLE OF EACH CLASS

COMMON STOCK, PAR VALUE $.01 PER SHARE

PREFERRED SHARE PURCHASE RIGHTS

ON WHICH REGISTERED

NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE

NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT: NONE

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant: (1) has filed all reports
required by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements
for the past 90 days.  Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of Registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is an accelerated filer (as
defined in Exchange Act
Rule 12b-2).   Yes

x

No

o

The aggregate market value of Moody’s Corporation Common Stock held by
nonaffiliates* on June 28, 2002 (based upon its closing transaction price on
the Composite Tape on such date) was approximately $7.7 billion.

As of January 31, 2003, 147.9 million shares of Common Stock of Moody’s
Corporation were outstanding.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE


Portions of the Registrant’s definitive proxy statement for use in
connection with its annual meeting of shareholders scheduled to be held on
April 22, 2003, are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K.

The Index to Exhibits is included as
Part IV, Item 15(a)(3) of this Form 10-K.

*

Calculated by excluding all shares held by executive officers and
directors of the Registrant without conceding that all such persons are
“affiliates” of the Registrant for purposes of federal securities laws.



PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Background

As used in this report, except where the context indicates otherwise, the terms
“Moody’s” or “Company” refer to Moody’s Corporation and its subsidiaries. The
Company’s executive offices are located at 99 Church Street, New York, NY 10007
and its telephone number is (212) 553-0300.

Prior to September 30, 2000, the Company operated as part of The Dun &
Bradstreet Corporation (“Old D&B”). On September 8, 2000, the Board of
Directors of Old D&B approved a plan to separate into two publicly traded
companies – the Company and The New D&B Corporation (“New D&B”). On September
30, 2000, the (“Distribution Date”), Old D&B distributed to its shareholders
all of the outstanding shares of New D&B common stock (the “2000
Distribution”). In connection with the 2000 Distribution, Old D&B changed its
name to Moody’s Corporation.

New D&B is the accounting successor to Old D&B, which was incorporated under
the laws of the State of Delaware on April 8, 1998. Old D&B began operating as
an independent publicly-owned corporation on July 1, 1998 as a result of its
June 30, 1998 spin-off (the “1998 Distribution”) from the corporation now known
as “R.H. Donnelley Corporation” and previously known as “The Dun & Bradstreet
Corporation” (“Donnelley”). Old D&B became the accounting successor to
Donnelley at the time of the 1998 Distribution.

Prior to the 1998 Distribution, Donnelley was the parent holding company for
subsidiaries then engaged in the businesses currently conducted by New D&B,
Moody’s and Donnelley. Prior to November 1, 1996, it also was the parent
holding company of subsidiaries conducting business under the names Cognizant
Corporation (“Cognizant”) and ACNielsen Corporation (“ACNielsen”). On that date
Donnelley effected a spin-off of the capital stock of Cognizant and ACNielsen
to its stockholders (the “1996 Distribution”). Cognizant subsequently changed
its name to Nielsen Media Research, Inc. in connection with its 1998 spin-off
of the capital stock of IMS Health Incorporated (“IMS Health”).

For purposes of governing certain ongoing relationships between the Company and
New D&B after the 2000 Distribution and to provide for an orderly transition,
the Company and New D&B entered into various agreements including a
Distribution Agreement, Tax Allocation Agreement, Employee Benefits Agreement,
Shared Transaction Services Agreement, Insurance and Risk Management Services
Agreement, Data Services Agreement and Transition Services Agreement.

Detailed descriptions of the 1996, 1998 and 2000 Distributions are contained in
the Company’s 2000 annual report on Form 10-K, filed on March 15, 2001.

The Company

Moody’s is a provider of credit ratings, research and analysis covering debt
instruments and securities in the global capital markets and a provider of
quantitative credit assessment services, credit training services and credit
process software to banks and other financial institutions. Founded in 1900,
Moody’s employs approximately 2,100 people worldwide. Moody’s maintains offices
in 19 countries and has expanded into developing markets through joint ventures
or affiliation agreements with local rating agencies. Moody’s customers include
a wide range of corporate and governmental issuers of securities as well as
institutional investors, depositors, creditors, investment banks, commercial
banks, and other financial intermediaries. Moody’s is not dependent on a single
customer or a few customers, such that a loss of any one would have a material
adverse effect on its business.

Moody’s operates in two reportable segments: Moody’s Investors Service and
Moody’s KMV.

Moody’s Investors Service publishes rating opinions on a broad range of credit
obligations issued in domestic and international markets, including various
corporate and governmental obligations, structured finance securities and
commercial paper programs. It also publishes investor-oriented credit research,
including in-depth research on major debt issuers, industry studies, special
comments and credit opinion handbooks. Moody’s credit ratings and research help
investors analyze the credit risks associated with fixed-income securities.
Such independent credit ratings and research also contribute to efficiencies in
markets for fixed-income and other obligations, such as insurance policies and
derivative transactions, by providing credible and independent assessments of
credit risk. Moody’s provides ratings and credit research on governmental and
commercial entities in approximately 100 countries. Moody’s



global and increasingly diverse services are designed to increase market
efficiency and may reduce transaction costs. At the end of 2002, Moody’s had
provided credit ratings and analysis on more than $30 trillion in debt,
covering approximately 136,000 securities, with more than 6,000 corporate
relationships, including industrial corporations, financial institutions,
governmental entities and structured finance issuers and over 67,000 public
finance obligations issued in the U.S. market

.

Ratings are disseminated via
press releases to the public through a variety of print and electronic media,
including the Internet and real-time information systems widely used by
securities traders and investors.

In addition to credit rating services for issuers, Moody’s provides research
services that are utilized by institutional investors and other credit and
capital market professionals. Clients of these services represent more than
3,000 institutions worldwide, with over 20,000 registered users globally.
Moody’s offers a wide range of research products and services, covering various
segments of the debt capital markets. While research, analysis and data are
delivered through a number of channels, most of Moody’s clients use the
Company’s website, www.moodys.com, for access to such services in a real-time
environment.

The Moody’s KMV business consists of the combined businesses of KMV LLC and KMV
Corporation (“KMV”), acquired in April 2002, and Moody’s Risk Management
Services. Moody’s KMV is a provider of market-based quantitative services for
banks and investors in credit-sensitive assets, and serves over 1,500 clients
operating in 60 countries, including most of the world’s 100 largest financial
institutions. Moody’s KMV’s quantitative models estimate the probability of
default for over 25,000 publicly traded firms globally, updated daily. In
addition, Moody’s KMV’s
RiskCalc

TM

models extend the availability of these
probabilities to privately held firms in many of the world’s economies. Moody’s
KMV also offers services to value and improve the performance of
credit-sensitive portfolios. Other services include credit training and
software products to assist financial institutions in commercial lending
activities.

Prospects for Growth

Over the past decade, global public and private fixed-income markets have grown
significantly in terms of outstanding principal amount and types of securities.
While there is potential for periodic cyclical disruption in these
developments, Moody’s believes that the overall trend and outlook remain
favorable for the continued growth in capital market activity worldwide. In
addition, the securities being issued in the global fixed-income markets are
becoming more complex. Moody’s expects that these trends will provide continued
long-term demand for high-quality, independent credit opinions. These phenomena
are especially apparent in Europe, where economic and monetary union is driving
increased use of public fixed-income markets for corporate financing
activities.

Technology, such as the Internet, makes information about investment
alternatives widely available throughout the world. This technology facilitates
issuers’ ability to place securities outside their national markets and
investors’ capacity to obtain information about securities issued outside their
national markets. Issuers and investors are also more readily able to obtain
information about new financing techniques and new types of securities that
they may wish to purchase or sell, many of which may be unfamiliar to them.
This availability of information promotes worldwide financial markets and a
greater need for credible and globally comparable credit ratings. As a result,
a number of new capital markets have emerged. In addition, more issuers and
investors are accessing traditional capital markets.

Another trend that is increasing the size of the world capital markets is the
ongoing disintermediation of financial systems. Issuers are increasingly
financing in the global public capital markets, in addition to, or in
substitution for, traditional financial intermediaries. Moreover, financial
intermediaries are selling assets in the global public capital markets, in
addition to or instead of retaining those assets. Structured finance securities
markets for many types of assets have developed in many countries and are
contributing to these trends.

The complexity of capital market instruments is also growing. Consequently,
assessing the credit risk of such instruments becomes more of a challenge for
financial intermediaries and asset managers. In the credit markets, reliable
third-party ratings increasingly supplement or substitute for traditional
in-house research as the geographic scope and complexity of financial markets
grow.

Rating fees paid by debt issuers account for most of the revenue of Moody’s
Investors Service. Therefore, a substantial portion of Moody’s revenue is
dependent upon the volume and number of debt securities issued in the global
capital markets. Moody’s is therefore affected by the performance of, and the
prospects for, the major world economies and by the fiscal and monetary
policies pursued by their governments. However, annual fee arrangements with
frequent debt issuers, and annual fees from commercial paper and medium-term
note programs, bank and insurance company financial strength ratings, mutual
fund ratings, subscription-based



research and other areas are less dependent
on, or independent of, the volume or number of debt securities issued in the
global capital markets.

Moody’s operations are also subject to various politically related risks
inherent in carrying on business internationally. Such risks include currency
fluctuations and possible nationalization, expropriation, exchange and price
controls, changes in the availability of data from public sector sources,
limits on providing information across borders or other restrictive
governmental actions. Management believes that the risks of nationalization or
expropriation are reduced because the Company’s basic service is the creation
and dissemination of information, rather than the production of products that
require manufacturing facilities or the use of natural resources.

Growth in Moody’s KMV is expected from increasing adoption of quantitative
credit management techniques by financial institutions globally and by
corporations managing trade receivables. Increased use of credit models is
expected under the forthcoming revised international bank regulatory regime,
known as “Basel II”. Moody’s KMV also expects to introduce new products.

Competition

The Moody’s Investors Service business competes with other credit rating
agencies and with investment banks and brokerage firms that offer credit
opinions and research. Institutional investors also have in-house credit
research capabilities. Moody’s largest competitor in the global credit rating
business is Standard & Poor’s Credit Market Services (“S&P”), a division of The
McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. There are some rating markets, based on industry,
geography and/or instrument type, in which Moody’s has made investments and
obtained market positions superior to S&P’s. In other markets the reverse is
true.

Another rating agency competitor of Moody’s is Fitch, a subsidiary of Fimalac
S.A. Although Moody’s and S&P are each larger than Fitch, competition is
expected to increase. One or more additional significant rating agencies also
may emerge in the United States if the Securities and Exchange Commission
(“SEC”) expands the number of Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating
Organizations (“NRSRO”). In February 2003, the SEC designated Dominion Bond
Rating Service, Ltd. of Canada a NRSRO. Competition may also emerge from niche
companies that provide ratings for particular types of financial products or
issuers (such as A.M. Best Company in the insurance industry) and in developed
markets outside the United States over the next few years, for example, in
response to the growth in the European capital markets, and in developing
markets. Such rating agencies may receive support from local governments or
other institutions.

Over the last decade, additional rating agencies have been established,
primarily in emerging markets and as a result of local capital market
regulation. Regulators worldwide have perceived that credit ratings can further
regulatory objectives for the development of public fixed-income securities
markets. The result of such regulatory activity has been the creation of a
number of primarily national rating agencies in various countries. Certain of
these regulatory efforts may have the unintended effect of producing less
credible ratings over time. Attempts to standardize ratings systems or criteria
may make all rating systems and agencies appear undifferentiated, obscuring
variations in the quality of the ratings providers. In addition, since Moody’s
believes that some of its most significant challenges and opportunities will
arise outside the United States, it will have to compete with rating agencies
that may have a stronger local presence or a longer operating history in those
markets.

Financial regulators are reviewing their approach to supervision and are
seeking comments on changes to the global regulatory framework. Bank
regulators, under the oversight of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision,
have proposed using refined risk assessments as the basis for minimum capital
requirements. The proposed Standardized Approach relies on rating agency
opinions, while the Internal Ratings Based Approach relies on systems and
processes maintained by the regulated bank. The increased regulatory focus on
credit risk presents both opportunities and challenges for Moody’s. Global
demand for credit ratings and risk management services may rise, but regulatory
actions may result in a greater number of rating agencies and/or additional
regulation of Moody’s and its competitors. Alternatively, banking or securities
market regulators could seek to reduce the use of ratings in regulations,
thereby reducing certain elements of demand for ratings, or otherwise seek to
control the analysis or business of rating agencies.

Credit rating agencies such as Moody’s also compete with other means of
managing credit risk, such as credit insurance. Competitors that develop
quantitative methodologies for assessing credit risk also may pose a
competitive threat to Moody’s.

Moody’s KMV’s main competitors for quantitative measures of default risk
include the RiskMetrics Group, S&P, CreditSight, R&I’s Financial Technology
Institute (in Japan), and other smaller vendors. In the area of portfolio
modeling for credit-sensitive assets,



Moody’s KMV’s primary competitor is the
RiskMetrics Group. Other firms may compete in the future. Baker Hill, a
privately held company, is Moody’s KMV’s main competitor in the software market
to assist banks in their commercial lending activities. Moody’s KMV’s training products have two main competitors: Omega Performance, a
privately held firm; and Risk Management Association (formerly Robert Morris
Associates), a trade association serving the financial services industry. In
addition, Moody’s KMV competes with niche training organizations.

Moody’s Strategy

Moody’s intends to focus on the following opportunities.

Expansion in Financial Centers. Moody’s serves its customers through its global
network of offices and business affiliations. Moody’s currently maintains
full-service rating and marketing operations in global financial centers such
as Frankfurt, Hong Kong, London, Madrid, Milan, New York, Paris, Singapore and
Tokyo. Moody’s expects that its global network will position it to benefit from
the expansion of worldwide capital markets and thereby increase revenue.
Moody’s also expects that the growth of its Moody’s Investors Service business
as a consequence of financial market integration under the European Monetary
Union will continue. Moody’s expects to continue its expansion into developing
markets either directly or through joint ventures.

New Rating Products. Moody’s is pursuing numerous initiatives to expand credit
ratings from public fixed-income securities markets to other sectors with
credit risk exposures. As the loan and capital markets converge, Moody’s
expects to continue to expand its rating coverage of bank loans and project
finance loans and securities. Moody’s has a committed effort to extend its
credit opinion franchise to the global bank counterparty universe through
ratings of emerging market banks, including bank financial strength ratings.
Insurance financial strength ratings in the property and casualty, reinsurance,
and life insurance markets represent additional growth opportunities. Moody’s
has also introduced issuer ratings for corporations not active in the debt
markets. For company ratings, Moody’s seeks to continue to add value by
providing greater scope and depth of analysis of issues related to company
creditworthiness, including enhanced liquidity and cash flow analysis, and
evaluation of accounting, corporate governance and risk transference issues.
Moody’s has also introduced mutual fund indices and style-based analytical
tools to assist in evaluating fund portfolio characteristics and their
performance.

Additional Opportunities in Securitization. The repackaging of financial assets
has had a profound effect on the fixed-income markets. New patterns of
securitization are expected to emerge in the next decade. Although the bulk of
assets securitized in the past five years have been consumer assets owned by
banks, commercial assets — principally commercial mortgages, term receivables
and corporate obligations — are now increasingly being securitized.
Securitization has evolved into a strategic corporate finance tool in North
America, Europe and Japan, and is evolving elsewhere internationally. Ongoing
global development of non-traditional financial instruments, such as
derivatives, future flow securities, hybrids, credit-linked bonds and
catastrophe bonds should continue to support growth. Moody’s has introduced new
services enabling investors to monitor the performance of their investments in
structured finance, covering asset-backed finance, commercial mortgage finance,
residential mortgage finance and credit derivatives.

Internet-Enhanced Products and Services. Moody’s is expanding its use of the
Internet and other electronic media to enhance client service. Moody’s web site
provides the public with instant access to ratings, and provides subscribers
with credit research. Internet delivery also enables Moody’s to provide
services to more individuals within a client organization than paper-based
products and to offer higher-value services because of more timely delivery.
Moody’s expects that access to these applications will increase client use of
Moody’s services. Moody’s expects to continue to invest in electronic media to
capitalize on these and other opportunities.

Expansion of Credit Research Products and Investment Analytic Tools. Moody’s
plans to continue to expand its research and analytic products by producing
additional products through internal development and by acquiring products.
Recent initiatives that have been well-received by clients include new services
providing analysis of default rates and default probabilities and on-line
facilities for retrieving current rating information on demand. Moody’s plans
to develop services for other financial markets, such as credit default swaps
and equity. Finally, the Company is improving its capability to deliver its
research to new customer segments by creating more targeted and customized
research offerings and by licensing Moody’s credit analysis and research for
re-distribution by third party providers.

New Quantitative Credit Assessment Services. Moody’s will continue to provide
banks and other financial institutions with quantitative credit assessment
services. Moody’s believes that there will be increased demand for such
services because they enable customers trading or holding credit-sensitive
assets to produce better performance. Also recent proposals by international
bank regulatory authorities to recognize banks’ internal credit risk management
systems for the purpose of determining regulatory capital



will encourage
adoption of such services. Moody’s also expects to provide extensions to
existing services and new services, such as valuations of credit-sensitive
assets.

Regulation

Moody’s Investors Service registers as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of
1940, as amended. Moody’s has been designated as a NRSRO by the SEC. The SEC
first applied the NRSRO designation in 1975 to agencies whose credit ratings
could be used by broker-dealers for purposes of determining their net capital
requirements. Since that time, Congress (in certain mortgage-related
legislation), the SEC (in its regulations under the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended and the Investment
Company Act of 1940, as amended) and other governmental and private bodies have
used the ratings of NRSROs to distinguish between, among other things,
“investment grade” and “non-investment grade” securities.

Recently, there has been discussion in the U.S. regarding the potential need
for greater regulation of credit rating agencies. In October 2002, the staff of
the Senate Committee on Governmental Affairs issued a report that recommended
changes in SEC regulation of rating agencies. In January 2003, the SEC
released a report on the role and function of credit rating agencies in the
operation of the securities markets. The report considers a number of issues
that the SEC was required to examine under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and
other issues arising from a SEC-initiated review of credit rating agencies.
More specifically, the SEC identified five broad areas that deserve further
examination:

In the report, the SEC stated that it intends to publish a concept release in
early 2003 to solicit comments on a number of issues affecting the role and
operation of credit rating agencies and expects thereafter to propose rules in response
to those comments. Subsequent to releasing its report, in February 2003 the
SEC designated Dominion Bond Rating Service, Ltd. of Canada a NRSRO. At
present, Moody’s is unable to assess the nature and effect of any regulatory
changes that may result from the SEC’s ongoing review.

Moody’s is also subject to regulation in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions in
which it operates. In certain countries, governments may provide financial or
other support to local-based rating agencies. In addition, governments may from
time to time establish official rating agencies or credit ratings criteria or
procedures for evaluating local issuers.

Implementation guidelines proposed by the Committee of European Securities
Regulators under the European Commission’s Market Abuse Directive are
applicable to many participants in the European capital markets, including
credit rating agencies. Depending on the form in which they are ultimately
adopted, such implementation guidelines may increase Moody’s cost of doing
business in Europe and the legal risk associated with such business.

The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision is preparing a new capital adequacy
framework to replace the framework adopted in 1998. Under this framework as now
proposed, ratings assigned by a credit rating agency would be an alternative
available to certain banks to determine the risk weights for many of their
credit exposures. The Basel Committee’s proposal would institutionalize ratings
of certain rating agencies as an alternative in the credit measurement
processes of internationally active financial institutions and subject rating
agencies to a broader range of oversight. Because the content of the proposal
is not yet finalized, Moody’s cannot predict at this time the final form of any
such regulation. However, Moody’s does not believe that this proposal, if
adopted in its present form, would materially affect Moody’s
Investors Service’s financial position,
its results of operations or the manner in which it conducts its business.

Other legislation and regulation relating to credit rating and research
services has been considered from time to time by local, national and
multinational bodies and is likely to be considered in the future. If enacted,
any such legislation and regulation could significantly change the competitive
landscape in which Moody’s operates. Management of Moody’s cannot predict
whether these or any other proposals will be enacted or the ultimate impact on
the competitive position, financial position or results of operations of
Moody’s.



Intellectual Property

Moody’s owns and controls a variety of trade secrets, confidential information,
trademarks, trade names, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property
rights that, in the aggregate, are of material importance to Moody’s business.
Management of Moody’s believes that each of the “Moody’s”, “Moody’s KMV” and “KMV” name and related names,
marks and logos are of material importance to Moody’s. Moody’s is licensed to
use certain technology and other intellectual property rights owned and
controlled by others, and, similarly, other companies are licensed to use
certain technology and other intellectual property rights owned and controlled
by Moody’s. Moody’s considers its trademarks, service marks, databases,
software and other intellectual property to be proprietary, and Moody’s relies
on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret, patent, non-disclosure
and contract safeguards for protection. In 2002 Moody’s formed a new
subsidiary, MIS Quality Management Corp., to own, manage, protect, and license
the trademarks of Moody’s and its affiliates.

The names of Moody’s products and services referred to herein are trademarks,
service marks or registered trademarks or service marks owned by or licensed to
Moody’s or one or more of its subsidiaries.

Employees

As of December 31, 2002, the number of full-time equivalent employees of
Moody’s was approximately 2,100.

Available Information

Moody’s investor relations Internet website is http://ir.moodys.com/. Under
the “SEC Filings” tab at this website, the Company makes available free of
charge its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current
reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably
practicable after they are filed with the SEC.



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Name, Age and Position

Biographical Data

John Rutherfurd, Jr., 63

President and Chief Executive Officer

Mr. Rutherfurd has served as the Company’s
President and Chief Executive Officer
since October 1, 2000 and has been a
member of the Board of Directors since May
30, 2000. Mr. Rutherfurd served as
President of Moody’s Investors Service,
Inc. from January 1998 until November
2001. Prior thereto, he was the Chief
Administrative Officer from 1996 until
January 1998. Mr. Rutherfurd also served
as Managing Director of Moody’s Holdings
Inc. from 1995 until 1996, and served as
President of Interactive Data Corporation
(“IDC”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Old
D&B, from 1985 to 1989 and from 1990 until
IDC was sold by Old D&B in September 1995.
Mr. Rutherfurd is also a director of the
National Association of Securities
Dealers, Inc. and ICRA Limited, a credit
rating agency in India.

Jeanne M. Dering, 47

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Ms. Dering has served as the Company’s
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer since October 1, 2000. Ms. Dering
joined Moody’s Investors Service, Inc., in
1997 as Managing Director, Finance
Officer, and became its Chief Financial
Officer in 1998. Prior thereto, she spent
over 10 years at Old D&B in a number of
financial management positions, including
Director of Budgets & Financial Analysis
and Director of Financial Planning —
Acquisitions and New Business Development.

John J. Goggins, 42

Senior Vice President and General Counsel

Mr. Goggins has served as the Company’s
Senior Vice President and General Counsel
since October 1, 2000. Mr. Goggins joined
Moody’s Investors Service, Inc., in
February 1999 as Vice President and
Associate General Counsel and became
General Counsel in 2000. Prior thereto, he
served as counsel at Dow Jones & Company
from 1995 to 1999, where he was
responsible for securities, acquisitions
and general corporate matters. Prior to
Dow Jones, he was an associate at
Cadwalader, Wickersham, & Taft from 1985
to 1995, where he specialized in mergers
and acquisitions.

Raymond W. McDaniel, Jr., 45

Senior Vice President, Moody’s Corporation and

President, Moody’s Investors Service, Inc.

Mr. McDaniel has served as President of
Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. since
November 2001, and has been a Senior Vice
President of the Company since October 1,
2000. Mr. McDaniel also served as Senior
Managing Director, Global Ratings and
Research, of Moody’s Investors Service,
Inc., from November 2000 until November
2001. Prior thereto, he had served as
Managing Director, International, since
1996 and served as Managing Director,
Europe, from 1993 until 1996. He also
served as Associate Director in Moody’s
Structured Finance Group from 1989 until
1993, and as Senior Analyst in the
Mortgage Securitization Group from 1988 to
1989.



Chester V. A. Murray, 47

Senior Vice President and Chief Human

Resources Officer

Mr. Murray has served as the Company’s
Senior Vice President and Chief Human
Resources Officer since October 2002. Mr.
Murray served as Senior Managing Director
of Moody’s Investors Service, Inc., from
November 2001 until October 2002; Group
Managing Director-Europe from 1996 until
November 2001; Managing Director of the
Financial Institutions Group from 1993
until 1996; and Associate Director of the
Financial Institutions Group from 1990
until 1993. He was a Senior Analyst for
the Financial Institutions Group from 1985
until 1990. Prior thereto, Mr. Murray was
a lending officer in the Latin American
division of Irving Trust Company from 1981
until 1985.

Douglas M. Woodham, 46

Senior Vice President, Strategy, Corporate

Development and Technology, Moody’s

Corporation and President, Moody’s KMV

Mr. Woodham has served as the Company’s
Senior Vice President, Strategy, Corporate
Development and Technology since October
2001. In January 2003, Mr. Woodham was
also appointed President, Moody’s KMV.
Prior to joining Moody’s, he served as
managing director for EFINANCEWORKS from
2000 to October 2001. Mr. Woodham was a
partner, member of the Operating Committee
and east coast manager for the Business
Technology Office at McKinsey & Company
from 1997 to 2000. He served as vice
president for Enron from 1994 to 1997 and
was a partner at McKinsey & Company from
1985 to 1994. Mr. Woodham was an economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York
from 1982 to 1985.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

The executive offices of Moody’s are located at 99 Church Street, New York, New
York, in a 297,000-square-foot property owned by Moody’s. Moody’s operations
are also conducted from 7 other U.S. offices and 21 non-U.S. office locations,
all of which are leased. These other properties are geographically distributed
to meet sales and operating requirements worldwide. These properties are
generally considered to be both suitable and adequate to meet current operating
requirements, and virtually all space is being utilized.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

From time to time, Moody’s is involved in legal and tax proceedings, claims and
litigation that are incidental to the Company’s business including claims based
on ratings assigned by Moody’s. Management periodically assesses the Company’s
liabilities and contingencies in connection with these matters, based upon the
latest information available. For those matters where the probable amount of
loss can be reasonably estimated, the Company believes it has recorded
appropriate reserves in the consolidated financial statements. In other
instances, because of the uncertainties related to both the probable outcome
and amount or range of loss, management is unable to make a reasonable estimate
of a liability, if any. As additional information becomes available, the
Company adjusts its assessments and estimates of such liabilities accordingly.

The discussion of the litigation under
the heading “Legacy Contingencies” under Item 7.
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations”, commencing at page 26
of this annual report on Form 10-K, is incorporated into this
Item 3 by reference

.

Based on its review of the latest information available, in the opinion of
management, the ultimate liability of the Company in connection with pending
legal and tax proceedings, claims and litigation will not have a material
adverse effect on Moody’s financial position, results of operations or cash
flows, subject to the contingencies described below and in Part II, Item 7.
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations - Contingencies”.

Moody’s Matters

L’Association Francaise des Porteurs d’ Emprunts Russes

On June 20, 2001 a summons was served in an action brought by L’Association
Francaise des Porteurs d’ Emprunts Russes (“AFPER”) against Moody’s France SA
(a subsidiary of the Company) and filed in the Court of First Instance of
Paris, France. In this



suit, AFPER, a group of holders of bonds issued by the Russian government prior to
the 1917 Bolshevik Revolution, makes claims against Moody’s France SA and
Standard & Poor’s SA for lack of diligence and prudence in their ratings of
Russia and Russian debt since 1996. AFPER alleges that, by failing to take into
account the post-Revolutionary repudiation of pre-Revolutionary Czarist debt by
the Soviet government in rating Russia and new issues of Russian debt beginning
in 1996, the rating agencies enabled the Russian Federation to issue new debt
without repaying the old obligations of the Czarist government. Alleging joint
and several liability, AFPER seeks damages of Euro 2.8 billion (approximately
U.S. $2.9 billion as of December 31, 2002) plus legal costs. Moody’s believes
the allegations lack legal or factual merit and intends to vigorously contest
the action. As such, no amount in respect of this matter has been accrued in
the financial statements of the Company.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

During the fourth quarter of the
fiscal year covered by this annual report on Form
10-K, no matter was submitted to a vote of Security Holders.

PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS

Information in response to this Item is set forth under the captions “Common
Stock Information” and “Dividends” in Item 7 of this annual report on Form
10-K.

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The Company’s selected consolidated financial data should be read in
conjunction with Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations” and the Moody’s Corporation consolidated
financial statements and notes thereto. In the opinion of management, these
financial statements include all necessary adjustments for a fair presentation
of such data in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

The Company’s consolidated financial statements are presented as if the Company
were a separate entity for all periods presented. Through September 30, 2000,
the Distribution Date, Moody’s expenses included allocations of costs from Old
D&B for employee benefits, centralized services and other corporate overhead.
Expenses related to these services were allocated to Moody’s based on
utilization of specific services or, where such an estimate could not be
determined, based on Moody’s revenue in proportion to Old D&B’s total revenue.
Although management believes these expense allocations are reasonable, they are
not necessarily indicative of the costs that would have been incurred if the
Company had performed or obtained these services as a separate entity. The
allocations included in expenses in the consolidated statements of operations
were $13.3 million, $17.2 million, and $16.4 million in 2000, 1999 and 1998,
respectively. There were no such allocations subsequent to the Distribution
Date. The financial data included herein may not necessarily reflect the
results of operations and financial position of Moody’s in the future or what
they would have been had it been a separate entity.



As of December 31,






Balance sheet data

Total assets

$

630.8

$

505.4

$

398.3

$

274.8

$

296.2

Long-term debt

$

300.0

$

300.0

$

300.0

—

—

Shareholders’ equity

$

(327.0

)

$

(304.1

)

$

(282.5

)

$

(223.1

)

$

(192.6

)

(1)

The 1998 data above includes revenue of $18.4 million and operating
income of $4.2 million related to the Financial Information Services
(“FIS”) business that was sold in July 1998. Included in non-operating
(expense) income, net are pre-tax gains on the sale of FIS of $9.2 million
($0.03 per basic and diluted share) in 1999 and $12.6 million ($0.04 per
basic and diluted share) in 1998.

(2)

Expenses in 2002 include a grant of $6.0 million made to The Moody’s
Foundation, and Moody’s KMV charges as follows: acquisition related
charges of $2.9 million principally for write-offs of software and
acquired in-process research and development; $1.6 million related to
management transition; and $1.5 million related to the settlement of a
patent licensing matter. Expenses in 2001 include $5.0 million for
severance, legal fees and other costs related to a legal settlement with
the Department of Justice; $6.0 million related to charitable
contributions and initial funding for The Moody’s Foundation, which was
formed in 2001; and $3.4 million for the write-down of investments in two
Argentine rating agencies.

(3)

Non-operating (expense) income, net in 2002, 2001 and 2000 include $23.5
million, $22.9 million and $5.8 million, respectively, of interest expense
that principally related to the $300 million of notes payable issued in
October 2000. These amounts were partially offset by interest income on
invested cash of $2.3 million, $6.5 million and $2.2 million in 2002, 2001
and 2000, respectively. Interest expense and income was immaterial in
1999 and 1998.

(4)

The 2002 results of operations include revenue of $42.1 million, expenses
of $42.8 million and an operating loss of $0.7 million related to KMV,
which was acquired in April 2002.



ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

This discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations
should be read in conjunction with the Moody’s Corporation consolidated
financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this annual report
on Form 10-K.

The Company

Except where otherwise indicated, the terms “Moody’s” and the “Company” refer
to Moody’s Corporation and its subsidiaries. Moody’s is a provider of credit
ratings, research and analysis covering debt instruments and securities in the
global capital markets and a provider of quantitative credit assessment
services, credit training services and credit process software to banks and
other financial institutions. Moody’s operates in two reportable segments:
Moody’s Investors Service and Moody’s KMV.

Moody’s Investors Service publishes rating opinions on a broad range of credit
obligations issued in domestic and international markets, including various
corporate and governmental obligations, structured finance securities and
commercial paper programs. It also publishes investor-oriented credit research,
including in-depth research on major issuers, industry studies, special
comments and credit opinion handbooks.

The Moody’s KMV business consists of the combined businesses of KMV LLC and KMV
Corporation (“KMV”), acquired in April 2002, and Moody’s Risk Management
Services. Moody’s KMV develops and distributes quantitative credit assessment
services for banks and investors in credit-sensitive assets, credit training
services and credit process software.

Factors Affecting Comparability

The Company operated as part of The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation (“Old D&B”)
until September 30, 2000 (the “Distribution Date”), when Old D&B separated into
two publicly traded companies — Moody’s Corporation and The New D&B
Corporation (“New D&B”). At that time, Old D&B distributed to its shareholders
shares of New D&B stock. New D&B comprised the business of Old D&B’s Dun &
Bradstreet operating company (the “D&B Business”). The remaining business of
Old D&B consisted solely of the business of providing ratings and related
research and credit risk management services (the “Moody’s Business”) and was
renamed “Moody’s Corporation”. The method by which Old D&B distributed to its
shareholders its shares of New D&B stock is hereinafter referred to as the
“2000 Distribution”.

In general, pursuant to the terms of the Distribution Agreement entered into at
the Distribution Date, all assets and liabilities of the D&B Business were
allocated to New D&B and all assets and liabilities of the Moody’s Business
were allocated to Moody’s. The net indebtedness of Old D&B at the Distribution
Date was allocated equally between the parties, before giving effect to certain
adjustments.

The consolidated financial statements of Moody’s Corporation reflect the
financial position, results of operations and cash flows of Moody’s as if it
were a separate entity for all periods presented. The financial statements
include allocations of certain Old D&B corporate headquarters assets and
liabilities that were transferred from Old D&B at the Distribution Date, as
well as allocations of certain expenses for employee benefits, centralized
services and corporate overhead that were provided by Old D&B for periods prior
to the Distribution Date (see Note 1 to the Company’s consolidated financial
statements, Description of Business and Basis of Presentation, for additional
information). The expense allocations were based on utilization of specific
services or, where such an estimate could not be determined, based on Moody’s
revenue in proportion to Old D&B’s total revenue. Although management believes
these expense allocations were reasonable, they are not necessarily indicative
of the costs that would have been incurred if the Company had performed or
obtained these services as a separate entity.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

Moody’s discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of
operations are based upon the Company’s consolidated financial statements,
which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements
requires Moody’s to make estimates and judgments that affect reported amounts
of assets, liabilities and related disclosures of contingent assets and
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and revenue and expenses
during the reporting period. These estimates are based on historical experience
and on other assumptions that are believed to be



reasonable under the circumstances. On an ongoing basis, Moody’s evaluates its
estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, accounts receivable
allowances, deferred tax assets, undistributed earnings of non-U.S.
subsidiaries, contingencies, valuation of investments in affiliates, long-lived
and intangible assets, goodwill, pension and other post-retirement benefits and
stock-based compensation. Actual results may differ from these estimates under
different assumptions or conditions. The following accounting policies are
considered critical because they are particularly dependent on management’s
judgment about matters that are uncertain at the time the accounting estimates
are made.

Revenue Recognition

In recognizing revenue related to ratings, Moody’s uses judgments to match
billed revenue with services to be provided in the future. These judgments are
generally not dependent on the outcome of future uncertainties, but rather
relate to allocating revenue across accounting periods. Moody’s monitors its
ratings on issuers and their outstanding securities. In cases where the Company
does not charge ongoing annual fees or other monitoring fees for a particular
issuer, the Company defers portions of rating fees that will be attributed to
future monitoring activities and recognizes such fees over the estimated
monitoring periods. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, deferred revenue included
approximately $20 million and $15 million, respectively, related to estimated
deferred monitoring fees.

In addition, Moody’s estimates revenue for ratings of commercial paper for
which, in addition to a fixed annual fee, issuers are billed quarterly based on
amounts outstanding. Related revenue is accrued each quarter based on estimated
amounts outstanding, and is billed subsequently when actual data is available.
At December 31, 2002 and 2001, accounts receivable included approximately $22
million and $18 million, respectively, of accrued commercial paper revenue.
Historically, the Company has not had material differences between the
estimated revenue and the actual billings.

Accounts Receivable Allowance

Moody’s records as reductions of revenue provisions for estimated future
adjustments to customer billings, based on historical experience and current
conditions. Such provisions are reflected as additions to the accounts
receivable allowance. Adjustments to and write-offs of accounts receivable are
charged against the allowance. Moody’s evaluates its estimates on a regular
basis and makes adjustments to provision rates and the accounts receivable
allowance as considered appropriate. In 2002, the Company reduced its provision
rates and allowance to reflect its current estimate of the appropriate level of
accounts receivable allowance.

Deferred Tax Assets and Undistributed Earnings of Non-U.S. Subsidiaries

In assessing the need for deferred tax asset valuation allowances, Moody’s
considers future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning
strategies. Based on these assessments, Moody’s has determined that it expects
to be able to realize in the future its deferred tax assets, which totaled
$38.6 million at December 31, 2002. However, if Moody’s profitability or other
circumstances were to change adversely, the Company could determine that it
would not be able to realize all or part of its deferred tax assets in the
future. In such case, a valuation allowance would be established and an
increase in the tax provision would result in the period such determination was
made.

In addition, the Company has approximately $13 million of undistributed
earnings of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries, for which no deferred taxes have
been provided. It is currently management’s intention to permanently re-invest
those earnings in the subsidiaries. If management’s approach to re-investing
those earnings changed or such earnings were distributed to the U.S.,
incremental expense of approximately $1.2 million for U.S. federal and foreign
income taxes would be incurred.

Contingencies

Accounting for contingencies, including those matters described in the
“Contingencies” section of this management’s discussion and analysis, requires
the use of judgment and estimates in assessing their magnitude and likely
outcome. In many cases, the outcomes of such matters will be determined by
third parties, including governmental or judicial bodies. The provisions made
in the consolidated financial statements, as well as the related disclosures,
represent management’s best estimates of the current status of such matters and
their potential outcome based on a review of the facts and in consultation with
outside legal counsel where deemed appropriate

.

Since the potential exposure on
many of these matters is material, and it is possible that these matters could
be resolved in amounts that are greater than the Company has reserved, their
resolution could have a material effect on Moody’s future reported results and
financial position. In addition, potential cash outlays related to the
resolution of these exposures could be material.



Investments in Affiliates, Long-Lived and Intangible Assets and Goodwill

Moody’s assesses the impairment of its investments in affiliates and long-lived
assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
value may not be recoverable. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles are
tested for impairment annually or more frequently if impairment indicators
arise in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”)
No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”. These evaluations require the
use of judgment as to the effects of external factors and market conditions on
the Company’s conduct of its operations, and they require the use of estimates
in projecting future operating results. If actual external conditions or future
operating results differ from the Company’s judgments, impairment charges may
be necessary to reduce the carrying value of the subject assets. Based on its
assessment, in the fourth quarter of 2001, the Company recorded a charge of
$3.4 million (pre-tax) to write-down a portion of its equity investment in two
Argentine rating agencies.

Pension and Other Post-Retirement Benefits

Moody’s employee pension and other post-retirement benefit costs and
obligations are dependent on assumptions concerning the outcome of future
events and circumstances, including compensation increases, long-term return on
pension plan assets, health care cost trends, discount rates and other factors.
In determining such assumptions, the Company consults with outside actuaries
and other advisors where deemed appropriate. In accordance with relevant
accounting standards, if actual results differ from the Company’s assumptions,
such differences are deferred and amortized over the estimated future working
life of the plan participants. While the Company believes that the assumptions
used in these calculations are reasonable, differences in actual experience or
changes in assumptions could affect the expenses and liabilities related to the
Company’s pension and other post-retirement benefits. Following is a discussion
of some significant assumptions that the Company makes in determining costs and
obligations for pension and other post-retirement benefits.

•

Discount rate assumptions are based on current yields on high grade corporate long-term bonds.

•

Salary growth assumptions are based on the Company’s long-term actual experience and future outlook.

•

Health care cost trend assumptions are based on historical market data,
the near-term outlook and an assessment of likely long-term trends.

•

Long-term return on pension plan assets is based on the expected future
average annual return for each major asset class within the plan’s
portfolio (which is principally comprised of equity and fixed-income
investments), over a long-term horizon. In 2003, for the purpose of
determining net periodic pension expense, the Company expects to use a
return on plan assets assumption of approximately 8.5%, which reflects
return assumptions of approximately 9.5% for equity investments and
approximately 5.1% for fixed-income investments. The 2003 return
assumption was reduced from 9.75% in 2002, principally reflecting lower
expected returns on equity investments due to market weakness. This
change in assumption will result in an increase in pension expense of
approximately $1.2 million in 2003.

Stock-Based Compensation

In 2002 and prior years, the Company elected not to recognize in its
consolidated financial statements compensation expense related to employee
stock options, and instead disclosed the related pro forma net income and
earnings per share effects in the notes to its consolidated financial
statements. The stock option values that underlie the disclosures are based on
a Black-Scholes option pricing model using assumptions and estimates that the
Company believes are reasonable. However, circumstances occurring subsequent to
issuance of the options could cause the actual value of the options to differ
from these estimates

.

On January 1, 2003, the Company adopted, on a prospective basis, the fair value
method of accounting for stock-based compensation under the provisions of SFAS
No. 123,

"

Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation”, as amended by SFAS No. 148,
“Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation - Transition and
Disclosure - an
amendment of FASB Statement No. 123”. Therefore, employee stock options granted
on and after January 1, 2003 will be expensed by the Company over the option
vesting period, based on the estimated fair value of the award on the date of
grant. In addition, shares issued to participants in the Company’s employee
stock purchase plan will be expensed by the Company based on the discount from
the market price received by the participants on the date of issuance. Using
what the Company believes are reasonable assumptions and the Black-Scholes
option pricing model, the estimated impact of this change will be approximately
$0.04 per diluted share in 2003. In future years, as this change in accounting
becomes fully phased in over the normal option vesting cycle (currently four
years), the Company expects that the earnings per share impact will be greater.

The Company has a policy of repurchasing its shares to offset the dilutive
impacts of stock option exercises, which will be an important use of its cash
flow over time. During 2002, approximately $38 million was spent on such
repurchases (after option



proceeds and related tax benefits), which was approximately 13% of the
Company’s after-tax cash flow before dividends, share repurchases and the KMV
acquisition. The Company’s 2001 spending was approximately $24 million, which
was approximately 9% of after-tax cash flow before dividends and share
repurchases.

Operating Segments

The Company has historically operated in one reportable business segment –
Ratings, which accounted for approximately 90% of the Company’s total revenue.
With the April 2002 acquisition of KMV, Moody’s now operates in two reportable
business segments: Moody’s Investors Service and Moody’s KMV. Accordingly, in
the second quarter of 2002, the Company restated its segment information for
corresponding prior periods to conform to the current presentation. In
discussing periods prior to 2002, the Moody’s KMV segment is referred to as
Moody’s Risk Management Services (“MRMS”), the predecessor business.

The Moody’s Investors Service business consists of four rating groups —
structured finance, corporate finance, financial institutions and sovereign
risk, and public finance — that generate revenue principally from the
assignment of credit ratings on fixed-income instruments in the debt markets,
and research, which primarily generates revenue from the sale of
investor-oriented credit research, principally produced by the rating groups.
Given the dominance of Moody’s Investors Service to Moody’s overall results,
the Company does not separately measure or report corporate expenses, nor are
they allocated to the Company’s business segments. Accordingly, all corporate
expenses are included in operating income of the Moody’s Investors Service
segment and none have been allocated to the Moody’s KMV segment.

The Moody’s KMV business consists of KMV, acquired in April 2002, and Moody’s
Risk Management Services. Moody’s KMV develops and distributes quantitative
credit assessment services for banks and investors in credit-sensitive assets,
credit training services and credit process software.

Results of Operations

Year Ended December 31, 2002 Compared With Year Ended December 31, 2001

Total Company Results

Moody’s revenue for 2002 was $1,023.3 million, an increase of $226.6 million or
28.4% from $796.7 million in the prior year. Excluding post-acquisition revenue
from KMV of $42.1 million, Moody’s achieved revenue growth of 23.2% over the
prior year. The Company’s revenue performance reflected strong gains in a
number of sectors of the ratings business with global structured finance the
largest growth driver, as well as strong double-digit growth in the global
research business.

Revenue in the United States was $680.3 million in 2002, an increase of $119.6
million or 21.3% from $560.7 million in 2001. Excluding KMV revenue of $19.0
million, U.S. revenue increased 17.9% to $661.3 million. Strong growth in U.S.
ratings revenue reflected higher issuance volumes in several market sectors,
particularly structured finance and municipal bonds.

Moody’s international revenue was $343.0 million in 2002, an increase of 45.3%
from $236.0 million in 2001. Excluding KMV revenue of $23.1 million,
international revenue increased 35.6% to $319.9 million. This increase was
primarily driven by strong growth in revenue from structured finance ratings in
Europe and Japan, and global financial institutions. International research
revenue grew 36% over 2001, and the consolidation of Korea Investors Service
commencing in January 2002 also contributed to 2002 revenue growth. In 2002,
international revenue accounted for 34% of total Moody’s revenue, up from 30%
in 2001.

Operating expenses of $285.3 million in 2002 grew 19.1% from $239.6 million in
2001. Excluding $12.2 million related to KMV, operating expenses would have
been $273.1 million in 2002, a 14.0% year-over-year increase. This increase was
principally due to higher compensation and related costs to support business
expansion, primarily in Europe and the global structured finance business.
Operating expense increases also included consulting costs to support new
product development and higher occupancy and travel related costs in connection
with business expansion.

Selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses of $175.3 million in 2002
were up 23.8% versus $141.6 million in 2001. Included in 2002 expenses are the
following charges relating to Moody’s KMV: $2.9 million of acquisition related
charges, primarily for write-offs of software and in-process research and
development; $1.6 million related to management transition; and $1.5 million
related to the settlement of a patent licensing matter. 2002 and 2001 expense
each included approximately $6.0 million of charitable contributions, mainly to
The Moody’s Foundation. Excluding these items and excluding all other expenses
of KMV (totaling $19.7



million), SG&A expenses increased 5.9% to $143.6 million in 2002, from $135.6
million in 2001. This increase was principally due to higher compensation and
related costs to support business expansion, higher professional fees primarily
for technology infrastructure and financial systems, and higher legal fees due
to U.S. and European regulatory inquiries. In addition, occupancy and travel
related costs increased as a result of business expansion.

Depreciation and amortization expense increased to $24.6 million in 2002 from
$17.0 million in 2001. The 2002 expense reflected $7.5 million of KMV-related
expenses, including $6.3 million for amortization of acquired software and
intangible assets. The 2001 amount included $2.1 million for amortization of
goodwill, which was discontinued in 2002 with the implementation of SFAS No.
142. Excluding these items, depreciation and amortization increased by $2.2
million or 14.8% year-to-year.

Operating income of $538.1 million in 2002 was up 35.0% from $398.5 million in
2001. Moody’s operating margin for 2002 was 52.6%, up from 50.0% in 2001. The
strong operating income growth in 2002 principally reflected the Company’s high
revenue growth without a proportional increase in expenses.

Interest and other non-operating expense was $20.7 million in 2002 compared
with $16.6 million in 2001. The amounts primarily reflected interest expense of
$22.8 million in each year, related to Moody’s $300 million of private
placement debt and interest income of $2.3 million in 2002 compared with $6.5
million in 2001. The lower income in 2002 was principally due to lower
interest rates, and the use of cash on hand to fund the KMV acquisition and
greater share repurchases.

Moody’s effective tax rate was 44.2% in 2002 compared to 44.4% in 2001. The
Company expects the effective tax rate to decrease in the future as a greater
portion of Moody’s business migrates to lower tax jurisdictions. Net income was
$288.9 million in 2002 compared with $212.2 million in 2001. Earnings per share
were $1.88 basic and $1.83 diluted in 2002, compared with $1.35 basic and $1.32
diluted in 2001.

Segment Results

Moody’s Investors Service

Moody’s Investors Service revenue was $941.8 million in 2002, up 23.0% from
$765.9 million in 2001. The increase was principally driven by strong growth
in global structured finance, financial institutions and research revenue, as
well as in U.S. public finance.

Structured finance revenue was $381.2 million in 2002, an increase of $107.4
million or 39.2% from $273.8 million in 2001. Strong growth was achieved in
several U.S. market sectors, including residential and commercial
mortgage-backed securities, credit derivatives and asset-backed securities.
International structured finance revenue grew close to 60% versus 2001,
reflecting strength in Europe, especially in credit derivatives and Japan,
principally in commercial mortgage-backed securities.

Corporate finance revenue was $228.4 million in 2002, up 1.2% from $225.7
million in 2001. The number of issues in the U.S. corporate market declined
about 17% in 2002 compared with the prior year, reflecting continued weakness
in corporate investment spending, lower merger and acquisition activity and
slower refinancing activity. The effect of this decline on overall corporate
finance revenue was tempered, however, by growth in bank loan ratings and
relationship-based revenue. European corporate finance generated double-digit
revenue growth versus the prior year despite lower issuance volumes, primarily
due to new rating customers and growth in relationship-based revenue. The
consolidation of Korea Investors Service also contributed to revenue growth
over the prior year.

Revenue in the financial institutions and sovereign risk sector was $157.4
million in 2002, an increase of $26.7 million or 20.4% from $130.7 million in
2001. This reflected a 6% increase in the number of financial institutions
issues in the U.S. in 2002 compared to 2001, due to refinancing of short-term
debt to long-term debt and increased investor demand for issues in this sector.
In Europe, the number of transactions in this sector was up 17% from the prior
year. Growth in issuer ratings and other relationship-based revenue also
contributed to the year-over-year growth.

Public finance revenue increased 26.5% to $81.2 million in 2002, from $64.2
million in 2001. Year-to-year growth of 25% in the dollar volume of U.S.
municipal bond issuance was the main driver of this performance. Issuance was
strong for both new issues and refinancings, reflecting the favorable interest
rate environment as well as less pay-as-you-go financing by municipal
borrowers.



Research revenue grew 30.9% to $93.6 million in 2002, up from $71.5 million in
2001. Increased investor focus on credit risk helped to drive higher sales of
products to current customers and the addition of new customers. In addition,
increased revenue from licensing Moody’s information to third-party
distributors contributed to the growth

.

Moody’s Investors Service operating, selling, general and administrative
expenses, including corporate expenses were, $385.7 million in 2002, an increase
of $32.8 million, or 9.3% over 2001. This increase was principally due to
higher compensation and related costs to support business expansion, primarily
in Europe and the global structured finance business. Other operating expense
increases included consulting costs related to investments in technology
infrastructure and financial systems, legal fees related to U.S. and European
regulatory inquiries, and higher occupancy and travel related costs in
connection with business expansion. These increases were partially offset by
lower costs for production and delivery of research products, due to the
continued shift to Internet delivery. Included in 2001expenses was a $3.4
million write-down of investments in two Argentine rating agencies due to the
currency devaluation and the unstable economic and political situation.
Depreciation and amortization expense was $12.7 million in 2002 versus $11.5
million in 2001.

Moody’s Investors Service operating income of $543.4 million in 2002 was up
35.3% from $401.5 million in 2001.

Moody’s KMV

Moody’s KMV reported revenue of $81.5 million in 2002 compared to $30.8 million
in 2001. Excluding post-acquisition revenue from KMV of $42.1 million,
revenue for the prior Moody’s Risk Management Services business grew 27.9% to
$39.4 million in 2002. The revenue growth principally reflected increased
subscriptions for RiskCalc™ credit assessment products as more
country-specific models have been introduced, and license fees for new sales
and upgrades of credit decisioning software.

Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses of Moody’s KMV were
$74.9 million in 2002 compared with $28.3 million in 2001. Excluding the $6.0
million of acquisition related, management transition and patent licensing
charges described in “Total Company Results” above, and excluding all other KMV
expenses of $31.9 million, expenses would have been $37.0 million in 2002, a
30.7% year-over-year increase. This increase primarily reflected higher
compensation and benefit costs to support business expansion and increased
consulting costs related to new product development. Moody’s KMV depreciation
and amortization expense was $11.9 million in 2002 versus $5.5 million in 2001;
the year-to-year increase primarily reflected $6.3 million of amortization
expense related to acquired KMV software and intangible assets partially
offset by the discontinuance of amortization of goodwill from a prior
acquisition pursuant to the adoption of SFAS No. 142.

Moody’s KMV reported an operating loss of $5.3 million in 2002, compared to an
operating loss of $3.0 million in 2001. Excluding the aforementioned $6.0
million of expenses, and $6.3 million of amortization expense related to the
KMV acquisition, the Moody’s KMV segment would have reported operating income
of $7.0 million.

Year Ended December 31, 2001 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2000

Total Company Results

Total Moody’s revenue was $796.7 million in 2001, an increase of $194.4 million
or 32.3% from $602.3 million in 2000. The Company’s 2001 revenue performance
reflected strong growth in revenue across all ratings groups as well as in
global research and Moody’s Risk Management Services.

Revenue in the United States was $560.7 million in 2001, an increase of $131.8
million or 30.7% from $428.9 million in 2000. This increase reflected strong
growth in ratings revenue, principally due to higher issuance volumes in most
market sectors, including investment grade and high yield corporate bonds,
municipal bonds, asset-backed securities and mortgage-backed securities.

Moody’s international revenue was $236.0 million in 2001, an increase of 36.1%
over $173.4 million in 2000. European structured finance revenue almost doubled
for the year. International corporate finance revenue grew more than 20% and
financial institutions revenue showed solid double-digit growth. International
revenue at Moody’s Risk Management Services rose 46.1% and non-U.S. research
revenue grew 23.7%.



Operating expenses of $239.6 million in 2001 grew 26.4% from $189.6 million in
2000. The increase reflected higher compensation and related expenses due to an
increase in the number of analysts, particularly in Europe and in the worldwide
structured finance business, as well as higher incentive compensation costs due
to the Company’s very strong 2001 results. Also included in operating expense
was a $3.4 million charge to write-down investments in two Argentine rating
agencies, due to the currency devaluation and unstable economic and political
situation.

Selling, general and administrative expenses of $141.6 million in 2001 were up
31.6% compared to $107.6 million in 2000. This increase principally reflected
higher incentive compensation costs due to the Company’s very strong 2001
results; costs of approximately $5.0 million for severance, legal fees and
other expenses related to the Company’s legal settlement with the Department of
Justice in April 2001; and $6.0 million related to charitable contributions and
initial funding for the newly-formed Moody’s Foundation.

Depreciation and amortization expense increased from $16.6 million in 2000 to
$17.0 million in 2001.

Operating income of $398.5 million in 2001 was up 38.1% from $288.5 million in
2000. Moody’s operating margin for 2001 was 50.0%, up from 47.9% in 2000 due to
the unexpected strength in revenue throughout the year.

Interest and other non-operating expense was $16.6 million in 2001 compared
with $4.5 million in 2000. The increase in 2001was principally the result of a
full year of interest expense related to the Company’s $300 million private
debt placement that was completed in the fourth quarter of 2000, offset in part
by interest income on invested cash.

Moody’s effective tax rate was 44.4% in 2001 compared to 44.2% in 2000. Net
income was $212.2 million in 2001 compared with $158.5 million in 2000.
Earnings per share were $1.35 basic and $1.32 diluted in 2001, compared with
$0.98 basic and $0.97 diluted in 2000.

Segment Results

Moody’s Investors Service

Moody’s Investors Service revenue was $765.9 million in 2001, up 32.2% from
$579.3 million in 2000. Strong double-digit growth in global structured
finance, European and U.S. corporate finance, public finance and global
research drove much of the increase.

Structured finance ratings revenue of $273.8 million in 2001 grew 37.4% over
2000 revenue of $199.2 million. The increase was due to strong growth in the
U.S. across several market sectors including credit derivatives, asset-backed
securities and both commercial and residential mortgage-backed securities.
Asset-backed issuance volume was up 29%, residential mortgage volume rose 130%
and commercial mortgage volume was up 50%. European structured finance growth
was very strong primarily due to credit derivatives, asset-backed securities
and commercial mortgage-backed securities.

Revenue from corporate finance ratings was $225.7 million in 2001 compared with
$162.7 million in 2000, an increase of 38.7%. Lower interest rates in the U.S.
resulted in strong issuance growth in both investment grade and high yield
bonds, with robust refinancing activity. The number of investment grade
corporate issues was up more than 48% over 2000. Also contributing to revenue
growth was Moody’s Rating Assessment Service, which was introduced in the
second half of 2000. In addition, new monitoring fees for infrequent issuers
were initiated in 2001, which produced approximately $9.0 million of revenue
growth over 2000.
Revenue from financial institutions and sovereign risk ratings was $130.7
million in 2001, an increase of 17.1% over $111.6 million in 2000. Lower
interest rates in the U.S. drove increased investment grade issuance for banks
and other financial institutions. In addition, revenue in Europe grew at a
double-digit pace due to lower borrowing costs.

Public finance ratings revenue grew 39.3% to $64.2 million in 2001, up from
$46.1 million in 2000. This was primarily due to a 43% increase in the dollar
volume of U.S. municipal bonds issued in 2001 compared to 2000. Refinancing
activity was especially strong due to the favorable interest rate environment,
and represented 31% of total issuance dollar volume in 2001 versus 17% in 2000.

Research revenue increased 19.8%, to $71.5 million, reflecting continued
international expansion, new product introductions and growth in demand for
products delivered via the Internet.

Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses, including corporate
expenses, were $352.9 million in 2001, an increase of $80.5 million, or 29.6%
from $272.4 million in 2000. Of this increase, $14.4 million was due to the
Argentine investment write-down, the Company’s legal settlement with the
Department of Justice, and charitable expenses, all as described above. The
remaining increase reflected higher compensation and related expenses due to an
increase in the number of analysts, particularly in Europe and in



global structured finance, as well as higher incentive compensation costs due
to the Company’s very strong 2001 results. Depreciation and amortization
expense was $11.5 million in 2001 versus $11.4 million in 2000.

Moody’s Investors Service operating income of $401.5 million in 2001 was up
35.9% from $295.5 million in 2000 due to the unexpected strength in revenue
throughout the year.

Moody’s Risk Management Services

Revenue for the Moody’s Risk Management Services business was $30.8 million in
2001, an increase of 33.9% over 2000. This increase was driven by continued
strong sales of its credit risk assessment software and subscription products.

Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses for Moody’s Risk
Management Services were $28.3 million in 2001 compared with $24.8 million in
2000. The increase reflected higher compensation and related expenses and
increased professional fees to support product development. Depreciation and
amortization expense was $5.5 million in 2001 versus $5.2 million in 2000.

Moody’s Risk Management Services reported an operating loss of $3.0 million in
2001, compared to a loss of $7.0 million in 2000.

Market Risk

Moody’s maintains operations in 18 countries outside the United States and over
85% of its revenue for the year ended December 31, 2002 was billed in U.S.
dollars. Approximately 30% of the Company’s expenses were incurred in
currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As such, the Company is exposed to
market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates.

As of December 31, 2002, approximately 13% of Moody’s assets were located
outside the U.S. Of Moody’s aggregate cash and cash equivalents of $39.9
million at December 31, 2002, approximately $33.1 million was located outside
the United States (with $18.0 million in the U.K.), making the Company
susceptible to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The effects of changes
in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar on assets and
liabilities of non-U.S. operations are charged or credited to the cumulative
translation adjustment in shareholders’ equity.

Moody’s cash equivalents consist of investments in high quality short-term
securities within and outside the United States. By policy, the Company limits
the amount it can invest with any one issuer and allocates its cash equivalents
among various money market mutual funds, short-term certificates of deposit or
issuers of high-grade commercial paper.

The Company has not engaged in foreign currency hedging transactions nor does
the Company have any derivative financial instruments. However, the Company
continues to assess the need to enter into hedging transactions to limit its
risk due to fluctuations in exchange rates and may enter into such transactions
in the future.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Cash Flows

Net cash provided by operating activities was $334.8 million, $321.4 million,
and $70.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000,
respectively.

The increase of $13.4 million in 2002 versus 2001 reflected growth in net
income of $76.7 million and increased tax benefits from the exercise of stock
options. Partially offsetting these factors were the payment of approximately
$50 million of U.S. federal income taxes related to 2001 that were deferred
into 2002 as a result of the September 11

th

tragedy, higher payments for prior
year incentive compensation (approximately $38 million) and an increased
investment in accounts receivable reflecting the high level of fourth quarter
2002 billings. It is anticipated that the majority of these receivables will
be collected in the first quarter of 2003. The strength in 2002 ratings and
research business volumes, as well as the acquisition of KMV, also resulted in
an increase in deferred revenue over the prior year. The increase in other
liabilities in 2002 reflected increased accruals for pension and other
post-retirement benefits, and tax exposures.

Cash provided by operating activities in 2001 increased substantially compared
with 2000 reflecting, among other things, a $174.6 million payment made to Old
D&B in 2000 in connection with the filing of an amended tax return for the 1989
and 1990 tax periods (as further described in Note 14 to the Company’s
consolidated financial statements, Contingencies) and year-to-year growth in
net



income of $53.7 million in 2001. In addition, the 2001 increase reflected the
deferral of approximately $50 million of income tax payments noted above.
Moody’s accounts payable and accrued liabilities at December 31, 2001 were
$101.6 million higher than the prior year-end. In addition to the impact of the
income tax deferral, the increase reflected higher accruals for incentive
compensation, which were paid in the first quarter of 2002. In addition,
accounts receivable at year-end 2001 were $47.6 million higher than the prior
year-end, reflecting the high level of fourth quarter 2001 billings.

Net cash used in investing activities was $223.6 million, $30.0 million and
$33.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000,
respectively. Investing activities in each year principally consisted of
acquisitions and capital expenditures. Cash used for acquisitions included
$205.4 million (net of cash acquired) for KMV in 2002, $15.2 million for
investments in international rating agencies in 2001 and $17.4 million for the
acquisition of a financial software products company in 2000. Capital
expenditures, which principally included investments in developing and
upgrading computer hardware and software and purchases of office furnishings
and equipment, were $18.1 million in 2002, $14.8 million in 2001 and $14.4
million in 2000

.

Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities was ($236.6) million,
($248.1) million and $79.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001
and 2000, respectively. Share repurchases, employee stock option exercises,
dividend payments and debt proceeds and repayments were the principal
activities reflected in these amounts.

Spending for share repurchases totaled $369.9 million in 2002, $267.6 million
in 2001 and $71.8 million in 2000. These amounts were offset in part by
proceeds from stock plans of $54.0 million in 2002, $47.8 million in 2001 and
$10.1 million in 2000. In addition, dividends paid were $27.8 million, $28.3
million and $7.2 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Net proceeds
from borrowings totaled $107.1 million in 2002 (as described below) and $104.5
million in 2000 representing net proceeds from the $300 million long-term
financing that was put in place at the time of the Company’s spin-off from Old
D&B, as described below. In addition, cash flow from financing activities in
2000 reflected cash distributions made to Old D&B through the Distribution
Date.

During 2002, Moody’s funded the acquisition of KMV with a combination of cash
on hand and short-term borrowings from its bank credit facilities, which were
subsequently repaid. Moody’s has since borrowed under its bank credit
facilities to fund share repurchases, and has benefited from favorable
short-term borrowing costs. Management is considering pursuing long-term
financing when it is appropriate in light of cash requirements for share
repurchase and other strategic opportunities, which would result in higher
financing costs. At December 31, 2002, Moody’s had $107.1 million of
outstanding borrowings under its bank credit facilities, in addition to the
$300 million of long-term financing.

Indebtedness

In connection with the 2000 Distribution, Moody’s was allocated $195.5 million
of debt at September 30, 2000. Moody’s funded this debt with borrowings under a
$160 million unsecured bank revolving credit facility and a bank bridge line of
credit. On October 3, 2000, the Company issued $300 million of notes payable
(the “Notes”) in a private placement. The cash proceeds from the Notes were
used in part to repay the outstanding balance on the revolving credit facility
and to repay the bridge line of credit. The Notes have a five-year term and
bear interest at an annual rate of 7.61%, payable semi-annually. In the event
that Moody’s pays all or part of the Notes in advance of their maturity, (the
“prepaid principal”), such prepayment will be subject to a penalty calculated
based on the excess, if any, of the discounted value of the remaining scheduled
payments, as defined in the agreement, over the prepaid principal.

The revolving credit facility (the “Facility”) consists of an $80 million
5-year facility that expires in September 2005 and an $80 million 364-day
facility that expires in September 2003. As of December 31, 2002, the Company
had borrowings outstanding of $76.1 million under the 5-year facility, bearing
interest at approximately 1.64% per annum, and $31.0 million under the 364-day
facility, bearing interest at approximately 1.73% per annum. Interest on
borrowings under the 5-year facility is payable at rates that are based on the
London InterBank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) plus a premium that can range from 18
basis points to 50 basis points depending on the Company’s ratio of total
indebtedness to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
(“EBITDA”), as defined in the related agreement. At December 31, 2002, such
premium was 22 basis points. Interest on borrowings under the 364-day facility
is payable at rates that are based on LIBOR plus a premium of 30.5 basis
points. The Company also pays annual facility fees, regardless of borrowing
activity under the Facility. The annual fees for the 5-year facility can range
from 7 basis points to 12.5 basis points depending on the Company’s ratio of
total indebtedness to EBITDA, and were 8 basis points at December 31, 2002. The
annual fees for the 364-day facility are 7 basis points. Under each facility,
the Company also pays a utilization fee of 12.5 basis points on borrowings
outstanding when the aggregate amount outstanding under such facility exceeds
33% of the facility. In April 2002, Moody’s used the Facility to initially fund
a portion of the purchase price for the KMV acquisition; amounts outstanding
under the Facility were repaid in the second quarter of 2002. Since that time,
Moody’s has borrowed under the Facility to fund share repurchases



as noted above. Interest incurred under the Facility for the years ended
December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000 was $0.3 million, $0.0 million and $0.1
million, respectively.

The Notes and the Facility (the “Agreements”) contain covenants that, among
other things, restrict the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries, without
the approval of the lenders, to engage in mergers, consolidations, asset sales
and sale-leaseback transactions or to incur liens. The Notes and the Facility
also contain financial covenants that, among other things, require the Company
to maintain an interest coverage ratio, as defined in the Agreements, of not
less than 3 to 1, and a ratio of total indebtedness to EBITDA, as defined in
the Agreements, of not more than 4 to 1. At December 31, 2002, the Company was
in compliance with such covenants. If an event of default were to occur (as
defined in the Agreements) and was not remedied by the Company within the
stipulated timeframe, an acceleration of the Notes and restrictions on the use
of the Facility could occur.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

At December 31, 2002 and 2001, Moody’s did not have any relationships with
unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often
referred to as special purpose entities, which would have been established for
the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other
contractually narrow or limited purposes. As such, Moody’s is not exposed to
any financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise if it had
engaged in such relationships.

Share Repurchases

During October 2002, Moody’s completed the $300 million share repurchase
program that had been authorized by the Board of Directors in October 2001. On
October 22, 2002, the Board of Directors authorized an additional $450 million
share repurchase program, which Moody’s expects to complete by mid-2004. The
program includes both special share repurchases and systematic repurchases of
Moody’s common stock to offset the dilutive effect of share issuance under the
Company’s employee stock plans.

For the year ended December 31, 2002, Moody’s
repurchased 8.2 million shares at a total cost of $369.9 million, including 2.7
million shares to offset issuances under employee stock plans. Since becoming a
public company in September 2000 and through the end of 2002, Moody’s has
repurchased 19.5 million shares at a total cost of $709.3 million, including
6.1 million shares to offset issuances under employee stock plans.

Contractual Obligations

The following table presents payments due under the Company’s
contractual obligations as of December 31, 2002.

Payments Due by Period

Less Than 1

Total

Year

1-3 Years

4-5 Years

Over 5 Years

(in millions)

Borrowings under credit facilities

$

107.1

$

107.1

$

—

$

—

$

—

Notes payable

300.0

—

300.0

—

—

Operating lease obligations

53.2

13.5

23.1

15.1

1.5

Capital lease obligations

3.7

1.2

2.5

—

—

Purchase obligations (1)

11.4

6.4

3.8

1.2

—

Total

$

475.4

$

128.2

$

329.4

$

16.3

$

1.5

(1)

Purchase obligations include contracts for telecommunications, data
processing services and back-up facilities, and professional services.



Outlook

Certain of the statements below are forward-looking statements within the
meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In addition,
any projections of future results of operations and cash flows are subject to
substantial uncertainty. See “Forward-Looking Statements” on page 31 and
“Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results” following this section.

Results of Operations

Moody’s results in 2002 and 2001, including growth in revenue, operating income
and earnings per share, have exceeded the Company’s long-term financial
targets, which are for low-teens percent growth in Moody’s Investors Service
revenue and operating income, with the impact of share repurchases and a lower
effective tax rate resulting in mid-teens percent growth in diluted earnings
per share. The Company anticipates that in some years its growth will exceed
these targets and in other years it will be below these targets. For the
Moody’s KMV business, the Company expects revenue to grow to $200 million by
2005, with an operating margin (before amortization expense for acquired
software and intangibles) of greater than or equal to 20%.

Moody’s is providing its outlook for 2003 at a time of significant global
macroeconomic and geopolitical uncertainty. The inherent difficulty in
predicting changes in the global environment, and the timing of such changes,
creates important potential variance in the outlook.

In Moody’s Investors Service, moderate growth in global structured finance
revenue in 2003 is anticipated despite the Company’s expectation of a
significant decline in the U.S. housing sector and residential mortgage
refinancings, and lower growth in U.S. consumer spending affecting asset-backed
issuance. In global corporate finance, the Company expects to see moderate
overall revenue growth in 2003 despite low business investment and mergers and
acquisitions activity in the U.S. In the U.S. public finance sector, issuers
will likely continue to rely on public debt to fund their budgets as tax
receipts remain weak. Nevertheless, because of an expected decline in
refinancing activity, the outlook for public finance revenue is modestly lower
in 2003. Moody’s also expects a continuation of the strong growth in the
research business. Finally, healthy growth in the Moody’s KMV business is
expected.

Moody’s expenses for 2003 will likely reflect continued investment spending on
enhanced ratings practices, technology initiatives, product development and
continued hiring to support growth areas of the business. Moody’s expects a
slight decline in the operating margin in 2003 compared to the very high margin
level in 2002, before the impact of expensing stock options (which is discussed
elsewhere in this Management’s Discussion and Analysis).

Overall for 2003, Moody’s expects that percent revenue growth will be in the
mid-to-high single digits. With the impact of a lower effective tax rate and
share repurchases, the Company expects that diluted earnings per share will
grow in the low double digits, before the approximate $0.04 per share impact of
expensing compensation related to employee stock plans and the approximate
$0.05 per share gain on the insurance recovery related to the
September 11

th

tragedy (which is discussed in Note 17 to the Company’s consolidated financial
statements, Subsequent Event).

The Company’s 2003 outlook takes into consideration the current regulatory
environment both within and outside the United States, including the
recently-published SEC report on rating agencies pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act, which is discussed elsewhere in this Management’s Discussion and Analysis.
Based on management’s current assessment, Moody’s does not believe that
regulatory action will have a material effect on the Company’s 2003 outlook.
However, changes in the competitive structure of the ratings industry, possibly
resulting from additional recognized rating agencies, could have an effect in
the future.

Cash Flow

Moody’s believes that it has the financial resources needed to meet its
business requirements for the next twelve months and expects to have positive
operating cash flow, as well as after-tax free cash flow, for fiscal year 2003.
The Company currently intends to use the majority of such free cash flow to
continue its share repurchase program. The Company’s approach to returning
excess cash to shareholders by means of share repurchase is based on the
current relative tax efficiency of capital gains over dividends. Should tax
rates change and dividends become relatively more tax-efficient, the Company
would reconsider its dividend and share repurchase policies. In addition, as
described above, the Company has borrowed under its bank revolving credit
facility during 2002 to fund portions of the cash requirements related to the
KMV acquisition and share repurchase, and may obtain more permanent financing
when it is appropriate in light of cash requirements for share repurchases and
other strategic opportunities.



In addition, the Company will from time to time consider cash outlays for
acquisitions of or investments in complementary businesses, products, services
and technologies. The Company may also be required to make future cash
outlays, including during 2003, to pay to New D&B its share of potential
liabilities related to the legacy tax and legal contingencies that are
discussed in this Management’s Discussion and Analysis under “Contingencies”.
These potential cash outlays might affect liquidity requirements and cause the
Company to pursue additional financing. There can be no assurance that
financing to meet cash requirements will be available in amounts or on terms
acceptable to the Company, if at all.

Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results

The following risk factors and other information included in this annual report
on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties
described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks and
uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Company’s
management currently deems immaterial also may impair its business operations.
If any of the following risks occur, Moody’s business, financial condition,
operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.

Changes in the Volume of Debt Securities Issued in Domestic and/or Global
Capital Markets and Changes in Interest Rates and Other Volatility in the
Financial Markets

Approximately 83% of Moody’s revenue in 2002 was derived from ratings, a
significant portion of which was related to the issuance of credit-sensitive
securities in the global capital markets. Moody’s enjoyed revenue growth from
these sources in 2002 that was substantially greater than its historical
averages, principally due to very strong growth in global structured finance
issuance and strong issuance volumes in certain U.S. sectors driven by the
favorable interest rate environment. The Company anticipates that a
substantial part of its business will continue to be dependent on the number
and dollar volume of debt securities issued in the capital markets. Therefore,
the Company’s results could be adversely affected by a reduction in the level
of debt issuance.

Unfavorable financial or economic conditions that either reduce investor demand
for debt securities or impair issuers’ ability to issue such securities could
reduce the number and dollar volume of debt issuance and other transactions for
which Moody’s provides ratings services. In addition, increases in interest
rates, volatility in financial markets or the interest rate environment,
significant political or economic events, defaults of significant issuers and
other market and economic factors may negatively impact the general level of
debt issuance, the debt issuance plans of certain categories of borrowers,
and/or the types of credit-sensitive products being offered. A sustained period
of market decline or weakness could also have a material adverse affect on
Moody’s business and financial results.

Possible Loss of Market Share through Competition

The markets for credit ratings, research and credit risk management services
are intensely competitive. Moody’s competes on the basis of a number of
factors, including quality of ratings, client service, research, reputation,
price, geographic scope, range of products and technological innovation.
Moody’s faces increasing competition from S&P, Fitch, local rating agencies in
a number of jurisdictions and niche companies that provide ratings for
particular types of financial products or issuers (such as A.M. Best Company in
the insurance industry). Since Moody’s believes that some of its most
significant challenges and opportunities will arise outside the U.S., it will
have to compete with rating agencies that may have a stronger local presence or
a longer operating history in those markets. These local providers or
comparable competitors that may emerge in the future may receive support from
local governments or other institutions. Currently, Moody’s, S&P, Fitch, and
Dominion Bond Rating Service, Ltd. (“DBRS”) are designated as NRSROs by the
SEC. In its recently released report on the role and function of credit rating
agencies in the operation of the securities markets, the SEC has indicated that
it is exploring whether (i) there are viable alternatives to the NRSRO concept
in Commission rules and regulations and (ii) whether it should permit rating
agencies that cover a limited sector of the debt market or confine its
activities to a limited geographic area to achieve NRSRO recognition. The
recognition of DBRS as a NRSRO occurred in February 2003, after the release of
the SEC’s report. Elimination of the NRSRO concept or SEC recognition of
additional NRSROs could result in loss of market share for Moody’s.

Introduction of Competing Products or Technologies by Other Companies

The markets for credit ratings, research and credit risk management services
are increasingly competitive. The ability to provide innovative products and
technologies that anticipate customers’ changing requirements and utilize
emerging technological trends is a key factor in maintaining market share.
Competitors may develop quantitative methodologies for assessing credit risk
that customers



and market participants may deem preferable to or more cost-effective than the
credit risk assessment methods currently employed by Moody’s.

Increased Pricing Pressure from Competitors and/or Customers

In the credit rating, research and credit risk management markets, competition
for customers and market share has spurred more aggressive tactics by some
competitors in areas such as pricing and service. Moody’s intends to continue
providing the highest quality products and the best service to its customers
and the capital markets. However, if its pricing and services are not
sufficiently competitive with its current and future competitors, Moody’s may
lose market share.

Possible Loss of Key Employees to Investment or Commercial Banks or Elsewhere
and Related Compensation Cost Pressures

Moody’s success depends in part upon recruiting and retaining highly skilled,
experienced analysts and other professionals. Competition for qualified staff
in the financial services industry is intense, and Moody’s ability to attract
staff could be impaired if it is unable to offer competitive compensation and
other incentives. Investment banks and other competitors for analyst talent may
be able to offer higher compensation than Moody’s. Moody’s also may not be able
to identify and hire employees outside the U.S. with the required experience or
skills to perform sophisticated credit analysis. Moody’s ability to effectively
compete will continue to depend, among other things, on its ability to attract
new employees and to retain and motivate existing employees.

Exposure to Litigation Related to Moody’s Rating Opinions

Moody’s faces litigation from time to time from parties claiming damages
relating to ratings actions. In addition, as Moody’s international business
expands, these types of claims may increase because foreign jurisdictions may
not have legal protections or liability standards comparable to those in the
U.S. (such as the First Amendment). These risks often may be difficult to
assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude often remains unknown for
substantial periods of time.

Potential Emergence of Government-Sponsored Credit Rating Agencies

When governments adopt regulations that require debt securities to be rated,
establish criteria for credit ratings or authorize only certain entities to
provide credit ratings, the competitive balance among rating agencies and the
level of demand for ratings may be negatively affected. Government-mandated
ratings criteria may also have the effect of displacing objective assessments
of creditworthiness. In these circumstances, issuers may be less likely to base
their choice of rating agencies on criteria such as independence and
credibility, and more likely to base their choice on their assumption as to
which credit rating agency might provide a higher rating, which may negatively
affect the Company.

Proposed U.S., Foreign, State and Local Legislation and Regulations, Including
Those Relating to Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations

In the U.S. and other countries, the laws and regulations applicable to credit
ratings and rating agencies continue to evolve. Recently there has been
discussion in the U.S. regarding the potential need for greater regulation of
credit rating agencies. In October 2002, the staff of the Senate Committee on
Governmental Affairs issued a report that recommended changes in SEC regulation
of rating agencies. In January 2003, the SEC released a report on the role and
function of credit rating agencies in the operation of the securities markets.
The report considers a number of issues that the SEC was required to examine
under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other issues arising from a
SEC-initiated review of credit rating agencies. In the report, the SEC stated
that it intends to publish a concept release in early 2003 to solicit comments
on a number of issues affecting the role and operation of credit rating
agencies and thereafter to propose rules in response to those comments. At
present, Moody’s is unable to assess the nature and effect of any regulatory
changes that may result from the SEC’s ongoing review.

Implementation guidelines proposed by the Committee of European Securities
Regulators under the European Commission’s Market Abuse Directive are
applicable to many participants in the European capital markets, including
credit rating agencies. Depending on the form in which they are ultimately
adopted, such implementation guidelines may increase Moody’s cost of doing
business in Europe and the legal risk associated with such business.



Multinational Operations

Moody’s maintains offices outside the U.S. and derives a significant portion of
its revenue from sources outside the U.S. Operations in several different
countries expose Moody’s to a number of legal, economic and regulatory risks
such as:

Although such factors have not historically had a material adverse effect on
the business, financial condition and results of operations of the Company, any
of these factors could have such an effect in the future.

Contingencies

From time to time, Moody’s is involved in legal and tax proceedings, claims and
litigation that are incidental to the Company’s business, including claims
based on ratings assigned by Moody’s. Management periodically assesses the
Company’s liabilities and contingencies in connection with these matters, based
upon the latest information available. For those matters where the probable
amount of loss can be reasonably estimated, the Company believes it has
recorded appropriate reserves in the consolidated financial statements. In
other instances, because of the uncertainties related to both the probable
outcome and amount or range of loss, management is unable to make a reasonable
estimate of a liability, if any. As additional information becomes available,
the Company adjusts its assessments and estimates of such liabilities
accordingly.

Based on its review of the latest information available, in the opinion of
management, the ultimate liability of the Company in connection with pending
legal and tax proceedings, claims and litigation will not have a material
adverse effect on Moody’s financial position, results of operations or cash
flows, subject to the contingencies described below.

Discussion of contingencies is segregated between those matters that relate to
Old D&B, its predecessors and their affiliated companies (“Legacy
Contingencies”) and those that relate to Moody’s business and operations
(“Moody’s Matters”).

Legacy Contingencies

To understand the Company’s exposure to the potential liabilities described
below, it is important to understand the relationship between Moody’s and New
D&B, and the relationship among New D&B and its predecessors and other parties
who, through various corporate reorganizations and related contractual
commitments, have assumed varying degrees of responsibility with respect to
such matters.

In November 1996, The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation through a spin-off separated
into three separate public companies: The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation,
ACNielsen Corporation (“ACNielsen”) and Cognizant Corporation (“Cognizant”)
(the “1996 Distribution”).

In June 1998, The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation through a spin-off separated
into two separate public companies: The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation and R.H.
Donnelley Corporation (“Donnelley”) (the “1998 Distribution”). During 1998,
Cognizant through a



spin-off separated into two separate public companies: IMS Health Incorporated
(“IMS Health”) and Nielsen Media Research, Inc. (“NMR”). In September 2000, The
Dun & Bradstreet Corporation (“Old D&B”) through a spin-off separated into two
separate public companies: New D&B and Moody’s, as further described in Note 1
to the Company’s consolidated financial statements, Description of Business and
Basis of Presentation.

Information Resources, Inc.

In 1996, Information Resources, Inc. (“IRI”) filed a complaint in the United
States District Court for the Southern District of New York, naming as
defendants the corporation then known as The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation, A.C.
Nielsen Company (a subsidiary of ACNielsen) and IMS International, Inc. (a
subsidiary of the company then known as Cognizant). At the time of the filing
of the complaint, each of the other defendants was a subsidiary of The Dun &
Bradstreet Corporation.

The complaint alleges various violations of United States antitrust laws,
including purported violations of Sections 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act. The
complaint also alleges a claim of tortious interference with a contract and a
claim of tortious interference with a prospective business relationship. These
claims relate to the acquisition by defendants of Survey Research Group Limited
(“SRG”). IRI alleges SRG violated an alleged agreement with IRI when it agreed
to be acquired by the defendants and that the defendants induced SRG to breach
that agreement.

IRI’s complaint alleges damages in excess of $350 million, which amount IRI
asked to be trebled under antitrust laws. IRI also seeks punitive damages of an
unspecified amount.

Discovery in this case is ongoing and no trial date has been set.

In connection with the 1996 Distribution, Cognizant, ACNielsen and The Dun &
Bradstreet Corporation entered into an Indemnity and Joint Defense Agreement
(the “Indemnity and Joint Defense Agreement”) pursuant to which they have
agreed (i) to certain arrangements allocating potential liabilities (“IRI
Liabilities”) that may arise out of or in connection with the IRI action and
(ii) to conduct a joint defense of such action. In particular, the Indemnity
and Joint Defense Agreement provides that ACNielsen will assume exclusive
liability for IRI Liabilities up to a maximum amount to be calculated at such
time as such liabilities, if any, become payable (the “ACN Maximum Amount”),
and that The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation and Cognizant will share liability
equally for any amounts in excess of the ACN Maximum Amount. The ACN Maximum
Amount will be determined by an investment banking firm as the maximum amount
that ACNielsen is able to pay after giving effect to (i) any plan submitted by
such investment bank that is designed to maximize the claims-paying ability of
ACNielsen without impairing the investment banking firm’s ability to deliver a
viability opinion (but which will not require any action requiring shareholder
approval), and (ii) payment of related fees and expenses. For these purposes,
financial viability means the ability of ACNielsen, after giving effect to such
plan, the payment of related fees and expenses and the payment of the ACN
Maximum Amount, to pay its debts as they become due and to finance the current
and anticipated operating and capital requirements of its business, as
reconstituted by such plan, for two years from the date any such plan is
expected to be implemented. In 2001, ACNielsen merged with VNU N.V. Pursuant to
the Indemnity and Joint Defense Agreement, VNU is to be included with ACNielsen
for purposes of determining the ACN Maximum Amount, and VNU assumed ACNielsen’s
liabilities under that agreement.

In connection with the 1998 Distribution, Old D&B and Donnelley entered into an
agreement (the “1998 Distribution Agreement”) whereby Old D&B assumed all
potential liabilities of Donnelley arising from the IRI action and agreed to
indemnify Donnelley in connection with such potential liabilities.

As a result of their 1998 separation and pursuant to the related distribution
agreement, IMS Health and NMR are each jointly and severally liable for all
Cognizant liabilities under the Indemnity and Joint Defense Agreement. In 1999,
NMR was acquired by VNU N.V. and VNU assumed NMR’s liabilities under the
Indemnity and Joint Defense Agreement.

Under the terms of the 2000 Distribution, New D&B undertook to be jointly and
severally liable with Moody’s for Old D&B’s obligations to Donnelley under the
1998 Distribution Agreement, including any liabilities arising under the
Indemnity and Joint Defense Agreement. However, as between themselves, each of
New D&B and Moody’s will be responsible for 50% of any payments to be made with
respect to the IRI action pursuant to the 1998 Distribution Agreement,
including legal fees or expenses related thereto.

Management is unable to predict at this time the final outcome of the IRI
action or whether the resolution of this matter could materially affect Moody’s
results of operations, cash flows or financial position. As such, no amount in
respect of this matter has been accrued in the financial statements of the
Company.



Legacy Tax Matters

Old D&B and its predecessors entered into global tax planning initiatives in
the normal course of business, including through tax-free restructurings of
both their foreign and domestic operations. These initiatives are subject to
normal review by tax authorities.

Pursuant to a series of agreements, as between themselves, IMS Health and NMR
are jointly and severally liable to pay one-half, and New D&B and Moody’s are
jointly and severally liable to pay the other half, of any payments for taxes,
penalties and accrued interest resulting from unfavorable IRS rulings on
certain tax matters (excluding the matter described below as “Amortization
Expense Deductions” for which New D&B and Moody’s are solely responsible) and
certain other potential tax liabilities after New D&B and/or Moody’s pays the
first $137 million, which amount was paid in connection with the matter
described below as “Utilization of Capital Losses”.

In connection with the 2000 Distribution and pursuant to the terms of the
related Distribution Agreement, New D&B and Moody’s have, between themselves,
agreed to each be financially responsible for 50% of any potential liabilities
that may arise to the extent such potential liabilities are not directly
attributable to their respective business operations.

Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, three specific tax matters
are discussed below.

Royalty Expense Deductions

During the second quarter of 2002, New D&B received a Notice of Proposed
Adjustment from the IRS with respect to a partnership transaction entered into
in 1993. In this Notice, the IRS proposed to disallow certain royalty expense
deductions claimed by Old D&B on its 1994, 1995 and 1996 tax returns. New D&B
disagrees with the position taken by the IRS in its Notice and filed a
responsive brief to this effect with the IRS. In addition, the IRS recently
indicated that it may assess penalties on this matter. If the IRS were to issue
a formal assessment consistent with the Notice (and including penalties), and
were to prevail in its position, then New D&B would be required to pay the
assessment. If New D&B were to challenge the assessment in U.S. District Court
rather than in U.S. Tax Court, then a payment of the disputed amount would be
required in connection with such challenge. Should any such payments be made by
New D&B, then pursuant to the terms of the 2000 Distribution Agreement, Moody’s
would have to pay to New D&B its 50% share. The Company estimates that its
share of the required payment to the IRS could be up to approximately $55
million (including penalties and interest, and net of tax benefits). Moody’s
also could be obligated for future interest payments on its share of such
liability.

In a related matter, New D&B has received a Preliminary Summary Report from the
IRS stating its intention to ignore the partnership structure that had been
established and reallocate to Old D&B income and expense items that had been
claimed on the partnership tax return for 1996. If the IRS were to issue a
formal assessment consistent with the Report and were to prevail in this
matter, then New D&B would be required to pay the assessment. If New D&B were
to challenge the assessment in U.S. District Court rather than in U.S. Tax
Court, then a payment of the disputed amount would be required in connection
with such challenge. Moody’s estimates that its share of the exposure to the
IRS for this matter could be up to approximately $46 million (including
penalties and interest, and net of tax benefits). Such exposure could be in
addition to the amount described in the preceding paragraph.

Amortization Expense Deductions

The IRS has requested from New D&B documentation with respect to a transaction
executed in 1997 that could result in amortization expense deductions from 1997
through 2012. It is possible that the IRS could ultimately challenge these
deductions and that New D&B could make payments to the IRS related to
previously claimed deductions. In that event, Moody’s would be required to pay
to New D&B its 50% share of New D&B’s payments to the IRS. In addition, should
New D&B discontinue claiming the amortization deductions on future tax returns,
Moody’s would be required to repay to New D&B an amount equal to the discounted
value of its 50% share of the related future tax benefits. New D&B had paid the
discounted value of future tax benefits from this transaction in cash to
Moody’s at the Distribution Date. Management estimates that the Company’s
current potential exposure related to this matter is $89 million (including
penalties and interest, and net of tax benefits). This exposure could increase
by approximately $3 million to $6 million per year, depending on actions that
the IRS may take with respect to assessments and on whether New D&B continues
claiming the amortization deductions on its tax returns.

Utilization of Capital Losses

The IRS has completed its review of the utilization of certain capital losses
generated during 1989 and 1990. On June 26, 2000, the IRS, as part of its audit
process, issued a formal assessment with respect to the utilization of these
capital losses and Old D&B



responded by filing a petition for a refund in the U.S. District Court on
September 21, 2000, after the payments described below were made.

On May 12, 2000, an amended tax return was filed for the 1989 and 1990 tax
periods, which reflected $561.6 million of tax and interest due. Old D&B paid
the IRS approximately $349.3 million of this amount on May 12, 2000; 50% of
such payment was allocated to Moody’s and had previously been accrued by the
Company. IMS Health informed Old D&B that it paid to the IRS approximately
$212.3 million on May 17, 2000. The payments were made to the IRS to stop
further interest from accruing, and New D&B is contesting the IRS’ assessment.
New D&B has indicated that it would also contest the assessment of penalties or
other amounts, if any, in excess of the amounts paid. With the possible
exception of the matter described in the following sentence, Moody’s does not
anticipate any further income statement charges or cash payments related to IRS
assessments for this matter. If the IRS were to disallow prior deductions of
all transaction costs associated with this matter, Moody’s estimates that its
exposure for its share of the additional taxes, penalties and interest (net of
tax benefits) on this matter would be approximately $5 million.

Subsequent to making its May 2000 payment to the IRS, IMS Health sought partial
reimbursement from NMR under their 1998 distribution agreement (the “IMS/NMR
Agreement”). NMR paid IMS Health less than the amount sought by IMS Health
under the IMS/NMR Agreement and, in 2001, IMS Health filed an arbitration
proceeding against NMR to recover the difference. IMS Health sought to include
Old D&B in this arbitration, arguing that if NMR should prevail in its
interpretation of the IMS/NMR Agreement, then IMS Health could seek the same
interpretation in an alternative claim against Old D&B. Neither Old D&B nor any
of its predecessors was a party to the IMS/NMR Agreement. A decision from the
arbitration panel is expected in 2003. If NMR should prevail in the arbitration
against IMS Health and, in turn, IMS Health should prevail against Old D&B,
then the Company believes that the additional liability of Old D&B would be
approximately $15 million, net of tax benefits. Under the terms of the 2000
Distribution, Moody’s and New D&B would each be responsible for one-half of
such amount, or approximately $7.5 million. The Company believes that the claim
asserted against Old D&B by IMS Health is without merit. As such, no amount in
respect of this matter has been accrued in the financial statements.

Summary of Moody’s Exposure to Three Legacy Tax Matters

The Company has considered the range and probability of potential outcomes
related to the three legacy tax matters discussed above and believes that it
has adequate reserves recorded in its consolidated financial statements for its
probable exposures in these matters. However, it is possible that these matters
could be resolved in amounts that are greater than the Company has reserved,
which could result in material charges to Moody’s future reported results. In
addition, the cash outlays resulting from these matters, which the Company
currently estimates could be as much as $202 million, could be material and
could increase with time as described above. Such amount does not include
potential penalties related to the payments made in May 2000 concerning
Utilization of Capital Losses.

Moody’s Matters

L’Association Francaise des Porteurs d’ Emprunts Russes

On June 20, 2001 a summons was served in an action brought by L’Association
Francaise des Porteurs d’ Emprunts Russes (“AFPER”) against Moody’s France SA
(a subsidiary of the Company) and filed in the Court of First Instance of
Paris, France. In this suit, AFPER, a group of holders of bonds issued by the
Russian government prior to the 1917 Bolshevik Revolution, makes claims against
Moody’s France SA and Standard & Poor’s SA for lack of diligence and prudence
in their ratings of Russia and Russian debt since 1996. AFPER alleges that, by
failing to take into account the post-Revolutionary repudiation of
pre-Revolutionary Czarist debt by the Soviet government in rating Russia and
new issues of Russian debt beginning in 1996, the rating agencies enabled the
Russian Federation to issue new debt without repaying the old obligations of
the Czarist government. Alleging joint and several liability, AFPER seeks
damages of Euro 2.8 billion (approximately U.S. $2.9 billion as of December 31,
2002) plus legal costs. Moody’s believes the allegations lack legal or factual
merit and intends to vigorously contest the action. As such, no amount in
respect of this matter has been accrued in the financial statements of the
Company.

Dividends

Since the fourth quarter of 2000, the Company has paid a quarterly dividend of
4.5 cents per share of Moody’s common stock, resulting in dividends paid per
share of 18.0 cents in 2002 and 2001, and 4.5 cents in 2000. Prior to the
fourth quarter of 2000, when Moody’s was a subsidiary of Old D&B, the Company
did not pay dividends directly to Old D&B shareholders.



In December 2002, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a first quarter
2003 dividend of 4.5 cents per share, payable on March 10, 2003 to shareholders
of record on February 20, 2003. The payment and level of cash dividends by
Moody’s going forward will be subject to the discretion of Moody’s Board of
Directors.

Common Stock Information

As described above in “Item 1—Business—Background”, the 2000 Distribution
was completed on September 30, 2000. As of October 3, 2000 the Company’s common
stock began trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “MCO”. The
table below indicates the high and low sales price of the Company’s common
stock and the dividends paid for the periods shown. The number of registered
shareholders of record at January 31, 2003 was 5,073.

Fees of Independent Accountants

Audit Fees

The aggregate fees billed for professional services rendered for the audit of
the Company’s annual financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2002
and 2001, and for the review of the financial statements included in the
Company’s Reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K, and for statutory audits of non-U.S.
subsidiaries were approximately $0.9 million (including $0.3 million incurred
but not billed in 2002) and $0.6 million, respectively, all of which was
attributable to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.

Audit-Related Fees

The aggregate fees billed for audit-related services rendered to the Company by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001 were
approximately $0.4 million and $0.4 million, respectively. Such services
included acquisition due diligence reviews and related audits, employee benefit
plan audits, internal control reviews, and consultations concerning financial
accounting and reporting standards.

Tax Fees

The aggregate fees billed for tax services rendered to the Company by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001 were
approximately $0.6 million and $2.4 million (including $0.2 million incurred
but not billed in 2001), respectively. Tax services rendered by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP principally related to expatriate tax services and
tax consulting and compliance. Fees for tax consulting and compliance in 2001
principally were in connection with Moody’s transition to an independent
company after its spin-off from Old D&B.

All Other Fees

The aggregate fees billed for all other services rendered to the Company by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001 were
approximately $0.2 million and $0.3 million, respectively. Such fees
principally related to data



entry services provided to the Company’s ratings business. The Company
does not anticipate that PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP will provide any future
services in this area.

Forward-Looking Statements

Certain statements contained in this annual report on Form 10-K are
forward-looking statements and are based on future expectations, plans and
prospects for Moody’s business and operations that involve a number of risks
and uncertainties. Those statements appear in the section entitled “Outlook”
under Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations,” commencing at page 13 of this annual report on Form
10-K and elsewhere in the context of statements containing the words
“believes”, “expects”, “anticipates” and other words relating to Moody’s views
on future events, trends and contingencies. The forward-looking statements and
other information are made as of the date of this annual report on Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2002, and the Company disclaims any duty to
supplement, update or revise such statements on a going-forward basis, whether
as a result of subsequent developments, changed expectations or otherwise. In
connection with the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the Company is identifying certain factors that
could cause actual results to differ, perhaps materially, from those indicated
by these forward-looking statements. Those factors include, but are not limited
to, changes in the volume of debt securities issued in domestic and/or global
capital markets; changes in interest rates and other volatility in the
financial markets; possible loss of market share through competition;
introduction of competing products or technologies by other companies; pricing
pressures from competitors and/or customers; the potential emergence of
government-sponsored credit rating agencies; proposed U.S., foreign, state and
local legislation and regulations, including those relating to Nationally
Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations; the possible loss of key employees
to investment or commercial banks or elsewhere and related compensation cost
pressures; the outcome of any review by controlling tax authorities of the
Company’s global tax planning initiatives; the outcome of those tax and legal
contingencies that relate to Old D&B, its predecessors and their affiliated
companies for which the Company has assumed portions of the financial
responsibility; the ability of the Company to successfully integrate the KMV
and MRMS businesses; a decline in the demand for credit risk management tools
by financial institutions. These factors and other risks and uncertainties that
could cause Moody’s actual results to differ significantly from management’s
expectations, are described in greater detail in
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations — Additional Factors That May
Affect Future Results” and in other reports of the Company filed from time to
time with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Information in response to this Item is set forth under the caption “Market
Risk” in Part II, Item 7 of this annual report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

PAGE(S)

Report of Independent Accountants


Consolidated Financial Statements:

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2002 and 2001


For the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000:

Consolidated Statements of Operations


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows


Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

37-59

Schedules are omitted as not required or inapplicable or because the
required information is provided in the consolidated financial statements,
including the notes thereto.



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Moody’s Corporation:

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related
consolidated statements of operations, shareholders’ equity and cash flows
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Moody’s
Corporation and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2002 and 2001, and the results
of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 2002 in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America. These financial statements
are the responsibility of the Company’s management; our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We
conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with auditing standards
generally accepted in the United States of America, which require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, on January 1,
2002, the Company adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 141, “Business Combinations” and Statement No. 142, “Goodwill and
Other Intangible Assets.”

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

New York, New York

February 4, 2003



MOODY’S CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

(amounts in millions, except per share data)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.



MOODY’S CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(dollar amounts in millions, except per share data)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.



MOODY’S CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(amounts in millions)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.



MOODY’S CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

(amounts in millions)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.



MOODY’S CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

TABULAR AMOUNTS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA

Note 1 Description of Business and Basis of Presentation

Moody’s Corporation (“Moody’s” or the “Company”) is a provider of credit
ratings, research and analysis covering debt instruments and securities in the
global capital markets and a provider of quantitative credit assessment
services, credit training services and credit process software to banks and
other financial institutions. Moody’s operates in two reportable segments:
Moody’s Investors Service and Moody’s KMV. Moody’s Investors Service publishes
rating opinions on a broad range of credit obligations issued in domestic and
international markets, including various corporate and governmental
obligations, structured finance securities and commercial paper programs. It
also publishes investor-oriented credit research, including in-depth research
on major issuers, industry studies, special comments and credit opinion
handbooks. The Moody’s KMV business, which consists of the combined businesses
of KMV LLC and KMV Corporation (“KMV”), acquired in April 2002, and Moody’s
Risk Management Services, develops and distributes quantitative credit
assessment services for banks and investors in credit-sensitive assets, credit
training services and credit process software.

The Company operated as part of The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation (“Old D&B”)
until September 30, 2000 (the “Distribution Date”), when Old D&B separated into
two publicly traded companies—Moody’s Corporation and The New D&B Corporation
(“New D&B”). At that time, Old D&B distributed to its shareholders shares of
New D&B stock. New D&B comprised the business of Old D&B’s Dun & Bradstreet
operating company (the “D&B Business”). The remaining business of Old D&B
consisted solely of the business of providing ratings and related research and
credit risk management services (the “Moody’s Business”) and was renamed
“Moody’s Corporation”. The method by which Old D&B distributed to its
shareholders its shares of New D&B stock is hereinafter referred to as the
“2000 Distribution”.

For purposes of governing certain ongoing relationships between the Company and
New D&B after the 2000 Distribution and to provide for an orderly transition,
the Company and New D&B entered into various agreements including a
Distribution Agreement, Tax Allocation Agreement, Employee Benefits Agreement,
Shared Transaction Services Agreement, Insurance and Risk Management Services
Agreement, Data Services Agreement and Transition Services Agreement.

Pursuant to the terms of the Distribution Agreement, the Company retained all
of the assets and liabilities related to the Moody’s Business and New D&B
retained all of the assets and liabilities related to the D&B Business. The
financial statements include allocations of certain Old D&B corporate
headquarters assets and liabilities that were transferred from Old D&B at the
Distribution Date, as well as allocations of certain expenses for employee
benefits, centralized services and corporate overhead that were provided by Old
D&B for periods prior to the Distribution Date. Although management believes
these expense allocations were reasonable, they are not necessarily indicative
of the costs that would have been incurred if the Company had performed or
obtained these services as a separate entity. These allocations, included in
the consolidated statements of operations, totaled $13.3 million in 2000. The
consolidated financial statements reflect the financial position, results of
operations and cash flows of the Company as if it were a separate entity for
all periods presented.

Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Basis of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include those of Moody’s Corporation and
its majority- and wholly-owned subsidiaries. The effects of all intercompany
transactions have been eliminated. Investments in companies over which the
Company has significant influence but not a controlling interest are carried on
an
equity basis. Investments for which the Company does not have the ability to
exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies are
carried on the cost basis of accounting.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

Cash equivalents principally consist of investments in money market funds,
short-term certificates of deposit and commercial paper with maturities of
three months or less when purchased. Interest income on cash and cash
equivalents was $2.3 million and $6.5 million, respectively, for the years
ended December 31, 2002 and 2001.



Property and Equipment

Property and equipment are stated at cost and are depreciated using the
straight-line method over their estimated useful lives, typically three to ten
years for office and computer equipment and office furniture and fixtures, and
seven to forty years for buildings and building improvements. Expenditures for
maintenance and repairs that do not extend the economic useful life of the
related assets are charged to expense as incurred. Gains and losses on
disposals of property and equipment are reflected in the consolidated
statements of operations. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter
of the term of the lease or the estimated useful life of the improvement.

Computer Software

Costs for the development of computer software that will be sold, leased or
otherwise marketed are capitalized when technological feasibility has been
established in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(“SFAS”) No. 86, “Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software to Be Sold,
Leased, or Otherwise Marketed”. These assets primarily relate to the
development of credit process software and quantitative credit assessment
products to be licensed to customers. The capitalized costs generally consist
of professional services provided by third parties and compensation costs of
employees that develop the software. These costs are amortized on a
straight-line basis over three years, which approximates their useful life, and
are reported at the lower of unamortized cost or net realizable value. At
December 31, 2002 and 2001, such amounts, included in other assets in the
consolidated balance sheets, were $9.1 million and $6.0 million, respectively,
net of accumulated amortization of $7.8 million and $5.5 million, respectively.
Other assets at December 31, 2002 also included $14.2 million, net of
accumulated amortization of $2.9 million, of acquired software resulting from
the April 2002 acquisition of KMV. Amortization expense for all such software
for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000 was $5.3 million, $2.1
million and $1.4 million, respectively.

The Company capitalizes costs related to software developed or obtained for
internal use in accordance with Statement of Position 98-1, “Accounting for the
Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use”. These
assets, included in property and equipment in the consolidated balance sheets,
relate to the Company’s accounting, product delivery and other systems. Such
costs generally consist of direct costs of third party license fees,
professional services provided by third parties and employee compensation, in
each case incurred either during the application development stage or in
connection with upgrades and enhancements that increase functionality. Such
costs are depreciated over their estimated useful lives, generally three to
five years. Costs incurred during the preliminary project stage of development
as well as maintenance costs are expensed as incurred.

Long-Lived Assets, Including Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangible Assets

Intangible assets and other long-lived assets are reviewed for recoverability
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount
may not be recoverable. If the estimated undiscounted future cash flows are
lower than the carrying amount of the asset, a loss is recognized for the
difference between the carrying amount and the estimated fair value of the
asset.

Effective January 1, 2002, the Company adopted SFAS No. 141, “Business
Combinations” and SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”. SFAS
No. 141 requires all business combinations to be
accounted for using the purchase method. Under SFAS No. 142, goodwill and other
intangible assets with indefinite lives are no longer amortized but are tested
for impairment annually, or more frequently if impairment indicators arise.
This testing requires the Company to estimate the fair value of its applicable
identified reporting units based on the present value of the expected future
cash flows of the units. If the book value of a reporting unit exceeds the
estimated fair value of the unit, a write-down of goodwill is required. The
Company completed its transitional impairment testing during the second quarter
of 2002 and its annual impairment testing as of November 30, 2002. In each
test, the estimated fair values of the reporting units exceeded their book
values and therefore no write-down of goodwill was required.

Stock-Based Compensation

In 2002 and prior years, the Company measured the cost of its stock-based
compensation plans using the intrinsic value approach under Accounting
Principles Board (“APB”) Opinion No. 25 rather than applying the fair value
method provisions of SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation”
(“SFAS No. 123”). Accordingly, the Company has not recognized compensation
expense related to stock options and its employee stock purchase plan
(“Stock-Based Plans”).

Had compensation expense for Moody’s Stock-Based Plans been determined based on
the fair value at the grant dates for awards under those plans consistent with
the method required by SFAS No. 123, Moody’s net income and earnings per share
would have been reduced to the pro forma amounts shown below:



Year Ended December 31,




Net income:

As reported

$

288.9

$

212.2

$

158.5

Stock-based compensation
plan expense determined
under the fair value
method, net of tax

(14.4

)

(9.6

)

(6.9

)

Pro forma

$

274.5

$

202.6

$

151.6

Basic earnings per share:

As reported

$

1.88

$

1.35

$

0.98

Pro forma

$

1.78

$

1.29

$

0.94

Diluted earnings per share:

As reported

$

1.83

$

1.32

$

0.97

Pro forma

$

1.74

$

1.26

$

0.93

The pro forma disclosures shown above are not representative of the effects on
net income and earnings per share in future years.

The pro forma net income and earnings per share amounts that relate to stock
options for periods prior to the Distribution Date relate to the fair value of
the Old D&B options held by Moody’s employees. Pro forma amounts subsequent to
the Distribution Date relate to Moody’s options held by Moody’s employees and
New D&B employees and retirees and reflect an increase in fair value due to
changes in assumptions for Moody’s stock options. Post-distribution, such
increase is reflected in income immediately for vested options and spread over
the remaining vesting period for converted unvested options. See Note 9 for
further information on the treatment of stock options in connection with the
2000 Distribution. Pro forma net income includes charges of $2.5 million, $2.5
million and $2.4 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively, relating to New
D&B employees and retirees.

The fair value of stock options used to compute the pro forma net income and
earnings per share disclosures is the estimated present value at grant date
using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, with the following weighted
average assumptions:


After

Conversion at



Distribution

Distribution

Expected dividend yield

0.41

%

0.56

%

0.72

%

0.72

%

Expected stock volatility


%


%


%


%

Risk-free interest rate

4.13

%

4.27

%

5.94

%

5.79

%

Expected holding period

4.5 yrs

4.5 yrs

4.5 yrs

3.0 yrs

In 2000 prior to the Distribution Date, the following weighted average
assumptions were used: expected dividend yield of 2.40%, expected stock
volatility of 30%, risk-free interest rate of 6.69%, and expected holding
period of five years.

The estimated weighted average fair value of Moody’s options granted in 2002
and 2001 was $10.97 and $9.38, respectively. The estimated weighted average
fair value of Moody’s options granted after the Distribution Date in 2000 was
$8.20. The estimated weighted average fair value of Old D&B options granted in
2000 prior to the Distribution Date was $8.66.

On January 1, 2003, the Company adopted, on a prospective basis, the fair value
method of accounting for stock-based compensation under SFAS No. 123, as
amended by SFAS No. 148, “Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation - Transition and Disclosure - an amendment of FASB Statement No. 123”. Therefore, employee
stock options granted on and after January 1, 2003 will be expensed by the
Company over the option vesting period, based on the estimated fair value of
the award on the date of grant. In addition, shares issued to participants in
the Company’s employee stock purchase plan will be expensed by the Company
based on the discount from the market price received by the participants on the
date of issuance. Using what the Company believes are reasonable assumptions
and the Black-Scholes option pricing model, the estimated impact of this change
will be approximately $0.04 per diluted share in 2003. In future years, as this
change in accounting becomes fully phased in over the normal option vesting
cycle (currently four years), the Company expects that the earnings per share
impact will be greater.

Employee Benefit Plans

Moody’s employee pension and other post-retirement benefit costs and
obligations are dependent on assumptions concerning the outcome of future
events and circumstances, including compensation increases, long-term return on
pension plan assets, health care cost trends, discount rates and other factors.
In determining such assumptions, the Company consults with outside actuaries
and other advisors where deemed appropriate. In accordance with relevant
accounting standards, if actual results differ from the Company’s assumptions,
such differences are deferred and amortized over the estimated future working
life of the plan participants. While the



Company believes that the assumptions
used in these calculations are reasonable, differences in actual experience or
changes in assumptions could affect the expenses and liabilities related to the
Company’s pension and other post-retirement benefits. Following is a discussion
of some significant assumptions that the Company makes in determining costs and
obligations for pension and other post-retirement benefits.

•

Discount rate assumptions are based on current yields on high grade
corporate long-term bonds.

•

Salary growth assumptions are based on the Company’s long-term actual
experience and future outlook.

•

Health care cost trend assumptions are based on historical market data,
the near-term outlook and an assessment of likely long-term trends.

•

Long-term return on pension plan assets is based on the expected future
average annual return for each major asset class within the plan’s
portfolio (which is principally comprised of equity and fixed-income
investments), over a long-term horizon.

Revenue Recognition

The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
101, “Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements”. As such, revenue is
recognized when an agreement exists, the services have been provided and
accepted by the customer, fees are determinable and the collection of resulting
receivables is considered probable.

Revenue attributed to ratings of issued securities is generally recognized when
the rating is issued. Revenue attributed to monitoring activities is recognized
over the period in which the related monitoring is performed, which is
generally one year and can be up to 30 years in certain cases, mainly related
to commercial mortgage-backed securities. Revenue related to annual fees for
areas such as frequent issuer program arrangements and commercial paper
programs is generally recognized over the contract term, which is principally
one year. In recognizing revenue related to ratings, Moody’s uses judgments to
match billed revenue with services to be provided in the future in those
circumstances where the Company does not bill separately for such future
services. These judgments are generally not dependent on the outcome of future
uncertainties, but rather relate to allocating revenue across accounting
periods.

Revenue from sales of research products and from credit risk management
subscription products is recognized over the related subscription period, which
is principally one year. Revenue from licenses of credit risk management
software is generally recognized at the time the product is shipped to
customers, as the Company’s obligations are complete. Related maintenance
revenue is recognized over the maintenance period, which is generally one year.

Amounts billed in advance of providing the related products or services are
credited to deferred revenue and reflected in revenue when earned. The
consolidated balance sheets reflect as current deferred revenue amounts that
are expected to be recognized within one year of the balance sheet date, and as
non-current deferred revenue amounts that are expected to be recognized over
periods greater than one year. Non-current deferred revenue principally
reflects monitoring fees for commercial mortgage-backed securities that are
billed when the related rating is issued.

Accounts Receivable Allowances

Moody’s records as reductions of revenue provisions for estimated future
adjustments to customer billings, based on historical experience and current
conditions. Such provisions are reflected as additions to the accounts
receivable allowance; adjustments to and write-offs of receivables are charged
against the allowance. Moody’s evaluates its estimates on a regular basis and
makes adjustments to its provisions and the accounts receivable allowance as
considered appropriate.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

Selling, general and administrative expenses are charged to income as incurred.
These expenses include such items as compensation for corporate officers and
staff and compensation and other expenses related to sales of products. It also
includes items such as office rent, business insurance, professional fees and
gains and losses from sales and disposals of assets.

Foreign Currency Translation

For all operations outside the United States where the Company has designated
the local currency as the functional currency, assets and liabilities are
translated into U.S. dollars using end of year exchange rates, and revenue and
expenses are translated using average exchange rates for the year. For these
operations, currency translation adjustments are accumulated in a separate
component of



shareholders’ equity. Realized transaction gains and losses are
reflected in other non-operating income (expense), net. Transaction gains
(losses) were $0.3 million, ($0.1) million and ($0.9) million in 2002, 2001
and 2000, respectively.

Comprehensive Income

Comprehensive income represents the change in net assets of a business
enterprise during a period due to transactions and other events and
circumstances from non-owner sources including foreign currency translation
impacts. The required disclosures have been included in the consolidated
statements of shareholders’ equity. The net effect of income taxes on
comprehensive income was not significant for any period presented.

Income Taxes

The Company accounts for income taxes under the liability method in accordance
with SFAS No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes”. Therefore, income tax expense
is based on reported income before income taxes, and deferred income taxes
reflect the effect of temporary differences between the amounts of assets and
liabilities that are recognized for financial reporting purposes and the
amounts that are recognized for income tax purposes.

Prior to the 2000 Distribution, the Company was included in the federal and
certain state and foreign income tax returns of Old D&B; however, the provision
for income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2000 has been calculated on a
separate-company basis. Moody’s share of income taxes paid by Old D&B through
the Distribution Date have been reflected in the consolidated statements of
shareholders’ equity as net distributions to Old D&B.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

The Company’s financial instruments include cash, cash equivalents, trade
receivables and payables and bank borrowings, all of which are short-term in
nature and, accordingly, approximate fair value. The fair value of the
Company’s long-term notes payable is estimated using discounted cash flow
analyses based on the prevailing interests rates available to the Company for
borrowings with similar maturities. The carrying amount and the estimated fair
value of the notes payable at December 31, 2002 were $300.0 million and $346.9
million, respectively. At December 31, 2001, the carrying amount and the
estimated fair value of the Company’s notes payable were $300.0 million and
$324.3 million, respectively.

Concentration of Credit Risk

Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentration of
credit risk principally consist of cash and cash equivalents and trade
receivables.

Cash equivalents consist of investments in high quality investment grade
securities within and outside the United States. By policy, the Company limits
the amount it can invest with any one issuer. The Company manages its credit
risk exposure by allocating its cash equivalents among various money market
mutual funds, short-term certificates of deposit or issuers of high-grade
commercial paper. As of December 31, 2002, the Company did not maintain any
derivative investments or engage in any hedging activities.

Credit is extended to customers based on an evaluation of their financial
condition. No customer accounted for 10% or more of accounts receivable at
December 31, 2002 or 2001.

Earnings Per Share of Common Stock

In accordance with SFAS No. 128, “Earnings per Share”, basic earnings per share
is calculated based on the weighted average number of shares of common stock
outstanding during the reporting period. Diluted earnings per share is
calculated giving effect to all potentially dilutive common shares, assuming
that such shares were outstanding during the reporting period.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts
of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities
at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenue
and expenses during the period. Actual results could differ from those
estimates. Estimates are used for, but not limited to, revenue recognition,
accounts



receivable allowances, income taxes, contingencies, valuation of
investments in affiliates, long-lived and intangible assets and goodwill,
pension and other post-retirement benefits, stock options, and depreciation and
amortization rates for property and equipment and computer software.

Reclassifications

Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior year amounts to conform
to the current year presentation.

Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements

In January 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 46, “Consolidation of
Variable Interest Entities”, which clarifies the application of Accounting
Research Bulletin No. 51, “Consolidated Financial Statements”. Interpretation
No. 46 requires certain variable interest entities to be consolidated by the
primary beneficiary of the entity if the equity investors in the entity do not
have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or do not provide
sufficient equity at risk for the entity to support its activities.
Interpretation No. 46 is effective for all variable interest entities created
after January 31, 2003. For variable interest entities acquired or created
prior to February 1, 2003, the provisions of Interpretation No. 46 must be
applied to the first interim or annual period beginning after June 15, 2003.
The Company does not expect the adoption of Interpretation No. 46 to have a
material impact on its financial position or results of operations since it
currently does not have variable interest entities.

In November 2002, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 45, “Guarantor’s
Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect
Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others”. Interpretation No. 45 requires an entity
to recognize an initial liability for the fair value of an obligation assumed
by issuing a guarantee. The provision for initial recognition and measurement
of the liability will be applied on a prospective basis to guarantees issued or
modified after December 31, 2002. The Company does not expect the adoption of
Interpretation No. 45 to have a material impact on its financial position or
results of operations.

In July 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146, “Accounting for Costs Associated
with Exit or Disposal Activities”. This statement addresses financial
accounting and reporting for costs associated with exit or disposal activities
and supercedes Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 94-3, “Liability
Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit
an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring)”. It requires
that a liability for costs associated with an exit or disposal activity, such
as severance and contract terminations, be recognized and measured initially at
fair value only when such liability is incurred. SFAS No. 146 is effective for
exit or disposal activities that are initiated after December 31, 2002. The
Company does not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 146 to have a material impact
on its financial position or results of operations.

In April 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 145, “Rescission of FASB Statements
Nos. 4, 44 and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical
Corrections”. SFAS No. 145, among other things, rescinds SFAS No. 4, which
required all gains and losses from the extinguishment of debt to be classified
as extraordinary items and amends SFAS No. 13 to require that certain lease
modifications having economic effects similar to sale-leaseback transactions be
accounted for in the same manner as sale-leaseback transactions. SFAS No. 145
is effective for fiscal years beginning after May 15, 2002. The Company does
not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 145 to have a material impact on its
financial position or results of operations.

Note 3 Reconciliation of Weighted Average Shares Outstanding

Below is a reconciliation of basic weighted average shares outstanding to
diluted weighted average shares outstanding:




Weighted average number of shares—Basic

153.9

157.6

161.7

Dilutive effect of shares issuable under stock
option, restricted stock and performance share plans

3.6

2.6

1.3

Weighted average number of shares—Diluted

157.5

160.2

163.0

Options to purchase 0.1 million and 8.0 million shares of common stock were
outstanding at December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively, but were not included
in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the exercise prices of
such options were greater than the average market price of the Company’s common
stock during the applicable period (the “antidilutive options”). There were no
antidilutive options outstanding as of December 31, 2002.



Note 4 Property and Equipment, Net

Property and equipment, net consisted of:

December 31,



Land, building and building improvements

$

24.2

$

23.9

Office and computer equipment

37.3

41.5

Office furniture and fixtures

19.5

15.2

Internal-use computer software

18.9

14.0

Leasehold improvements

31.6

28.8

Property and equipment, at cost

131.5

123.4

Less: accumulated depreciation and amortization

(80.9

)

(80.5

)

Property and equipment, net

$

50.6

$

42.9

The consolidated statements of operations reflect depreciation and amortization
expense related to the above assets of $14.0 million, $11.8 million and $12.8
million for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

In 2002, the Company retired fully depreciated assets with an original cost of
approximately $18.0 million. There was no income statement impact from such
retirement.

Note 5 Acquisitions

KMV

On April 12, 2002, Moody’s acquired the businesses comprising KMV. The
acquisition will expand the product offerings and customer base of Moody’s
credit risk assessment business, which was previously operated by Moody’s Risk
Management Services. The results of KMV have been included in Moody’s
consolidated financial statements since the acquisition date.

The aggregate purchase price of $212.6 million consisted of $209.3 million in
cash payments to the sellers and $3.3 million in direct transaction costs,
primarily professional fees. The purchase price was funded by using $128.3
million of Moody’s cash on hand and $81.0 million of borrowings under Moody’s
existing bank credit lines. The Company repaid those borrowings in the second
quarter of 2002.

The acquisition has been accounted for as a purchase. Shown below is the
purchase price allocation, which summarizes the fair values of the assets
acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition.

Current assets

$

21.0

Property and equipment, net

4.6

Intangible assets:

Customer list (12 year life)

$

50.7

Trade secrets (not subject to amortization)

25.5

Other intangibles (5.2 year weighted average life)

6.3

Total intangible assets

82.5

In-process research and development

1.1

Goodwill

118.3

Other assets

17.1

Liabilities assumed

(32.0

)

Net assets acquired

$

212.6

In accordance with SFAS No. 142, the acquired goodwill, which has been assigned
to the Moody’s KMV segment, will not be amortized. In accordance with FASB
Interpretation No. 4, “Applicability of FASB Statement No. 2 to Business
Combinations Accounted for by the Purchase Method”, the $1.1 million allocated
to acquired in-process research and development was written off immediately
following the acquisition and is included in selling, general and
administrative expenses for the year ended December 31,



2002. Current assets
above includes acquired cash of $7.2 million. Other assets include acquired
software of $16.0 million with a life of 5 years. For income tax purposes, the
excess of the purchase price over the acquired net assets is expected to be
amortized over 15 years.

The following unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information, for the
years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, reflect the acquisition of KMV as if it
had been consummated as of the beginning of each respective period, after
giving effect to the following adjustments: (i) elimination of transaction
related charges resulting from the acquisition; (ii) amortization of acquired
intangible assets and software; (iii) Moody’s financing costs for the
transaction, consisting of interest expense that would have been incurred on
the $81 million of bank borrowings and interest income that would have been
foregone on the balance of the purchase price; and (iv) related income tax
effects.

Year Ended December 31,



Revenue

$

1,038.4

$

840.9

Net income

$

288.0

$

205.6

Diluted earnings per share

$

1.83

$

1.28

The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information should be read in
conjunction with the Company’s Form 8-K/A filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on June 26, 2002.

The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information is presented for
comparative purposes only and is not intended to be indicative of the actual
consolidated results of operations that would have been achieved had the
transaction been consummated as of the dates indicated above, nor does it
purport to indicate results that may be attained in the future.

Korea Investors Service

In August 1998, the Company made a 10% cost-basis investment in Korea Investors
Service (“KIS”), a Korean rating agency. In December 2001, the Company entered
into a definitive agreement to increase its investment to just over 50%, at a
cost of $9.6 million with a contingent payment of up to $5.4 million in 2005,
based on KIS net income for the three-year period ended December 31, 2004. The
purchase price of $9.6 million was held in escrow pending regulatory approval
in Korea, which was received in January 2002.

The investment was recorded at cost through December 31, 2001; starting in
January 2002, the Company consolidated the results of KIS in its financial
statements. The minority shareholder’s interest has been included in other
long-term liabilities. The purchase price allocation resulted in amortizable
intangible assets of $2.9 million with a weighted average life of 5.6 years and
goodwill of $1.9 million.

Argentine Rating Agencies

From 1999 through 2002, Moody’s made equity investments totaling $4.4 million
in two Argentine rating agencies.

In January 2002, the Argentine government announced the creation of a dual
currency system in which certain qualifying transactions would be settled at an
expected fixed exchange rate of 1.4 Argentine pesos to one U.S. dollar, while
non-qualifying transactions would be settled using a free floating market
exchange rate. In February 2002, the Argentine government announced a shift to
a single free floating market exchange rate. From 1991 until February 2002, the
Argentine peso had been pegged to the U.S. dollar at the rate of one to one.

Given the significant adverse change in the economic climate in Argentina, the
Company determined that the Argentine ratings businesses and their future
operations and cash flows were materially impacted and that this was not a
temporary change. Therefore, the recoverability of these investments was
reviewed based on a comparison of carrying value to fair value, which was
calculated using estimated future discounted cash flows of the businesses.
Based on that review, it was determined that the fair values of these
investments were $3.4 million less than the aggregate carrying value; this
amount was charged to expense in the fourth quarter of 2001.

In connection with an acquisition related purchase price adjustment that was
triggered by the devaluation, in the fourth quarter of 2002, Moody’s received
additional shares in the Argentine rating agencies, bringing its ownership
position to approximately 92%.



Financial Software Products Company

In January 2000, the Company acquired the net assets of a financial software
products company for $17.4 million in cash, and combined that business with its
Moody’s Risk Management Services business. The acquisition was accounted for
using the purchase method of accounting for business combinations from the date
of acquisition. The purchase price was allocated based on the estimated fair
values of the acquired assets at the date of acquisition, which resulted in
acquired goodwill, other intangible assets including customer relationships and
covenants not to compete, and capitalized software aggregating $16.6 million.
These assets, other than goodwill, are being amortized on a straight-line basis
over three to seven years, with a weighted average life of 5.6 years.

Note 6 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

Effective January 1, 2002, the Company adopted SFAS No. 142, under which
goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives are no longer
amortized but are tested annually for recoverability, or more frequently if
impairment indicators arise. The following table reflects net income and basic
and diluted earnings per share giving effect to SFAS No. 142 as if it were
adopted on January 1, 2000:

Year
Ended December 31,




Net income, as reported

$

288.9

$

212.2

$

158.5

Add back: goodwill amortization
expense, net of tax

—

1.2

0.8

Adjusted net income

$

288.9

$

213.4

$

159.3

Basic earnings per share:

As reported

$

1.88

$

1.35

$

0.98

Adjusted

$

1.88

$

1.35

$

0.99

Diluted earnings per share:

As reported

$

1.83

$

1.32

$

0.97

Adjusted

$

1.83

$

1.33

$

0.98

In connection with the 2002 acquisition of KMV, Moody’s acquired goodwill and
intangible assets, which are described in Note 5.

The following table summarizes the activity in goodwill for the periods
indicated:

Year Ended

Year Ended

December 31, 2002

December 31, 2001

Moody’s

Moody’s

Moody’s

Moody’s

Investors Service

KMV

Consolidated

Investors Service

KMV

Consolidated

Beginning balance

$

0.4

$

5.6

$

6.0

$1.0

$7.5

$8.5

Net change from
acquisitions

1.9

118.3

120.2

—

—

—

Other

0.1

0.1

(0.4

)

(0.4

)

Amortization expense

—

—

—

(0.6

)

(1.5

)

(2.1

)

Ending balance

$

2.3

$

124.0

$

126.3

$0.4

$5.6

$6.0



The following table summarizes intangible assets subject to amortization at the
dates indicated:

Amortization expense for intangible assets for the years ended December 31,
2002, 2001 and 2000 was $5.3 million, $1.0 million and $0.9 million,
respectively.

Estimated future annual amortization expense for intangible assets subject to
amortization is as follows:

Years ending December 31,


$

6.9


6.9


6.5


6.1


5.5

Thereafter

27.0

As of December 31, 2002, $25.5 million in trade secrets acquired with the
acquisition of KMV were not subject to amortization. Current circumstances and
conditions continue to support an indefinite useful life.

Note 7 Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities

Accounts payable and accrued liabilities consisted of the following:

December 31,



Accounts payable

$

1.3

$

6.1

Accrued income taxes (see Note 10)

11.3

67.2

Accrued compensation and benefits

116.7

111.9

Other

55.6

51.7

Total

$

184.9

$

236.9

Note 8 Pension and Other Post-Retirement Benefits

Moody’s maintains defined benefit pension plans in which substantially all U.S.
employees of the Company are eligible to participate. The Company also provides
certain healthcare and life insurance benefits for retired U.S. employees.

Prior to the 2000 Distribution, the Company’s employees participated in Old
D&B’s pension and post-retirement benefit plans. The Company accounted for its
participation in these Old D&B plans as multi-employer plans. Accordingly,
through the Distribution Date, the Company recorded pension and post-retirement
benefit costs as allocated by Old D&B. The amounts of these allocations were
insignificant for the year ended December 31, 2000. Effective at the
Distribution Date, Moody’s assumed responsibility for pension and other
post-retirement benefits relating to its active employees. New D&B has assumed
responsibility for the Company’s retirees and vested terminated employees as of
the Distribution Date.



Following is a summary of the activity related to these benefit plans for the
years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, as well as the status of the plans at
December 31, 2002:

The following assumptions were used in determining the benefit obligation and
net periodic pension (income) expense for the years ended December 31, 2002 and
2001:

Pension

Other Post-

Plans

Retirement Plans





Weighted average discount rate

6.75

%

7.25

%

6.75

%

7.25

%

Rate of increase in future compensation

3.91

%

4.41

%

—

—

Expected return on plan assets

9.75

%

9.75

%

—

—

In 2003, for purposes of determining net periodic pension (income) expense, the
Company expects to use a return on plan assets assumption of approximately
8.5%, which has been determined based on explicit long-term return assumptions
for each major asset class within the Company’s pension plan portfolio (which
principally consists of equity and fixed-income investments).



For purposes of measuring benefit obligations under post-retirement benefit
plans, an 11.0% annual rate of increase in the per capita cost of covered
healthcare benefits was assumed for 2002. The rate was assumed to decrease
gradually to 6.0% through 2008 and remain at that level thereafter. Assumed
healthcare cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported
for the healthcare plans. A one percentage-point change in the assumed
healthcare cost trend rates would have the following effects:

One Percentage-

One Percentage-

Point Increase

Point Decrease





Effect on benefit obligation at end of period

$

0.2

$

0.4

$

(0.1

)

$

(0.4

)

Effect on total service and interest costs

—

$

0.1

—

—

Certain of the Company’s international operations provide pension benefits to
their employees. Company contributions are primarily determined as a
percentage of employees’ eligible compensation. Expense related to these plans
in 2002 was approximately $1.2 million.

Profit Participation Plan

Moody’s has a profit participation plan (the “Plan”) covering substantially all
U.S. employees. The Plan provides for an employee salary deferral contribution
and Company contributions. Employees may contribute up to 16% of their pay,
subject to the federal limit. Moody’s contributes an amount equal to 50% of
employee contributions, with Moody’s contribution limited to 3% of the
employee’s pay. Moody’s also makes additional contributions to the Plan that
are based on growth in the Company’s earnings per share. Prior to the 2000
Distribution, employees of Moody’s participated in the profit participation
plan of Old D&B and the Company accounted for its participation in that plan as
a multi-employer plan. Expense associated with these plans was $15.1 million,
$11.1 million and $3.5 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

Note 9 Stock-Based Compensation Plans

Prior to the 2000 Distribution, certain employees of Moody’s received grants of
Old D&B stock options under Old D&B’s 1998 Key Employees’ Stock Option Plan
(the “1998 Plan”). At the Distribution Date, all unexercised Old D&B stock
options held by Moody’s employees were converted into separately exercisable
options to acquire Moody’s common stock and separately exercisable options to
acquire New D&B common stock, such that each option had the same ratio of the
exercise price per option to the market value per share, the same aggregate
difference between market value and exercise price, and the same vesting
provisions, option periods and other terms and conditions applicable prior to
the 2000 Distribution. Old D&B stock options held by employees and retirees of
Old D&B were converted in the same manner. Immediately after the 2000
Distribution, the 1998 Plan was amended and adopted by the Company.

Under the 1998 Plan, 16,500,000 shares of the Company’s common stock were
reserved for issuance. The 1998 Plan provides that options are exercisable not
later than ten years from the grant date. The vesting period for awards under
the 1998 Plan is determined by the Board of Directors at the date of the grant
and generally ranges from four to five years. Options may not be granted at
less than the fair market value of the Company’s common stock at the date of
grant. For incentive stock options granted to a shareholder of more than 10% of
the Company’s outstanding stock, the exercise price per share cannot be less
than 110% of the fair market value of the Company’s common stock at the date of
grant. The 1998 Plan also provides for the granting of restricted stock.

The 2001 Moody’s Corporation Key Employees’ Stock Incentive Plan (the “2001
Plan”) was approved by the Board of Directors in February 2001
and approved by the
Company’s shareholders in April 2001. Under the 2001 plan, 5,800,000 shares of
common stock have been reserved for issuance. Options may not be granted at
less than the fair market value of the Company’s common stock at the date of
grant. The 2001 Plan provides that options are exercisable not later than ten
years from the grant date. The vesting period for awards under the 2001 Plan is
determined by the Board of Directors at the date of the grant. Unlike the 1998
Plan, the 2001 Plan also provides that consultants to the Company or any of its
subsidiaries are eligible to be granted options. The 2001 Plan also provides
for the granting of restricted stock.

Under the 1998 and 2001 Plans, key employees of the Company may be granted
shares of common stock (“Performance Shares”) based on the achievement of
revenue growth goals or other operating objectives. At the end of the
performance period, Company performance at target will yield the targeted
amount of shares, whereas Company performance above or below target will yield
larger or smaller share awards, respectively. As a result of the 2000
Distribution, outstanding Performance Share grants were converted such that the
Company’s employees would receive a combination of Moody’s shares and cash in
lieu of New D&B shares. In 2001, approximately 100,000 shares of Moody’s common
stock were awarded based on the Company’s revenue performance for 1999 and
2000. Cash payments aggregating $2.5 million were made in lieu of New D&B
shares. There were no new Performance Share grants in 2002 and 2001. The
Company recorded compensation expense relating to performance share grants of
$0.2 million, $0.4 million and $4.6 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000,
respectively.

The Company also maintains a plan for its Board of Directors, the 1998
Directors Plan (the “Directors Plan”), which permits the granting of awards in
the form of non-qualified stock options, restricted stock or performance
shares. The Directors Plan provides that options are exercisable not later than
ten years from the grant date. The vesting period is determined at the date of
the grant and is generally one year. Under the Directors Plan, 400,000 shares
of common stock were reserved for issuance. Any director of the Company who is
not an employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries as of the date that
an award is granted is eligible to participate in the Directors Plan.



In February 2003, employees of the Company were granted approximately 2.5
million options under the 1998 Plan and 1.1 million options under the 2001
Plan, and directors of the Company were granted approximately 16,000 shares of
restricted stock under the Directors Plan.

Changes in stock options for the three years ended December 31, 2002 are
summarized below:

Option activity for the period from December 31, 1999 through September 30,
2000 reflects Old D&B options that were held by employees of Moody’s. The
options converted at October 1, 2000 reflect the conversion of all Old D&B
options, including both those held by employees of Moody’s and those held by
employees and retirees of New D&B, into separately exercisable options to
acquire common stock of Moody’s as described above.

Below is a summary of options held by Moody’s employees and by New D&B
employees and retirees as of each date:

New D&B

Moody’s

Employees

Employees

and Retirees

Options outstanding at:

October 1, 2000

4.8

10.0

December 31, 2000

10.2

9.1

December 31, 2001

8.6

6.1

December 31, 2002

11.1

4.2

The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at
December 31, 2002:

Options Outstanding

Average

Remaining

Weighted

Number

Contractual

Average

Range of Exercise Prices

Outstanding

Life in Years

Exercise Price

$14.54–$19.94

2.2

3.2

$

16.72

$21.42–$23.96

3.3

6.3

$

21.78

$25.13–$28.13

6.1

5.7

$

27.26

$33.92–$43.55

3.7

9.0

$

39.95

Total

15.3



Options Exercisable

Weighted

Number

Average

Range of Exercise Prices

Exercisable

Exercise Price

$14.54–$19.94

1.8

$

16.34

$21.42–$23.96

1.6

$

21.70

$25.13–$28.13

2.0

$

27.88

$33.92–$43.55

—

$

36.03

Total

5.4

In addition, the Company also sponsors the Moody’s Corporation Employee Stock
Purchase Plan (“ESPP”). The ESPP allows eligible employees to purchase common
stock of the Company on a monthly basis at 85% of its fair market value on the
first trading day of the month. Plan participants can elect an after-tax
payroll deduction of one percent to ten percent of compensation, subject to the
federal limit.

Note 10 Income Taxes

Components of the Company’s income tax provision are as follows:

A reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory tax rate to the Company’s
effective tax rate on income before provision for income taxes is as follows:

Year Ended December 31,




U.S. statutory tax rate

35.0

%

35.0

%

35.0

%

State and local taxes, net of
federal tax benefit

7.0

8.5

9.5

U.S. taxes on foreign income

0.7

1.0

—

Other

1.5

(0.1

)

(0.3

)

Effective tax rate

44.2

%

44.4

%

44.2

%

Income taxes paid were $226.6 million, $98.6 million and $206.0 million in
2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Taxes paid in 2002 included approximately
$50 million of 2001 income tax payments that were deferred due to the September

th

tragedy.



The components of deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:

The current deferred tax assets, net of current deferred tax liabilities, as
well as prepaid taxes of $27.8 million and $26.4 million at December 31, 2002
and 2001, respectively, are included in other current assets in the
consolidated balance sheets. Non-current deferred tax liabilities, net of
non-current deferred tax assets, are included in other liabilities. Management
has determined, based on the Company’s history of prior and current levels of
operating earnings, that no valuation allowance for deferred tax assets should
be provided as of December 31, 2002 and 2001.

At December 31, 2002, undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries
aggregated $43.4 million. Earnings from the United Kingdom, France and Japan
are or will be remitted to the U.S. on a regular basis. As such, appropriate
taxes related to anticipated distributions have been provided in the
consolidated financial statements. Deferred tax liabilities have not been
recognized for approximately $13 million of undistributed foreign earnings that
management intends to reinvest outside the U.S. If all such undistributed
earnings were remitted to the U.S., the amount of incremental U.S. federal and
foreign income taxes payable, net of foreign tax credits, would be
approximately $1.2 million.

Note 11 Indebtedness

In connection with the 2000 Distribution, Moody’s was allocated $195.5 million
of debt at September 30, 2000. Moody’s funded this debt with borrowings under a
$160 million unsecured bank revolving credit facility and a bank bridge line of
credit.

On October 3, 2000 the Company issued $300 million of notes payable (the
“Notes”) in a private placement. The cash proceeds from the Notes were used in
part to repay the outstanding balance on the revolving credit facility and to
repay the bridge line of credit. The Notes have a five-year term and bear
interest at an annual rate of 7.61%, payable semi-annually. In the event that
Moody’s pays all or part of the Notes in advance of their maturity (the
“prepaid principal”), such prepayment will be subject to a penalty calculated
based on the excess, if any, of the discounted value of the remaining scheduled
payments, as defined in the agreement, over the prepaid principal. Interest
paid under the Notes was $22.8 million and $22.6 million, respectively for the
years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001; no interest was paid in 2000.



The revolving credit facility (the “Facility”) consists of an $80 million
5-year facility that expires in September 2005 and an $80 million 364-day
facility that expires in September 2003. As of December 31, 2002, the Company
had borrowings outstanding of $76.1 million under the 5-year facility, bearing
interest at approximately 1.64% per annum, and $31.0 million under the 364-day
facility, bearing interest at approximately 1.73% per annum. Interest on
borrowings under the 5-year facility is payable at rates that are based on the
London InterBank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) plus a premium that can range from 18
basis points to 50 basis points depending on the Company’s ratio of total
indebtedness to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
(“EBITDA”), as defined in the related agreement.

At December 31, 2002, such
premium was 22 basis points. Interest on borrowings under the 364-day facility
is payable at rates that are based on LIBOR plus a premium of
30.5 basis points.
The Company also pays annual facility fees, regardless of borrowing activity
under the Facility. The annual fees for the 5-year facility can range
from 7 basis points to 12.5 basis points depending on the Company’s ratio of total
indebtedness to EBITDA, and were 8 basis points at December 31, 2002. The
annual fees for the 364-day facility are 7 basis points. Under each facility,
the Company also pays a utilization fee of 12.5 basis points on borrowings
outstanding when the aggregate amount outstanding under such facility exceeds
33% of the facility.

In April 2002, Moody’s used the Facility to initially fund a portion of the
purchase price for the KMV acquisition; amounts outstanding under the Facility
were repaid in the second quarter of 2002. Since that time, Moody’s has
borrowed under the Facility to fund share repurchases. Interest paid under
the Facility for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000 was $0.3
million, $0.0 million and $0.1 million, respectively.

The Notes and the Facility (the “Agreements”) contain covenants that, among
other things, restrict the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries, without
the approval of the lenders, to engage in mergers, consolidations, asset sales
and sale-leaseback transactions or to incur liens. The Notes and the Facility
also contain financial covenants that, among other things, require the Company
to maintain an interest coverage ratio, as defined in the Agreements, of not
less than 3 to 1, and a ratio of total indebtedness to EBITDA, as defined in
the Agreements, of not more than 4 to 1. At December 31, 2002, the Company was
in compliance with such covenants. If an event of default were to occur (as
defined in the Agreements) and was not remedied by the Company within the
stipulated timeframe, an acceleration of the Notes and restrictions on the use
of the Facility could occur.

Note 12 Capital Stock

Authorized Capital Stock

The total number of shares of all classes of stock that the Company has
authority to issue under its Restated Certificate of Incorporation is
420,000,000 shares with a par value of $0.01, of which 400,000,000 are shares
of common stock, 10,000,000 are shares of preferred stock and 10,000,000 are
shares of series common stock. The preferred stock and series common stock can
be issued with varying terms, as determined by the Board of Directors.

Rights Agreement

The Company has a Rights Agreement designed to protect its shareholders in the
event of unsolicited offers to acquire the Company and coercive takeover
tactics that, in the opinion of the Board of Directors, could impair its
ability to represent shareholder interests. Under the Rights Agreement, each
share of common stock has a right that trades with the stock until the right
becomes exercisable. Each right entitles the registered holder to purchase
1/1000 of a share of a series A junior participating preferred stock, par value
$0.01 per share, at a price of $100 per 1/1000 of a share, subject to
adjustment. The rights will generally not be exercisable until a person or
group (“Acquiring Person”) acquires beneficial ownership of, or commences a
tender offer or exchange offer that would result in such person or group having
beneficial ownership of, 15% or more of the outstanding common stock at such
time.

In the event that any person or group becomes an Acquiring Person, each right
will thereafter entitle its holder (other than the Acquiring Person) to
receive, upon exercise and payment, shares of stock having a market value equal
to two times the exercise price in the form of the Company’s common stock or,
where appropriate, the Acquiring Person’s common stock. The rights are not
currently exercisable, as no shareholder is currently an Acquiring Person. The
Company may redeem the rights, which expire in June 2008, for $0.01 per right,
under certain circumstances, including for a Board-approved acquirer either
before the acquirer becomes an Acquiring Person or during the window period
after the triggering event as specified in the Rights Agreement.

Share Repurchase Program

During October 2002, Moody’s completed the $300 million share repurchase
program that had been authorized by the Board of Directors in October 2001. On
October 22, 2002, the Board of Directors authorized an additional $450 million
share repurchase program, which Moody’s expects to complete by mid-2004. The
program includes both special share repurchases and systematic repurchases of
Moody’s common stock to offset the dilutive effect of share issuance under the
company’s employee stock plans.

For the year ended December 31, 2002, Moody’s repurchased 8.2 million shares at
a total cost of $369.9 million, including 2.7 million shares to offset
issuances under employee stock plans. Since becoming a public company in
September 2000 and through December 31, 2002, Moody’s has repurchased 19.5
million shares at a total cost of $709.3 million, including 6.1 million shares
to offset issuances under employee stock plans.



Dividends

During 2002, 2001 and in the fourth quarter of 2000, the Company paid a
quarterly dividend of 4.5 cents per share of Moody’s common stock, resulting in
dividends paid per share of 18.0 cents in 2002 and 2001 and 4.5 cents in 2000.
Prior to the fourth quarter of 2000, when Moody’s was a subsidiary of Old D&B,
the Company did not pay dividends directly to Old D&B shareholders. In December
2002, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a first quarter 2003 dividend
of 4.5 cents per share, payable on March 10, 2003 to shareholders of record on
February 20, 2003.

Note 13 Lease Commitments

Moody’s operates its business from various leased facilities, which are under
operating leases that expire over the next ten years. Moody’s also leases
certain computer and other equipment under operating and capital leases that
expire over the next five years. Rent expense under operating leases for the
years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000 was $11.3 million, $8.0 million
and $7.1 million, respectively. Rent expense for 2002, 2001 and 2000 was net of
sublease rental income of $0.6 million, $1.0 million and $1.0 million,
respectively related to a facility utilized by FIS, which was sold in July
1998.

The approximate minimum rent for leases that have remaining noncancelable lease
terms in excess of one year at December 31, 2002 is as follows:

During the year ended December 31, 2002, Moody’s recorded approximately $3.9
million of computer equipment subject to capital lease obligations.

Note 14 Contingencies

From time to time, Moody’s is involved in legal and tax proceedings, claims and
litigation that are incidental to the Company’s business, including claims
based on ratings assigned by Moody’s. Management periodically assesses the
Company’s liabilities and contingencies in connection with these matters, based
upon the latest information available. For those matters where the probable
amount of loss can be reasonably estimated, the Company believes it has
recorded appropriate reserves in the consolidated financial statements. In
other instances, because of the uncertainties related to both the probable
outcome and amount or range of loss, management is unable to make a reasonable
estimate of a liability, if any. As additional information becomes available,
the Company adjusts its assessments and estimates of such liabilities
accordingly.

Based on its review of the latest information available, in the opinion of
management, the ultimate liability of the Company in connection with pending
legal and tax proceedings, claims and litigation will not have a material
adverse effect on Moody’s financial position, results of operations or cash
flows, subject to the contingencies described below.

Discussion of contingencies is segregated between those matters that relate to
Old D&B, its predecessors and their affiliated companies (“Legacy
Contingencies”) and those that relate to Moody’s business and operations
(“Moody’s Matters”).



Legacy Contingencies

To understand the Company’s exposure to the potential liabilities described
below, it is important to understand the relationship between Moody’s and New
D&B, and the relationship among New D&B and its predecessors and other parties
who, through various corporate reorganizations and related contractual
commitments, have assumed varying degrees of responsibility with respect to
such matters.

In November 1996, The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation through a spin-off separated
into three separate public companies: The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation,
ACNielsen Corporation (“ACNielsen”) and Cognizant Corporation (“Cognizant”)
(the “1996 Distribution”).

In June 1998, The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation through a spin-off separated
into two separate public companies: The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation and R.H.
Donnelley Corporation (“Donnelley”) (the “1998 Distribution”). During 1998,
Cognizant through a spin-off separated into two separate public companies: IMS
Health Incorporated (“IMS Health”) and Nielsen Media Research, Inc. (“NMR”). In
September 2000, The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation (“Old D&B”) through a spin-off
separated into two separate public companies: New D&B and Moody’s, as further
described in Note 1, Description of Business and Basis of Presentation.

Information Resources, Inc.

In 1996, Information Resources, Inc. (“IRI”) filed a complaint in the United
States District Court for the Southern District of New York, naming as
defendants the corporation then known as The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation, A.C.
Nielsen Company (a subsidiary of ACNielsen) and IMS International, Inc. (a
subsidiary of the company then known as Cognizant). At the time of the filing
of the complaint, each of the other defendants was a subsidiary of The Dun &
Bradstreet Corporation.

The complaint alleges various violations of United States antitrust laws,
including purported violations of Sections 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act. The
complaint also alleges a claim of tortious interference with a contract and a
claim of tortious interference with a prospective business relationship. These
claims relate to the acquisition by defendants of Survey Research Group Limited
(“SRG”). IRI alleges SRG violated an alleged agreement with IRI when it agreed
to be acquired by the defendants and that the defendants induced SRG to breach
that agreement.

IRI’s complaint alleges damages in excess of $350 million, which amount IRI
asked to be trebled under antitrust laws. IRI also seeks punitive damages of an
unspecified amount.

Discovery in this case is ongoing and no trial date has been set.

In connection with the 1996 Distribution, Cognizant, ACNielsen and The Dun &
Bradstreet Corporation entered into an Indemnity and Joint Defense Agreement
(the “Indemnity and Joint Defense Agreement”) pursuant to which they have
agreed (i) to certain arrangements allocating potential liabilities (“IRI
Liabilities”) that may arise out of or in connection with the IRI action and
(ii) to conduct a joint defense of such action. In particular, the Indemnity
and Joint Defense Agreement provides that ACNielsen will assume exclusive
liability for IRI Liabilities up to a maximum amount to be calculated at such
time as such liabilities, if any, become payable (the “ACN Maximum Amount”),
and that The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation and Cognizant will share liability
equally for any amounts in excess of the ACN Maximum Amount. The ACN Maximum
Amount will be determined by an investment banking firm as the maximum amount
that ACNielsen is able to pay after giving effect to (i) any plan submitted by
such investment bank that is designed to maximize the claims-paying ability of
ACNielsen without impairing the investment banking firm’s ability to deliver a
viability opinion (but which will not require any action requiring shareholder
approval), and (ii) payment of related fees and expenses. For these purposes,
financial viability means the ability of ACNielsen, after giving effect to such
plan, the payment of related fees and expenses and the payment of the ACN
Maximum Amount, to pay its debts as they become due and to finance the current
and anticipated operating and capital requirements of its business, as
reconstituted by such plan, for two years from the date any such plan is
expected to be implemented. In 2001, ACNielsen merged with VNU N.V. Pursuant to
the Indemnity and Joint Defense Agreement, VNU is to be included with ACNielsen
for purposes of determining the ACN Maximum Amount, and VNU assumed ACNielsen’s
liabilities under that agreement.

In connection with the 1998 Distribution, Old D&B and Donnelley entered into an
agreement (the “1998 Distribution Agreement”) whereby Old D&B assumed all
potential liabilities of Donnelley arising from the IRI action and agreed to
indemnify Donnelley in connection with such potential liabilities.



As a result of their 1998 separation and pursuant to the related distribution
agreement, IMS Health and NMR are each jointly and severally liable for all
Cognizant liabilities under the Indemnity and Joint Defense Agreement. In 1999,
NMR was acquired by VNU N.V. and VNU assumed NMR’s liabilities under the
Indemnity and Joint Defense Agreement.

Under the terms of the 2000 Distribution, New D&B undertook to be jointly and
severally liable with Moody’s for Old D&B’s obligations to Donnelley under the
1998 Distribution Agreement, including any liabilities arising under the
Indemnity and Joint Defense Agreement. However, as between themselves, each of
New D&B and Moody’s will be responsible for 50% of any payments to be made with
respect to the IRI action pursuant to the 1998 Distribution Agreement,
including legal fees or expenses related thereto.

Management is unable to predict at this time the final outcome of the IRI
action or whether the resolution of this matter could materially affect Moody’s
results of operations, cash flows or financial position. As such, no amount in
respect of this matter has been accrued in the financial statements of the
Company.

Legacy Tax Matters

Old D&B and its predecessors entered into global tax planning initiatives in
the normal course of business, including through tax-free restructurings of
both their foreign and domestic operations. These initiatives are subject to
normal review by tax authorities.

Pursuant to a series of agreements, as between themselves, IMS Health and NMR
are jointly and severally liable to pay one-half, and New D&B and Moody’s are
jointly and severally liable to pay the other half, of any payments for taxes,
penalties and accrued interest resulting from unfavorable IRS rulings on
certain tax matters (excluding the matter described below as “Amortization
Expense Deductions” for which New D&B and Moody’s are solely responsible) and
certain other potential tax liabilities after New D&B and/or Moody’s pays the
first $137 million, which amount was paid in connection with the matter
described below as “Utilization of Capital Losses”.

In connection with the 2000 Distribution and pursuant to the terms of the
related Distribution Agreement, New D&B and Moody’s have, between themselves,
agreed to each be financially responsible for 50% of any potential liabilities
that may arise to the extent such potential liabilities are not directly
attributable to their respective business operations.

Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, three specific tax matters
are discussed below.

Royalty Expense Deductions

During the second quarter of 2002, New D&B received a Notice of Proposed
Adjustment from the IRS with respect to a partnership transaction entered into
in 1993. In this Notice, the IRS proposed to disallow certain royalty expense
deductions claimed by Old D&B on its 1994, 1995 and 1996 tax returns. New D&B
disagrees with the position taken by the IRS in its Notice and filed a
responsive brief to this effect with the IRS. In addition, the IRS recently
indicated that it may assess penalties on this matter. If the IRS were to issue
a formal assessment consistent with the Notice (and including penalties), and
were to prevail in its position, then New D&B would be required to pay the
assessment. If New D&B were to challenge the assessment in U.S. District Court
rather than in U.S. Tax Court, then a payment of the disputed amount would be
required in connection with such challenge. Should any such payments be made by
New D&B, then pursuant to the terms of the 2000 Distribution Agreement, Moody’s
would have to pay to New D&B its 50% share. The Company estimates that its
share of the required payment to the IRS could be up to approximately $55
million (including penalties and interest, and net of tax benefits). Moody’s
also could be obligated for future interest payments on its share of such
liability.

In a related matter, New D&B has received a Preliminary Summary Report from the
IRS stating its intention to ignore the partnership structure that had been
established and reallocate to Old D&B income and expense items that had been
claimed on the partnership tax return for 1996. If the IRS were to issue a
formal assessment consistent with the Report and were to prevail in this
matter, then New D&B would be required to pay the assessment. If New D&B were
to challenge the assessment in U.S. District Court rather than in U.S. Tax
Court, then a payment of the disputed amount would be required in connection
with such challenge. Moody’s estimates that its share of the exposure to the
IRS for this matter could be up to approximately $46 million (including
penalties and interest, and net of tax benefits). Such exposure could be in
addition to the amount described in the preceding paragraph.



Amortization Expense
Deductions

The IRS has requested from New D&B documentation with respect to a transaction
executed in 1997 that could result in amortization expense deductions from 1997
through 2012. It is possible that the IRS could ultimately challenge these
deductions and that New D&B could make payments to the IRS related to
previously claimed deductions. In that event, Moody’s would be required to pay
to New D&B its 50% share of New D&B’s payments to the IRS. In addition, should
New D&B discontinue claiming the amortization deductions on future tax returns,
Moody’s would be required to repay to New D&B an amount equal to the discounted
value of its 50% share of the related future tax benefits. New D&B had paid the
discounted value of future tax benefits from this transaction in cash to
Moody’s at the Distribution Date. Management estimates that the Company’s
current potential exposure related to this matter is $89 million (including
penalties and interest, and net of tax benefits). This exposure could increase
by approximately $3 million to $6 million per year, depending on actions that
the IRS may take with respect to assessments and on whether New D&B continues
claiming the amortization deductions on its tax returns.

Utilization of Capital Losses

The IRS has completed its review of the utilization of certain capital losses
generated during 1989 and 1990. On June 26, 2000, the IRS, as part of its audit
process, issued a formal assessment with respect to the utilization of these
capital losses and Old D&B responded by filing a petition for a refund in the
U.S. District Court on September 21, 2000, after the payments described below
were made.

On May 12, 2000, an amended tax return was filed for the 1989 and 1990 tax
periods, which reflected $561.6 million of tax and interest due. Old D&B paid
the IRS approximately $349.3 million of this amount on May 12, 2000; 50% of
such payment was allocated to Moody’s and had previously been accrued by the
Company. IMS Health informed Old D&B that it paid to the IRS approximately
$212.3 million on May 17, 2000. The payments were made to the IRS to stop
further interest from accruing, and New D&B is contesting the IRS’ assessment.
New D&B has indicated that it would also contest the assessment of penalties or
other amounts, if any, in excess of the amounts paid. With the possible
exception of the matter described in the following sentence, Moody’s does not
anticipate any further income statement charges or cash payments related to IRS
assessments for this matter. If the IRS were to disallow prior deductions of
all transaction costs associated with this matter, Moody’s estimates that its
exposure for its share of the additional taxes, penalties and interest (net of
tax benefits) on this matter would be approximately $5 million.

Subsequent to making its May 2000 payment to the IRS, IMS Health sought partial
reimbursement from NMR under their 1998 distribution agreement (the “IMS/NMR
Agreement”). NMR paid IMS Health less than the amount sought by IMS Health
under the IMS/NMR Agreement and, in 2001, IMS Health filed an arbitration
proceeding against NMR to recover the difference. IMS Health sought to include
Old D&B in this arbitration, arguing that if NMR should prevail in its
interpretation of the IMS/NMR Agreement, then IMS Health could seek the same
interpretation in an alternative claim against Old D&B. Neither Old D&B nor any
of its predecessors was a party to the IMS/NMR Agreement. A decision from the
arbitration panel is expected in 2003. If NMR should prevail in the arbitration
against IMS Health and, in turn, IMS Health should prevail against Old D&B,
then the Company believes that the additional liability of Old D&B would be
approximately $15 million, net of tax benefits. Under the terms of the 2000
Distribution, Moody’s and New D&B would each be responsible for one half of
such amount, or approximately $7.5 million. The Company believes that the claim
asserted against Old D&B by IMS Health is without merit. As such, no amount in
respect of this matter has been accrued in the financial statements.

Summary of Moody’s Exposure to Three Legacy Tax Matters

The Company has considered the range and probability of potential outcomes
related to the three legacy tax matters discussed above and believes that it
has adequate reserves recorded in its consolidated financial statements for its
probable exposures in these matters. However, it is possible that these matters
could be resolved in amounts that are greater than the Company has reserved,
which could result in material charges to Moody’s future reported results. In
addition, the cash outlays resulting from these matters, which the Company
currently estimates could be as much as $202 million, could be material and
could increase with time as described above. Such amount does not include
potential penalties related to the payments made in May 2000 concerning
Utilization of Capital Losses.

Moody’s Matters

L’Association Francaise des Porteurs d’ Emprunts Russes

On June 20, 2001 a summons was served in an action brought by L’Association
Francaise des Porteurs d’ Emprunts Russes (“AFPER”) against Moody’s France SA
(a subsidiary of the Company) and filed in the Court of First Instance of
Paris, France. In this suit, AFPER, a group of holders of bonds issued by the
Russian government prior to the 1917 Bolshevik Revolution, makes claims against
Moody’s France SA and Standard & Poor’s SA for lack of diligence and prudence
in their ratings of Russia and Russian debt



since 1996. AFPER alleges that, by failing to take into account the
post-Revolutionary repudiation of pre-Revolutionary Czarist debt by the Soviet
government in rating Russia and new issues of Russian debt beginning in 1996,
the rating agencies enabled the Russian Federation to issue new debt without
repaying the old obligations of the Czarist government. Alleging joint and
several liability, AFPER seeks damages of Euro 2.8 billion (approximately U.S.
$2.9 billion as of December 31, 2002) plus legal costs. Moody’s believes the
allegations lack legal or factual merit and intends to vigorously contest the
action. As such, no amount in respect of this matter has been accrued in the
financial statements of the Company.

Note 15 Segment Information

The Company reports segment information in accordance with SFAS No. 131,
“Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information”. SFAS No.
131 defines operating segments as components of an enterprise for which
separate financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the
chief operating decision-maker in deciding how to allocate resources and in
assessing performance. The Company has historically operated in one reportable
business segment – Ratings, which accounted for approximately 90% of the
Company’s total revenue. With the April 2002 acquisition of KMV, Moody’s now
operates in two reportable business segments: Moody’s Investors Service and
Moody’s KMV. Accordingly, in the second quarter of 2002, the Company restated
its segment information for corresponding prior periods to conform to the
current presentation.

Moody’s Investors Service consists of four rating groups — structured finance,
corporate finance, financial institutions and sovereign risk, and public
finance — that generate revenue principally from the assignment of credit
ratings on fixed-income instruments in the debt markets, and research, which
primarily generates revenue from the sale of investor-oriented credit research,
principally produced by the rating groups. Given the dominance of Moody’s
Investors Service to Moody’s overall results, the Company does not separately
measure or report corporate expenses, nor are they allocated to the Company’s
business segments. Accordingly, all corporate expenses are included in
operating income of the Moody’s Investors Service segment and none have been
allocated to the Moody’s KMV segment.

The Moody’s KMV business consists of KMV, acquired in April 2002, and Moody’s
Risk Management Services. Moody’s KMV develops and distributes quantitative
credit assessment services for banks and investors in credit-sensitive assets,
credit training services and credit process software.

Assets used solely by Moody’s KMV are separately disclosed within that segment.
All other Company assets, including corporate assets, are reported as part of
Moody’s Investors Service.

Revenue by geographic area is generally based on the location of the customer.

Intersegment sales are insignificant and no single customer accounted for 10%
or more of total revenue.

Below are financial information by segment, Moody’s Investors Service revenue
by business unit and revenue and long-lived asset information by geographic
area, for the years ended and as of December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000.

Financial Information by Segment



Moody’s Investors Service Revenue by Business Unit

Year Ended December 31,




Ratings revenue:

Structured finance

$

381.2

$

273.8

$

199.2

Corporate finance

228.4

225.7

162.7

Financial institutions and sovereign risk

157.4

130.7

111.6

Public finance

81.2

64.2

46.1

Total ratings revenue

848.2

694.4

519.6

Research revenue

93.6

71.5

59.7

Total Moody’s Investors Service

$

941.8

$

765.9

$

579.3

Revenue and Long-lived Asset Information by Geographic Area

Note 16 Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

Accounts receivable allowances primarily represent adjustments to customer
billings that are estimated when the related revenue is recognized. In 2002,
the Company reduced its provision rates and allowance to reflect its current
estimate of the appropriate level of accounts receivable allowance. Below is a
summary of activity for each of the three years in the period ended December
31, 2002:



Balance at

Additions

Write-offs

Balance

Beginning

Charged to

and

at End of

of the Year

Revenue

Adjustments

the Year


$

(27.3

)

$

(20.1

)

$

31.0

$

(16.4

)


(24.4

)

(28.8

)

25.9

(27.3

)


(24.5

)

(29.3

)

29.4

(24.4

)

Note 17 Subsequent Event (Unaudited)

In February 2003, Moody’s received a $15.9 million insurance recovery related
to the September 11

th

tragedy, for incremental costs incurred and for lost
profits due to the sharp decline in debt market activity in the weeks following
the disaster. Moody’s had previously received a $4.0 million advance payment
in 2002, resulting in a total recovery of $19.9 million. Moody’s had incurred
incremental costs of $6.3 million for property damage and temporary office
facilities, and had fully accrued for the recovery of these costs in its
financial statements. The remainder of the insurance recovery, $13.6 million,
had not been previously accrued as its realizability was not sufficiently
assured. As a result, Moody’s will record a gain of approximately $13.6
million, or $0.05 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2003.

Note 18 Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)

Three Months Ended

March 31

June 30

September 30

December 31

Year


Revenue

$

231.6

$

271.5

$

248.3

$

271.9

$

1,023.3

Operating income

134.7

147.0

127.4

129.0

538.1

Net income

72.6

78.7

67.8

69.8

288.9

Basic earnings per share

$

0.47

$

0.51

$

0.44

$

0.46

$

1.88

Diluted earnings per share

$

0.46

$

0.49

$

0.43

$

0.45

$

1.83


Revenue

$

180.2

$

205.2

$

190.4

$

220.9

$

796.7

Operating income

89.8

104.0

93.7

111.0

398.5

Net income

48.0

55.5

49.9

58.8

212.2

Basic earnings per share

$

0.30

$

0.35

$

0.32

$

0.38

$

1.35

Diluted earnings per share

$

0.30

$

0.34

$

0.31

$

0.37

$

1.32

Basic and diluted earnings per share are computed independently for each of the
periods presented. The number of weighted average shares outstanding changes as
common shares are issued pursuant to employee stock plans and for other
purposes or as shares are repurchased. Accordingly, the sum of the quarterly
earnings per share data may not agree to the total for the year.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

Not applicable.

PART III

Except for the information relating to the executive officers of the Company
set forth in Part I of this annual report on Form 10-K, the information called
for by Items 10-13 is contained in the Company’s definitive proxy statement for
use in connection with its annual meeting of shareholders scheduled to be held
on April 22, 2003, and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND
RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS



ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

ITEM 14. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

(a)

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures: The Company’s Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have evaluated the
effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as such
term is defined in Rules 13a-14c and 15d-14c under the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”)) as of a date within 90 days
prior to the filing date of this annual report on Form 10-K (the
“Evaluation Date”). Based on such evaluation, such officers have concluded
that, as of the Evaluation Date, the Company’s disclosure controls and
procedures are effective in alerting them on a timely basis to material
information relating to the Company (including its consolidated
subsidiaries) required to be included in the Company’s periodic filings
under the Exchange Act.

(b)

Changes in Internal Controls: Since the Evaluation Date, there have not
been any significant changes in the Company’s internal controls or in
other factors that could significantly affect such controls.

PART IV

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)  List of documents filed as part of this report.

(1)  Financial Statements.

See Index to Financial Statements, Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

(2)  Financial Statement Schedules.

None.

(3)  Exhibits.

See Index to Exhibits on pages 64-66 of this Form 10-K.

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K.

No reports on Form 8-K have been filed during the quarter ended December
31, 2002.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

MOODY’S CORPORATION

(Registrant)

By:

/s/ JOHN RUTHERFURD, JR.

John Rutherfurd, Jr.

President and Chief Executive Officer

Date: March 21, 2003

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.

Date: March 21, 2003



CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER CERTIFICATION

PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE

SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

I, John Rutherfurd, Jr., Chief Executive Officer of Moody’s Corporation certify
that:

1.

I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Moody’s Corporation;

2.

Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue
statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to
make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by
this annual report;

3.

Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material
respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;

4.

The registrant’s other certifying officer and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
in Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and have:

a)

designed such disclosure controls
and procedures to ensure that
material information relating to
the registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made
known to us by others within those
entities, particularly during the
period in which this annual report
is being prepared;

b)

evaluated the effectiveness of the
registrant’s disclosure controls
and procedures as of a date within
90 days prior to the filing date of
this annual report (the “Evaluation
Date”); and

c)

presented in this annual report our
conclusions about the effectiveness
of the disclosure controls and
procedures based on our evaluation
as of the Evaluation Date;

5.

The registrant’s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our
most recent evaluation, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit committee
of registrant’s board of directors:

a)

all significant deficiencies in the
design or operation of internal
controls which could adversely
affect the registrant’s ability to
record, process, summarize and
report financial data and have
identified for the registrant’s
auditors any material weaknesses in
internal controls; and

b)

any fraud, whether or not material,
that involves management or other
employees who have a significant
role in the registrant’s internal
controls; and

6.

The registrant’s other certifying officer and I have indicated in this annual
report whether there were significant changes in internal controls or in
other factors that could significantly affect internal controls subsequent to
the date of our most recent evaluation, including any corrective actions with
regard to significant deficiencies and material weaknesses.

/s/ JOHN RUTHERFURD, JR.

John Rutherfurd, Jr.

President and Chief Executive Officer

March 21, 2003



CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER CERTIFICATION

PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE

SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

I, Jeanne M. Dering, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of
Moody’s Corporation certify that:

1.

I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Moody’s Corporation;

2.

Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue
statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to
make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by
this annual report;

3.

Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material
respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;

4.

The registrant’s other certifying officer and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
in Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and have:

a)

designed such disclosure controls
and procedures to ensure that
material information relating to
the registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made
known to us by others within those
entities, particularly during the
period in which this annual report
is being prepared;

b)

evaluated the effectiveness of the
registrant’s disclosure controls
and procedures as of a date within
90 days prior to the filing date of
this annual report (the “Evaluation
Date”); and

c)

presented in this annual report our
conclusions about the effectiveness
of the disclosure controls and
procedures based on our evaluation
as of the Evaluation Date;

5.

The registrant’s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our
most recent evaluation, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit committee
of registrant’s board of directors:

a)

all significant deficiencies in the
design or operation of internal
controls which could adversely
affect the registrant’s ability to
record, process, summarize and
report financial data and have
identified for the registrant’s
auditors any material weaknesses in
internal controls; and

b)

any fraud, whether or not material,
that involves management or other
employees who have a significant
role in the registrant’s internal
controls; and

6.

The registrant’s other certifying officer and I have indicated in this annual
report whether there were significant changes in internal controls or in
other factors that could significantly affect internal controls subsequent to
the date of our most recent evaluation, including any corrective actions with
regard to significant deficiencies and material weaknesses.

/s/ JEANNE M. DERING

Jeanne M. Dering

Senior Vice President and

Chief Financial Officer

March 21, 2003



INDEX TO EXHIBITS

S-K

EXHIBIT

NUMBER


ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION AND BY-LAWS

..1

Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant dated June 15, 1998, as
amended effective June 30, 1998, and as further amended effective October 1, 2000
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Report on Form 8-K of the
Registrant, file number 1-14037, filed October 4, 2000).

..2

Amended and Restated By-laws of the Registrant (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 3.2 of the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form 10, file number
1-14037, filed June 18, 1998).


INSTRUMENTS DEFINING THE RIGHTS OF SECURITY HOLDERS, INCLUDING INDENTURES

..1

Specimen Common Stock certificate (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the
Report on Form 8-K of the Registrant, file number 1-14037, filed October 4, 2000).

..2

Amended and Restated Rights Agreement between the Registrant, EquiServe Trust
Company, N.A., as Rights Agent, and The Bank of New York, as successor Rights
Agent, dated as of October 22, 2001 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to
the Report on Form 10-K of the Registrant, file number 1-14037, filed March 22,
2002).

..3

Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of September 11, 2000, among the Registrant,
certain subsidiaries of the Registrant, the lenders party thereto, The Chase
Manhattan Bank, as administrative agent, Citibank, N.A., as syndication agent, and
The Bank of New York, as documentation agent (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
4.2 to the Report on Form 8-K of the Registrant, file number 1-14037, filed
October 4, 2000).

..4

Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of September 10, 2001, between
Moody’s Corporation and certain subsidiaries of the Registrant, the lenders party
thereto, The Chase Manhattan Bank, as administrative agent, Citibank, N.A., as
syndication agent, and The Bank of New York, as documentation agent (incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Report on Form 10-Q of the Registrant, file
number 1-14037, filed November 14, 2001).

..5

Amended and Restated 364-Day Credit Agreement, dated as of September 9, 2002,
between Moody’s Corporation and certain subsidiaries of the Registrant, the
lenders party thereto, JP Morgan Chase Bank, as administrative agent, Citibank,
N.A., as syndication agent, and The Bank of New York, as documentation agent
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Report on Form 10-Q of the
Registrant, file number 1-14037, filed November 14, 2002).


MATERIAL CONTRACTS

..1

Distribution Agreement, dated as of September 30, 2000, between the Registrant and
The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation (f.k.a. The New D&B Corporation) (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Report on Form 8-K of the Registrant, file number
1-14037, filed October 4, 2000).

..2

Tax Allocation Agreement, dated as of September 30, 2000, between the Registrant
and The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation (f.k.a. The New D&B Corporation)
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Report on Form 8-K of the
Registrant, file number 1-14037, filed October 4, 2000).

..3

Employee Benefits Agreement, dated as of September 30, 2000, between the
Registrant and The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation (f.k.a. The New D&B Corporation)
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Report on Form 8-K of the
Registrant, file number 1-14037, filed October 4, 2000).

..4

Supplemental Executive Benefit Plan of Moody’s Corporation, dated as of September
30, 2000 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Report on Form 10-K of
the Registrant, file number 1-14037, filed March 22, 2002).



S-K

EXHIBIT

NUMBER

..5

Intellectual Property Assignments, dated as of September 1, 2000, between the
Registrant and The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation (f.k.a. The New D&B Corporation)
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Report on Form 8-K of the
Registrant, file number 1-14037, filed October 4, 2000).

..6

Pension Benefit Equalization Plan of Moody’s Corporation (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.9 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, file
number 1-14037, filed November 14, 2000).

..7

Profit Participation Benefit Equalization Plan of Moody’s Corporation
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q, file number 1-14037, filed November 14, 2000).

..8

The Moody’s Corporation Nonfunded Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee
Directors (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to Registrant’s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q, file number 1-14037, filed November 14, 2000).

..9

1998 Moody’s Corporation Replacement Plan for Certain Non-Employee Directors
Holding Dun & Bradstreet Corporation Equity-Based Awards (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, file number 1-
14037, filed November 14, 2000).

..10

1998 Moody’s
Corporation Replacement Plan for Certain Employees Holding Dun &
Bradstreet Corporation
Equity-Based Awards (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14 to Registrant’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, file number 1-14037, filed November 14, 2000).

..11

1998 Moody’s Corporation Non-Employee Directors’ Stock Incentive Plan (as amended
on April 23, 2001) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to the Report on
Form 10-K of the Registrant, file number 1-14037, filed March 22, 2002).

..12

1998 Moody’s Corporation Key Employees’ Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.16 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, file
number 1-14037, filed November 14, 2000).

..13

Moody’s Corporation Career Transition Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.17 to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, file number 1-14037, filed March
15, 2001).

..14

Distribution Agreement, dated as of June 30, 1998, between R.H. Donnelley
Corporation (f.k.a. The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation) and the Registrant (f.k.a.
The New Dun & Bradstreet Corporation) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1
to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, filed August 14, 1998).

..15

2001 Moody’s Corporation Key Employees Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.15 to the Report on Form 10-K of the Registrant, file
number 1-14037, filed March 22, 2002).

..16

Tax Allocation Agreement, dated as of June 30, 1998, between R.H. Donnelley
Corporation (f.k.a. The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation) and the Registrant (f.k.a.
The New Dun & Bradstreet Corporation) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2
to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, filed August 14, 1998).

..17

Employee Benefits Agreement, dated as of June 30, 1998, between R.H. Donnelley
Corporation (f.k.a. The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation) and the Registrant (f.k.a.
The New Dun & Bradstreet Corporation) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3
to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, filed August 14, 1998).

..18

Distribution Agreement, dated as of October 28, 1996, among R.H. Donnelley
Corporation (f.k.a. The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation), Cognizant Corporation and
ACNielsen Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(x) to the Annual
Report on Form 10-K of R.H. Donnelley Corporation (f.k.a. The Dun & Bradstreet
Corporation) for the year ended December 31, 1996, file number 1-7155, filed March
27, 1997).

..19

Tax Allocation Agreement, dated as of October 28, 1996, among R.H. Donnelley
Corporation (f.k.a. The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation), Cognizant Corporation and
ACNielsen Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(y) to the Annual
Report on Form 10-K of R.H. Donnelley Corporation (f.k.a. The Dun & Bradstreet
Corporation) for the year ended December 31, 1996, file number 1-7155, filed March
27, 1997).

..20

Employee Benefits Agreement, dated as of October 28, 1996, among R.H. Donnelley
Corporation (f.k.a. The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation), Cognizant Corporation and
ACNielsen Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(z) to the Annual
Report on Form 10-K of R.H. Donnelley Corporation (f.k.a. The Dun & Bradstreet
Corporation) for the year ended December 31, 1996, file number 1-7155, filed March
27, 1997).



..21

Indemnity and Joint Defense Agreement, dated as of October 28, 1996, among R.H.
Donnelley Corporation (f.k.a. The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation), Cognizant
Corporation and ACNielsen Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(aa)
to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of R.H. Donnelley Corporation
(f.k.a. The Dun &
Bradstreet Corporation) for the year ended December 31, 1996, file number 1-7155,
filed March 27, 1997).

..22

Separation Agreement and General Release, dated as of April 10, 2001, between
Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. and Donald Noe (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 to the Report on Form 10-Q of the Registrant, file number 1-14037,
filed May 15, 2001).

..23

Separation Agreement and General Release, dated as of April 10, 2001, between
Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. and Kenneth J. H. Pinkes (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Report on Form 10-Q of the Registrant, file
number 1-14037, filed May 15, 2001).

..24

Agreement and Plan of Merger and Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of February
10, 2002, by and among Moody’s Corporation, XYZ Acquisition LLC, KMV LLC, KMV
Corporation and the principal members of KMV LLC and the shareholders of KMV
Corporation identified therein. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the
Report on Form 8-K of the Registrant, file number 1-14037, filed February 22,
2002).

..25*

Note Purchase
Agreement, dated as of October 3, 2000, among the Registrant and
the purchasers named therein.

..26*

Form of 7.61% Senior
Notes due 2005 (included in Exhibit 10.25 hereto).

21*

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT List of Active Subsidiaries as of February 28, 2003.

23*

CONSENTS OF EXPERTS AND COUNSEL Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.


ADDITIONAL EXHIBITS

1*

Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section
906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

2*

Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section
906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

*

Filed herewith

66