Item 1. BUSINESS

(Dollar amounts in millions, except for per share data, unless otherwise stated)

General

The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, “The Hartford” or the
“Company”) is an insurance and financial services company. The Hartford, headquartered in
Connecticut, is among the largest providers of investment products and life, property, and casualty
insurance to both individual and business customers in the United States of America. Also, The
Hartford continues to administer business previously sold in Japan and the United Kingdom.
Hartford Fire Insurance Company, founded in 1810, is the oldest of The Hartford’s subsidiaries. At
December 31, 2010, total assets and total stockholders’ equity of The Hartford were $318.3 billion
and $20.3 billion, respectively.

Organization

The Hartford strives to maintain and enhance its position as a market leader within the financial
services industry. The Company sells diverse and innovative products through multiple distribution
channels to consumers and businesses. The Company is continuously seeking to develop and expand its
distribution channels, achieving cost efficiencies through economies of scale and improved
technology, and capitalizes on its brand name and The Hartford Stag Logo, one of the most
recognized symbols in the financial services industry. In 2009, the Company announced it would
focus on its U.S. businesses and suspended sales in Japan and the United Kingdom. In 2010, the
Company announced a customer-oriented strategy and established three divisions Commercial Markets,
Consumer Markets, and Wealth Management. In 2010, the Company announced the sale of two businesses
that are not core to its focus and strategy: its Canadian mutual fund business, Hartford
Investments Canada Corporation, and Specialty Risk Services, LLC, a third-party administrator for
claims administration (scheduled to close in 2011). Going forward, the Company intends to continue
evaluating its businesses and may make additional divestitures of businesses and assets that are
outside its focus or not necessary to the implementation of its strategy.

As a holding company that is separate and distinct from its subsidiaries, The Hartford Financial
Services Group, Inc. has no significant business operations of its own. Therefore, it relies on
the dividends from its insurance companies and other subsidiaries as the principal source of cash
flow to meet its obligations. Additional information regarding the cash flow and liquidity needs
of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. may be found in the Capital Resources and Liquidity
section of Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations (“MD&A”).

The Company maintains a retail mutual fund operation, whereby the Company, through wholly-owned
subsidiaries, provides investment management and administrative services to The Hartford Mutual
Funds, Inc. and The Hartford Mutual Funds II, Inc. (collectively, “mutual funds”), consisting of 52
mutual funds, as of December 31, 2010. The Company charges fees to these mutual funds, which are
recorded as revenue by the Company. These mutual funds are registered with the Securities and
Exchange Commission (“SEC”) under the Investment Company Act of 1940. The mutual funds are owned
by the shareholders of those funds and not by the Company.

Reporting Segments

The Hartford made changes to its reporting segments in 2010 to reflect the manner in which the
Company is currently organized for purposes of making operating decisions and assessing
performance. Accordingly, segment data for prior reporting periods has been adjusted to reflect
the new segment reporting. As a result, the Company created three customer-oriented divisions,
Commercial Markets, Consumer Markets and Wealth Management, conducting business principally in
seven reporting segments. The Hartford includes in Corporate and Other the Company’s debt
financing and related interest expense, as well as other capital raising activities; banking
operations; certain fee income and commission expenses associated with sales of non-proprietary
products by broker-dealer subsidiaries; and certain purchase accounting adjustments and other
charges not allocated to the reporting segments. Also included in Corporate and Other is the
Company’s management of certain property and casualty operations that have discontinued writing new
business and substantially all of the Company’s asbestos and environmental exposures, collectively
referred to as Other Operations.

The following discussion describes the principal products and services, marketing and distribution,
and competition of each of the three divisions of The Hartford. For further discussion on changes
to reporting segments in 2010, as well as financial disclosures on revenues by product, net income
(loss), and assets for each reporting segment, see Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.



Commercial Markets

The Commercial Markets division is organized into two reporting segments; Property & Casualty
Commercial and Group Benefits.

Principal Products and Services

Property & Casualty Commercial provides workers’ compensation, property, automobile, liability and
umbrella coverages under several different products, primarily throughout the U.S, within its
standard commercial lines, which consists of The Hartford’s small commercial and middle market
lines of business. Additionally, a variety of customized insurance products and risk management
services including workers’ compensation, automobile, general liability, professional liability,
fidelity, surety and specialty casualty coverages are offered to large companies through the
segment’s specialty lines.

Standard commercial lines seeks to offer products with more coverage options and customized pricing
based on the policyholder’s individualized risk characteristics. For small businesses, those
businesses whose annual payroll is under $5 and whose revenue and property values are less than $15
each, coverages are bundled as part of a single multi-peril package policy marketed under the
Spectrum name. Medium-sized businesses, companies whose payroll, revenue and property values
exceed the small business definition, are served within middle market. The middle market line of
business provides workers’ compensation, property, automobile, liability, umbrella, marine and
livestock coverages. The sale of Spectrum business owners’ package policies and workers’
compensation policies accounts for the majority of the written premium in the standard commercial
lines.

Within the specialty lines, a significant portion of the specialty casualty business, including
workers’ compensation business, is written through large deductible programs where the insured
typically provides collateral to support loss payments made within their deductible. The specialty
casualty business also provides retrospectively-rated programs where the premiums are adjustable
based on loss experience. Captive and Specialty Programs provide insurance products and services
primarily to captive insurance companies, pools and self-insurance groups. In addition, specialty
lines has provided third-party administrator services for claims administration, integrated
benefits and loss control through Specialty Risk Services, LLC (“SRS”), an indirect wholly-owned
subsidiary of the Company. The Company signed a definitive agreement on December 17, 2010 to sell
SRS.

Group Benefits provides group life, accident and disability coverage, group retiree health and
voluntary benefits to individual members of employer groups, associations, affinity groups and
financial institutions. Group Benefits offers disability underwriting, administration, claims
processing and reinsurance to other insurers and self-funded employer plans. Policies sold in this
segment are generally term insurance, allowing Group Benefits to adjust the rates or terms of its
policies in order to minimize the adverse effect of market trends, declining interest rates, and
other factors. Policies are typically sold with one, two or three-year rate guarantees depending
upon the product.

In addition to the products and services traditionally offered within each of its lines of
business, in 2010 Commercial Markets launched The Hartford Productivity Advantage (“THPA”), a
single-company solution for leave management, integrating the insurer’s short- and long-term group
disability and workers’ compensation insurance with its leave management administration services.

Marketing and Distribution

Standard commercial lines provide insurance products and services through the Company’s home office
located in Hartford, Connecticut, and multiple domestic regional office locations and insurance
centers. The products are marketed nationwide utilizing brokers and independent agents. The
current pace of consolidation within the independent agent and broker distribution channel will
likely continue such that, in the future a larger proportion of written premium will likely be
concentrated among fewer agents and brokers. Additionally the Company offers insurance products to
customers of the payroll service providers through its relationships with major national payroll
companies.

Specialty lines also provide insurance products and services through its home office located in
Hartford, Connecticut and multiple domestic office locations. Specialty lines markets its products
nationwide utilizing a variety of distribution networks including independent retail agents,
brokers and wholesalers.

The Group Benefits distribution network includes an experienced group of Company employees, managed
through a regional sales office system, to distribute its group insurance products and services
through a variety of distribution outlets including brokers, consultants, third-party
administrators and trade associations.

During 2010 the Company launched a nationwide joint sales management effort across standard
commercial lines, specialty lines and Group Benefits, facilitating the marketing of both integrated
and traditional products and services across commercial markets.



Competition

In the small commercial marketplace, The Hartford competes against a number of large national
carriers, as well as regional competitors in certain territories. Competitors include other stock
companies, mutual companies and other underwriting organizations. The small commercial market has
become increasingly competitive as favorable loss costs in the past few years have led carriers to
differentiate themselves through product expansion, price reduction, enhanced service and
cutting-edge technology. Larger carriers such as The Hartford have improved their pricing
sophistication and ease of doing business with agents through the use of predictive modeling tools
and automation which speeds up the process of evaluating a risk and quoting new business.

Written premium growth rates in the small commercial market have slowed and underwriting margins
have deteriorated due to earned pricing decreases, economy-related exposure reductions and
increases in loss cost severity. A number of companies have sought to grow their business by
increasing their underwriting appetite, appointing new agents and expanding business with existing
agents. Also, carriers serving middle market-sized accounts are more aggressively competing for
small commercial accounts as small commercial business has generally been less price-sensitive.

Middle market business is characterized as “high touch” and involves case-by-case underwriting and
pricing decisions. Compared to small commercial lines, the pricing of middle market accounts is
prone to more significant variation or cyclicality over time, with more sensitivity to legislative
and macro-economic forces. The economic downturn which began in 2008 has driven a reduction in
average premium size as shrinking company payrolls, smaller auto fleets, and fewer business
locations depress insurance exposures. Additionally, various state legislative reforms in recent
years designed to control workers compensation indemnity costs have led to rate reductions in many
states. These factors coupled with soft market conditions, characterized by highly competitive
pricing on new business, have resulted in more new business opportunities in the marketplace as
customers shop their policies for a better price. In the face of this competitive environment, The
Hartford continues to maintain a disciplined underwriting approach. To gain a competitive
advantage in this environment, carriers are improving automation with agents and brokers,
increasing pricing sophistication, and enhancing their product offerings. These enhancements
include industry specialization, with The Hartford and other national carriers tailoring products
and services to specific industry verticals such as technology, health care and renewable energy.

Specialty lines is comprised of a diverse group of businesses that operate independently within
their specific industries. These businesses, while somewhat interrelated, have different business
models and operating cycles. Specialty lines competes on an account- by-account basis due to the
complex nature of each transaction. Competition in this market includes other stock companies,
mutual companies, alternative risk sharing groups and other underwriting organizations. The
relatively large size and underwriting capacity of The Hartford provides opportunities not
available to smaller companies. Disciplined underwriting and targeted returns are the objectives
of specialty lines since premium writings may fluctuate based on the segment’s view of perceived
market opportunity.

For specialty casualty businesses, written pricing competition continues to be significant,
particularly for the larger individual accounts. Carriers are protecting their in-force casualty
business by initiating the renewal process well in advance of the policy renewal date, effectively
preventing other carriers from quoting on the business and resulting in fewer new business
opportunities within the marketplace. Within the national account business, as the market
continues to soften, more insureds may opt for guaranteed cost policies in lieu of loss-sensitive
products.

Carriers writing professional liability business are increasingly focused on profitable private,
middle market companies. This trend has continued as the downturn in the economy has led to a
significant drop in the number of initial public offerings, and volatility for all public
companies. Also, carriers’ new business opportunities in the marketplace for directors & officers
and errors & omissions insurance have been significantly influenced by customer perceptions of
financial strength, as investment portfolio losses have had a negative affect on the financial
strength ratings of some insurers.

In the surety business, favorable underwriting results over the past couple of years has led to
increased competition for market share, setting the stage for potential written price declines and
less favorable terms and conditions. Driven by the upheaval in the credit markets, new private
construction activity has declined dramatically, resulting in lower demand for contract surety
business.

Group Benefits competes with numerous other insurance companies and other financial intermediaries
marketing insurance products. This line of business focuses on both its risk management expertise
and economies of scale to derive a competitive advantage. Competitive factors affecting Group
Benefits include the variety and quality of products and services offered, the price quoted for
coverage and services, the Company’s relationships with its third-party distributors, and the
quality of customer service. In addition, active price competition continues in the marketplace
resulting in longer rate guarantee periods being offered to customers. Top tier carriers in the
marketplace also offer on-line and self service capabilities to agents and consumers. The
relatively large size and underwriting capacity of the Group Benefits business provides
opportunities not available to smaller companies.

In the commercial marketplace, generally soft market conditions and a weak economy has prompted
carriers to offer differentiated products and services as a means of gaining a competitive
advantage. In addition to the initiatives specific to each of The Hartford’s Commercial Markets’
lines of business noted above, the Company is leveraging its diverse product, service and
distribution capabilities to deliver differentiated value in the market, while simultaneously
increasing its ability to access to its own diverse customer base.



Consumer Markets

The Consumer Markets division constitutes the reporting segment.

Principal Products and Services

Consumer Markets provides standard automobile, homeowners and home-based business coverages to
individuals across the United States, including a special program designed exclusively for members
of AARP (“AARP Program”). The Hartford’s auto and homeowners products provide coverage options and
customized pricing tailored to a customer’s individual risk Although The Hartford has individual
customer relationships with AARP Program policyholders, as a group these customers represent a
significant portion of the total Consumer Markets business. Business sold direct to AARP members
amounted to earned premiums of $2.9 billion, $2.8 billion and $2.8 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008,
respectively. Consumer Markets also operates a member contact center for health insurance products
offered through the AARP Health program, which is in place through 2018.

Marketing and Distribution

Consumer Markets reaches diverse customers through multiple distribution channels including direct
sales to the consumer, brokers and independent agents. In direct sales to the consumer, the
Company markets its products through a mix of media, including direct marketing, the internet and
advertising in publications. Most of Consumer Markets’ direct sales to the consumer are associated
with its exclusive licensing arrangement with AARP to market automobile, homeowners and home-based
business insurance products to AARP’s nearly 37 million members. The Hartford’s exclusive
licensing arrangement with AARP continues until January 1, 2020 for automobile, homeowners and
home-based business. This agreement provides Consumer Markets with an important competitive
advantage given the number of “baby boomers” over age 50 many of whom become AARP members during
this period.

The agency channel provides customized products and services to customers through a network of
independent agents in the standard personal lines market. These independent agents are not
employees of The Hartford. An important strategic objective of the Company is to develop common
products and processes for all of its personal lines business regardless of the distribution
channel. In 2010, the Company continued the rollout of its new Open Road Advantage Product and,
as of December 31, 2010, this product was sold in 33 states across the Company’s distribution
channels, including directly to AARP members, through independent agents to both AARP members and
non-members and directly to non-members. In 2009, Consumer Markets piloted mass marketing direct
to the consumer without the benefit of an affinity partnership. In 2010, Consumer Markets changed
its strategy away from mass marketing to targeting specific customer groups, including individuals
in the over 40 age group, and writing business through affinities other than AARP. The Company
entered into an affinity agreement with American Kennel Club effective January 1, 2011 and expects
to enter into additional affinity arrangements in 2011.

Competition

The personal lines automobile and homeowners businesses are highly competitive. Personal lines
insurance is written by insurance companies of varying sizes that compete on the basis of price,
product, service (including claims handling), stability of the insurer and brand recognition.
Companies with recognized brands, direct sales capability and economies of scale will have a
competitive advantage. In recent years, a number of carriers have increased their advertising in
an effort to gain new business and retain profitable business. This has been particularly true of
carriers that sell directly to the consumer. Industry sales of personal lines insurance direct to
the consumer have been growing faster than sales through agents, particularly for auto insurance.

Carriers that distribute products mainly through agents have been competing by offering agents
increased commissions and additional incentives to attract new business. To distinguish themselves
in the marketplace, top tier carriers are offering on-line and self service capabilities to agents
and consumers. More agents have been using “comparative rater” tools that allow the agent to
compare premium quotes among several insurance companies. The use of comparative rater tools has
further increased price competition. Carriers with more efficient cost structures will have an
advantage in competing for new business through price. The use of data mining and predictive
modeling is used by more and more carriers to target the most profitable business and, carriers
have further segmented their pricing plans to expand market share in what they believe to be the
most profitable segments. Some companies, including The Hartford, have written a greater
percentage of their new business in preferred market segments which tend to have better loss
experience but also lower average premiums.

Wealth Management

The Wealth Management division consists of the following reporting segments: Global Annuity, Life
Insurance, Retirement Plans and Mutual Funds. Wealth Management provides investment products for
over 7 million customers and life insurance for approximately 716,000 customers.

As part of the Company’s strategic decision to focus on its U.S. businesses, the Company suspended
all new sales in its Japan and European operations in the second quarter of 2009 and divested its
Brazil joint venture, Canadian mutual fund business and its offshore insurance business in 2010.



Principal Products and Services

Global Annuity offers individual variable, fixed market value adjusted (“fixed MVA”) and single
premium immediate annuities in the U.S., a range of products to institutional investors, including
but not limited to, stable value contracts and institutional annuities, and administers
investments, retirement savings and other insurance and savings products to individuals and groups
outside the U.S., primarily in Japan and Europe.

Life Insurance sells a variety of life insurance products, including variable universal life,
universal life, and term life, as well as variable private placement life insurance (“PPLI”) owned
by corporations and high net worth individuals.

Retirement Plans provides products and services to corporations, municipalities, and not-for-profit
organizations pursuant to Sections 401(k), 457 and 403(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (the “Code”), respectively.

Mutual Funds offers retail mutual funds, investment-only mutual funds and college savings plans
under Section 529 of the Code (collectively referred to as non-proprietary) and proprietary mutual
funds.

Marketing and Distribution

Global Annuity’s distribution network includes national and regional broker-dealer organizations,
banks and other financial institutions and independent financial advisors. The Company
periodically negotiates provisions and terms of its relationships with unaffiliated parties. The
Company’s primary wholesaler of its individual annuities is Hartford Life Distributors, LLC, and
its affiliate, PLANCO, LLC (collectively “HLD”) which are indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries of
Hartford Life, Inc. HLD provides sales support to registered representatives, financial planners
and broker-dealers at brokerage firms and banks across the United States.

Life Insurance’s distribution network includes national and regional broker-dealer organizations,
banks, independent agents, independent life and property-casualty agents, and Woodbury Financial
Services, an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary retail broker-dealer. PPLI’s distribution network
includes: specialized brokers with expertise in the large case market; financial advisors that work
with individual investors; investment banking and wealth management specialists; benefits
consulting firms; investment consulting firms employed by retirement plan sponsors; and The
Hartford employees.

Retirement Plans distribution network includes Company employees with extensive retirement
experience selling its products and services through national and regional broker-dealer firms,
banks and other financial institutions.

Mutual Fund sales professionals are segmented into two teams; a retail team and an institutional
team. The retail team distributes The Hartford’s open-end funds and 529 College Savings funds to
national and regional broker-dealer organizations, banks and other financial institutions,
independent financial advisors and registered investment advisors. The institutional team
distributes The Hartford’s funds to professional buyers, such as broker-dealer wrap, consultants,
record keepers, and bank trust groups.

Competition

Global Annuity competes with other life insurance companies, as well as certain banks, securities
brokerage firms, independent financial advisors, asset managers, and other financial intermediaries
marketing annuities, mutual funds and other retirement-oriented products. Product sales are
affected by competitive factors such as investment performance ratings, product design, visibility
in the marketplace, financial strength ratings, distribution capabilities, levels of charges and
credited rates, reputation and customer service. Global Annuity’s U.S. annuity deposits continue
to decline due to competitive activity and the Company’s product and risk decisions. Many
competitors have responded to the equity market volatility by increasing the price of their living
benefit products and changing the level of the guarantee offered. Management believes that the most
significant industry de-risking changes have occurred. In 2010, the Company transitioned to a new
variable annuity product designed to meet customers future income needs while abiding by the risk
tolerances of the Company.

Life Insurance competes with other life insurance companies in the United States, as well as other
financial intermediaries marketing insurance products. Product sales are affected primarily by the
availability and price of reinsurance, volatility in the equity markets, breadth and quality of
life insurance products being offered, pricing, relationships with third-party distributors,
effectiveness of wholesaling support, and the quality of underwriting and customer service. The
individual life industry continues to see a distribution shift away from the traditional life
insurance sales agents to the consultative financial advisor as the place people go to buy their
life insurance. Life Insurance’s regional sales office system is a differentiator in the market and
allows it to compete effectively across multiple distribution outlets.

Retirement Plans compete with other insurance carriers, large investment brokerage companies and
large mutual fund companies. The 401(k), 457, and 403(b) products offer mutual funds wrapped in
variable annuities, variable funding agreements, or mutual fund retirement products. Plan sponsors
seek a diversity of available funds and favorable fund performance. Consolidation among industry
providers has continued as competitors increase scale advantages.

Mutual Funds compete with other mutual fund companies along with investment brokerage companies and
differentiate themselves through product solutions, performance, and service. In this
non-proprietary broker sold market, the Company and its competitors compete aggressively for net
sales.



Reserves

The Hartford establishes and carries as liabilities reserves for its insurance products to estimate
for the following:

•

a liability for unpaid losses, including those that have been incurred but not yet
reported, as well as estimates of all expenses associated with processing and settling these
claims;

•

a liability equal to the balance that accrues to the benefit of the Wealth Management
insurance policyholder as of the consolidated financial statement date, otherwise known as the
account value;

•

a liability for future policy benefits, representing the present value of future benefits
to be paid to or on behalf of policyholders less the present value of future net premiums;

•

fair value reserves for living benefits embedded derivative guarantees; and

•

death and living benefit reserves which are computed based on a percentage of revenues less
actual claim costs.

Further discussion of The Hartford’s property and casualty insurance product reserves, including
asbestos and environmental claims reserves, may be found in Part II, Item 7, MD&A — Critical
Accounting Estimates — Property and Casualty Insurance Product Reserves, Net of Reinsurance.
Additional discussion may be found in the Company’s accounting policies for insurance product
reserves within Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Reinsurance

The Hartford cedes insurance risk to reinsurance companies for both its property and casualty and
life insurance products. Ceded reinsurance does not relieve The Hartford of its primary liability
and, as such, failure of reinsurers to honor their obligations could result in losses to The
Hartford. For further discussion, see Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

For property and casualty insurance products, reinsurance arrangements are intended to provide
greater diversification of business and limit The Hartford’s maximum net loss arising from large
risks or catastrophes. A major portion of The Hartford’s property and casualty insurance product
reinsurance is effected under general reinsurance contracts known as treaties, or, in some
instances, is negotiated on an individual risk basis, known as facultative reinsurance. The
Hartford also has in-force excess of loss contracts with reinsurers that protect it against a
specified part or all of a layer of losses over stipulated amounts. For further discussion on
property and casualty insurance product reinsurance, see Part II, Item 7, MD&A — Insurance Risk —
Reinsurance.

For life insurance products, The Hartford is involved in both the cession and assumption of
insurance with other insurance and reinsurance companies. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the
Company’s policy for the largest amount of life insurance retained on any one life by any one of
its operations was $10. The Company also assumes reinsurance from other insurers. For the years
ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Company did not make any significant changes in the
terms under which reinsurance is ceded to other insurers. In addition, the Company has reinsured a
portion of the risk associated with U.S. minimum death benefit guarantees, Japan’s guaranteed
minimum death, as well as U.S. guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits offered in connection with
its variable annuity contracts. For further discussion on reinsurance, see Part II, Item 7, MD&A
— Market Risk — Variable Product Equity Risk.

Investment Operations

The majority of the Company’s investment portfolios are managed by Hartford Investment Management
Company (“HIMCO”). HIMCO manages the portfolios to maximize economic value, while attempting to
generate the income necessary to support the Company’s various product obligations, within
internally established objectives, guidelines and risk tolerances. The portfolio objectives and
guidelines are developed based upon the asset/liability profile, including duration, convexity and
other characteristics within specified risk tolerances. The risk tolerances considered include,
for example, asset and credit issuer allocation limits, maximum portfolio below investment grade
holdings and foreign currency exposure. The Company attempts to minimize adverse impacts to the
portfolio and the Company’s results of operations from changes in economic conditions through asset
allocation limits, asset/liability duration matching and through the use of derivatives. For
further discussion of HIMCO’s portfolio management approach, see the Investment Credit Risk Section
of the MD&A.

In addition to managing the general account assets of the Company, HIMCO is also a SEC registered
investment adviser for third party institutional clients, a sub-advisor for certain mutual funds
and serves as the sponsor and collateral manager for capital markets transactions. HIMCO
specializes in investment management that incorporates proprietary research and active management
within a disciplined risk framework that seeks to provide value added returns versus peers and
benchmarks. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the fair value of HIMCO’s total assets under
management was approximately $159.7 billion and $144.0 billion, respectively, of which $8.7 billion
and $8.1 billion, respectively, were held in HIMCO managed third party accounts.



Risk Management

The Company has an independent enterprise risk management function (“ERM”) whose responsibility it
is to provide a comprehensive, in depth, and transparent view of the Company’s risk on an
aggregated basis and to ensure the Company’s risks remain within tolerance. ERM is led by the
Chief Risk Officer who reports to the Chief Executive Officer. ERM is staffed with risk
professionals focused on insurance risk, investment risk, market risk, and operational risk. The
mission of ERM is to support the Company in achieving its strategic priorities within an agreed
upon risk profile by providing a comprehensive view of the risks facing the Company, including risk
concentrations and correlations; helping management define the Company’s risk tolerances through
the evaluation of the risk return profile of the business relative to the Company’s strategic
intent and financial underpinnings; and monitoring and communicating the Company’s risk exposures
relative to set tolerances and recommending/implementing appropriate mitigation where applicable.

The Company maintains an internal Enterprise Risk and Capital Committee (“ERCC”), which includes
the Company’s Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”), Chief Risk Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief
Investment Officer, the Presidents and Chief Operating Officers of Commercial Markets, Consumer
Markets, and Wealth Management and the Company’s General Counsel. The ERCC, which is chaired by the
CEO, meets regularly to manage the Company’s strategic risk profile and risk management activities
across the organization; approve financial and investment strategies along with the methodology to
attribute capital among business lines; determine the Company’s capital structure; and establish
the Company’s risk management framework, limits, and standards.

The Board as a whole has ultimate responsibility for risk oversight. It exercises its oversight
function through its standing committees, each of which has primary risk oversight responsibility
with respect to all matters within the scope of its duties as contemplated by its charter. The
Finance, Investment and Risk Management Committee (“FIRMCo”), which consists of all members of the
Board, has responsibility for oversight of all risks that do not fall within the oversight
responsibility of any other standing committee. Together, these committees oversee and assess
general risk management activities, investment activities and financial management of the Company
and its subsidiaries. They review the Company’s risk management framework and enterprise policies
related to governance and provide a forum for discussion between management and the Board on risk
and risk-related matters.

Regulation

Insurance companies are subject to comprehensive and detailed regulation and supervision throughout
the United States. The extent of such regulation varies, but generally has its source in statutes
which delegate regulatory, supervisory and administrative powers to state insurance departments.
Such powers relate to, among other things, the standards of solvency that must be met and
maintained; the licensing of insurers and their agents; the nature of and limitations on
investments; establishing premium rates; claim handling and trade practices; restrictions on the
size of risks which may be insured under a single policy; deposits of securities for the benefit of
policyholders; approval of policy forms; periodic examinations of the affairs of companies; annual
and other reports required to be filed on the financial condition of companies or for other
purposes; fixing maximum interest rates on life insurance policy loans and minimum rates for
accumulation of surrender values; and the adequacy of reserves and other necessary provisions for
unearned premiums, unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses and other liabilities, both reported
and unreported.

Most states have enacted legislation that regulates insurance holding company systems such as The
Hartford. This legislation provides that each insurance company in the system is required to
register with the insurance department of its state of domicile and furnish information concerning
the operations of companies within the holding company system that may materially affect the
operations, management or financial condition of the insurers within the system. All transactions
within a holding company system affecting insurers must be fair and equitable. Notice to the
insurance departments is required prior to the consummation of transactions affecting the ownership
or control of an insurer and of certain material transactions between an insurer and any entity in
its holding company system. In addition, certain of such transactions cannot be consummated
without the applicable insurance department’s prior approval. In the jurisdictions in which the
Company’s insurance company subsidiaries are domiciled, the acquisition of more than 10% of The
Hartford’s outstanding common stock would require the acquiring party to make various regulatory
filings.

Certain of the Company’s life insurance subsidiaries sell variable life insurance, variable
annuity, and some fixed guaranteed products that are “securities” registered with the SEC under the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Some of the products have separate accounts that are
registered as investment companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940 and/or are regulated by
state law. Separate account investment products are also subject to state insurance regulation.
Moreover, each separate account is generally divided into sub-accounts, some of which invest in
underlying mutual funds which are themselves registered as investment companies under the
Investment Company Act of 1940 (“Underlying Funds”). The Company offers these Underlying Funds and
retail mutual funds that are registered with and regulated by the SEC.

In addition, other subsidiaries of the Company are involved in the offering, selling and
distribution of the Company’s variable insurance products, Underlying Funds and retail mutual funds
as broker dealers and are subject to regulation promulgated and enforced by the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”), the SEC and/or in, some instances, state securities administrators.
Other entities operate as investment advisers registered with the SEC under the Investment
Advisers Act of 1940 and are registered as investment advisers under certain state laws, as
applicable. One subsidiary is an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of
1940. Because federal and state laws and regulations are primarily intended to protect investors
in securities markets, they generally grant regulators broad rulemaking and enforcement authority.
Some of these regulations include among other things regulations impacting sales methods, trading
practices, suitability of investments, use and safekeeping of customers’ funds, corporate
governance, capital, record keeping, and reporting requirements.



The extent of insurance regulation on business outside the United States varies significantly among
the countries in which The Hartford operates. Some countries have minimal regulatory requirements,
while others regulate insurers extensively. Foreign insurers in certain countries are faced with
greater restrictions than domestic competitors domiciled in that particular jurisdiction. The
Hartford’s international operations are comprised of insurers licensed in their respective
countries.

In 2009, the Company acquired Federal Trust Corporation, a thrift holding company, and as a result
is subject to regulations by the Office of Thrift Supervision (“OTS”). Under the Dodd-Frank Act,
the OTS will be dissolved. The Federal Reserve will assume regulatory authority over our holding
company, and our thrift subsidiary, Federal Trust Bank, will be regulated by the Office of
Controller of the Currency (“OCC”).

Failure to comply with federal and state laws and regulations may result in censure, fines, the
issuance of cease-and-desist orders or suspension, termination or limitation of the activities of
our operations and/or our employees. We cannot predict the impact of these actions on our
businesses, results of operations or financial condition.

Intellectual Property

We rely on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret
laws to establish and protect our intellectual property.

We have a worldwide trademark portfolio that we consider important in the marketing of our products
and services, including, among others, the trademarks of The Hartford name, the Stag Logo and the
combination of these two marks. The duration of trademark registrations varies from country to
country and may be renewed indefinitely subject to country-specific use and registration
requirements. We regard our trademarks as extremely valuable assets in marketing our products and
services and vigorously seek to protect them against infringement.

Employees

The Hartford had approximately 26,800 employees as of December 31, 2010.

Available Information

The Hartford makes available, free of charge, on or through its Internet website
(http://www.thehartford.com) The Hartford’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form
10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after The Hartford
electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. These reports may be read and
copied at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549 or by calling
the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition the SEC maintains an internet website (http://sec.gov) that
contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that
file electronically with the SEC.

