Item 1. BUSINESS

(Dollar amounts in millions, except for per share data, unless otherwise stated)

General

The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, “The Hartford” or the
“Company”) is an insurance and financial services company. The Hartford, headquartered in
Connecticut, is among the largest providers of investment products, individual life, group life and
group disability insurance products, and property and casualty insurance products in the United
States of America. Hartford Fire Insurance Company, founded in 1810, is the oldest of The
Hartford’s subsidiaries. The Hartford writes its business primarily in the United States of
America. During the second quarter of 2009, the Company acquired Federal Trust Corporation and
became a savings and loan holding company. At December 31, 2009, total assets and total
stockholders’ equity of The Hartford were $307.7 billion and $17.9 billion, respectively.

Organization

The Hartford strives to maintain and enhance its position as a market leader within the financial
services industry. The Company sells diverse and innovative products through multiple distribution
channels to consumers and businesses. The Company is continuously seeking to develop and expand
its distribution channels, achieving cost efficiencies through economies of scale and improved
technology, and capitalizes on its brand name and The Hartford Stag Logo, one of the most
recognized symbols in the financial services industry.

As a holding company that is separate and distinct from its subsidiaries, The Hartford Financial
Services Group, Inc. has no significant business operations of its own. Therefore, it relies on
the dividends from its insurance companies and other subsidiaries as the principal source of cash
flow to meet its obligations. Additional information regarding the cash flow and liquidity needs
of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. may be found in the Capital Resources and Liquidity
section of Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations (“MD&A”).

The Company maintains a retail mutual fund operation, whereby the Company, through wholly-owned
subsidiaries, provides investment management and administrative services to series of The Hartford
Mutual Funds, Inc.; The Hartford Mutual Funds II, Inc.; and The Hartford Income Shares Fund, Inc.
(collectively, “mutual funds”), consisting of 52 mutual funds and 1 closed-end fund, as of December
31, 2009. The Company charges fees to these funds, which are recorded as revenue by the Company.
These mutual funds are registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) under the
Investment Company Act of 1940. The Company, through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, also provides
investment management and administrative services (for which it receives revenue) for 18 mutual
funds established under the laws of the Province of Ontario, Canada, and registered with the
Ontario Securities Commission.

The mutual funds are owned by the shareholders of those funds and not by the Company. As such, the
mutual fund assets and liabilities and related investment returns are not reflected in the
Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements since they are not assets, liabilities and operations
of the Company.

Reporting Segments

The Hartford is organized into two major operations: Life and Property & Casualty, each containing
reporting segments. Within the Life and Property & Casualty operations, The Hartford conducts
business principally in eleven reporting segments. Corporate primarily includes the Company’s debt
financing and related interest expense, as well as other capital raising activities, banking
operations and certain purchase accounting adjustments.

The following is a discussion of Life and Property & Casualty operations, including principal
products, distribution, and competition. For financial disclosures on revenues by product, profit
and loss, and assets for each reporting segment, see Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.

Life Segments

Life is organized into six reporting segments, Retail Products Group (“Retail”), Individual Life,
Group Benefits, Retirement Plans, International and Institutional Solutions Group
(“Institutional”). Life’s Other category includes: leveraged private placement life insurance;
corporate items not directly attributable to any of its reporting segments; the mark-to-mark
adjustment for international variable annuity account assets that are classified as equity
securities, trading, and related change in interest credited; and intersegment eliminations.

For disclosures of assets under management, account values, fully insured ongoing premiums, life
insurance in-force and net investment spread, see Part II, Item 7, MD&A, Key Performance Measures
and Ratios and the respective segment discussions. Life provides
investment products for approximately 7
million customers; life insurance for approximately 753,000 customers, group benefits products for
millions of individuals, and maintains in-force annuity products for approximately 485,000
International customers.



Life Principal Products

Retail provides variable and fixed individual annuities with living and death benefit guarantees,
mutual funds and 529 plans in the United States. In October 2009, the Company launched a new
variable annuity product designed to meet customer needs for growth and income within the risk
tolerances of The Hartford which is replacing its guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit product.

Individual Life provides variable universal life, universal life, interest sensitive whole life and
term life insurance products to affluent, emerging affluent and business life insurance clients.

Group Benefits provides group life, accident and disability coverage, group retiree health and
voluntary benefits to individual members of employer groups, associations, affinity groups and
financial institutions. Group Benefits offers disability underwriting, administration, claims
processing services and reinsurance to other insurers and self-funded employer plans. Policies
sold in this segment are generally term insurance allowing Group Benefits to adjust the rates or
terms of its policies in order to minimize the adverse effect of market trends, declining interest
rates, and other factors. Policies are typically sold with one-, two- or three-year rate
guarantees depending upon the product.

Retirement Plans provides retirement products and services, including asset management and plan
administration, to small and medium-size corporations pursuant to Section 401(k) of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (“401(k)”). Retirement also provides retirement products and
services, including asset management and plan administration, to municipalities and not-for-profit
organizations pursuant to Section 457 and 403(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended
(“457 and 403(b)”). In 2008, Retirement completed three acquisitions. Return on assets was lower
for Retirement Plans overall in 2009 reflecting in part, a full year of the new business mix
represented by the acquisitions, which includes larger, more institutionally priced plans,
predominantly executed on a mutual fund platform, and the cost of maintaining multiple technology
platforms during the integration period.

International, with operations in Japan, Brazil, Ireland, Canada, and the United Kingdom, provides
investments, retirement savings and other insurance and savings products to individuals and groups
outside the United States. During the second quarter of 2009, the Company suspended all new sales
in the Japan and European operations. International is currently completing its restructuring of
its operations to maximize profitability and capital efficiency while continuing to focus on risk
management and maintaining appropriate service levels for in-force policies. In the fourth quarter
of 2009, International has entered into an agreement to divest its Brazil joint venture.

Institutional, prior to the fourth quarter of 2009, provided variable private placement life
insurance (“PPLI”), structured settlements, institutional annuities, longevity assurance, income
annuities, institutional mutual funds and stable value investment products. In the fourth quarter
of 2009, the Company completed a strategic review of the Institutional business and has decided to
exit several businesses that have been determined to be outside of the Company’s core business
model. Institutional PPLI, mutual funds, income annuities and certain institutional annuities will
continue to be managed for growth. The private placement life insurance industry (including the
corporate-owned and bank-owned life insurance markets) has experienced a slowdown in sales due to,
among other things, limited availability of stable value wrap providers. We believe that the
Company’s current PPLI assets will experience high persistency, but our ability to grow this
business in the future will be affected by near term market and industry challenges. Structured
settlements, guaranteed investment products, and most institutional annuities will not be actively
marketed, however, certain guaranteed investment products, such as funding agreements, may be
offered on a selective basis.

Life Distribution

Retail’s distribution network includes national and regional broker-dealer organizations, banks and
other financial institutions and independent financial advisors. Life periodically negotiates
provisions and terms of its relationships with unaffiliated parties, and there can be no assurance
that such terms will remain acceptable to Life or such third parties. Life’s primary wholesaler of
its individual annuities is Hartford Life Distributors, LLC, and its affiliate, PLANCO, LLC
(collectively “HLD”) which are indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries of Hartford Life. HLD provides
sales support to registered representatives, financial planners and broker-dealers at brokerage
firms and banks across the United States. As part of the Company’s assessment of its opportunities
in the variable annuity marketplace it significantly scaled back its HLD operations in 2009.

Individual Life’s distribution network includes national and regional broker-dealer organizations,
banks, independent agents, independent life and property-casualty agents, and Woodbury Financial
Services, an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary retail broker-dealer. To wholesale Life’s products,
Life has a group of highly qualified life insurance professionals with specialized training in
sophisticated life insurance sales.

Group Benefits distribution network includes an experienced group of Company employees, managed
through a regional sales office system, to distribute its group insurance products and services
through a variety of distribution outlets, including brokers, consultants, third-party
administrators and trade associations.

Retirement Plans distribution network includes Company employees with extensive experience selling
its products and services through national and regional broker-dealer firms, banks and other
financial institutions.

International’s distribution network, prior to the second quarter of 2009, included broker-dealer
organizations, banks and other financial institutions and independent financial advisors.
International suspended sales in the second quarter of 2009 in Japan and the U.K.



Institutional’s distribution network includes: specialized brokers, with expertise in the large
case market; financial advisors that work with individual investors; investment banking and wealth
management specialists; benefits consulting firms; investment consulting firms employed by
retirement plan sponsors; and Hartford employees.

Life Competition

Retail and Retirement compete with numerous other insurance companies as well as certain banks,
securities brokerage firms, independent financial advisors and other financial intermediaries
marketing annuities, mutual funds and other retirement-oriented products. Product sales are
affected by competitive factors such as investment performance ratings, product design, visibility
in the marketplace, financial strength ratings, distribution capabilities, levels of charges and
credited rates, reputation and customer service.

Retail’s annuity deposits continue to decline resulting from the recent equity market volatility
and competition. Many competitors have responded to the recent equity market volatility by
increasing the price of their living benefit products and changing the level of the guarantee
offered. Management believes that the most significant industry de-risking changes have occurred.
However, competitors continue to sell annuity products with significant guarantees. In the first
six months of 2009, the Company increased fees on in-force variable annuity guarantees in order to
address the risks and costs associated with variable annuity benefit features. The Company
continues to explore other risk limiting techniques including product design, hedging and
reinsurance. As part of the Company’s de-risking initiative, the Company is transitioning to a new
variable annuity product designed to meet customers’ future income needs within the risk tolerances
of the Company.

Retail mutual funds compete with other mutual fund companies and differentiate themselves through
product solutions, performance, expenses, wholesaling and service. In this non-proprietary broker
sold market, The Hartford and its competitors compete aggressively for net sales. Success will be
driven by diversifying net sales across the mutual fund platform, delivering superior investment
performance and creating new investment solutions for current and future mutual fund shareholders.

For the 457 and 403(b) as well as the 401(k) markets, which offer mutual funds wrapped in a
variable annuity, variable funding agreement, or mutual fund retirement program, the variety of
available funds and their performance is most important to plan sponsors. The competitors tend to
be the major mutual fund companies. The past few years have seen consolidation among industry
providers seeking to increase scale, improve cost efficiencies, and enter new market segments. The
consolidation of providers is expected to continue as smaller providers exit the market.

Individual Life competes with approximately 1,000 life insurance companies in the United States, as
well as other financial intermediaries marketing insurance products

.

Product sales are affected
primarily by the breadth and quality of life insurance products, pricing, relationships with
third-party distributors, effectiveness of wholesaling support, pricing and availability of
reinsurance, and the quality of underwriting and customer service. The individual life industry
continues to see a distribution shift away from the traditional life insurance sales agents, to the
consultative financial advisor as the place people go to buy their life insurance. Individual
Life’s regional sales office system is a differentiator in the market and allows it to compete
effectively across multiple distribution outlets.

Group Benefits competes with numerous other insurance companies and other financial intermediaries
marketing insurance products. Group Benefits focuses on its risk management expertise and on
efficiencies and economies of scale to derive a competitive advantage. Competitive factors
primarily affecting Group Benefits are the variety and quality of products and services offered,
the price quoted for coverage and services, Life’s relationships with its third-party distributors,
and the quality of customer service. In addition, active price competition continues in the
marketplace resulting in longer rate guarantee periods being offered to customers. Top tier
carriers in the marketplace also offer on-line and self service capabilities to agents and
consumers. The relatively large size and underwriting capacity of the Group Benefits business
provides opportunities not available to smaller companies.

Institutional competes with other life insurance companies and asset managers who provide
investment and risk management solutions. Product sales are often affected by competitive factors
such as investment performance, company credit ratings, perceived financial strength, product
design, marketplace visibility, distribution capabilities, fees, credited rates, and customer
service. In 2009, ratings agency downgrades, as well as changes in the Company’s strategic business
model, limited Institutional sales and resulted in the Company exiting certain markets. For
institutional mutual funds, the variety of available funds, fee levels, and fund performance are
most important to plan sponsors and investment consultants. Competitors tend to be the major
mutual fund companies, insurance companies, and asset managers.



Property & Casualty Segments

Property & Casualty is organized into five reporting segments: the underwriting segments of
Personal Lines, Small Commercial, Middle Market and Specialty Commercial (collectively “Ongoing
Operations”); and the Other Operations segment. For a discussion of Property & Casualty operations
including segment performance, see Part II, Item 7, MD&A, Key Performance Measures and Ratios and
the respective segment discussions.

Property & Casualty Principal Products

Property & Casualty provides (1) workers’ compensation, property, automobile, liability, umbrella,
specialty casualty, marine, livestock and fidelity and surety coverages to commercial accounts
primarily throughout the United States; (2) professional liability coverage and directors and
officers liability coverage; (3) automobile, homeowners and home-based business coverage to
individuals throughout the United States; and (4) insurance-related services.

The Hartford seeks to distinguish itself in the property and casualty market through its product
depth and innovation, distribution capacity, customer service expertise, and technology for ease of
doing business.

Personal Lines provides standard automobile, homeowners and home-based business coverages to
individuals across the United States, including a special program designed exclusively for members
of AARP. Over the past three years, The Hartford rolled out new auto and homeowners products with
more coverage options and customized pricing tailored to a customer’s individual risk. AARP
represents a significant portion of the total Personal Lines business and amounted to earned
premiums of $2.8 billion in both 2009 and 2008 and $2.7 billion in 2007. Personal Lines also
operates a member contact center for health insurance products offered through the AARP Health
program. In July, 2009, the Company extended the AARP Health program agreement through 2018.

Small Commercial and Middle Market provide workers’ compensation, property, automobile, liability
and umbrella coverages under several different products, primarily throughout the United States.
In Small Commercial, some of these coverages are sold together as part of a single multi-peril
package policy called Spectrum. The sale of Spectrum business owners’ package policies and
workers’ compensation policies accounts for most of the written premium in the Small Commercial
segment. Like Personal Lines, Small Commercial offers a product with more coverage options and
customized pricing based on the policyholder’s individualized risk characteristics. Workers’
compensation insurance accounts for the largest share of the written premium in the Middle Market
segment. Small Commercial businesses generally represent companies with up to $5 in annual
payroll, $15 in annual revenues or $15 in total property values while Middle market businesses
generally represent companies with greater than $5 in annual payroll, $15 in annual revenues or $15
in total property values.

Specialty Commercial offers a variety of customized insurance products and risk management
services. Specialty Commercial provides standard commercial insurance products including workers’
compensation, automobile and liability coverages to large-sized companies. Specialty Commercial
also provides professional liability, fidelity, surety and specialty casualty coverages. A
significant portion of specialty casualty business, including workers’ compensation business, is
written through large deductible programs where the insured typically provides collateral to
support loss payments made within their deductible. The specialty casualty business also provides
retrospectively-rated programs where the premiums are adjustable based on loss experience. Captive
and Specialty Programs within Specialty Commercial, provides insurance products and services
primarily to captive insurance companies, pools and self-insurance groups. In addition, Specialty
Commercial provides third-party administrator services for claims administration, integrated
benefits and loss control through Specialty Risk Services, LLC, a subsidiary of the Company.

The Other Operations segment operates under a single management structure, Heritage Holdings, which
is responsible for two related activities. The first activity is the management of certain
subsidiaries and operations of The Hartford that have discontinued writing new business. The
second is the management of claims (and the associated reserves) related to asbestos, environmental
and other exposures.

Property & Casualty Marketing and Distribution

Personal Lines reaches diverse markets through multiple distribution channels including direct
sales to the consumer, brokers and independent agents. In direct sales to the consumer, the
Company markets its products through a mix of media, including direct marketing, the internet and
advertising in publications. Most of Personal Lines’ direct sales to the consumer are through its
exclusive licensing arrangement with AARP to market automobile, homeowners and home-based business
insurance products to AARP’s nearly 37 million members. The Hartford’s exclusive licensing
arrangement with AARP continues until January 1, 2020 for automobile, homeowners and home-based
business. This agreement provides Personal Lines with an important competitive advantage as
management expects favorable “baby boom” demographics to increase AARP membership during this
period.

The Personal Lines Agency business provides customized products and services to customers through a
network of independent agents in the standard personal lines market. Similar to the other Ongoing
Operations’ segments, these independent agents are not employees of The Hartford. An important
strategic objective of the Company is to develop common products and processes for all of its
personal lines business regardless of the distribution channel. In 2009, the Company began selling
its new Open Road Advantage auto product in 20 states. In those 20 states, the Open Road Advantage
auto product is sold across the Company’s distribution channels, including directly to AARP
members, through independent agents to both AARP members and non-members and directly to
non-members in four pilot states.



Both Small Commercial and Middle Market provide insurance products and services through the
Company’s home office located in Hartford, Connecticut, and multiple domestic regional office
locations and insurance centers. The segments market their products nationwide utilizing brokers
and independent agents. The current pace of consolidation within the independent agent and broker
distribution channel will likely continue such that, in the future, a larger share of written
premium will likely be concentrated with the larger agents and brokers. In Small Commercial, the
Company also has relationships with payroll service providers whereby the Company offers insurance
products to customers of the payroll service providers.

Specialty Commercial provides insurance products and services through its home office located in
Hartford, Connecticut and multiple domestic office locations. The segment markets its products
nationwide utilizing a variety of distribution networks including independent retail agents,
brokers and wholesalers.

Property & Casualty Competition

The personal lines automobile and homeowners businesses are highly competitive. Personal lines
insurance is written by insurance companies of varying sizes that compete on the basis of price,
product, service (including claims handling), stability of the insurer and brand recognition.
Companies with recognized brands, direct sales capability and economies of scale will have a
competitive advantage. In the past three years, a number of carriers have increased their
advertising in an effort to gain new business and retain profitable business. This has been
particularly true of carriers that sell directly to the consumer. Sales of personal lines
insurance directly to the consumer have been growing faster than sales through agents, particularly
for auto insurance, and now sales of auto insurance direct to the consumer represent more than 20%
of total industry auto premium.

Carriers that distribute products mainly through agents have been competing by offering agents
increased commissions and additional incentives to attract new business. To distinguish themselves
in the marketplace, top tier carriers are offering on-line and self service capabilities to agents
and consumers. More agents have been using “comparative rater” tools that allow the agent to
compare premium quotes among several insurance companies. The use of comparative rater tools has
further increased price competition. Carriers with more efficient cost structures will have an
advantage in competing for new business through price. The use of data mining and predictive
modeling is used by more and more carriers to target the most profitable business and, carriers
have further segmented their pricing plans to expand market share in what they believe to be the
most profitable segments. Many insurers have reduced their writings of new homeowners business in
catastrophe-exposed states which has intensified competition in areas that are not subject to the
same level of catastrophes, such as states in the Midwest.

The total market premium for personal auto insurance is expected to grow about 3% in 2010 driven
primarily by increases in written pricing with new passenger vehicle sales expected to be
relatively flat. Despite the sluggish housing market, total market premium for personal homeowners
insurance is expected to increase about 3% to 4% in 2010 driven by rate increases and efforts to
improve insurance-to-value.

The insurance market for small commercial businesses is competitive with insurers seeking to
differentiate themselves through product, price, service and technology. The Hartford competes
against a number of large, national carriers as well as regional competitors in certain
territories. Competitors include other stock companies, mutual companies and other underwriting
organizations.

The market for small commercial business has become more competitive as favorable loss costs in the
past few years have led carriers to expand coverage and reduce pricing. Written premium growth
rates in the small commercial market have slowed and underwriting margins will likely decrease due
to earned pricing decreases and increases in loss cost severity. A number of companies have sought
to grow their business by increasing their underwriting appetite, appointing new agents and
expanding business with existing agents. Carriers serving middle market-sized accounts are more
aggressively competing for small commercial accounts as small commercial business has generally
been less price-sensitive.

Similar to the personal lines market, carriers offering small commercial products have been
improving their pricing sophistication and ease of doing business with the agent including the use
of predictive modeling tools and automation to speed up the process of evaluating a risk and
quoting on new business. As a result, price competition has increased, particularly for larger
accounts within small commercial. The relatively large size and underwriting capacity of The
Hartford provide opportunities not available to smaller insurers.

The middle market commercial insurance marketplace is a highly competitive environment regarding
product, price and service. The Hartford competes against a number of large, national carriers as
well as regional insurers in certain territories. Competitors include other stock companies,
mutual companies and alternative risk sharing groups.

Middle Market business is characterized as “high touch” with case-by-case underwriting and pricing
decisions. As such, compared to Small Commercial, the pricing of Middle Market accounts is prone
to more significant variation or cyclicality from year to year. Legislative reforms in a number of
states in recent years have helped to control indemnity costs on workers’ compensation claims, but
these have also led to rate reductions in many states.

In addition, companies writing middle market business have continued to experience a reduction in
average premium size due to shrinking company payrolls, exposure bases and continued price
competition. These factors coupled with soft market conditions, characterized by highly
competitive pricing on new business, have resulted in more new business opportunities in the
marketplace as customers shop their policies for a better price. Despite additional opportunities,
The Hartford continues to maintain a disciplined underwriting approach. In the soft market, Middle
Market is seeing an increase in industry specialization by agents and brokers which has placed even
greater importance on the carrier’s need to demonstrate industry expertise to win new business. To
gain a competitive advantage, carriers are improving automation with the agent or broker,
appointing more agents and enhancing their product offerings.



Specialty Commercial is comprised of a diverse group of businesses that operate independently
within their specific industries. These businesses, while somewhat interrelated, have different
business models and operating cycles. Specialty Commercial competes with other stock companies,
mutual companies, alternative risk sharing groups and other underwriting organizations for much of
its business on an account by account basis due to the complex nature of each transaction. The
relatively large size and underwriting capacity of The Hartford provide opportunities not available
to smaller companies. Disciplined underwriting and targeted returns are the objectives of
Specialty Commercial since premium writings may fluctuate based on the segment’s view of perceived
market opportunity.

For specialty casualty business, written pricing competition continues to be significant,
particularly for the larger individual accounts. Carriers are trying to protect their in-force
casualty business by starting to renew policies well before the policy renewal date. Employing
this early renewal practice often prevents other carriers from quoting on the business, resulting
in fewer new business opportunities within the marketplace. With national account business, as the
market continues to soften, more insureds may opt for guaranteed cost policies in lieu of
loss-sensitive products.

Carriers writing professional liability business are increasingly more focused on profitable
private, middle market companies. This trend has continued as the downturn in the economy has led
to a significant drop in the number of initial public offerings and volatility for all public
companies. Losses taken on investment portfolios have affected the financial strength ratings of
some insurers in the marketplace for directors and officers and errors and omissions insurance and
a carrier’s new business opportunities can be significantly affected by customer perceptions about
its financial strength.

For surety business, favorable underwriting results within the past couple of years has led to more
intense competition for market share. This could lead to written price declines and less favorable
terms and conditions. Driven by the upheaval in the credit markets, new private construction
activity has declined dramatically, resulting in lower demand for contract surety business.

Life Reserves

Life insurance subsidiaries of the Company establish and carry as liabilities, predominantly, five
types of reserves: (1) a liability equal to the balance that accrues to the benefit of the
policyholder as of the financial statement date, otherwise known as the account value, (2) a
liability for unpaid losses, including those that have been incurred but not yet reported, (3) a
liability for future policy benefits, representing the present value of future benefits to be paid
to or on behalf of policyholders less the present value of future net premiums; (4) fair value
reserves for living benefits embedded derivative guarantees; and (5) death and living benefit
reserves which are computed based on a percentage of revenues less actual claim costs. The
liabilities for unpaid losses and future policy benefits are calculated based on actuarially
recognized methods using morbidity and mortality tables, which are modified to reflect Life’s
actual experience when appropriate. Liabilities for unpaid losses include estimates of amounts to
fully settle known reported claims as well as claims related to insured events that the Company
estimates have been incurred but have not yet been reported. Future policy benefit reserves are
computed at amounts that, with additions from estimated net premiums to be received and with
interest on such reserves compounded annually at certain assumed rates, are expected to be
sufficient to meet Life’s policy obligations at their maturities or in the event of an insured’s
disability or death. Other insurance liabilities include those for unearned premiums and benefits
in excess of account value. Reserves for assumed reinsurance are computed in a manner that is
comparable to direct insurance reserves.

Property & Casualty Reserves

The Hartford establishes property and casualty reserves to provide for the estimated costs of
paying claims under insurance policies written by The Hartford. These reserves include estimates
for both claims that have been reported to The Hartford and those that have been incurred but not
reported (“IBNR”) and include estimates of all expenses associated with processing and settling
these claims. This estimation process involves a variety of actuarial techniques and is primarily
based on historical experience and consideration of current trends.

The Hartford continues to receive claims that assert damages from asbestos-related and
environmental-related exposures. As discussed further in Part II, Item 7, MD&A — Critical
Accounting Estimates, significant uncertainty limits the Company’s ability to estimate the ultimate
reserves necessary for unpaid losses and related expenses with regard to environmental and
particularly asbestos claims.

Most of the Company’s property and casualty reserves are not discounted. However, the Company has
discounted liabilities funded through structured settlements and has discounted certain reserves
for indemnity payments due to permanently disabled claimants under workers’ compensation policies.
For further discussion of the Company’s discounted reserves, see Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.

As of December 31, 2009, net property and casualty reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses
reported under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S.
GAAP”) were approximately equal to net reserves reported on a statutory basis. Under U.S. GAAP,
liabilities for unpaid losses for permanently disabled workers’ compensation claimants are
discounted at rates that are no higher than risk-free interest rates and which generally exceed the
statutory discount rates set by regulators, such that workers’ compensation reserves for statutory
reporting are higher than the reserves for U.S. GAAP reporting. Largely offsetting the effect of
the difference in discounting is that a portion of the U.S. GAAP provision for uncollectible
reinsurance is not recognized under statutory accounting.

Further discussion of The Hartford’s property and casualty reserves, including asbestos and
environmental claims reserves, may be found in Part II, Item 7, MD&A — Critical Accounting
Estimates — Property and Casualty Reserves, Net of Reinsurance.



A reconciliation of liabilities for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses is herein referenced
from Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. A table depicting the historical
development of the liabilities for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, net of reinsurance,
follows.

Loss Development Table

Property And Casualty Loss And Loss Adjustment Expense Liability Development — Net of Reinsurance

For the Years Ended December 31, [1]












Liabilities for unpaid
losses and loss
adjustment expenses,
net of reinsurance

$

12,476

$

12,316

$

12,860

$

13,141

$

16,218

$

16,191

$

16,863

$

17,604

$

18,231

$

18,347

$

18,210

Cumulative paid losses
and loss expenses

One year later

2,994

3,272

3,339

3,480

4,415

3,594

3,702

3,727

3,703

3,771

Two years later

5,019

5,315

5,621

6,781

6,779

6,035

6,122

5,980

5,980

Three years later

6,437

6,972

8,324

8,591

8,686

7,825

7,755

7,544

—

Four years later

7,652

9,195

9,710

10,061

10,075

9,045

8,889

—

—

Five years later

9,567

10,227

10,871

11,181

11,063

9,928

—

—

—

Six years later

10,376

11,140

11,832

12,015

11,821

—

—

—

—

Seven years later

11,137

11,961

12,563

12,672

—

—

—

—

—

Eight years later

11,856

12,616

13,166

—

—

—

—

—

—

Nine years later

12,432

13,167

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Ten years later

12,939

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Liabilities re-estimated

One year later

12,472

12,459

13,153

15,965

16,632

16,439

17,159

17,652

18,005

18,161

Two years later

12,527

12,776

16,176

16,501

17,232

16,838

17,347

17,475

17,858

Three years later

12,698

15,760

16,768

17,338

17,739

17,240

17,318

17,441

—

Four years later

15,609

16,584

17,425

17,876

18,367

17,344

17,497

—

—

Five years later

16,256

17,048

17,927

18,630

18,554

17,570

—

—

—

Six years later

16,568

17,512

18,686

18,838

18,836

—

—

—

—

Seven years later

17,031

18,216

18,892

19,126

—

—

—

—

—

Eight years later

17,655

18,410

19,192

—

—

—

—

—

—

Nine years later

17,841

18,649

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Ten years later

18,055

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Deficiency

(redundancy), net of
reinsurance

$

5,579

$

6,333

$

6,332

$

5,985

$

2,618

$

1,379

$


$

(163

)

$

(373

)

$

(186

)

[1]

The above table excludes Hartford Insurance, Singapore as a result of its sale in September
2001; Hartford Seguros as a result of its sale in February 2001; and Zwolsche as a result of
its sale in December 2000.

The table above shows the cumulative deficiency (redundancy) of the Company’s reserves, net of
reinsurance, as now estimated with the benefit of additional information. Those amounts are
comprised of changes in estimates of gross losses and changes in estimates of related reinsurance
recoveries.

The table below, for the periods presented, reconciles the net reserves to the gross reserves, as
initially estimated and recorded, and as currently estimated and recorded, and computes the
cumulative deficiency (redundancy) of the Company’s reserves before reinsurance.

Property And Casualty Loss And Loss Adjustment Expense Liability Development — Gross

For the Years Ended December 31, [1]











Net reserve, as initially estimated

$

12,316

$

12,860

$

13,141

$

16,218

$

16,191

$

16,863

$

17,604

$

18,231

$

18,347

$

18,210

Reinsurance and other
recoverables, as initially
estimated

3,871

4,176

3,950

5,497

5,138

5,403

4,387

3,922

3,586

3,441

Gross reserve, as initially
estimated

$

16,187

$

17,036

$

17,091

$

21,715

$

21,329

$

22,266

$

21,991

$

22,153

$

21,933

$

21,651

Net re-estimated reserve

$

18,649

$

19,192

$

19,126

$

18,836

$

17,570

$

17,497

$

17,441

$

17,858

$

18,161

Re-estimated and other reinsurance
recoverables

5,644

5,802

5,426

5,348

5,250

5,571

3,997

3,745

3,409

Gross re-estimated reserve

$

24,293

$

24,994

$

24,552

$

24,184

$

22,820

$

23,068

$

21,438

$

21,603

$

21,570

Gross deficiency (redundancy)

$

8,106

$

7,958

$

7,461

$

2,469

$

1,491

$


$

(553

)

$

(550

)

$

(363

)

[1]

The above table excludes Hartford Insurance, Singapore as a result of its sale in September
2001; Hartford Seguros as a result of its sale in February 2001; and Zwolsche as a result of
its sale in December 2000.



The following table is derived from the Loss Development table and summarizes the effect of reserve
re-estimates, net of reinsurance, on calendar year operations for the ten-year period ended
December 31, 2009. The total of each column details the amount of reserve re-estimates made in the
indicated calendar year and shows the accident years to which the re-estimates are applicable. The
amounts in the total accident year column on the far right represent the cumulative reserve
re-estimates during the ten-year period ended December 31, 2009 for the indicated accident year(s).

Effect of Net Reserve Re-estimates on Calendar Year Operations

Calendar Year











Total

By Accident year

1999 & Prior

$

(4

)

$


$


$

2,911

$


$


$


$


$


$


$

5,579


—












—

—

(24

)


(232

)








—

—

—

(199

)

(56

)



(5

)


(12

)

(54

)


—

—

—

—

(122

)

(237

)

(31

)

(126

)

(21

)

(6

)

(543

)


—

—

—

—

—

(352

)

(108

)

(226

)

(83

)

(56

)

(825

)


—

—

—

—

—

—

(103

)

(214

)

(133

)

(47

)

(497

)


—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(140

)

(148

)

(213

)

(501

)


—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(49

)

(113

)

(162

)


—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(39

)

(39

)

Total

$

(4

)

$


$


$

2,824

$


$


$


$


$

(226

)

$

(186

)

$

3,850

During the 2007 calendar year, the Company refined its processes for allocating incurred but not
reported (“IBNR”) reserves by accident year, resulting in a reclassification of $347 of IBNR
reserves from the 2003 to 2006 accident years to the 2002 and prior accident years. This
reclassification of reserves by accident year had no effect on total recorded reserves within any
segment or on total recorded reserves for any line of business within a segment.

Reserve changes for accident years 1999 & Prior

The largest impacts of net reserve re-estimates are shown in the “1999 & Prior” accident years.
The reserve re-estimates in calendar year 2003 include an increase in reserves of $2.6 billion
related to reserve strengthening based on the Company’s evaluation of its asbestos reserves. The
reserve evaluation that led to the strengthening in calendar year 2003 confirmed the Company’s view
of the existence of a substantial long-term deterioration in the asbestos litigation environment.
The reserve re-estimates in calendar years 2004 and 2006 were largely attributable to reductions in
the reinsurance recoverable asset associated with older, long-term casualty liabilities.

Reserve changes for accident year 2000

Prior to calendar year 2006, there was reserve deterioration, spread over several calendar years,
on accident years 2000 and prior driven, in part, by deterioration of reserves for assumed casualty
reinsurance and workers’ compensation claims. Numerous actuarial assumptions on assumed casualty
reinsurance turned out to be low, including loss cost trends, particularly on excess of loss
business, and the impact of deteriorating terms and conditions. Workers’ compensation reserves
also deteriorated, as medical inflation trends were above initial expectations.

Reserve changes for accident years 2001 and 2002

Accident years 2001 and 2002 are reasonably close to original estimates. However, each year shows
some swings by calendar period, with some favorable development prior to calendar year 2005,
largely offset by unfavorable development in calendar years 2005 through 2008. The release for
accident year 2001 during calendar year 2004 relates primarily to reserves for September 11.
Subsequent adverse developments on accident year 2001 relate to assumed casualty reinsurance and
unexpected development on mature claims in both general liability and workers’ compensation.
Reserve releases for accident year 2002 during calendar years 2003 and 2004 come largely from
short-tail lines of business, where results emerge quickly and actual reported losses are
predictive of ultimate losses. Reserve increases on accident year 2002 during calendar year 2005
were recognized, as unfavorable development on accident years prior to 2002 caused the Company to
increase its estimate of unpaid losses for the 2002 accident year.



Reserve changes for accident years 2003 through 2008

Even after considering the 2007 calendar year reclassification of $347 of IBNR reserves from the
2003 to 2006 accident years to the 2002 and prior accident years, accident years 2003 through 2007
show favorable development in calendar years 2004 through 2009. A portion of the release comes
from short-tail lines of business, where results emerge quickly. During calendar year 2005 and
2006, favorable re-estimates occurred in Personal Lines for both loss and allocated loss adjustment
expenses. In addition, catastrophe reserves related to the 2004 and 2005 hurricanes developed
favorably in 2006. During calendar years 2005 through 2008, the Company recognized favorable
re-estimates of both loss and allocated loss adjustment expenses on workers’ compensation claims
driven, in part, by state legal reforms, including in California and Florida, underwriting actions
and expense reduction initiatives that have had a greater impact in controlling costs than was
originally estimated. In 2007, the Company released reserves for Small Commercial package business
claims as reported losses have emerged favorably to previous expectations. In 2007 through 2009,
the Company released reserves for Middle Market general liability claims due to the favorable
emergence of losses for high hazard and umbrella general liability claims. Reserves for
professional liability claims were released in 2008 and 2009 related to the 2003 through 2007
accident years due to a lower estimate of claim severity on both directors’ and officers’ insurance
claims and errors and omissions insurance claims. Reserves of Personal Lines auto liability claims
were released in 2008 due largely to an improvement in emerged claim severity for the 2005 to 2007
accident years.

Ceded Reinsurance

The Hartford cedes insurance risk to reinsurance companies. Reinsurance does not relieve The
Hartford of its primary liability and, as such, failure of reinsurers to honor their obligations
could result in losses to The Hartford. The Hartford evaluates the risk transfer of its
reinsurance contracts, the financial condition of its reinsurers and monitors concentrations of
credit risk. The Company’s monitoring procedures include careful initial selection of its
reinsurers, structuring agreements to provide collateral funds where possible, and regularly
monitoring the financial condition and ratings of its reinsurers. Reinsurance accounting is
followed for ceded transactions that provide indemnification against loss or liability relating to
insurance risk (i.e., risk transfer). For further discussion, see Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements. If the ceded transactions do not provide risk transfer, the Company accounts
for these transactions as financing transactions.

For Property & Casualty operations, these reinsurance arrangements are intended to provide greater
diversification of business and limit The Hartford’s maximum net loss arising from large risks or
catastrophes. A major portion of The Hartford’s property and casualty reinsurance is effected
under general reinsurance contracts known as treaties, or, in some instances, is negotiated on an
individual risk basis, known as facultative reinsurance. The Hartford also has in-force excess of
loss contracts with reinsurers that protect it against a specified part or all of a layer of losses
over stipulated amounts.

In accordance with normal industry practice, Life is involved in both the cession and assumption of
insurance with other insurance and reinsurance companies. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the
Company’s policy for the largest amount of life insurance retained on any one life by the life
operations was $10. In addition, Life has reinsured U.S. minimum death benefit guarantees, Japan’s
guaranteed minimum death and income benefits, as well as U.S. guaranteed minimum withdrawal
benefits offered in connection with its variable annuity contracts. Reinsurance of the Company’s
GMWB riders meet the definition of a derivative reported at fair value: under fair value the change
in fair value of the reinsurance derivative is reported in earnings. Life also assumes reinsurance
from other insurers. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, Life did not make any
significant changes in the terms under which reinsurance is ceded to other insurers. For further
discussion on reinsurance, see Part II, Item 7, MD&A — Capital Markets Risk Management -
Reinsurance.

Investment Operations

The Company’s investment portfolios are primarily divided between Life and Property & Casualty and
are managed by Hartford Investment Management Company (“HIMCO”). HIMCO manages the portfolios to
maximize economic value, while attempting to generate the income necessary to support the Company’s
various product obligations, within internally established objectives, guidelines and risk
tolerances. The portfolio objectives and guidelines are developed based upon the asset/liability
profile, including duration, convexity and other characteristics within specified risk tolerances.
The risk tolerances considered include, for example, asset and credit issuer allocation limits,
maximum portfolio below investment grade holdings and foreign currency exposure. The Company
attempts to minimize adverse impacts to the portfolio and the Company’s results of operations from
changes in economic conditions through asset allocation limits, asset/liability duration matching
and through the use of derivatives. For further discussion of HIMCO’s portfolio management
approach, see Part II, Item 7, MD&A — Investment Credit Risk.

In addition to managing the general account assets of the Company, HIMCO is also an SEC registered
investment advisor for third-party institutional clients, a sub-advisor for certain mutual funds
and serves as the sponsor and collateral manager for capital markets transactions. HIMCO
specializes in investment management that incorporates proprietary research and active management
within a disciplined risk framework to provide value added returns versus peers and benchmarks. As
of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the fair value of HIMCO’s total assets under management was
approximately $144.0 billion and $138.8 billion, respectively, of which $8.1 billion and $7.7
billion, respectively, were held in HIMCO managed third party accounts.



Regulation and Premium Rates

Insurance companies are subject to comprehensive and detailed regulation and supervision throughout
the United States. The extent of such regulation varies, but generally has its source in statutes
which delegate regulatory, supervisory and administrative powers to state insurance departments.
Such powers relate to, among other things, the standards of solvency that must be met and
maintained; the licensing of insurers and their agents; the nature of and limitations on
investments; establishing premium rates; claim handling and trade practices; restrictions on the
size of risks which may be insured under a single policy; deposits of securities for the benefit of
policyholders; approval of policy forms; periodic examinations of the affairs of companies; annual
and other reports required to be filed on the financial condition of companies or for other
purposes; fixing maximum interest rates on life insurance policy loans and minimum rates for
accumulation of surrender values; and the adequacy of reserves and other necessary provisions for
unearned premiums, unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses and other liabilities, both reported
and unreported.

Most states have enacted legislation that regulates insurance holding company systems such as The
Hartford. This legislation provides that each insurance company in the system is required to
register with the insurance department of its state of domicile and furnish information concerning
the operations of companies within the holding company system that may materially affect the
operations, management or financial condition of the insurers within the system. All transactions
within a holding company system affecting insurers must be fair and equitable. Notice to the
insurance departments is required prior to the consummation of transactions affecting the ownership
or control of an insurer and of certain material transactions between an insurer and any entity in
its holding company system. In addition, certain of such transactions cannot be consummated
without the applicable insurance department’s prior approval. In the jurisdictions in which the
Company’s insurance company subsidiaries are domiciled, the acquisition of more than 10% of The
Hartford’s outstanding common stock would require the acquiring party to make various regulatory
filings.

The extent of insurance regulation on business outside the United States varies significantly among
the countries in which The Hartford operates. Some countries have minimal regulatory requirements,
while others regulate insurers extensively. Foreign insurers in certain countries are faced with
greater restrictions than domestic competitors domiciled in that particular jurisdiction. The
Hartford’s international operations are comprised of insurers licensed in their respective
countries.

In 2009, the Company acquired Federal Trust Corporation, a thrift holding company, and as a result
is subject to regulations by the Office of Thrift Supervision. Also, as a result of the Company’s
participation in the Capital Purchase Program, it is subject to certain restrictions and oversight
by the U.S. Treasury.

Intellectual Property

We rely on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret
laws to establish and protect our intellectual property.

We have a worldwide trademark portfolio that we consider important in the marketing of our products
and services, including, among others, the trademarks of The Hartford name, the Stag Logo and the
combination of these two marks. The duration of trademark registrations varies from country to
country and may be renewed indefinitely subject to country-specific use and registration
requirements. We regard our trademarks as extremely valuable assets in marketing our products and
services and vigorously seek to protect them against infringement.

Employees

The Hartford had approximately 28,000 employees as of December 31, 2009.

Available Information

The Hartford makes available, free of charge, on or through its Internet website
(http://www.thehartford.com) The Hartford’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form
10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after The Hartford
electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC.