
10-K
FORM 10-K



 
 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                 ------------
                                   FORM 10-K
 
                ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) 
                    OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 1997       COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-4802
 
                         BECTON, DICKINSON AND COMPANY
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
                                                                               
               NEW JERSEY                              22-0760120             
    (State or other jurisdiction of       (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.) 
     incorporation or organization)

             1 BECTON DRIVE
       FRANKLIN LAKES, NEW JERSEY                      07417-1880
    (Address of principal executive                    (Zip Code)
                offices)

                                 (201) 847-6800
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:
 
                                                 NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE 
          TITLE OF EACH CLASS                     ON WHICH REGISTERED
          -------------------                    ---------------------
     Common Stock, Par Value $1.00              New York Stock Exchange
    Preferred Stock Purchase Rights             New York Stock Exchange
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:

                                      NONE

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.
 
                         Yes  X           No
                             ---             ---
 
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [_]
 
  As of November 30, 1997, 121,188,014 shares of the registrant's common stock
were outstanding and the aggregate market value of such common stock held by
nonaffiliates of the registrant was approximately $6,248,454,002.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
  (1) Portions of the registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal
year ended September 30, 1997 are incorporated by reference into Parts I and II
hereof.
  (2) Portions of the registrant's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held February 10, 1998 are incorporated by reference into
Part III hereof.
 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
                          FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
  This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including information incorporated herein
by reference, contains certain forward looking statements (as defined under
federal securities laws) regarding future revenues, products and income which
are based upon current expectations of the Company and involve a number of
business risks and uncertainties. Actual results could vary materially from
anticipated results described in any forward looking statement. Factors that
could cause actual results to vary materially include, but are not limited to,
competitive factors, changes in regional, national or foreign economic
conditions, changes in interest or foreign currency exchange rates, delays in
product introductions, and changes in health care or other governmental
regulation, as well as other factors discussed herein and in the Company's
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
                                    PART I
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS.
 
GENERAL
 
  Becton, Dickinson and Company was incorporated under the laws of the State
of New Jersey in November 1906, as successor to a New York business started in
1897. Its executive offices are located at 1 Becton Drive, Franklin Lakes, New
Jersey 07417-1880 and its telephone number is (201) 847-6800. All references
herein to "the Company" refer to Becton, Dickinson and Company and its
domestic and foreign subsidiaries unless otherwise indicated by the context.
 
  The Company is engaged principally in the manufacture and sale of a broad
line of medical supplies and devices and diagnostic systems used by health
care professionals, medical research institutions and the general public.
 
BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND GEOGRAPHIC AREAS
 
  The Company's operations consist of two worldwide business segments: Medical
Supplies and Devices, and Diagnostic Systems. The countries in which the
Company has local revenue-generating operations have been combined into the
following geographic areas: United States (including Puerto Rico); Europe; and
Other (which is comprised of Canada, Latin America, Japan and Asia-Pacific).
 
  Information with respect to revenues, operating income and identifiable
assets attributable to each of the Company's business segments and geographic
areas of operation, as well as capital expenditures and depreciation and
amortization attributable to each of the Company's business segments, appears
on pages 30-31 of the Company's Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal
year ended September 30, 1997 (the "1997 Annual Report"), and is incorporated
herein by reference.
 
  MEDICAL SUPPLIES AND DEVICES SEGMENT
 
  The major products in this segment are hypodermic products, specially
designed devices for diabetes care, prefillable drug delivery systems,
infusion therapy products and elastic support products and thermometers. This
segment also includes disposable scrubs, specialty needles and specialty and
surgical blades.
 
  DIAGNOSTIC SYSTEMS SEGMENT
 
  The major products in this segment are clinical and industrial microbiology
products, sample collection products, flow cytometry systems for cellular
analysis, tissue culture labware, hematology instruments and other diagnostic
systems including immunodiagnostic test kits.
 
DISPOSITIONS OF BUSINESS
 
  The Company's syringe pump business was sold in October 1996. The operating
results of this business until its date of sale are reflected in the
Consolidated Financial Statements incorporated herein by reference as part of
Exhibit 13.
 
ACQUISITION OF BUSINESSES
 
  In May 1997, the Company acquired PharMingen, a manufacturer of products for
biomedical research. Also, in May 1997, the Company acquired Difco
Laboratories Incorporated, a manufacturer of microbiology media and supplies.
The operating results of these businesses from their respective
 

 
dates of acquisition are reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements
incorporated herein by reference as part of Exhibit 13.
 
FOREIGN OPERATIONS
 
  The Company's products are manufactured and sold worldwide. The principal
markets for the Company's products outside the United States are Europe, Japan,
Mexico, Asia-Pacific, Canada and Brazil. The principal products sold by the
Company outside of the United States are hypodermic needles and syringes,
diagnostic systems, VACUTAINER (R) brand blood collection products, HYPAK (R)
brand prefillable syringe systems, and infusion therapy products. The Company
has manufacturing operations in Australia, Brazil, China, France, Germany,
Ireland, Japan, Mexico, Singapore, Spain and the United Kingdom and in 1996
commenced construction of a hypodermic syringe manufacturing facility in India.
 
  Foreign economic conditions and exchange rate fluctuations have caused the
profitability from foreign revenues to fluctuate more than profitability from
domestic revenues. The Company believes its activities in some countries
outside of the United States involve greater risk than its domestic business
due to the foregoing factors as well as local commercial and economic policies
and political uncertainties.
 
REVENUES AND DISTRIBUTION
 
  The Company's products and services are marketed in the United States both
through independent distribution channels and directly to end-users. The
Company's products are marketed outside the United States through independent
distributors and sales representatives, and, in some markets, directly to end-
users. Sales to a distributor, which supplies the Company's products to many
end-users, accounted for approximately 10% of total Company revenues in fiscal
1997, and were from both business segments. Order backlog is not material to
the Company's business inasmuch as orders for the Company's products are
generally received and filled on a current basis, except for items temporarily
out of stock. Substantially all revenue is recognized when products are shipped
to customers.
 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
 
  The Company conducts its research and development activities at its operating
units, its Research Center in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina and in
collaboration with selected universities, medical centers and other entities.
The Company also retains individual consultants to support its efforts in
specialized fields. The Company spent $180,626,000 on research and development
during the fiscal year ended September 30, 1997 and $154,220,000 and
$144,201,000, respectively, during the two immediately preceding fiscal years.
Included in fiscal year 1997 is an aggregate $14,750,000 related to in-process
research and development acquired in connection with the Difco and PharMingen
acquisitions, that was expensed at the date of acquisition.
 
COMPETITION
 
  A number of companies, some of which are more specialized than the Company,
compete in the medical technology field. In each such case, competition
involves only a part of the Company's product lines. Competition in the
Company's markets is based on a combination of factors including price,
quality, service, reputation, distribution and promotion. Ongoing investments
in research, quality management, quality and product improvement and
productivity improvement are required to maintain an advantage in the
competitive environments in which the Company operates.
 
  New companies have entered the medical technology field and established
companies have diversified their business activities into this area. Other
firms engaged in the distribution of medical technology products have become
manufacturers as well. Some of the Company's competitors have greater financial
resources than the Company. The Company is also faced with competition from
products manufactured outside the United States.
 
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND LICENSES
 
  The Company owns significant intellectual property, including patents, patent
applications, trade secrets, know-how and trademarks in the United States and
other countries. The Company is also
 

 
licensed under domestic and foreign patents, patent applications, trade
secrets, know-how and trademarks owned by others. In the aggregate, these
intellectual property assets and licenses are of material importance to the
Company's business. The Company does not believe, however, that any single
patent, trademark or intellectual property asset or single license is material
in relation to the Company's business as a whole.
 
RAW MATERIALS
 
  The Company purchases many different types of raw materials including
plastics, glass, metals, yarn and yarn goods, paper products, agricultural
products, electronic and mechanical sub-assemblies and various biological,
chemical and petrochemical products. All but a few of the Company's principal
raw materials are available from multiple sources.
 
REGULATION
 
  The Company's medical technology products and operations are subject to
regulation by the federal Food and Drug Administration and various other
federal and state agencies, as well as by a number of foreign governmental
agencies. The Company believes it is in compliance in all material respects
with the regulations promulgated by such agencies, and that such compliance has
not had, and is not expected to have, a material adverse effect on its
business.
 
  The Company also believes that its operations comply in all material respects
with applicable environmental laws and regulations. Such compliance has not
had, and is not expected to have, a material adverse effect on the Company's
capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
  As of September 30, 1997, the Company had approximately 18,900 employees, of
whom approximately 9,600 were employed in the United States. The Company
believes that its employee relations are satisfactory.
 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
 
  The executive offices of the Company are located in Franklin Lakes, New
Jersey. The Company owns and leases approximately 10,992,350 square feet of
manufacturing, warehousing, administrative and research facilities throughout
the world. The domestic facilities, including Puerto Rico, comprise
approximately 5,454,830 square feet of owned and 1,602,370 square feet of
leased space. The foreign facilities comprise approximately 2,703,230 square
feet of owned and 1,231,930 square feet of leased space. Sales offices and
distribution centers included in the total square footage are also located
throughout the world.
 
  Operations in both of the Company's business segments are carried on at both
domestic and foreign locations. Primarily at foreign locations, facilities
often serve both business segments and are used for multiple purposes, such as
administrative/sales, manufacturing and/or warehousing/distribution. The
Company generally seeks to own its manufacturing facilities, although some are
leased. Most of the Company's administrative, sales and
warehousing/distribution facilities are leased.
 
  The Company believes that its facilities are of good construction and in good
physical condition, are suitable and adequate for the operations conducted at
those facilities, and are, with minor exceptions, fully utilized and operating
at normal capacity.
 
  The domestic facilities include facilities in Arizona, California, Colorado,
Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Missouri,
Nebraska, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, South Carolina, Texas, Utah,
Wisconsin and Puerto Rico.
 
  The foreign facilities are grouped as follows:
 
  --Canada includes approximately 68,930 square feet of leased space.
 
  --Europe includes facilities in Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark,
   Dubai, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Kenya,
   the Netherlands, Poland, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland,
   Turkey, the United Arab Emirates, and the United Kingdom and is comprised
   of approximately 1,067,110 square feet of owned and 692,870 square feet
   of leased space.
 
 

 
  --Latin America includes facilities in Brazil, Colombia, Mexico, Panama
   and Venezuela and is comprised of approximately 1,136,030 square feet of
   owned and 266,700 square feet of leased space.
 
  --Asia-Pacific includes facilities in Australia, China, Hong Kong, India,
   Indonesia, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan,
   Thailand and Vietnam and is comprised of approximately 500,090 square
   feet of owned and 203,430 square feet of leased space.
 
  The table below summarizes property information by business segment:
 

 
- --------
 
(A)Facilities used by both business segments.
(B) Aggregate square footage and number of facilities (noted in parentheses) by
    category used for manufacturing purposes.
 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.
 
  The Company is a party to a number of federal proceedings in the United
States brought under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and
Liability Act, also known as Superfund, and similar state laws. The Company is
also involved in other legal proceedings and claims which arise in the ordinary
course of business, both as a plaintiff and a defendant. The results of these
matters, individually and in the aggregate, are not expected to have a material
effect on the Company.
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.
 
  Not applicable.
 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT (AS OF DECEMBER 1, 1997)
 
  The following is a list of the executive officers of the Company, their ages
and all positions and offices held by each of them during the past five years.
There is no family relationship between any of the named persons.
 

 

 

 
 

 

 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.
 
  The Company's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. As of
November 30, 1997, there were approximately 8,993 shareholders of record. The
balance of the information required by this item appears under the caption
"Common Stock Prices and Dividends" on the inside back cover of the Company's
1997 Annual Report and is incorporated herein by reference as part of Exhibit
13.
 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.
 
  The information required by this item is included under the caption "Six-Year
Summary of Selected Financial Data" on page 29 of the Company's 1997 Annual
Report and is incorporated herein by reference as part of Exhibit 13.
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS.
 
  The information required by this item is included in the text contained under
the caption "Financial Review" on pages 21-28 of the Company's 1997 Annual
Report and is incorporated herein by reference as part of Exhibit 13.
 
ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.
 
  The information required by this item is included in the text contained on
pages 24 through and including the second paragraph on page 25 of the Company's
1997 Annual Report, and in Notes 1 and 9 to the consolidated financial
statements contained in the Company's 1997 Annual Report, and each is
incorporated herein by reference as part of Exhibit 13.
 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.
 
  The information required by this item appears on pages 30-31 and pages 34-50
of the Company's 1997 Annual Report and is incorporated herein by reference as
part of Exhibit 13.
 
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
 
  Not applicable.
 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.
 
  The information relating to directors required by this item will be contained
under the captions "Board of Directors", "Election of Directors" and
"Continuing Directors" in a definitive Proxy Statement involving the election
of directors which the registrant will file with the Securities
 

 
and Exchange Commission not later than 120 days after September 30, 1997 (the
"Proxy Statement"), and such information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
  The information relating to executive officers required by this item is
included herein in Part I under the caption "Executive Officers of the
Registrant".
 
  The information required pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K will be
contained under the caption "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance" in the Company's Proxy Statement, and such information is
incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.
 
  The information required by this item will be contained under the captions
"Board of Directors" and "Executive Compensation" in the Company's Proxy
Statement, and such information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.
 
  The information required by this item will be contained under the caption
"Share Ownership of Management and Certain Beneficial Owners" in the Company's
Proxy Statement, and such information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
 
  Not applicable.
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.
 
  (a)(1) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
  The following consolidated financial statements of the Company included in
the Company's 1997 Annual Report at the pages indicated in parentheses, are
incorporated by reference in Item 8 hereof:
 
     Consolidated Statements of Income--Years ended September 30, 1997, 1996
       and 1995 (page 34)
 
     Consolidated Balance Sheets--September 30, 1997 and 1996 (page 35)
 
     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows--Years ended September 30, 1997,
       1996 and 1995 (page 36)
 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (pages 37-50)
 
  (a)(2) FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
 
  The following consolidated financial statement schedule of the Company is
included herein at the page indicated in parentheses:
 
  Schedule II--Valuation and Qualifying Accounts (page 11)
 

 
  All other schedules for which provision is made in the applicable accounting
regulations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are not required under the
related instructions or are inapplicable, and therefore have been omitted.
 
  (a)(3) EXHIBITS
 
  See Exhibit Index on pages 12, 13 and 14 hereof for a list of all management
contracts, compensatory plans and arrangements required by this item (Exhibit
Nos. 10(a)(i) through 10(k)(ii)), and all other Exhibits filed or incorporated
by reference as a part of this report.
 
  (b) REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
  On July 31, 1997, the registrant filed a report on Form 8-K for purposes of
filing certain agreements and instruments executed in connection with the
public offering by the registrant of its 7% Debentures due August 1, 2027. No
other reports on Form 8-K were filed by the registrant during the three-month
period ended September 30, 1997.
 

 
                                   SIGNATURES
 
  PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED
ON ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED.
 
                                          Becton, Dickinson and Company
 
                                                   /s/ John W. Galiardo
                                          By__________________________________
                                             JOHN W. GALIARDO VICE CHAIRMAN OF
                                               THE BOARD AND GENERAL COUNSEL
 
Dated: December 16, 1997
 
  PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS
REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW ON THE 16TH DAY OF DECEMBER, 1997 BY THE FOLLOWING
PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES INDICATED.
 
                NAME                                  CAPACITY
 
 
        /s/ Clateo Castellini               Chairman of the Board, President,
- -------------------------------------     Chief Executive Officer and Director
          CLATEO CASTELLINI                   (Principal Executive Officer)
 
        /s/ Edward J. Ludwig                Senior Vice President-Finance and
- -------------------------------------       Chief Financial Officer(Principal
          EDWARD J. LUDWIG                  Financial and Accounting Officer)
 
      /s/ Harry N. Beaty, M.D.                        Director
- -------------------------------------
        HARRY N. BEATY, M.D.
 
      /s/ Henry P. Becton, Jr.                        Director
- -------------------------------------
        HENRY P. BECTON, JR.
 
       /s/ Albert J. Costello                         Director
- -------------------------------------
         ALBERT J. COSTELLO
 
     /s/ Gerald M. Edelman, M.D.                      Director
- -------------------------------------
       GERALD M. EDELMAN, M.D.
 
        /s/ John W. Galiardo                          Director
- -------------------------------------
          JOHN W. GALIARDO
 
      /s/ Richard W. Hanselman                        Director
- -------------------------------------
        RICHARD W. HANSELMAN
 
         /s/ Frank A. Olson                           Director
- -------------------------------------
           FRANK A. OLSON
 
        /s/ James E. Perrella                         Director
- -------------------------------------
          JAMES E. PERRELLA
 
        /s/ Gloria M. Shatto                          Director
- -------------------------------------
          GLORIA M. SHATTO
 
        /s/ Raymond S. Troubh                         Director
- -------------------------------------
          RAYMOND S. TROUBH
 
      /s/ Margaretha AF Ugglas                        Director
- -------------------------------------
        MARGARETHA AF UGGLAS
 
 

 
                         REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
 
To the Shareholders and Board of Directors
Becton, Dickinson and Company
 
  We have audited the consolidated financial statements and related schedule of
Becton, Dickinson and Company listed in the accompanying index to financial
statements (Item 14(a)). These financial statements and related schedule are
the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements and related schedule based on
our audits.
 
  We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements and related
schedule are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements and related schedule. An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as
well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe
that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
  In our opinion, the financial statements listed in the accompanying index to
financial statements (Item 14(a)) present fairly, in all material respects, the
consolidated financial position of Becton, Dickinson and Company at September
30, 1997 and 1996, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended September 30, 1997 in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion,
the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the
basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material
respects the information set forth therein.
 
                                                        /s/ Ernst & Young LLP
                                                        -----------------------
                                                        Ernst & Young LLP
 
Hackensack, New Jersey
November 6, 1997
 

 
                         BECTON, DICKINSON AND COMPANY
 
                 SCHEDULE II--VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
 
                 YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 1997, 1996, AND 1995
                             (THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)
 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- --------
(A) Accounts written off.
 

 
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 Copies of any Exhibits not accompanying this Form 10-K are available at a
 charge of 25 cents per page by contacting: Investor Relations, Becton,
 Dickinson and Company, 1 Becton Drive, Franklin Lakes, New Jersey 07417-
 1880, Phone: 1-800-284-6845.
 


