
10-K
FORM 10-K



 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                 ------------
                                   FORM 10-K
 
                ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) 
                    OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 1995       COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-4802
 
                         BECTON, DICKINSON AND COMPANY
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
                                                     
               NEW JERSEY                               22-0760120
     (State or other jurisdiction of      (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
     incorporation or organization)
 
            1 BECTON DRIVE
       FRANKLIN LAKES, NEW JERSEY                       07417-1880
    (Address of principal executive                     (Zip Code)
                offices)

 

                                 (201) 847-6800
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:
 
                                             NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE ON WHICH
          TITLE OF EACH CLASS                          REGISTERED
     Common Stock, Par Value $1.00              New York Stock Exchange
    Preferred Stock Purchase Rights             New York Stock Exchange
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:
                                      NONE
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.
 
                         Yes  X           No
 
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [_]
 
  As of November 30, 1995, 64,253,730 shares of the registrant's common stock
were outstanding and the aggregate market value of such common stock held by
nonaffiliates of the registrant was approximately $4,466,837,000.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
  (1) Portions of the registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal
year ended September 30, 1995 are incorporated by reference into Parts I and II
hereof.
  (2) Portions of the registrant's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held February 13, 1996 are incorporated by reference into
Part III hereof.
 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS.
 
GENERAL
 
  Becton, Dickinson and Company was incorporated under the laws of the State of
New Jersey in November 1906, as successor to a New York business started in
1897. Its executive offices are located at 1 Becton Drive, Franklin Lakes, New
Jersey 07417-1880 and its telephone number is (201) 847-6800. All references
herein to "the Company" refer to Becton, Dickinson and Company and its domestic
and foreign subsidiaries unless otherwise indicated by the context.
 
  The Company is engaged principally in the manufacture and sale of a broad
line of medical supplies and devices and diagnostic systems used by health care
professionals, medical research institutions and the general public.
 
BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND GEOGRAPHIC AREAS
 
  The Company's operations consist of two worldwide business segments: Medical
Supplies and Devices, and Diagnostic Systems. The countries in which the
Company has local revenue-generating operations have been combined into the
following geographic areas: United States (including Puerto Rico); Europe; and
Other (which is comprised of Canada, Latin America, Japan and Asia Pacific).
 
  Information with respect to revenues, operating income and identifiable
assets attributable to each of the Company's business segments and geographic
areas of operation, as well as capital expenditures and depreciation and
amortization attributable to each of the Company's business segments, appears
on pages 30-31 of the Company's Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal
year ended September 30, 1995 (the "1995 Annual Report"), and is incorporated
herein by reference.
 
  MEDICAL SUPPLIES AND DEVICES SEGMENT
 
  The major products in this segment are hypodermic products, specially
designed devices for diabetes care, prefillable drug delivery systems, vascular
access products and surgical devices (including disposable scrubs, specialty
and surgical blades and pre-surgery patient prep kits).
 
  This segment also includes specialty needles, drug infusion systems, elastic
support products, thermometers and contract packaging services. The Company's
contract packaging services are provided to pharmaceutical, cosmetic and
toiletry companies.
 
  DIAGNOSTIC SYSTEMS SEGMENT
 
  The major products in this segment are classical and instrumented
microbiology products, blood collection products, instrumentation systems for
cellular analysis, including flow cytometry and cellular imaging products,
tissue culture labware, hematology instruments and other diagnostic systems.
 
DISPOSITIONS OF BUSINESSES
 
  The Company's radioimmunoassay business was sold in May 1995 and its medical
glove business in June 1995. The operating results of these businesses until
their respective dates of sale are reflected in the Consolidated Financial
Statements incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 13.
 
FOREIGN OPERATIONS
 
  The Company's products are manufactured and sold worldwide. The principal
markets for the Company's products outside the United States are Europe, Japan,
Mexico, Asia Pacific, Canada and Brazil. The principal products sold by the
Company outside of the United States are hypodermic needles and syringes,
diagnostic systems, VACUTAINER (R) brand blood collection products, HYPAK (R)
brand prefillable syringe systems, and intravenous catheters. The Company has
manufacturing operations in Australia, Brazil, France, Germany, Ireland, Japan,
Mexico, Singapore, Spain and the United Kingdom, and in 1995 commenced
construction in China of a new hypodermic facility.
 

 
  Foreign economic conditions and exchange rate fluctuations have caused the
profitability on foreign revenues to fluctuate more than on domestic revenues.
The Company believes its foreign business involves greater risk than its
domestic business due to the foregoing factors as well as local political and
governmental conditions.
 
REVENUES AND DISTRIBUTION
 
  The Company's products and services are marketed in the United States both
through independent distribution channels and directly to end-users. The
Company's products are marketed outside the United States through independent
distributors and sales representatives, and in some markets directly to end-
users. Sales to a distributor, which supplies the Company's products to many
end-users, accounted for approximately 13% of total Company revenues in fiscal
1995, and were from both business segments. Order backlog is not material to
the Company's business inasmuch as orders for the Company's products are
generally received and filled on a current basis, except for items temporarily
out of stock. Substantially all revenue is recognized when products are shipped
to customers.
 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
 
  The Company conducts its research and development activities at its operating
units, its Research Center in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina and in
collaboration with selected universities and medical centers. The Company also
retains individual consultants to support its efforts in specialized fields.
The Company spent $144,201,000 on research and development during the fiscal
year ended September 30, 1995 and $144,227,000 and $139,141,000, respectively,
during the two immediately preceding fiscal years.
 
COMPETITION
 
  A number of companies, some of which are more specialized than the Company,
compete in the medical technology field. In each such case, competition
involves only a part of the Company's product lines. Competition in the
Company's markets is based on a combination of factors including price,
quality, service, reputation, distribution and promotion. Ongoing investments
in research, quality management, quality and product improvement and
productivity improvement are required to maintain an advantage in the
competitive environments in which the Company operates.
 
  New companies have entered the medical technology field and established
companies have diversified their business activities into this area. Other
firms engaged in the distribution of medical technology products have become
manufacturers as well. Some of the Company's competitors have greater financial
resources than the Company. The Company is also faced with competition from
products manufactured outside the United States.
 
PATENTS, TRADEMARKS AND LICENSES
 
  The Company owns numerous patents, patent applications and trademarks in the
United States and other countries. The Company is also licensed under domestic
and foreign patents, patent applications and trademarks owned by others. In the
aggregate, these patents, patent applications, trademarks and licenses are of
material importance to the Company's business.
 
RAW MATERIALS
 
  The Company purchases many different types of raw materials including
plastics, glass, metals, yarn and yarn goods, paper products, agricultural
products, electronic and mechanical sub-assemblies and various biological,
chemical and petrochemical products. All but a few of the Company's principal
raw materials are available from multiple sources.
 
REGULATION
 
  The Company's medical technology products and operations are subject to
regulation by the federal Food and Drug Administration and various other
federal and state agencies, as well as by a number of foreign governmental
agencies. The Company believes it is in compliance in all material
 

 
respects with the regulations promulgated by such agencies, and that such
compliance has not had, and is not expected to have, a material adverse effect
on its business.
 
  The Company also believes that its operations comply in all material respects
with applicable environmental laws and regulations. Such compliance has not
had, and is not expected to have, a material adverse effect on the Company's
capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
  As of September 30, 1995, the Company had approximately 18,100 employees, of
whom approximately 9,600 were employed in the United States. The Company
believes that its employee relations are satisfactory.
 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
 
  The executive offices of the Company are located in Franklin Lakes, New
Jersey. The Company owns and leases approximately 10,686,000 square feet of
manufacturing, warehousing, administrative and research facilities throughout
the world. The domestic facilities, including Puerto Rico, comprise
approximately 5,642,000 square feet of owned and 1,779,000 square feet of
leased space. The foreign facilities comprise approximately 2,248,000 square
feet of owned and 1,017,000 square feet of leased space. Sales offices and
distribution centers included in the total square footage are also located
throughout the world.
 
  Operations in both of the Company's business segments are carried on at both
domestic and foreign locations. Primarily at foreign locations, facilities
often serve both business segments and are used for multiple purposes, such as
administrative/sales, manufacturing and/or warehousing/distribution. The
Company generally seeks to own its manufacturing facilities, although some are
leased. Most of the Company's administrative, sales and
warehousing/distribution facilities are leased.
 
  The Company believes that its facilities are of good construction and in good
physical condition, are suitable and adequate for the operations conducted at
those facilities, and are, with minor exceptions, fully utilized and operating
at normal capacity.
 
  The domestic facilities are grouped as follows:
 
  --Eastern Sector includes facilities in Connecticut, Georgia, Maryland,
   Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, South Carolina and
   Puerto Rico and is comprised of approximately 3,680,000 square feet of
   owned and 1,018,000 square feet of leased space.
 
  --Central Sector includes facilities in Illinois, Indiana, Michigan,
   Missouri, Nebraska, Ohio, Texas and Wisconsin and is comprised of
   approximately 993,000 square feet of owned and 473,000 square feet of
   leased space.
 
  --Western Sector includes facilities in California and Utah and is
   comprised of approximately 969,000 square feet of owned and 288,000
   square feet of leased space.
 
  The foreign facilities are grouped as follows:
 
  --Canada includes approximately 4,000 square feet of leased space.
 
  --Europe includes facilities in Belgium, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland,
   Italy, the Netherlands, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom
   and is comprised of approximately 1,219,000 square feet of owned and
   708,000 square feet of leased space.
 
  --Latin America includes facilities in Brazil, Colombia, Mexico, Uruguay
   and Panama and is comprised of approximately 629,000 square feet of owned
   and 157,000 square feet of leased space.
 

 
  --Asia Pacific includes facilities in Australia, Hong Kong, Japan, Korea,
   Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan and Thailand and is comprised of
   approximately 400,000 square feet of owned and 148,000 square feet of
   leased space.
 
  The table below summarizes property information by business segment:
 

 
- --------
 
(A) Facilities used by both business segments.
(B) Aggregate square footage and number of facilities (noted in parentheses) by
    category used for manufacturing purposes.
 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.
 
  The Company is a party to a number of federal proceedings in the United
States brought under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and
Liability Act, also known as Superfund, and similar state laws. The Company is
also involved in other legal proceedings and claims which arise in the ordinary
course of business, both as a plaintiff and a defendant. The results of these
matters, individually and in the aggregate, are not expected to have a material
effect on the Company.
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.
 
  Not applicable.
 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT (AS OF DECEMBER 1, 1995)
 
  The following is a list of the executive officers of the Company, their ages
and all positions and offices held by each of them during the past five years.
There is no family relationship between any of the named persons.
 

 

 

 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.
 
  The Company's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. As of
November 30, 1995, there were approximately 7,816 shareholders of record. The
balance of the information required by this item appears under the caption
"Common Stock Prices and Dividends" on page 51 of the Company's 1995 Annual
Report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.
 
  The information required by this item is included under the caption "Six Year
Summary of Selected Financial Data" on pages 28-29 of the Company's 1995 Annual
Report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS.
 
  The information required by this item is included in the text contained under
the caption "Financial Review" on pages 21-27 of the Company's 1995 Annual
Report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.
 
  The information required by this item appears on pages 30-31 and pages 34-48
of the Company's 1995 Annual Report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
 
  Not applicable.
 

 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.
 
  The information relating to directors required by this item will be contained
under the captions "BOARD OF DIRECTORS", "ELECTION OF DIRECTORS" and
"CONTINUING DIRECTORS" in a definitive Proxy Statement involving the election
of directors which the registrant will file with the Securities and Exchange
Commission not later than 120 days after September 30, 1995 (the "Proxy
Statement"), and such information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
  The information relating to executive officers required by this item is
included herein in Part I under the caption "Executive Officers of the
Registrant".
 
  The information required pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K will be
contained under the caption "Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934" in the Company's Proxy Statement, and such information is
incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.
 
  The information required by this item will be contained under the captions
"BOARD OF DIRECTORS" and "EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION" in the Company's Proxy
Statement, and such information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.
 
  The information required by this item will be contained under the caption
"SHARE OWNERSHIP OF MANAGEMENT AND CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS" in the Company's
Proxy Statement, and such information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
 
  Not applicable.
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.
 
  (a)(1) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
  The following consolidated financial statements of the Company included in
the Company's 1995 Annual Report at the pages indicated in parentheses, are
incorporated by reference in Item 8 hereof:
 
     Consolidated Statements of Income--Years ended September 30, 1995, 1994
   and 1993 (page 34)
 
     Consolidated Balance Sheets--September 30, 1995 and 1994 (page 35)
 
     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows--Years ended September 30, 1995,
   1994 and 1993 (page 36)
 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (pages 37-48)
 
  (a)(2) FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
 
  The following consolidated financial statement schedule of the Company is
included herein at the page indicated in parentheses:
 
  Schedule II--Valuation and Qualifying Accounts (page 10)
 

 
  All other schedules for which provision is made in the applicable accounting
regulation of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are not required under the
related instructions or are inapplicable, and therefore have been omitted.
 
  (a)(3) EXHIBITS
 
  See Exhibit Index on pages 11, 12 and 13 hereof for a list of all management
contracts, compensatory plans and arrangements required by this item (Exhibit
Nos. 10(a)(i) through 10(l)), and all other Exhibits filed or incorporated by
reference as a part of this report.
 
  (b) REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
  The registrant filed no reports on Form 8-K during the last quarter of the
year ended September 30, 1995.
 

 
                                   SIGNATURES
 
  PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED
ON ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED.
 
                                          Becton, Dickinson and Company
 
                                                   /s/ John W. Galiardo
                                          By__________________________________
                                                       JOHN W. GALIARDO 
                                                 Vice Chairman of The Board 
                                                   and General Counsel
 
Dated: December 27, 1995
 
  PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS
REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW ON THE 27TH DAY OF DECEMBER, 1995 BY THE FOLLOWING
PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES INDICATED.
 
                NAME                                  CAPACITY
 
 
        /s/ Clateo Castellini               Chairman of the Board, President,
- -------------------------------------     Chief Executive Officer and Director
          CLATEO CASTELLINI                   (Principal Executive Officer)
 
        /s/ Edward J. Ludwig                Senior Vice President-Finance and
- -------------------------------------       Chief Financial Officer(Principal
          EDWARD J. LUDWIG                  Financial and Accounting Officer)
 
      /s/ Harry N. Beaty, M.D.                        Director
- -------------------------------------
        HARRY N. BEATY, M.D.
 
      /s/ Henry P. Becton, Jr.                        Director
- -------------------------------------
        HENRY P. BECTON, JR.
 
     /s/ Gerald M. Edelman, M.D.                      Director
- -------------------------------------
       GERALD M. EDELMAN, M.D.
 
      /s/ Edmund B. Fitzgerald                        Director
- -------------------------------------
        EDMUND B. FITZGERALD
 
        /s/ John W. Galiardo                          Director
- -------------------------------------
          JOHN W. GALIARDO
 
      /s/ Richard W. Hanselman                        Director
- -------------------------------------
        RICHARD W. HANSELMAN
 
        /s/ Thomas A. Holmes                          Director
- -------------------------------------
          THOMAS A. HOLMES
 
         /s/ Frank A. Olson                           Director
- -------------------------------------
           FRANK A. OLSON
 
        /s/ James E. Perrella                         Director
- -------------------------------------
          JAMES E. PERRELLA
 
        /s/ Gloria M. Shatto                          Director
- -------------------------------------
          GLORIA M. SHATTO
 
        /s/ Raymond S. Troubh                         Director
- -------------------------------------
          RAYMOND S. TROUBH
 

 
                         REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
 
To the Shareholders and Board of Directors
Becton, Dickinson and Company
 
  We have audited the consolidated financial statements and related schedule of
Becton, Dickinson and Company listed in the accompanying index to financial
statements (Item 14(a)). These financial statements and related schedule are
the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements and related schedule based on
our audits.
 
  We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements and related
schedule are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements and related schedule. An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as
well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe
that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
  In our opinion, the financial statements listed in the accompanying index to
financial statements (Item 14(a)) present fairly, in all material respects, the
consolidated financial position of Becton, Dickinson and Company at September
30, 1995 and 1994, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended September 30, 1995 in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion,
the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the
basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material
respects the information set forth therein.
 
  As discussed in Note 1 to the financial statements, in 1993 the Company
changed its methods of accounting for postretirement benefits other than
pensions, postemployment benefits, and income taxes.
 
                                                        /s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP
                                                        -----------------------
                                                        ERNST & YOUNG LLP
 
Hackensack, New Jersey
November 7, 1995
 

 
                         BECTON, DICKINSON AND COMPANY
 
                 SCHEDULE II--VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
 
                 YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 1995, 1994, AND 1993
                             (THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)
 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- --------
(A) Accounts written off.
 

 
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 Copies of any Exhibits not accompanying this Form 10-K are available at a
 charge of 25 cents per page by contacting: Investor Relations, Becton,
 Dickinson and Company, 1 Becton Drive, Franklin Lakes, New Jersey 07417-
 1880, Phone: 1-800-284-6845.
 

