
10-K405
0001.txt
FORM 10-K





================================================================================
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C. 20549
                               -----------------
                                   Form 10-K

                 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                    OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2000      Commission file number 1-4802

                         Becton, Dickinson and Company
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

       New Jersey                                                 22-0760120
 (State or other jurisdiction                                 (I.R.S. Employer
of incorporation or organization)                            Identification No.)


         1 Becton Drive
    Franklin Lakes, New Jersey                                    07417-1880
(Address of principal executive offices)                          (Zip code)

                                (201) 847-6800
             (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

                       SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO
                           SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

                                                      Name of each exchange on
              Title of each class                         which registered
        --------------------------------              --------------------------
        Common Stock, Par Value $1.00                 New York Stock Exchange
        Preferred Stock Purchase Rights               New York Stock Exchange

                       SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO
                           SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:
                                     None

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [_]

  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]

  As of November 30, 2000, 254,803,900 shares of the registrant's common stock
were outstanding and the aggregate market value of such common stock held by
nonaffiliates of the registrant was approximately $8,635,443,522.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

  (1) Portions of the registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal
year ended September 30, 2000 are incorporated by reference into Parts I and II
hereof.

  (2) Portions of the registrant's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held February 13, 2001 are incorporated by reference into
Part III hereof.

================================================================================


                                    PART I

Item 1.  Business.

General

     Becton, Dickinson and Company was incorporated under the laws of the State
of New Jersey in November 1906, as successor to a New York business started in
1897. Its executive offices are located at 1 Becton Drive, Franklin Lakes, New
Jersey 07417-1880 and its telephone number is (201) 847-6800. All references
herein to "BD" refer to Becton, Dickinson and Company and its domestic and
foreign subsidiaries unless otherwise indicated by the context.

     BD is engaged principally in the manufacture and sale of a broad range of
supplies, devices and systems used by healthcare professionals, medical research
institutions and the general public.

Business Segments

     BD's operations consist of three worldwide business segments: Medical
Systems, Biosciences, and Preanalytical Solutions. In June 2000, the Company
initiated a plan to change the structure of its internal organization in a
manner that, beginning October 1, 2000, will cause the composition of the
reportable segments to change. During the first quarter of fiscal 2001,
execution of the planned changes will be finalized so that for the quarter
ending December 31, 2000, decisions about resource allocations and performance
assessment will be made separately for the reorganized Medical and Biosciences
segments, and the new Clinical Laboratory Solutions segment. Information with
respect to BD's business segments appears on page 47 of BD's Annual Report to
Shareholders for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2000 (the "2000 Annual
Report"), and is incorporated herein by reference as part of Exhibit 13.


   Medical Systems

     The major products in this segment are hypodermic products, specially
designed devices for diabetes care, prefillable drug delivery systems and
infusion therapy products. This segment also includes anesthesia and surgical
products, ophthalmic surgery devices, critical care systems, elastic support
products and thermometers.

   Biosciences

     The major products in this segment are clinical and industrial microbiology
products, cellular analysis systems, research and clinical reagents for cellular
and nucleic acid analysis, cell culture labware, and growth media, hematology
instruments and other diagnostic systems, including immunodiagnostic test kits.

   Preanalytical Solutions

     The major products in this segment are specimen collection products and
services, including specimen management systems. This segment also includes
consulting services and customized, automated bar-code systems for patient
identification and point-of-care data capture.

Foreign Operations

     BD's products are manufactured and sold worldwide. The principal markets
for BD's products outside the United States are Europe, Japan, Mexico, Asia
Pacific, Canada and Brazil. The principal products sold by BD outside of the
United States are hypodermic needles and syringes, diagnostic systems,
VACUTAINER(R) brand blood collection products, HYPAK(R) brand prefillable
syringe systems, and infusion therapy products. BD has manufacturing operations
outside the United States in Brazil, China, France, Germany, India, Ireland,
Japan, Korea, Mexico, Pakistan, Singapore, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom.
Information with respect to BD's geographic areas appears on page 48 of the 2000
Annual Report, and is incorporated herein by reference as part of Exhibit 13.

     Foreign economic conditions and exchange rate fluctuations have caused the
profitability from foreign revenues to fluctuate more than the profitability
from domestic revenues. BD believes its activities in some countries outside of
the United States involve greater risk than its domestic business due to the
foregoing factors, as well as local commercial and economic policies and
political uncertainties.



Revenues and Distribution

     BD's products and services are marketed in the United States and
internationally through sales representatives and independent distribution
channels, and directly to end-users.  Sales to a distributor, which supplies BD
products from all business segments to many end-users, accounted for
approximately 10% of total BD revenues in fiscal 2000. Order backlog is not
material to BD's business inasmuch as orders for BD products generally are
received and filled on a current basis, except for items temporarily out of
stock. Substantially all revenue is recognized when products are shipped to
customers.

Research and Development

     BD conducts its research and development activities at its operating units,
at Becton Dickinson Technologies in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, and
in collaboration with selected universities, medical centers and other entities.
BD also retains individual consultants to support its efforts in specialized
fields. BD spent $223,782,000 on research and development during the fiscal year
ended September 30, 2000, and $254,016,000 and $217,900,000, respectively,
during the two immediately preceding fiscal years. Research and development
spending in fiscal years 1999 and 1998 included the write-off of in-process
research and development from acquisitions of $48,800,000 and $30,000,000,
respectively. Information with respect to BD's write-off of in-process research
and development from acquisitions appears on page 33 of the 2000 Annual Report,
and is incorporated herein by reference as part of Exhibit 13.

Competition

     A number of companies, some of which are more specialized than BD, compete
in the medical technology field. In each such case, competition involves only a
part of BD's product lines. Competition in BD's markets is based on a
combination of factors, including price, quality, service, reputation,
distribution and promotion. Ongoing investments in research, quality management,
quality improvement, product innovation and productivity improvement are
required to maintain an advantage in the competitive environments in which BD
operates.

     New companies have entered the medical technology field and established
companies have diversified their business activities into this area. Other firms
engaged in the distribution of medical technology products have become
manufacturers as well. Some of BD's competitors have greater financial resources
than BD. BD also is faced with competition from products manufactured outside
the United States.

Intellectual Property and Licenses

     BD owns significant intellectual property, including patents, patent
applications, technology, trade secrets, know-how, copyrights and trademarks in
the United States and other countries. BD is also licensed under domestic and
foreign patents, patent applications, technology, trade secrets, know-how,
copyrights and trademarks owned by others. In the aggregate, these intellectual
property assets and licenses are of material importance to BD's business. BD
does not believe, however, that any single patent, technology, trademark,
intellectual property asset or license is material in relation to BD's business
as a whole.

Raw Materials

     BD purchases many different types of raw materials, including plastics,
glass, metals, yarn and yarn goods, paper products, agricultural products,
electronic and mechanical sub-assemblies and various biological, chemical and
petrochemical products. All but a few of BD's principal raw materials are
available from multiple sources.

Regulation

     BD's medical technology products and operations are subject to regulation
by the federal Food and Drug Administration and various other federal and state
agencies, as well as by a number of foreign governmental agencies. BD believes
it is in compliance in all material respects with the regulations promulgated by
such agencies, and that such compliance has not had, and is not expected to
have, a material adverse effect on its business.

     BD also believes that its operations comply in all material respects with
applicable environmental laws and regulations. Such compliance has not had, and
is not expected to have, a material adverse effect on BD's capital expenditures,
earnings or competitive position.



Employees

       As of September 30, 2000, BD had approximately 25,000 employees, of whom
approximately 12,200 were employed in the United States. BD believes that its
employee relations are satisfactory.


CAUTIONARY STATEMENT PURSUANT TO PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF
1995 -- "SAFE HARBOR" FOR FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

     The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the "Act") provides a
safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of BD. BD and
its representatives may from time to time make certain forward-looking
statements in publicly-released materials, both written and oral, including
statements contained in this report and filings with the Securities and Exchange
Commission and in our other reports to shareowners. Forward-looking statements
may be identified by the use of words like "plan," "expect," "believe,"
"intend," "will," "anticipate," "estimate" and other words of similar meaning in
conjunction with, among other things, discussions of future operations and
financial performance, as well as our strategy for growth, product development,
regulatory approvals, market position and expenditures.  All statements which
address operating performance or events or developments that we expect or
anticipate will occur in the future -- including statements relating to volume
growth, sales and earnings per share growth and statements expressing views
about future operating results - are forward-looking statements within the
meaning of the Act.

   Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations of future
events. The forward-looking statements are and will be based on management's
then current views and assumptions regarding future events and operating
performance, and speak only as of their dates. Investors should realize that if
underlying assumptions prove inaccurate or unknown risks or uncertainties
materialize, actual results could vary materially from our expectations and
projections. Investors are therefore cautioned not to place undue reliance on
any forward-looking statements. Furthermore, we undertake no obligation to
update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new
information, future events and developments or otherwise.

   The following are some important factors that could cause our actual results
to differ from our expectations in any forward-looking statements:

 .    Regional, national and foreign economic factors, including inflation and
     fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates and the
     potential effect of such fluctuations on revenues, expenses and resulting
     margins.

 .    Competitive product and pricing pressures and our ability to gain or
     maintain market share in the global market as a result of actions by
     competitors, including technological advances achieved and patents attained
     by competitors as patents on our products expire. While we believe our
     opportunities for sustained, profitable growth are considerable, actions of
     competitors could impact our earnings, share of sales and volume growth.

 .    Changes in domestic and foreign healthcare resulting in pricing pressures,
     including the continued consolidation among healthcare providers, trends
     toward managed care and healthcare cost containment and government laws
     and regulations relating to sales and promotion, reimbursement and pricing
     generally.

 .    Fluctuations in the cost and availability of raw materials and the ability
     to maintain favorable supplier arrangements and relationships.

 .    Government laws and regulations affecting domestic and foreign operations,
     including those relating to trade, monetary and fiscal policies, taxation,
     environmental matters, price controls, licensing and regulatory approval of
     new products.

 .    Difficulties inherent in product development, including the potential
     inability to successfully continue technological innovation, complete
     clinical trials, obtain regulatory approvals in the United States and
     abroad, or gain and maintain market approval of products, and the
     possibility of encountering infringement claims by competitors with respect
     to patent or other intellectual property rights, all of which can preclude
     or delay commercialization of a product.



 .    Significant litigation adverse to BD, including product liability claims,
     patent infringement claims, and antitrust claims, as well as other risks
     and uncertainties detailed from time to time in our Securities and Exchange
     Commission filings.

 .    Our ability to achieve earnings forecasts, which are generated based on
     projected volumes and sales of many product types, some of which are more
     profitable than others. There can be no assurance that we will achieve a
     projected level or mix of product sales.

 .    Product efficacy or safety concerns resulting in product recalls,
     regulatory action on the part of the Federal Drug Administration (or
     foreign counterparts) or declining sales.

 .    Economic and political conditions in international markets, including civil
     unrest, governmental changes and restrictions on the ability to transfer
     capital across borders.

 .    Our ability to penetrate developing and emerging markets, which also
     depends on economic and political conditions, and how well we are able to
     acquire or form strategic business alliances with local companies and make
     necessary infrastructure enhancements to production facilities,
     distribution networks, sales equipment and technology.

 .    The impact of business combinations, including acquisitions and
     divestitures, both internally for BD and externally in the healthcare
     industry.

 .    Issuance of new or revised accounting standards by the American Institute
     of Certified Public Accountants, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
     or the Securities and Exchange Commission.

     The foregoing list sets forth many, but not all, of the factors that could
impact our ability to achieve results described in any forward-looking
statements. Investors should understand that it is not possible to predict or
identify all such factors and should not consider this list to be a complete
statement of all potential risks and uncertainties.


Item 2.  Properties.

     BD's executive offices are located in Franklin Lakes, New Jersey. BD owns
and leases approximately 13,320,000 square feet of manufacturing, warehousing,
administrative and research facilities throughout the world. The domestic
facilities, including Puerto Rico, comprise approximately 5,453,500 square feet
of owned and 2,130,200 square feet of leased space. The foreign facilities
comprise approximately 3,557,600 square feet of owned and 2,178,700 square feet
of leased space. Sales offices and distribution centers included in the total
square footage are also located throughout the world.

     Operations in each of BD's business segments are conducted at both domestic
and foreign locations. Particularly in the international marketplace, facilities
often serve more than one business segment and are used for multiple purposes,
such as administrative/sales, manufacturing and/or warehousing/distribution. BD
generally seeks to own its manufacturing facilities, although some are leased.
Most of BD's administrative, sales and warehousing/distribution facilities are
leased.

     BD believes that its facilities are of good construction and in good
physical condition, are suitable and adequate for the operations conducted at
those facilities, and are, with minor exceptions, fully utilized and operating
at normal capacity.

     The domestic facilities include facilities in Arizona, California,
Colorado, Connecticut, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland,
Massachusetts, Michigan, Missouri, Nebraska, New Jersey, New York, North
Carolina, Ohio, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Virginia, Wisconsin and
Puerto Rico.

     The foreign facilities are grouped as follows:

          --Canada includes approximately 105,900 square feet of leased space.

          --Europe and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa include facilities
            in Austria, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Egypt, England,
            Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Ivory
            Coast, Kenya, the Netherlands, Poland, Russia, South Africa, Spain,
            Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey and



            the United Arab Emirates, and are comprised of approximately
            1,726,900 square feet of owned and 935,300 square feet of leased
            space.

          --Latin America includes facilities in Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil,
            Chile, Colombia, Guatemala, Mexico, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay
            and Venezuela, and is comprised of approximately 775,500 square feet
            of owned and 730,700 square feet of leased space.

          --Asia Pacific includes facilities in Australia, China, Hong Kong,
            India, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, New Zealand, Pakistan, the
            Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam,
            and is comprised of approximately 1,054,900 square feet of owned and
            407,000 square feet of leased space.

  The table below summarizes property information by business segment:


_________________
(A) Facilities used by all business segments.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings.

     BD, along with a number of other manufacturers, has been named as a
defendant in approximately 415 product liability lawsuits related to natural
rubber latex that have been filed in various state and Federal courts. Cases
pending in Federal Court are being coordinated under the matter In re Latex
Gloves Products Liability Litigation (MDL Docket No. 1148) in Philadelphia, and
analogous procedures have been implemented in the state courts of California,
Pennsylvania, New Jersey and New York. Generally, these actions allege that
medical personnel have suffered allergic reactions ranging from skin irritation
to anaphylaxis as a result of exposure to medical gloves containing natural
rubber latex. In 1986, we acquired a business which manufactured, among other
things, latex surgical gloves. In 1995, we divested this glove business. We are
vigorously defending these lawsuits.

     We, along with another manufacturer and several medical product
distributors, have been named as a defendant in eleven product liability
lawsuits relating to healthcare workers who allegedly sustained accidental
needlesticks, but have not become infected with any disease.

 .    The case brought in California under the caption Chavez vs. Becton
     Dickinson (Case No. 722978, San Diego County Superior Court), filed on
     August 4, 1998 was dismissed in a judgment filed March 19, 1999. On August
     29, 2000, the appellate court affirmed the dismissal of the product
     liability claims, leaving only a pending statutory claim for which the
     court has stated the plaintiff cannot recover damages.

 .    The case brought in Florida under the caption Delgado vs. Becton Dickinson
     et al. (Case No. 98-5608, Hillsborough County Circuit Court) filed on July
     24, 1998 was voluntarily withdrawn by the plaintiffs on March 8, 1999.

 .    The case brought in Pennsylvania under the caption McGeehan vs. Becton
     Dickinson (Case No. 3474, Court of Common Pleas, Philadelphia County) filed
     on November 27, 1998, was dismissed without leave to amend in an order
     dated December 18, 2000.

 .    Cases have been filed on behalf of an unspecified number of healthcare
     workers in eight other states, seeking class action certification under the
     laws of these states. To date, no class has been certified in any of these
     cases. The eight remaining actions are pending in state court in Texas,
     under the caption Usrey vs. Becton Dickinson et al. (Case No. 342-173329-
     98, Tarrant County District Court), filed on April 9, 1998; in Federal
     Court in Ohio, under the caption Grant vs. Becton Dickinson et al. (Case
     No. C2 98-844, Southern District of Ohio), filed on July 22, 1998; in state
     court in Illinois, under the caption McCaster vs. Becton Dickinson et al.
     (Case No. 98L09478, Cook County Circuit Court), filed on August 13, 1998;
     in state court in Oklahoma, under the caption Palmer vs. Becton Dickinson
     et al. (Case No. CJ-98-685, Sequoyah County District Court), filed on
     October 27, 1998; in state court in Alabama, under the caption Daniels vs.
     Becton Dickinson et al. (Case No. CV 1998 2757, Montgomery County Circuit
     Court), filed on October 30, 1998; in state court in South Carolina, under
     the caption Bales vs. Becton Dickinson et al. (Case No. 98-CP-40-4343,
     Richland County Court of Common Pleas), filed on



     November 25, 1998; in state court in New Jersey, under the caption Pollak,
     Swartley vs. Becton Dickinson et al. (Case No. L-9449-98, Camden County
     Superior Court), filed on December 7, 1998; and in state court in New York,
     under the caption Benner vs. Becton Dickinson et al. (Case No. 99-111372,
     Supreme Court of the State of New York), filed on June 1, 1999. Generally,
     these remaining actions allege that healthcare workers have sustained
     needle sticks using hollow-bore needle devices manufactured by BD and, as a
     result, require medical testing, counseling and/or treatment. Several
     actions additionally allege that the healthcare workers have sustained
     mental anguish. Plaintiffs seek money damages in all remaining actions.

     In June 1999, a class certification hearing was held in the matter of Usrey
     vs. Becton Dickinson et al., which was first filed in Texas state court on
     April 9, 1998, under the caption Calvin vs. Becton Dickinson et al. The
     Court has advised the parties by letter received October 27, 1999, that it
     believes it is appropriate to address the issues in the case by way of a
     class action under Texas procedural law. We have filed an interlocutory
     appeal from that ruling. This appeal is currently pending.

     We continue to oppose class action certification in these cases and will
     continue vigorously to defend these lawsuits, including pursuing all
     appropriate rights of appeal.

     BD has insurance policies in place, and believes that a substantial portion
of defense costs and potential liability, if any, in the latex and class action
matters will be covered by insurance. In order to protect its rights to
coverage, we have filed an action for declaratory judgement under the caption
Becton Dickinson and Company vs. Adriatic Insurance Company et al. (Docket No.
MID-L-3649-99MT, Middlesex County Superior Court) in New Jersey state court. We
have established reserves to cover reasonably anticipated defense costs in all
product liability lawsuits, including the needlestick class action and latex
matters.

     We, along with another manufacturer, a group purchasing organization
("GPO") and three hospitals, have been named as a defendant in an antitrust
action brought pursuant to the Texas Free Enterprise Act ("TFEA"). The action is
pending in state court in Texas, under the caption Retractable Technologies Inc.
vs. Becton Dickinson and Company et al. (Case No. 533*JG98, Brazoria County
District Court), filed on August 4, 1998. Plaintiff, a manufacturer of
retractable syringes, alleges that our contracts with GPOs exclude plaintiff
from the market in syringes and blood collection products, in violation of the
TFEA. Plaintiff also alleges that we have conspired with other manufacturers
to maintain its market share in these products. Plaintiff seeks money damages.
This action is in preliminary stages. We intend to mount a vigorous defense in
this action.

     We, also with another patent holder, have filed an action for patent
infringement under the caption Becton Dickinson and Company et al. vs. B. Braun
Medical, Inc. (Case No. 2:99-CV-00987J, United States District Court for the
District of Utah) on December 15, 1999.  The defendant has filed a counterclaim
against us, and alleges, among other things, that our contracts with group
purchasing organizations exclude defendant from the market in IV catheters, in
violation of the Sherman, Clayton, and Lanham acts.  Defendant also alleges that
we have conspired with other manufacturers to maintain our market share in these
products.  Defendant seeks money damages.  The pending action is in preliminary
stages.  We intend to prosecute our claim and vigorously defend against this
counterclaim.

     In the patent infringement litigation under the caption Critikon, Inc. vs.
Becton Dickinson Vascular Access, Inc. (Civ. 93-108 (JJF), United States
District Court for the District of Delaware) the Court, on May 19, 2000, entered
judgment in favor of the plaintiff in the aggregate amount of $5,700,000,
excluding interest charges. We have filed pending postjudgment motions seeking
recalculation of damages on the basis of perceived error in the calculation of
damages, in both amount and duration. On December 11, 2000, we agreed to a
settlement in principle of this suit. Under the terms of the settlement in
principle, we have agreed to pay a minimum of $3,000,000 and have limited our
maximum potential liability in this matter, including interest charges, to
$8,000,000.

     We are a party to a number of Federal proceedings in the United States
brought under the Comprehensive Environental Response, Compensation and
Liability Act, also known as "Superfund," and similar state laws. For all sites,
there are other potentially responsible parties that may be jointly or severally
liable to pay all cleanup costs. We accrue costs for estimated environmental
liabilities based upon our best estimate within the range of probable losses,
without considering possible third-party recoveries.

     We also are involved in other legal proceedings and claims which arise in
the ordinary course of business, both as a plaintiff and a defendant.



     While it is not possible to predict or determine the outcome of the patent,
product liability, antitrust or other legal actions brought against BD, upon
resolution of such matters, BD may incur charges in excess of presently
established reserves.  While such future charges, individually and in the
aggregate, could have a material adverse impact on our net income and net cash
flows in the period in which they are recorded or paid, in our opinion, the
results of the above matters, individually and in the aggregate, are not
expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial
condition.


Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

     Not applicable.

Executive Officers of the Registrant (as of December 1, 2000)

  The following is a list of the executive officers of BD, their ages and all
positions and offices held by each of them during the past five years. There is
no family relationship between any of the named persons.











                                    PART II

Item 5.   Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters.

     BD's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. As of November
30, 2000, there were approximately 10,690 shareholders of record. The balance of
the information required by this item appears under the caption "Common Stock
Prices and Dividends" on the inside back cover of BD's 2000 Annual Report and is
incorporated herein by reference as part of Exhibit 13.


Item 6.   Selected Financial Data.

     The information required by this item is included under the caption "Nine-
Year Summary of Selected Financial Data" on pages 18 and 19 of BD's 2000 Annual
Report and is incorporated herein by reference as part of Exhibit 13.

Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations.

     The information required by this item is included in the text contained
under the caption "Financial Review" on pages 20-26 of BD's 2000 Annual Report
and is incorporated herein by reference as part of Exhibit 13.

Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

  The information required by this item is included in the text contained on
page 22 of the "Financial Review" section of BD's 2000 Annual Report, and in
notes 1 and 11 to the consolidated financial statements contained in BD's 2000
Annual Report, and each is incorporated herein by reference as part of Exhibit
13.

Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

     The information required by this item is included on pages 27-48 of BD's
2000 Annual Report and is incorporated herein by reference as part of Exhibit
13.

Item 9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure.

     Not applicable.


                                   PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.

     The information relating to directors required by this item will be
contained under the captions "Board of Directors", "Election of Directors" and
"Continuing Directors" in a definitive Proxy Statement involving the election of
directors which the registrant will file with the Securities and Exchange
Commission not later than 120 days after September 30, 2000 (the "Proxy
Statement"), and such information is incorporated herein by reference.

     The information relating to executive officers required by this item is
included herein in Part I under the caption "Executive Officers of the
Registrant".

     The information required pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K will be
contained under the caption "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance" in BD's Proxy Statement, and such information is incorporated herein
by reference.

Item 11.  Executive Compensation.

     The information required by this item will be contained under the captions
"Board of Directors" and "Executive Compensation" in BD's Proxy Statement, and
such information is incorporated herein by reference.



Item 12.   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.

     The information required by this item will be contained under the caption
"Share Ownership of Management and Certain Beneficial Owners" in BD's Proxy
Statement, and such information is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13.   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.

     The information required by this item will be contained under the caption
"Certain Transactions" in BD's Proxy Statement, and such information is
incorporated herein by reference.

                                    PART IV

Item 14.   Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K.

  (a)(1)  Financial Statements

     The following consolidated financial statements of BD included in BD's 2000
Annual Report at the pages indicated in parentheses, are incorporated by
reference in Item 8 hereof:

          Report of Independent Auditors (page 27)

          Consolidated Statements of Income--Years ended September 30, 2000,
     1999 and 1998 (page 28)

          Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income--Years ended September
       30, 2000, 1999 and 1998 (page 29)

          Consolidated Balance Sheets--September 30, 2000 and 1999 (page 30)

          Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows--Years ended September 30, 2000,
     1999 and 1998 (page 31)

          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (pages 32-48)

  (a)(2)  Financial Statement Schedules

     The following consolidated financial statement schedule of BD is included
herein at the page indicated in parentheses:

          Schedule II--Valuation and Qualifying Accounts (page 13)

     All other schedules for which provision is made in the applicable
accounting regulations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are not required
under the related instructions or are inapplicable, and therefore have been
omitted.

  (a)(3)  Exhibits

     See Exhibit Index on pages 14, 15, 16 and 17 hereof for a list of all
management contracts, compensatory plans and arrangements required by this item
(Exhibit Nos. 10(a)(i) through 10(o)(ii)), and all other Exhibits filed or
incorporated by reference as a part of this report.

  (b)  Reports on Form 8-K

     On July 20, 2000, BD filed a report on Form 8-K for purposes of reporting
its results for the third quarter ended June 30, 2000. On September 27, 2000, BD
filed a report on Form 8-K for purposes of reporting its program to reduce
costs, improve financial performance and support major product initiatives.



                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


               Becton, Dickinson and Company

               By:   /s/ Bridget M. Healy
                  ----------------------------------
                         Bridget M. Healy
                         Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary

Dated: December 21, 2000

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below on the 21st day of December, 2000 by the following persons
on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated.




                         BECTON, DICKINSON AND COMPANY

                SCHEDULE II--VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

                YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2000, 1999, and 1998

                            (Thousands of dollars)



_________________
(A)    Accounts written off.




                                 EXHIBIT INDEX














Copies of any Exhibits not accompanying this Form 10-K are available at a charge
of 25 cents per page by contacting: Investor Relations, Becton, Dickinson and
Company, 1 Becton Drive, Franklin Lakes, New Jersey 07417-1880, Phone:
1-800-284-6845.


