
10-K
FORM 10-K




                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                   F0RM 10-K

(Mark One)

/X/  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE 
ACT OF 1934 For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994
                                       OR
/ /  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 For the transition period from ____________________
to_________________

                         Commission file number 1-10235

                                IDEX CORPORATION
             (Exact Name of Registrant As Specified in Its Charter)

          Delaware                                       36-3555336
(State or other jurisdiction of             (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
incorporation or organization)                                            

       

                                630 Dundee Road
                           Northbrook, Illinois                 60062
              (Address of principal executive offices)        (Zip Code)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (708) 498-7070

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:



        TITLE OF EACH CLASS                NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE ON WHICH
                                                    REGISTERED

common stock, par value $.01 per share          New York Stock Exchange

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT: None

       Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X No ___

       Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. /X/

       The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of
IDEX Corporation as of March 14, 1995 was $374,195,747.

       The number of shares outstanding of IDEX Corporation's common stock, par
value $.01 per share (the "Common Stock"), as of March 14, 1995 was 19,080,621.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

       Portions of the 1994 annual report to shareholders of IDEX Corporation
(the "1994 Annual Report") are incorporated by reference into Parts I and II of
this Form 10-K and portions of the definitive Proxy Statement of IDEX
Corporation (the "1995 Proxy Statement") with respect to the 1995 annual
meeting of shareholders are incorporated by reference into Part III of this
Form 10-K.



                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

       IDEX ("IDEX" or the "Company") designs, manufactures and markets a broad
range of fluid handling and industrial products serving a diverse customer base
in the United States and internationally. IDEX competes with relatively few
major manufacturers in most of its markets, and believes that each of its ten
principal subsidiaries ( the "Subsidiaries") has a significant domestic market
share in its principal product area. The Company manufactures proprietary
products of its own design with an engineering content. Generally, all of the
Company's businesses compete on the basis of performance, quality, service and
price.

FLUID HANDLING GROUP

       The Fluid Handling Group, which in 1994 accounted for 69% of the
Company's total sales, manufactures a wide variety of industrial pumps and
controls, fire-fighting pumps and rescue equipment, small horsepower
compressors, and lubrication systems. In 1994, approximately 30% of this
Group's sales were to customers outside the U.S. The six business units
comprising this Group are described below.

       CORKEN. Corken, headquartered in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, with a sales
office in Singapore, produces small horsepower compressors, vane and turbine
pumps and valves used for the transfer of liquified petroleum gas ("LPG"),
compressed natural gas, and other gaseous substances.

       Management believes Corken has approximately 50% of the market for pumps
and small horsepower compressors used in LPG distribution. Its principal
competitor in this market is the Blackmer division of Dover Corporation. Corken
faces many significant competitors in the industrial (non-LPG distribution)
segment of its business. Most of Corken's sales are made through domestic and
international distributors which incorporate Corken's products in engineered
packages sold to ultimate users. Repair and after-market sales account for
approximately 40% of Corken's total sales volume. Shipments outside the United
States represent approximately 35% of total Corken sales.

       HALE PRODUCTS. Hale Products, acquired by IDEX in May 1994, is the
newest business in the Fluid Handling Group, and has its headquarters and a
manufacturing facility in Conshohocken, Pennsylvania. It also has production
facilities in Shelby, North Carolina; St. Joseph, Tennessee; and Warwick,
England; and service and distribution centers in Dieburg, Germany and
Singapore.

       Hale Products is the world's leading manufacturer of truck-mounted
fire-fighting pumps and manufactures fire truck pumps under both the U.S. and
European design standards. Hale complements its line of fire truck pumps with a
range of portable, mobile and freestanding pumping units and also manufactures
products which form the Hurst Jaws of Life(R) rescue system. It is estimated to
have a 50% share of the U.S. and an 80% share of the U.K. markets for
truck-mounted fire pumps and a 60% share of the U.S. market for rescue tools.
Hale's principal competitor in the U.S. truck-mounted fire pump market is the
Waterous Company, a subsidiary of American Cast Iron Pipe Company.

       Sales of Hale's truck-mounted fire pumps are made directly to
manufacturers of fire trucks, while portable pumps and rescue tools are
generally sold through independent distributors. Approximately 40% of Hale's
sales occur outside the United States.

       LUBRIQUIP. Lubriquip is headquartered in Warrensville Heights, Ohio and
also has manufacturing plants in McKees Rocks, Pennsylvania, and Madison,
Wisconsin and a sales office in Singapore. Its products include a wide range of
centralized oil and grease lubrication systems and force-feed lubricators
marketed under the Trabon, Manzel, Grease Jockey, Kipp and OPCO trademarks for
use in general industrial and transportation applications. Lubriquip offers a
wide variety of customized systems using selected standard components to meet
specific customer requirements. Lubriquip is subject to competition from
several companies in both the domestic and international markets; however,
management estimates that Lubriquip is the largest producer of such systems
with approximately one-third of the domestic market for centralized lubricating
systems.



       Lubriquip's system components include pumps and pump packages for
pneumatic, mechanical, electric and hydraulic operation; metering devices,
electronic controllers, monitors and timers, and accessories. These systems are
sold through independent distributors to a wide range of industrial markets,
including machine tools (both automotive and general purpose), chemical
processing, construction equipment, food processing machinery, engine and
compressor, railroad, and over-the-road truck industries. Lubriquip's products
are available worldwide through over 100 independent distributors, with
international sales representing approximately 15% of total shipments. Through
these networks, Lubriquip also provides an extensive support system of
application engineering, service and repair parts for its products.

       PULSAFEEDER. Pulsafeeder, acquired by IDEX in May 1992, has its
headquarters and a manufacturing facility in Rochester, New York. It also
manufactures products in Punta Gorda, Florida, and Muskogee, Oklahoma, and has
sales offices in Singapore and Beijing, China. Pulsafeeder designs and markets
a wide range of metering pumps and controls. These products precisely regulate
the flow of liquids in mixing and blending applications. Primary markets served
are water and wastewater treatment, chemical and hydrocarbon processing, food
processing, and warewash institutional.

       Pulsafeeder products are grouped into three categories: engineered
pumps, standard pumps and electronic controls. Engineered pumps, designed and
manufactured in Rochester, New York, include positive displacement,
hydraulically-actuated diaphragm pumps used in precise metering applications in
such industries as electric/gas utilities, chemical process, petroleum refining
and pharmaceuticals, as well as specialty pumps targeted at niche markets,
including pumps designed to handle highly corrosive chemicals. Standard pumps,
manufactured in Punta Gorda, Florida, represent a growing portion of
Pulsafeeder's business, and include metering pumps designed for water treatment
and water conditioning applications. Electronic controls, manufactured in
Muskogee, Oklahoma, are of advanced microprocessor-based design, and are used
to control the chemical composition of fluids being pumped, including such
applications as recirculating systems for cooling towers and boilers in the
water treatment market.

       Pulsafeeder pumps are sold through an extensive network of company sales
personnel and independent representatives. Management believes that Pulsafeeder
has approximately 35% of the domestic market for metering pumps used in the
process industries and water treatment markets.  Approximately 20% of its sales
are outside of the United States. Pulsafeeder's principal competitor is Milton
Roy Company, a subsidiary of Sunstrand Corporation.

       VIKING PUMP. Viking Pump, headquartered in Cedar Falls, Iowa, is the
largest business unit in the Company's Fluid Handling Group and is one of the
largest producers of positive displacement rotary internal gear pumps (Viking's
main product) and spur gear pumps. Management believes that Viking pumps, which
are classified as rotary pumps, represent approximately 25% of the domestic
rotary pump market and 45% of the domestic rotary pump market in chemical
processing. Viking's principal rotary pump competitors are Roper Industries and
the Blackmer division of Dover Corporation. Viking's other products include
rotary lobe and metering pumps, speed reducers, flow dividers and basket-type
line strainers.

       Viking pumps are used by numerous industries such as the chemical,
petroleum, food, pulp and paper, machinery and construction industries. Viking
is not dependent on any one industry for a substantial percentage of its sales.
Sales of Viking pumps and replacement parts are made through approximately 100
independent distributors and directly to original equipment manufacturers.
Approximately 30% of Viking's sales occur outside of the United States. In
addition to its facilities in Cedar Falls, Iowa, Viking also maintains
manufacturing facilities in Eastbourne, England; Windsor, Ontario; Shannon,
Ireland; participates in a joint venture in Mexico; and has sales offices in
Amsterdam; Singapore; Woodbridge, Ontario; and Beijing, China.

       Viking operates two foundries in Cedar Falls, Iowa which supply a
majority of Viking's castings requirements. In addition, these foundries sell a
variety of castings to outside customers.

       WARREN RUPP. Warren Rupp is a producer of air-operated and motor-driven
double-diaphragm pumps, generally sold under the SandPIPER tradename. This
business unit is headquartered in Mansfield, Ohio and has a distribution
facility in Shannon, Ireland to serve the European market and a sales office in
Singapore. Warren Rupp's principal competitor is Wilden Pump and Engineering
Co. Management believes that Warren Rupp has approximately one-third of the
domestic market for air-operated double-diaphragm pumps.



       Warren Rupp's pumps are well suited for pumping liquids, slurries and
solids in suspension. Its pump models are made from cast iron, stainless steel
and non-metallic composites to meet requirements to pump various types of
material. End-user markets include the paint, chemical, mining, construction,
and automotive service industries. Warren Rupp pumps are sold through a network
of independent distributors and directly to a small number of original
equipment manufacturers. Sales outside of the United States represent
approximately 40% of total Warren Rupp sales.

INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS GROUP

       The Industrial Products Group, which in 1994 accounted for 31% of the
Company's total sales, manufactures sheet metal fabricating equipment and
tooling, stainless steel banding and clamping devices, vibration control
devices, and sign-mounting products and systems. In 1994, approximately 36% of
this Group's sales were to customers outside the U.S. The four business units
comprising this Group are described below.

       BAND-IT. Band-It, headquartered in Denver, Colorado, is one of the
largest worldwide producers of stainless steel bands, buckles and preformed
clamps and related installation tools. Its clamps are used to secure hoses to
nipples, devices to pipes and poles, signs to sign standards, fences to posts,
insulation to pipes, and for hundreds of other industrial clamping functions.
Band-It also has developed an exclusive line of tools for installing its
clamping devices.

       Band-It is subject to competition from several companies in both the
domestic and international markets; however, management believes that Band-It
has approximately 50% of the domestic market for quality stainless steel bands
and buckles. Band-It markets its products domestically and internationally. It
has manufacturing and distribution facilities in Staveley, England and in
Singapore to serve the European and Pacific Basin markets. International sales
account for approximately 45% of Band-It's sales. Its products are sold through
a worldwide network of nearly 4,000 distributors to a wide range of markets,
including the transportation, utilities, mining, oil and gas, industrial
maintenance, construction, communication and electronics industries.

       SIGNFIX. Signfix, acquired by IDEX in November 1993, has its
headquarters and a manufacturing facility near Bristol, England, with another
manufacturing facility in Tipton, England. Signfix also has distribution
facilities in France and Germany.

       Signfix is the leading U.K.-based manufacturer of sign-mounting devices
and related equipment with an estimated 45% U.K. market share.  Signfix
products include road, traffic and commercial sign-mounting systems and
stainless steel bands and clamps for various municipal, commercial and
industrial applications. Management estimates that 20% of Signfix sales are to
customers outside the U.K.

       STRIPPIT. Strippit, headquartered in Akron, New York, with sales and
service offices in Swindon, England; Paris, France; Singapore and Beijing,
China, is the largest business unit in the Company's Industrial Products Group
and is a manufacturer of a broad range of sheet metal fabricating equipment and
tooling. Strippit produces equipment which incorporates a high proportion of
state-of-the-art technology and has numerous active patents in machine tool
technology, none of which is individually material to its operations.
Strippit's products include single station semi-automatic fabricators; advanced
computer-controlled turret punching machines (including models with plasma arc
or laser cutting heads); punches, dies and related tooling items; load/unload
systems for use in conjunction with Strippit's equipment; and hand-operated
metal forming machines for use in industries which utilize light gauges of
sheet metal. Strippit also is a distributor of Burgmaster metal-cutting
machines and parts. Strippit's products are sold through a combination of
direct sales and independent distributors and agents to a large and diverse
customer base, including customers in the electronics, office, farm and
hospital equipment markets.  Approximately 25% of Strippit's total sales are to
customers outside the U.S.

       Strippit is one of the largest domestic producers of its type of metal
fabricating equipment, and management believes it has approximately 30% of the
domestic market for numerically controlled punching machines. Its principal
competitor, U.S. Amada, Ltd., is a Japanese firm which, based on its combined
domestic production and imports, is currently believed to have a somewhat
larger share of the numerically controlled punching machine market in the
United States.




       VIBRATECH. Vibratech, headquartered in Buffalo, New York, produces a
broad line of engineered long-life mechanical energy absorption devices,
providing vibration and motion control for transportation equipment, machinery
manufacturers and other users. Vibratech's three major product lines are:
viscous torsional vibration dampers used primarily for heavy duty diesel
engines and transmissions; fluid and friction ride control products for rail,
truck and vehicle manufacturers; and specialized aircraft vibration and motion
control dampers. In addition, Vibratech produces viscous torsional vibration
dampers for motorsport engines. The largest portion of its sales are made
directly to original equipment manufacturers who also service the replacement
parts market.

       Vibratech's principal competitor in the viscous torsional vibration
damper market for heavy duty diesel engines is a United Kingdom-based
subsidiary of Cummins Engine, Inc., which serves the damper requirements of
Cummins in the United States market. Management believes that Vibratech has
approximately 40% of the domestic market for viscous torsional vibration
dampers, including that portion serviced by captive producers. Sales outside
the United States are approximately 10% of Vibratech's total sales.

GENERAL ASPECTS APPLICABLE TO THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS GROUPS

       EMPLOYEES. At December 31, 1994, IDEX had approximately 3,000 employees,
of which approximately one-third were represented by labor unions with various
contracts expiring from January 1996 through November 1998. Management believes
that its relationship with its employees generally is good and that it will be
able to satisfactorily renegotiate its collective bargaining agreements upon
their expiration.

       SUPPLIERS. IDEX manufactures many of the materials and components used
in its products. Substantially all materials and components purchased by IDEX
are available from multiple sources.

       INVENTORY AND BACKLOG. Backlog does not have any material significance
in either of the Company's business segments. The Company regularly and
systematically adjusts production schedules and quantities based on the flow of
incoming orders. While total inventory levels may also be affected by changes
in orders, the Company generally tries to maintain relatively stable inventory
levels based on its assessment of the requirements of the various industries
served.

       SEGMENT INFORMATION. For segment financial information for the years
1994, 1993 and 1992 see the table presented on page 17 under "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," as
set forth in the 1994 Annual Report and incorporated herein by reference, and
Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 28 of the
1994 Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference.

       EXPORTS. For export information for the years 1994, 1993 and 1992, see
Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 28 of the
1994 Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference.




EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

       The following table sets forth the names of the executive officers of
the Company, their ages, the positions and offices with the Company held by
them, and their business experience during the past 5 years.

                                   Position with IDEX and 
Name                                Business  Experience
- ----                               ----------------------
Donald N. Boyce (Age 56)          Chairman of the Board, President and Chief 
                                  Executive Officer since prior to January 1990.

Frank J. Hansen (Age 53)          Senior Vice President - Operations and
                                  Chief Operating Officer since August 1994;
                                  Vice President-Group Executive from January
                                  1993 to July 1994; President of Viking Pump,
                                  Inc. from prior to January 1990 to July 1994.


Wayne P. Sayatovic (Age 49)       Senior Vice President - Finance, Chief
                                  Financial Officer and Secretary since August
                                  1994; Vice President - Finance, Chief
                                  Financial Officer and Secretary from January
                                  1992 to July 1994; Vice President, Treasurer
                                  and Secretary from prior to January 1990 to
                                  December 1991. 
                                  
Jerry N. Derck (Age 48)           Vice President - Human Resources since
                                  November 1992; Vice President - Human
                                  Resources, North America of Tupperware
                                  Corporation, a subsidiary of Premark
                                  International from May 1990 to October 1992;
                                  Vice President, Quality and Human Resources
                                  of Schlegel Corporation from prior to January
                                  1990 to May 1990. 
                                  

Wade H. Roberts, Jr. (Age 48)     Vice President - Group Executive since
                                  January 1993; President of Hale Products,
                                  Inc. since May 1994; President of Strippit,
                                  Inc. from August 1990 to May 1994. 
                                  

Mark W. Baker (Age 47)            Vice President - Group Executive since
                                  August 1994; President of Lubriquip, Inc.
                                  from prior to January 1990.
                                  
                                  
        The Company's executive officers are elected at a meeting of the Board
of Directors immediately following the annual meeting of shareholders, and they
serve until the next annual meeting of the Board, or until their successors are
duly elected.




ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.

       The Company's executive offices occupy approximately 10,000 square feet
of leased space in Northbrook, Illinois. The Company's principal manufacturing
facilities are listed below and are considered to be suitable and adequate for
their operations. Management believes that, in general, approximately 50% to
80% of its manufacturing capacity is currently utilized in each facility.


                              FLUID HANDLING GROUP 

                                                       

                           INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS GROUP
                                                  




ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

       The Company and the Subsidiaries are party to various legal proceedings
arising in the ordinary course of business, none of which is expected to have a
material adverse effect on the Company's business or financial condition.

       The Subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws,
rules and regulations pertaining to environmental, waste management and health
and safety matters. Permits are or may be required for some of the
Subsidiaries' facilities and waste-handling activities and these permits are
subject to revocation, modification and renewal. In addition, risks of
substantial costs and liabilities are inherent in the Subsidiaries' operations
and facilities, as they are with other companies engaged in similar industries,
and there can be no assurance that such costs and liabilities will not be
incurred. The Company is not aware of any environmental, health or safety
matter which could, individually or in the aggregate, materially adversely
affect the financial condition of the Company or any of the Subsidiaries.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

        None.

                                    PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS.

       Information regarding the prices of and dividends on the Common Stock,
and certain related matters, is incorporated herein by reference to
"Shareholder Information" at inside back cover of the 1994 Annual Report.

       The principal market for the Common Stock is the New York Stock
Exchange. As of March 14, 1995, the Common Stock was held by 1,390 shareholders
and there were 19,080,621 shares of Common Stock outstanding.

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

       The information set forth under "Historical Data" at page 15 of the
1994 Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS.

       The information set forth under "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations" at pages 16 to 19 of the 1994
Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

       The consolidated financial statements of IDEX, including the notes
thereto, together with the report thereon of Deloitte & Touche LLP at pages 20
to 30 of the 1994 Annual Report are incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

        None.




                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

       Certain information regarding the directors of the Company is
incorporated herein by reference to the information set forth under "Election
of Directors" at pages 2 to 5 of the 1995 Proxy Statement.

       Information regarding executive officers of the Company is incorporated
herein by reference to Item 1 of this report under the caption "Executive
Officers of the Registrant" at page 5.

       Certain information regarding compliance with Section 16(a) of the
Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is incorporated herein by
reference to the information set forth under "Compliance with Section 16(a) of
the Exchange Act" at page 18 of the 1995 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

       Information regarding executive compensation is incorporated by
reference to the materials under the caption "Compensation of Directors and
Executive Officers" at pages 7 to 14 of the 1995 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.

       Information regarding security ownership of certain beneficial owners
and management is incorporated herein by reference to the information set forth
under "Principal Shareholders" at pages 15 to 17 of the 1995 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

       Information regarding certain relationships and related transactions is
incorporated herein by reference to the information set forth under "Election
of Directors -- Certain Interests" and "Compensation of Directors and Executive
Officers -- Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation" at
pages 6 and 9 of the 1995 Proxy Statement.


                                   PART IV


ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

(a) 1.   Financial Statements

         The following financial statements are incorporated herein
         by reference to the 1994 Annual Report.

                                                                  1994 Annual
                                                                  Report Page
                                                                  -----------
                                                              
         Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31,               18
         1994 and 1993                                        
                                                              
         Statements of Consolidated Operations for the                19
         Years Ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992         
                                                              
         Statements of Consolidated Shareholders' Equity              20
         for the Years Ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992 
                                                              
         Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows for the                21
         Years Ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992         
                                                              
         Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                   22
                                                              

    2.   Financial Statement Schedules

         The financial statement schedule filed with this report are listed on
         the "Index to Financial Statement Schedules."

    3.   Exhibits

         The exhibits filed with this report are listed on the "Exhibit Index."

(b)      Reports on Form 8-K

         In a report filed on Form 8-K dated December 12, 1994, the Company
         reported that its Board of Directors authorized a three-for-two common
         stock split and approved a cash dividend on common stock. The
         three-for-two split is effected in the form of a 50 percent stock
         dividend, to be distributed on January 31, 1995, to shareholders of
         record as of January 17, 1995. The cash dividend on the post-split
         shares has been initially set at 14 cents per common share per calendar
         quarter. The first cash dividend was paid on January 31, 1995, to
         shareholders of record on January 17, 1995.






                                   SIGNATURES

       PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED
ON ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED, ON THE 14th DAY OF
MARCH, 1995.

                                           IDEX CORPORATION

                                           By /s/ WAYNE P. SAYATOVIC
                                           Wayne P. Sayatovic
                                           Senior Vice President - Finance,
                                           Chief Financial Officer and Secretary

       PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
THIS REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE
REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE DATES INDICATED:



                                    II-1



                     INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES


                                                                          Page
                                                                          ----
Independent Auditors' Report                                              S-2
Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts                           S-3 
                                                                          
                                                                          

       All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable, or not
       required, or because the required information is included in the
       Consolidated Financial Statements of IDEX or the Notes thereto.

                                     S-1



                         INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

IDEX Corporation:

We have audited the financial statements of IDEX Corporation and its
Subsidiaries as of December 31, 1994 and 1993 and for each of the three years
in the period ended December 31, 1994, and have issued our report thereon dated
January 16, 1995; such financial statements and report are included in your
1994 Annual Report to Shareholders and are incorporated herein by reference.
Our audits also included the financial statement schedule of IDEX Corporation,
listed in Item 14. This financial statement schedule is the responsibility of
the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on
our audits. In our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered
in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
Chicago, lllinois

January 16, 1995

                                      S-2



                       IDEX CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994, 1993 AND 1992
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

                                                                      
 --------------------
(1) Represents uncollectible accounts, net of recoveries.

                                     S-3




                                      E-1






                                      E-2





                                      E-3




  -----------------
*   Filed herewith.
**  Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

                                      E-4



