
10-K405
c59764e10-k405.txt
FORM 10-K




- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                           -------------------------

                                   FORM 10-K
(MARK ONE)
[X]      ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
         OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

         FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000

[ ]      TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
         OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

         FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM _______________ TO _______________

                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-10235

                                IDEX CORPORATION
             (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)



                 Registrant's telephone number: (847) 498-7070

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:



        SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT: NONE

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  YES [X]     NO [ ]

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]

     The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of
IDEX Corporation as of December 31, 2000 was $683,622,355.

     The number of shares outstanding of IDEX Corporation's common stock, par
value $.01 per share (the "Common Stock"), as of January 29, 2001 was
30,356,579.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

     Portions of the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders of IDEX Corporation (the
"2000 Annual Report") are incorporated by reference into Parts I and II of this
Form 10-K and portions of the definitive Proxy Statement of IDEX Corporation
(the "2001 Proxy Statement") with respect to the 2001 annual meeting of
shareholders are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

     IDEX Corporation ("IDEX" or the "Company") manufactures an extensive array
of proprietary, engineered industrial products sold to customers in a variety of
industries around the world. The Company believes that each of its principal
business units holds the number-one or number-two market share position in each
unit's niche market. IDEX believes that its consistent financial performance has
been attributable to the manufacture of quality proprietary products designed
and engineered by the Company, coupled with its ability to identify and
successfully integrate strategic acquisitions. IDEX consists of three reportable
business segments: Pump Products Group, Dispensing Equipment Group, and Other
Engineered Products Group.

PUMP PRODUCTS GROUP

     The Pump Products Group designs, produces and distributes a wide variety of
industrial pumps, compressors, meters and related controls for the movement of
liquids, air and gases. The devices and equipment produced by this Group are
used by a large and diverse set of industries, including chemical processing,
machinery, water treatment, medical equipment, LP gas distribution, oil and
refining, and food and drug processing. In 2000, the six business units that
comprised this group were Corken, Gast Manufacturing, Micropump, Pulsafeeder,
Viking Pump, and Warren Rupp. The company acquired Liquid Controls L.L.C.
("Liquid Controls"), now part of the Pump Products Group, in January 2001. The
group accounted for 56% of sales and 55% of operating income in 2000, with 33%
of sales shipped to customers outside the U.S.

     Corken. Corken is a leading producer of positive displacement rotary vane
pumps, single and multistage regenerative turbine pumps, and small horsepower
reciprocating piston compressors. Management estimates that Corken has
approximately a 50% U.S. market share for pumps and compressors used in LP gas
distribution facilities. Corken's products are used for the transfer and
recovery of non-viscous, toxic, and hazardous fluids in either liquid or vapor
form. Corken's products are used in a variety of industries including LP gas,
oil and gas, petrochemical, pulp and paper, transportation, marine, food
processing and general industrial. Approximately 45% of Corken's 2000 sales were
to customers outside the U.S. Corken, which was acquired by IDEX in 1991, is
based in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.

     Gast Manufacturing. Gast Manufacturing (Gast) is a leading manufacturer of
air-moving products with an estimated 33% U.S. market share in air motors, low
and medium range vacuum pumps, vacuum generators, regenerative blowers and
fractional horsepower compressors. Gast's products are used in applications
requiring a quiet, clean source of moderate vacuum or pressure. Gast's primary
markets served are medical equipment, environmental equipment, computers and
electronics, printing machinery, paint mixing machinery, packaging machinery,
graphic arts and industrial manufacturing. Approximately 20% of Gast's 2000
sales were to customers outside the U.S. Gast was acquired in 1998 and is based
in Benton Harbor, Michigan, with an additional operation in England.

     Liquid Controls. Liquid Controls is a leading manufacturer of positive
displacement flow meters and electronic registration and control products with
an estimated one-third market share in its U.S. markets. Applications for its
products include mobile and stationary metering installations for wholesale and
retail distribution of petroleum and LP gas, aviation refueling, and industrial
metering and dispensing of liquids and gases. Liquid Controls was acquired in
January 2001 and is headquartered in Lake Bluff, Illinois with joint ventures in
Italy and India. Approximately 50% of its sales outside the United States.

     Micropump. Micropump is a leader in small, precision-engineered,
magnetically and electromagnetically driven rotary gear, piston and centrifugal
pumps with an approximate 40% U.S. market share. Micropump's products are used
in low-flow abrasive and corrosive applications. Micropump serves markets
including printing machinery, medical equipment, chemical processing,
pharmaceutical, refining, laboratory, electronics, pulp and paper, water
treatment and textiles. Micropump's sales in 2000 to customers outside the U.S.
were 60%. In April 2000, IDEX acquired Ismatec SA. Ismatec is a leading
manufacturer of peristaltic metering pumps, analytic process controllers, and
sample preparation systems. Headquartered near Zurich, Switzerland, the business
operates as part of Micropump and provides Micropump with entry into scientific
R&D markets including pharmaceutical, medical, biotech and institutional
laboratory. Micropump, which was acquired by IDEX in 1995, has its headquarters
facility in Vancouver, Washington, and also has operations in Switzerland and
England.



     Pulsafeeder. Pulsafeeder is a leading manufacturer of metering pumps,
special purpose rotary pumps, peristaltic pumps, electronic controls and
dispensing equipment with an estimated 40% U.S. market share. Pulsafeeder's
products are used to introduce precise amounts of fluids into processes to
manage water quality and chemical composition. Pulsafeeder's markets include
water and wastewater treatment, power generation, pulp and paper, chemical and
hydrocarbon processing, swimming pool, industrial and commercial laundry and
dishwashing. In 2000, approximately 30% of Pulsafeeder's sales were to customers
outside the U.S. Knight Equipment International (Knight) was acquired in 1997
and is operated as part of the Pulsafeeder business unit. Pulsafeeder was
acquired in 1992 and is headquartered in Rochester, New York, with additional
operations in Lake Forest, California, Punta Gorda, Florida, and Enschede, The
Netherlands.

     Viking Pump. Viking Pump is one of the world's largest internal gear pump
producers. In the U.S. it has an estimated 40% of the rotary gear pump market.
Viking also produces lobe and metering pumps, strainers and reducers, and
related controls. These products are used for transferring and metering thin and
viscous liquids. Markets served by Viking include chemical, petroleum, pulp and
paper, plastics, paints, inks, tanker trucks, compressor, construction, food,
beverage, personal care, pharmaceutical and biotech. Approximately 30% of
Viking's 2000 sales were to customers outside the U.S. Viking operates two
foundries that supply a majority of Viking's castings requirements and also
sells a variety of castings to outside customers. Viking is based in Cedar
Falls, Iowa, with additional operations in Canada, England and Ireland.

     Warren Rupp. Warren Rupp is a leading producer of double-diaphragm pumps,
both air-operated and motor-driven, and accessories with an estimated 25% U.S.
market share. Warren Rupp's products are used for abrasive and semisolid
materials as well as for applications where product degradation is a concern or
where electricity is not available or should not be used. Warren Rupp serves
markets including chemical, paint, food processing, electronics, construction,
utilities, mining and industrial maintenance. Sales to customers outside the
U.S. in 2000 were 50%. In May 2000, IDEX acquired Trebor International which now
operates as part of Warren Rupp. Trebor is headquartered in Salt Lake City,
Utah, and is a leader in high purity fluid handling products, including
air-operated diaphragm pumps and deionized water-heating systems. Its products
are used to make semiconductors, disk drives and flat panel displays. Blagdon
Pump was acquired in 1997 and is operated as part of the Warren Rupp business
unit. Warren Rupp is based in Mansfield, Ohio, with additional operations in
Utah and England.

DISPENSING EQUIPMENT GROUP

     The Dispensing Equipment Group produces highly engineered equipment for
dispensing, metering and mixing colorants, paints, inks, dyes; refinishing
equipment; and centralized lubrication systems. This proprietary equipment is
used in a variety of retail and commercial industries around the world. These
units provide equipment, systems, and service for applications such as tinting
paints and coatings; providing industrial and automotive refinishing equipment;
and the precise lubrication of machinery and transportation equipment. In 2000,
the three business units that comprised this group were FAST, Fluid Management,
and Lubriquip. The group accounted for 23% of sales and 24% of operating income
in 2000, with 55% of sales shipped to customers outside the U.S.

     FAST. The Company acquired FAST S.p.A. (FAST) on June 4, 1999. FAST is a
leading European manufacturer of precision-designed tinting, mixing, dispensing
and measuring equipment for refinishing, architectural and industrial paints,
inks, dyes, pastes and other liquids. Management estimates that FAST has a 20%
worldwide share of the architectural and refinishing equipment markets. FAST's
products are used for the precise and reliable reproduction of colors based on
paint producers' formulas. Through architectural, refinishing and industrial
paint producers, precision equipment is supplied to retail and commercial
stores, home centers, and automotive body shops. Approximately 95% of FAST's
sales in 2000 were to customers outside the U.S. FAST is based in Milan, Italy.

     Fluid Management. Fluid Management is a market leader in automatic and
manually operated dispensing, metering and mixing equipment for the paints and
coatings market with an estimated 50% worldwide market share. Fluid Management's
products are used for the precise blending of base paints, tints and colorants,
and inks and dyes. Fluid Management's markets include retail and commercial
paint stores, hardware stores, home centers, department stores, printers, and
paint and ink manufacturers. Approximately 50% of Fluid Management's 2000 sales
were to customers outside the U.S. Fluid Management was acquired by IDEX in 1996
and is based in Wheeling, Illinois. Additional operations are located in The
Netherlands and Australia.



     Lubriquip. Lubriquip is a market leader in centralized oil and grease
lubrication systems, force-feed lubricators, metering devices, related
electronic controls and accessories with an estimated 25% share of the U.S.
market for centralized oil lubrication systems. Lubriquip's products are used to
prolong equipment life, reduce maintenance costs and increase productivity.
Lubriquip serves markets including machine tools, transfer machines, conveyors,
packaging equipment, transportation equipment, construction machinery, food
processing and paper machinery. Approximately 20% of Lubriquip's sales in 2000
were to customers outside the U.S. Lubriquip is headquartered in Warrensville
Heights, Ohio, with an additional operation in Madison, Wisconsin.

OTHER ENGINEERED PRODUCTS GROUP

     The Other Engineered Products Group manufactures engineered banding and
clamping devices, fire fighting pumps and rescue tools. The high-quality
stainless steel bands, buckles and preformed clamps and related installation
tools are used in applications including securing hoses, signals, pipes, poles,
electrical lines, sign-mounting systems and numerous other "hold-together"
applications. The group also includes the world's leading manufacturer of
truck-mounted fire pumps and rescue tool systems used by public and private fire
and rescue organizations. In 2000, the two units that comprised this group were
Band-It and Hale Products. The group accounted for 21% of both sales and
operating income in 2000, with 46% of sales shipped to customers outside the
U.S.

     Band-It. Band-It is a leading producer of high-quality stainless steel
bands, buckles and clamping systems with an estimated 45% worldwide market
share. Band-It's products are used for securing hose fittings, signs, signals,
pipes, poles, electrical shielding and bundling and numerous other
"hold-together" applications for industrial and commercial use. Band-It's
markets include transportation equipment, oil and gas, industrial maintenance,
electronics, electrical, communications, aerospace, traffic and commercial
signs. In 2000, approximately 55% of Band-It's sales were to customers outside
the U.S. Signfix was acquired in 1993 and is being operated as part of the
Band-It business unit. Band-It is based in Denver, Colorado, with three
additional operations in England and one in Singapore.

     Hale Products. Hale Products (Hale) is the world's leading manufacturer of
truck-mounted fire pumps and rescue systems with an estimated 50% worldwide
market share. Hale's products include the Hurst Jaws of Life(R) and Lukas(R)
rescue systems. Hale's pumps are used to pump water or foam to extinguish fires;
its rescue equipment is used to extricate accident victims; and its forced entry
equipment is used for law enforcement, disaster recovery, and recycling. Hale's
markets include public and private fire and rescue organizations. Approximately
40% of Hale's 2000 sales were to customers outside the U.S. Hale was acquired by
IDEX in 1994. Lukas was acquired in 1995 and is operated as part of the Hale
Products business unit. In January 2001, IDEX also acquired Class 1,
headquartered in Ocala, Florida, which now administratively functions as part of
Hale. Class 1 is a leading supplier of components and systems to the fire and
rescue vehicle market. Its primary products include electronic information
controls, engine information systems, electronic multiplexing units, electrical
monitoring equipment and systems and fire truck mechanical components. Hale is
headquartered in Conshohocken, Pennsylvania, with additional operations in North
Carolina, Tennessee, Florida, England and Germany.



GENERAL ASPECTS APPLICABLE TO THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS GROUPS

COMPETITORS

     The Company's businesses participate in highly competitive markets.
Generally, all of the Company's businesses compete on the basis of performance,
quality, service, and price.

     Principal competitors of the businesses in the Pump Products Group are the
Blackmer division of Dover Corporation (with respect to rotary gear pumps, and
pumps and small horsepower compressors used in liquified petroleum gas
distribution facilities); Milton Roy, a division of United Technologies
Corporation (with respect to metering pumps and controls); Roper Industries and
Tuthill Corporation (with respect to rotary gear pumps); Wilden Pump and
Engineering Co., a division of Dover Corporation (with respect to air-operated
double-diaphragm pumps); and Thomas Industries (with respect to vacuum pumps and
compressors.)

     The principal competitors of the Dispensing Equipment Group are Corob (with
respect to dispensing and mixing equipment for the paint industry) and Lincoln
Industrial, a division of Pentair Incorporated (with respect to centralized
lubrication systems).

     The Other Engineered Products Group's principal competitors are A.J.
Gerrard & Company, a division of Illinois Tool Works Inc. (with respect to
stainless steel bands, buckles and tools) and Waterous Company, a division of
American Cast Iron Pipe Company (with respect to truck-mounted fire-fighting
pumps).

EMPLOYEES

     At December 31, 2000, IDEX had approximately 3,900 employees. Approximately
15% were represented by labor union with various contracts expiring though March
2003. Management believes that the Company's relationship with its employees is
good. The Company has historically been able to satisfactorily renegotiate its
collective bargaining agreements, with its last work stoppage in March 1993.

SUPPLIERS

     IDEX manufactures many of the parts and components used in its products.
Substantially all materials, parts and components purchased by IDEX are
available from multiple sources.

INVENTORY AND BACKLOG

     The Company regularly and systematically adjusts production schedules and
quantities based on the flow of incoming orders. Backlogs are therefore
typically limited to approximately 1 to 1 1/2 months of production. While total
inventory levels may also be affected by changes in orders, the Company
generally tries to maintain relatively stable inventory levels based on its
assessment of the requirements of the various industries served.

SEGMENT INFORMATION

     For segment financial information for the years 2000, 1999, and 1998, see
the table titled "Company and Business Group Financial Information" presented on
page 18 under "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations" and Note 10 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements" on pages 30 and 31 of the 2000 Annual Report, which is incorporated
herein by reference.



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     The following table sets forth the names of the executive officers of the
Company, their ages, years of service, the positions held by them, and their
business experience during the past 5 years.



- ---------------
(1) The years of service for executive officers include the period prior to
    acquisition by IDEX or with IDEX's predecessor company.

     Mr. Williams was appointed Chairman of the Board, President and Chief
Executive Officer by the Board of Directors, effective May 1, 2000. Prior to
joining IDEX, Mr. Williams was a senior executive of the General Electric
Company during the past five years, most recently serving as President and Chief
Executive Officer of GE Power Systems Industrial Products, a global business
with $4 billion in sales, based in Florence, Italy. Prior to heading GE Power
Systems Industrial Products, he was President and Chief Executive Officer of
GE's Nuovo Pignone business, one of the world's leading manufacturers of gas
turbines and high-pressure industrial compressors.

     Mr. Sayatovic has been Senior Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial
Officer of the Company since January 1992.

     Mr. Derck has been Vice President-Human Resources of the Company since
November 1992.

     Mr. Fluharty has served as Vice President-Group Executive since December
1998. Mr. Fluharty was Vice President-Corporate Marketing from March 1997
through September 2000. He was President of Fluid Management from January 1998
to December 1998 and from April 1996 to February 1997 he was President of
Micropump.

     Mr. Kooman has been Vice President-Controller of the Company since November
1995.

     Mr. Lennox has served as Vice President-Treasurer of the Company since
November 1995.

     Mr. McMurray has been Vice President-Operational Excellence of the Company
since October 2000. Mr. McMurray previously served as Vice President-Group
Executive from November 1998 through September 2000, and President of Viking
Pump from January 1997 through September 2000. He was Executive Vice President
of Viking Pump from August 1994 to December 1996.



     Mr. Metcalf has served as Vice President-Corporate Development of the
Company since March 1997. Mr. Metcalf was Director of Business Development of
the Company from March 1991 to February 1997.

     Mr. Notaro has served as Vice President-General Counsel and Secretary since
March 1998. Previously, Mr. Notaro was a partner of Hodgson, Russ LLP.

     Mr. Usher has been Vice President-Group Executive of the Company since
August 1997 and President of Pulsafeeder from August 1994 through September
2000.

     Mr. Windmuller has served as Vice President-Group Executive since October
2000. Mr. Windmuller served as Vice President-Operations of the Company from
January 1998 through September 2000. Previously, Mr. Windmuller was President of
Fluid Management from January 1997 to December 1997 and from July 1994 to
December 1996, served as President of Viking Pump.

     The Company's executive officers are elected at a meeting of the Board of
Directors immediately following the annual meeting of shareholders, and they
serve until the next annual meeting of the Board, or until their successors are
duly elected.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.

     The Company's principal plants and offices have an aggregate floor space
area of approximately 2.7 million square feet, of which 1.9 million square feet
(70%) are located in the U.S. and approximately 800,000 square feet (30%) are
located outside the U.S., primarily in the U.K. (10%), Italy (10%), Germany (6%)
and The Netherlands (4%). These facilities are considered to be suitable and
adequate for their operations. Management believes that utilization of
manufacturing capacity ranges from 50% to 80% in each facility. The Company's
executive office occupies approximately 12,000 square feet of leased space in
Northbrook, Illinois.

     Approximately 2.0 million square feet (74%) of the principal plant and
office floor area is owned by the Company, and the balance is held under lease.
Approximately 1.5 million square feet (56%) of the principal plant and office
floor area is held by business units in the Pump Products Group; 700,000 square
feet (26%) is held by business units in the Dispensing Equipment Group; and
500,000 square feet (18%) is held by business units in the Other Engineered
Products Group.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

     The Company and the Company's subsidiaries (Subsidiaries) are party to
various legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business, none of
which is expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company's business or
financial condition.

     The Subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal, state, and local laws,
rules and regulations pertaining to environmental, waste management, and health
and safety matters. Permits are or may be required for some of the Subsidiaries'
facilities and waste-handling activities and these permits are subject to
revocation, modification and renewal. In addition, risks of substantial costs
and liabilities are inherent in the Subsidiaries' operations and facilities, as
they are with other companies engaged in similar industries, and there can be no
assurance that such costs and liabilities will not be incurred. The Company is
not aware of any environmental, health or safety matter which could,
individually or in the aggregate, cause a material adverse effect on the
business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows of the
Company or any of its Subsidiaries.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

     None.



                                    PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS.

     Information regarding the prices of, and dividends on, the Common Stock,
and certain related matters, is incorporated herein by reference to "Shareholder
Information" on page 37 of the 2000 Annual Report.

     The principal market for the Common Stock is the New York Stock Exchange,
but the Common Stock is also listed on the Chicago Stock Exchange. As of January
29, 2001, the Common Stock was held by approximately 4,300 shareholders and
there were 30,356,579 shares of Common Stock outstanding.

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

     The information set forth under "Historical Data" on pages 14 and 15 of the
2000 Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS.

     The information set forth under "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations" on pages 16 to 21 of the 2000
Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK.

     The information set forth under the caption "Quantitative and Qualitative
Disclosure about Market Risk" on page 21 of the 2000 Annual Report is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

     The Consolidated Financial Statements of IDEX, including Notes thereto,
together with the independent auditors' report thereon of Deloitte & Touche LLP
on pages 22 to 34 of the 2000 Annual Report are incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH INDEPENDENT AUDITORS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

     None.



                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

     Certain information regarding the directors of the Company is incorporated
herein by reference to the information set forth under the caption "Election of
Directors" in the 2001 Proxy Statement.

     Information regarding executive officers of the Company is incorporated
herein by reference to Item 1 of this report under the caption "Executive
Officers of the Registrant" on page 5.

     Certain information regarding compliance with Section 16(a) of the
Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is incorporated herein by
reference to the information set forth under "Compliance with Section 16(a) of
the Exchange Act" in the 2001 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

     Information regarding executive compensation is incorporated herein by
reference to the materials under the caption "Compensation of Executive
Officers" in the 2001 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.

     Information regarding security ownership of certain beneficial owners and
management is incorporated herein by reference to the information set forth
under the caption "Security Ownership" in the 2001 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

     Information regarding certain relationships and related transactions is
incorporated herein by reference to the information set forth under the caption
"Certain Interests" in the 2001 Proxy Statement.



                                    PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

(A) 1. Financial Statements

     The following financial statements are incorporated herein by reference to
the 2000 Annual Report.





     3. Exhibits

        The exhibits filed with this report are listed on the "Exhibit Index."

(B) Report on Form 8-K

     In a report on Form 8-K, dated October 5, 2000, and filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on October 5, 2000, IDEX Corporation
announced a realignment in the management structure and responsibilities of
several of its senior executives, allowing it to more efficiently and
effectively pursue profitable growth opportunities and margin enhancing
activities. The new management structure became effective October 1.

     Rodney L. Usher was appointed vice president-group executive for pump
businesses. He is now responsible for the Corken, Micropump, Pulsafeeder, Viking
Pump, and Warren Rupp business units. Mr. Usher had served as vice
president-group executive and president of Pulsafeeder. The vacancy in the
president's position at Pulsafeeder was filled by Andrew W. Molodetz, formerly
the executive vice president of that business unit.

     David T. Windmuller was appointed vice president-group executive of IDEX's
industrial product businesses and is now responsible for the Band-It, Gast
Manufacturing and Hale Products business units. Mr. Windmuller had been serving
as vice president of operations for IDEX since 1998.

     James R. Fluharty was appointed vice president-group executive of IDEX's
dispensing equipment businesses, which include FAST, Fluid Management and
Lubriquip. Mr. Fluharty had served as vice president-group executive and vice
president of corporate marketing.

     John L. McMurray was appointed vice president of operational excellence. In
this new role, he is responsible for company-wide implementation of IDEX's
growth and margin initiatives. Mr. McMurray had served as vice president-group
executive and president of Viking Pump. The vacancy in Viking Pump's presidency
was filled by Glen C. Springer, who had been this unit's executive vice
president.



                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

IDEX Corporation:

     We have audited the consolidated financial statements of IDEX Corporation
and its Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2000 and 1999 and for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2000, and have issued our report thereon;
dated January 16, 2001: such financial statements and report are included in
your 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders and are incorporated herein by
reference. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule of IDEX
Corporation, listed in Item 14. This financial statement schedule is the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, such financial statement schedule,
when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements as a
whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth
therein.

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Chicago, Illinois
January 16, 2001

                       IDEX CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                SCHEDULE II -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000, 1999 AND 1998
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)



- ---------------
(1) Represents uncollectible accounts, net of recoveries.

(2) Represents acquisition, translation and reclassification adjustments.



                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 31st day of
January, 2001.

                                          IDEX CORPORATION

                                          By     /s/ WAYNE P. SAYATOVIC
                                            ------------------------------------
                                                     Wayne P. Sayatovic
                                              Senior Vice President -- Finance
                                                and Chief Financial Officer

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated:





                                 EXHIBIT INDEX











- ---------------
 * Filed herewith

** Management contract or compensatory plan or agreement.


