
10-K405
FORM 10-K DATED 12/31/95





                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549
                             ___________________

                                  FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
/X/      ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
         EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995
                                       OR
/ /      TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
         EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the transition period from ____________ to ______________

                       Commission file number 1-10235

                              IDEX CORPORATION
              ----------------------------------------------------
             (Exact Name of Registrant As Specified in Its Charter)


                              630 Dundee Road
                              Northbrook, Illinois                  60062  
                   ----------------------------------------       ----------
                   (Address of principal executive offices)       (Zip Code)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (847) 498-7070


SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:



SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT: None

         Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes    X     No ______

         Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.[X]

         The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates
of IDEX Corporation as of February 28, 1996 was $447,758,941.

         The number of shares outstanding of IDEX Corporation's common stock,
par value $.01 per share (the "Common Stock"), as of February 28, 1996 was
19,145,093.



                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

         Portions of the 1995 annual report to shareholders of IDEX Corporation
(the "1995 Annual Report") are incorporated by reference into Parts I and II of
this Form 10-K and portions of the definitive Proxy Statement of IDEX
Corporation (the "1996 Proxy Statement") with respect to the 1996 annual
meeting of shareholders are incorporated by reference into Part III of this
Form 10-K.




                                     PART I


ITEM 1.  BUSINESS.

         IDEX Corporation ("IDEX" or the "Company") designs, manufactures and
markets a broad range of fluid handling and industrial products serving a
diverse customer base in the U.S. and internationally.  IDEX competes with
relatively few major manufacturers in most of its markets, and believes that
each of its eleven principal subsidiaries ( the "Subsidiaries") has a
significant domestic market share in its principal product area.  The Company
manufactures proprietary products of its own design with an engineering
content.  Generally, all of the Company's businesses compete on the basis of
performance, quality, service and price.

FLUID HANDLING GROUP

         The Fluid Handling Group, which in 1995 accounted for 71% of the
Company's total sales, manufactures a wide variety of industrial pumps and
controls, fire-fighting pumps and rescue tools,  lubrication systems and low-
horsepower compressors.  In 1995, approximately 33% of this Group's sales were
to customers outside the U.S.  The seven business units comprising this Group
are described below.

         CORKEN.  Corken, headquartered in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, produces
low-horsepower compressors, vane and turbine pumps and valves used for the
transfer of liquefied petroleum gas ("LPG"), compressed natural gas, and other
gaseous substances.

         Management believes Corken has approximately 50% of the market for
pumps and small-horsepower compressors used in LPG distribution.  Its principal
competitor in this market is the Blackmer division of Dover Corporation. Corken
faces many significant competitors in the industrial (non-LPG distribution)
segment of its business.  Most of Corken's sales are made through domestic and
international distributors which incorporate Corken's products in engineered
packages sold to ultimate users. Repair and after-market sales account for
approximately 40% of Corken's total sales volume. Shipments outside the U.S.
represent approximately 40% of Corken sales.

         HALE PRODUCTS.  Hale Products, acquired by IDEX in May 1994,  has its
headquarters and a manufacturing facility in Conshohocken, Pennsylvania.  It
also has production facilities in Shelby, North Carolina; St. Joseph,
Tennessee; and Warwick, England; and service and distribution centers in
Dieburg, Germany and Singapore.  Hale's presence in Europe was enhanced with
the October 1995 acquisition for $35 million of Lukas Hydraulik GmbH ("Lukas")
of Erlangen, Germany.  Lukas is the leading European manufacturer of rescue
tools and also produces railroad rerailing equipment  and other hydraulic
devices.

         Hale Products is the world's leading manufacturer of truck-mounted
fire-fighting pumps and manufactures a wide range of portable, mobile and
freestanding pumping units.  Hale also is the world's leading manufacturer of
rescue tool systems with the Hurst Jaws of Life(R) and Lukas rescue systems.
It is estimated to have a worldwide market share for truck-mounted
fire-fighting pumps and rescue tools in excess of 50%.  Hale's principal
competitor in the U.S. truck-mounted fire-fighting pump market is the Waterous
Company, a subsidiary of American Cast Iron Pipe Company.

         Sales of Hale's truck-mounted fire-fighting pumps are made directly to
manufacturers of fire trucks, while portable pumps and rescue tools are
generally sold through independent distributors.  Approximately 40% of Hale's
sales are to customers outside the U.S.














         LUBRIQUIP.  Lubriquip is headquartered in Warrensville Heights, Ohio
and also has manufacturing plants in McKees Rocks, Pennsylvania, and Madison,
Wisconsin and sales offices in Antwerp, Belgium and Singapore.  Its products
include a wide range of centralized oil and grease lubrication systems and
force-feed lubricators marketed under the Trabon, Manzel, Grease Jockey, Kipp
and OPCO trademarks for use in general industrial and transportation
applications.  Lubriquip offers a wide variety of customized systems using
selected standard components to meet specific customer requirements. Lubriquip
is subject to competition from several companies in both the domestic and
international markets; however, management estimates that Lubriquip is the
largest U.S. producer of such systems with approximately one-third of the
domestic market for centralized lubricating systems.

         Lubriquip's system components include pumps and pump packages for
pneumatic, mechanical, electric and hydraulic operations; metering devices,
electronic controllers, monitors and timers, and accessories.  These systems
are sold through independent distributors to a wide range of industrial
markets, including machine tools (both automotive and general purpose),
chemical processing, construction equipment, food processing machinery, engine
and compressor, railroad, and over-the-road truck industries.  Lubriquip's
products are available worldwide through over 100 independent distributors,
with international sales representing approximately 20% of total shipments.
Through these networks, Lubriquip also provides an extensive support system of
application engineering, service and repair parts for its products.

         MICROPUMP.  Micropump, acquired by IDEX in May 1995 for $33 million,
has its headquarters and principal manufacturing facilities in Vancouver,
Washington, and also has operations in St. Neots, England.

         Micropump, the leader in corrosion-resistant, magnetically-driven
miniature pump technology with an estimated 40% market share, is subject to
competition from several companies.  Its products include pumps and fluid
management systems for low-flow abrasive and corrosive applications such as
inks, dyes, solvents, chemicals, petrochemicals, acids, and chlorides.
Micropump products are used in a variety of industries including chemical
processing, laboratory, medical, printing, electronics, pulp and paper, water
treatment and textiles.  Management estimates that 45% of Micropump's sales are
to customers outside the U.S.

         PULSAFEEDER.  Pulsafeeder has its headquarters and a manufacturing
facility in Rochester, New York.  It also manufactures products in Punta Gorda,
Florida, and Muskogee, Oklahoma, and has sales offices in Singapore and
Beijing, China.  Pulsafeeder designs and markets a wide range of metering pumps
and controls.  These products precisely regulate the flow of liquids in mixing
and blending applications.  Primary markets served are water and wastewater
treatment, chemical and hydrocarbon processing, food processing, and warewash
institutional.

         Pulsafeeder products are grouped into three categories:  engineered
pumps, standard pumps and electronic controls.  Engineered pumps, designed and
manufactured in Rochester, New York, include positive displacement,
hydraulically-actuated diaphragm pumps used in precise metering applications in
such industries as electric/gas utilities, chemical processing, petroleum
refining and pharmaceuticals, as well as specialty pumps targeted at niche
markets, including pumps designed to handle highly corrosive chemicals.
Standard pumps, manufactured in Punta Gorda, Florida, represent a growing
portion of Pulsafeeder's business, and include metering pumps designed for
water treatment and water conditioning applications.  Electronic controls,
manufactured in Muskogee, Oklahoma, are of advanced microprocessor-based
design, and are used to control the chemical composition of fluids being
pumped, including such applications as recirculating systems for cooling towers
and boilers, and in the water treatment market.

         Pulsafeeder pumps are sold through an extensive network of company
sales personnel and independent representatives.  Management believes that
Pulsafeeder has approximately 40% of the domestic market for metering pumps
used in the process industries and water treatment markets.  Approximately 25%
of its sales are outside of the U.S.  Pulsafeeder's principal competitor is
Milton Roy,  a unit of Sundstrand Corporation.














         VIKING PUMP.  Viking Pump, headquartered in Cedar Falls, Iowa, is the
largest business unit in the Company's Fluid Handling Group and is one of the
world's largest producers of positive displacement rotary gear pumps (Viking's
main product) and spur gear pumps.  Management believes that Viking pumps,
which are classified as rotary gear pumps, represent approximately 35% of the
domestic rotary gear pump market.  Viking's principal rotary pump competitors
are Roper Industries and the Blackmer division of Dover Corporation.  Viking's
other products include rotary lobe and metering pumps, speed reducers, flow
dividers and basket-type line strainers.

         Viking pumps are used by numerous industries such as the chemical,
petroleum, food, pulp and paper, machinery and construction industries.  Viking
is not dependent on any one industry for a substantial percentage of its sales.
Sales of Viking pumps and replacement parts are made through approximately 100
independent distributors and directly to original equipment manufacturers.
Approximately 35% of Viking's sales occur outside of the U.S.  In addition to
its facilities in Cedar Falls, Iowa, Viking also maintains manufacturing
facilities in Eastbourne, England; Windsor, Ontario, Canada; Shannon, Ireland;
and has sales offices in Alphen, Netherlands; Singapore; Toronto, Ontario,
Canada; and Beijing, China.

         Viking operates two foundries in Cedar Falls, Iowa which supply a
majority of Viking's castings requirements.  In addition, these foundries sell
a variety of castings to outside customers.

         WARREN RUPP.  Warren Rupp is a producer of air-operated and
motor-driven double-diaphragm pumps, generally sold under the SandPIPER
tradename. This business unit is headquartered in Mansfield, Ohio and has a
distribution and assembly facility in Shannon, Ireland to serve the European
market and a sales office in Singapore.  Warren Rupp's principal competitor is
Wilden Pump and Engineering Co.  Management believes that Warren Rupp has
approximately one-third of the domestic market for air-operated
double-diaphragm pumps.

         Warren Rupp's pumps are well suited for pumping liquids, slurries and
solids in suspension.  Its pump models are made from cast iron, stainless steel
and non-metallic composites to meet requirements to pump various types of
material.  End-user markets include the paint, chemical, mining, construction,
and automotive service industries.  Warren Rupp pumps are sold through a
network of independent distributors and directly to a small number of original
equipment manufacturers.  Sales outside of the U.S. represent approximately 45%
of  Warren Rupp sales.

 INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS GROUP

         The Industrial Products Group, which in 1995 accounted for 29% of the
Company's total sales, manufactures sheet metal fabricating equipment and
tooling, stainless steel banding and clamping devices, vibration control
devices, and sign-mounting products and systems.  In 1995, approximately 38% of
this Group's sales were to customers outside the U.S.  The four business units
comprising this Group are described below.

         BAND-IT.  Band-It, headquartered in Denver, Colorado, is one of the
largest worldwide producers of stainless steel bands, buckles and preformed
clamps and related installation tools. Its clamps are used to secure hoses to
nipples, devices to pipes and poles, signs to sign standards, fences to posts,
insulation to pipes, and for hundreds of other industrial clamping functions.
Band-It also has developed an exclusive line of tools for installing its
clamping devices.

          Management believes that Band-It has approximately 50% of the
domestic market for quality stainless steel bands and buckles; however, it is
subject to competition from several companies in both the domestic and
international markets.  Band-It markets its products domestically and
internationally.  It has manufacturing and distribution facilities in Staveley,
England and in Singapore to serve the European and Pacific Basin markets.
International sales account for approximately 50% of Band-It's sales.  Its
products are sold through a worldwide network of nearly 4,000 distributors to a
wide range of markets, including the transportation, utilities, mining, oil and
gas, industrial maintenance, construction, communication and electronics
industries.














         SIGNFIX.  Signfix has its headquarters and a manufacturing facility
near Bristol, England with another manufacturing facility in Tipton, England.
Signfix also has a distribution facility in Germany.

         Signfix, the leading U.K.-based manufacturer of sign-mounting devices
and related equipment with an estimated 45% U.K. market share, is subject to
competition from several companies.  Signfix products include road, traffic and
commercial sign-mounting systems and stainless steel bands and clamps for
various municipal, commercial and industrial applications.  Management
estimates that 20% of Signfix sales are to customers outside the U.K.

         STRIPPIT.  Strippit, headquartered in Akron, New York, with sales and
service offices in Swindon, England; Paris, France;  Singapore and Beijing,
China, is the largest business unit in the Company's Industrial Products Group
and is a manufacturer of a broad range of sheet metal fabricating equipment and
tooling.  Strippit produces equipment which incorporates a high proportion of
state-of-the-art technology and has numerous active patents in machine tool
technology, none of which is individually material to its operations.
Strippit's products include single station semi-automatic fabricators; advanced
computer-controlled turret punching machines (including models with plasma arc
or laser cutting heads); punches, dies and related tooling items; load/unload
systems for use in conjunction with Strippit's equipment; and hand-operated
metal forming machines for use in industries which utilize light gauges of
sheet metal.  Strippit also is a distributor of Burgmaster metal-cutting
machines and parts.  Strippit's products are sold through a combination of
direct sales, and independent distributors and agents to a large and diverse
customer base, including customers in the electronics, office, farm and
hospital equipment markets.  Approximately 30% of Strippit's total sales are to
customers outside the U.S.

         Strippit is one of the largest domestic producers of its type of metal
fabricating equipment, and management believes it has approximately 30% of the
domestic market for numerically controlled punching machines.  Its principal
competitor, U.S. Amada, Ltd., is a Japanese firm which, based on its combined
domestic production and imports, is currently believed to have a somewhat
larger share of the numerically controlled punching machine market in the U.S.

         VIBRATECH.  Vibratech, headquartered in Alden, New York, produces a
broad line of engineered long-life mechanical energy absorption devices,
providing vibration and motion control for transportation equipment, machinery
manufacturers and other users.  Vibratech's three major product lines are:
viscous torsional vibration dampers used primarily for heavy duty diesel and
high-horsepowered motorsport engines and transmissions; fluid and friction ride
control products for rail, truck and vehicle manufacturers; and specialized
aircraft vibration and motion control dampers.  The largest portion of its
sales are made directly to original equipment manufacturers who also service
the replacement parts market.

         Vibratech's principal competitor in the viscous torsional vibration
damper market for heavy duty diesel engines is a U.K. based subsidiary of
Cummins Engine, Inc., which serves the damper requirements of Cummins Engine in
the U.S. market.  Management believes that Vibratech has approximately 40% of
the domestic market for viscous torsional vibration dampers, including that
portion serviced by captive producers.  Sales outside the U.S. are
approximately 10% of Vibratech's total sales.














GENERAL ASPECTS APPLICABLE TO THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS GROUPS

         EMPLOYEES.  At December 31, 1995, IDEX had 3,233 employees, of which
approximately one-third were represented by labor unions with various contracts
expiring through February 2000.  Management believes that its relationship with
employees is generally good.  While no assurances can be given, management
believes that the Company will be able to satisfactorily renegotiate its
collective bargaining agreements.

         SUPPLIERS.  IDEX manufactures many of the parts and components used in
its products.  Substantially all materials, parts and components purchased by
IDEX are available from multiple sources.

         INVENTORY AND BACKLOG.  Backlogs do not have material significance in
either of the Company's business segments.  The Company regularly and
systematically adjusts production schedules and quantities based on the flow of
incoming orders.  While total inventory levels may also be affected by changes
in orders, the Company generally tries to maintain relatively stable inventory
levels based on its assessment of the requirements of the various industries
served.

         SEGMENT INFORMATION.  For segment financial information for the years
1995, 1994 and 1993 see the table presented on page 17 under "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," as
set forth in the 1995 Annual Report and incorporated herein by reference, and
Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 28 of the
1995 Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference.

         EXPORTS.  For export information for the years 1995, 1994 and 1993,
see Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 28 of the
1995 Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference.














EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

         The following table sets forth the names of the executive officers of
the Company, their ages, the positions and offices with the Company held by
them, and their business experience during the past 5 years.



        The Company's executive officers are elected at a meeting of the Board
of Directors immediately following the annual meeting of shareholders, and they
serve until the next annual meeting of the Board, or until their successors are
duly elected. 










ITEM 2.         PROPERTIES.

        The Company's executive offices occupy approximately 10,000 square feet
of leased space in Northbrook, Illinois. The Company's principal manufacturing
facilities are listed below and are considered to be suitable and adequate for
their operations.  Management believes that utilization of manufacturing
capacity ranges from 50% to 80% in each facility.


                              FLUID HANDLING GROUP


                           INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS GROUP











ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

        The Company and the Subsidiaries are party to various legal proceedings
arising in the ordinary course of business, none of which is expected to have a
material adverse effect on the Company's business or financial condition.

        The Subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws,
rules and regulations pertaining to environmental, waste management and health
and safety matters.  Permits are or may be required for some of the
Subsidiaries' facilities and waste-handling activities and these permits are
subject to revocation, modification and renewal.  In addition, risks of
substantial costs and liabilities are inherent in the Subsidiaries' operations
and facilities, as they are with other companies engaged in similar industries,
and there can be no assurance that such costs and liabilities will not be
incurred.  The Company is not aware of any environmental, health or safety
matter which could, individually or in the aggregate, materially adversely
affect the business or financial condition of the Company or any of its
Subsidiaries.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

         None.

                                    PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS.

        Information regarding the prices of and dividends on the Common Stock,
and certain related matters, is incorporated herein by reference to "Shareholder
Information" at page 33 of the 1995 Annual Report.

        The principal market for the Common Stock is the New York Stock
Exchange.  As of  February 28, 1996  the Common Stock was held by 1,346
shareholders and there were 19,145,093 shares of Common Stock outstanding.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

        The information set forth under "Historical Data" at page 15 of the 1995
Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
         RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

        The information set forth under "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations" at pages 16 to 19 of the 1995
Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

        The Consolidated Financial Statements of IDEX, including the Notes
thereto, together with the report thereon of Deloitte & Touche LLP at pages 20
to 30 of the 1995 Annual Report are incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

         None.














                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

        Certain information regarding the directors of the Company is
incorporated herein by reference to the information set forth under "Election of
Directors" at pages 2 to 6 of the 1996 Proxy Statement.

        Information regarding executive officers of the Company is incorporated
herein by reference to Item 1 of this report under the caption "Executive
Officers of the Registrant" at page 6.

        Certain information regarding compliance with Section 16(a) of the
Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is incorporated herein by
reference to the information set forth under "Compliance with Section 16(a) of
the Exchange Act" at page 24 to 25 of the 1996 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

        Information regarding executive compensation is incorporated by
reference to the materials under the caption "Compensation of Directors and
Executive Officers" at pages 7 to 13 of the 1996 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.

        Information regarding security ownership of certain beneficial owners
and management is incorporated herein by reference to the information set forth
under "Principal Shareholders" at pages 21 to 23 of the 1996 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

        Information regarding certain relationships and related transactions is
incorporated herein by reference to the information set forth under "Election of
Directors -- Certain Interests" at page 6 and "Approval of Amended and Restated
IDEX Corporation Directors Deferred Compensation Plan" at pages 19 to 20 of the
1996 Proxy Statement.














                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.
EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

  (a) 1.  Financial Statements

          The following financial statements are incorporated herein
          by reference to the 1995 Annual Report.













                                   SIGNATURES

     PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED
ON ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED, ON THE 28TH DAY OF
FEBRUARY, 1996.

                                          IDEX CORPORATION

                                          By /s/ WAYNE P. SAYATOVIC
                                            -----------------------------------
                                          Wayne P. Sayatovic
                                          Senior Vice President - Finance,
                                          Chief Financial Officer and Secretary

     PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS
REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE REGISTRANT AND
IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE DATES INDICATED:





                                     II-1


                     INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES





       All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable, or not
       required, or because the required information is included in the
       Consolidated Financial Statements of IDEX or the Notes thereto.





                                      S-1




                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT


IDEX Corporation:


We have audited the consolidated financial statements of IDEX Corporation and
its Subsidiaries as of December 31, 1995 and 1994 and for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 1995, and have issued our report thereon
dated January 16, 1996; such financial statements and report are included in
your 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders and are incorporated herein by
reference.  Our audits also included the financial statement schedule of IDEX
Corporation, listed in Item 14.  This financial statement schedule is the
responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express
an opinion based on our audits.  In our opinion, such financial statement
schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial
statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the
information set forth therein.




Deloitte & Touche LLP
Chicago, Illinois

January 16, 1996





                                      S-2


                       IDEX CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995, 1994 AND 1993
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)





____________________

(1)  Represents uncollectible accounts, net of recoveries.





                                      S-3

                                 EXHIBIT INDEX





                                      E-1










                                      E-2










                                      E-3





                                      E-4




                                      E-5




- ------------------------------
 *Filed herewith.
**Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

















                                     E-6


