
10-K405
FORM 10-K



================================================================================
 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                           -------------------------
 
                                   FORM 10-K
(MARK ONE)
[X]      ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
         OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
         FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998 OR
 
[ ]      TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
         OF THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1934
 
         FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM           TO
                                        ---------    ----------
 
                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-10235
 
                                IDEX CORPORATION
             (Exact Name of Registrant As Specified in Its Charter)
 

 
       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (847) 498-7070
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:
 

 
        SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT: NONE
 
     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  YES [X]     NO [ ]
 
     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]
 
     The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of
IDEX Corporation as of December 31, 1998 was $479,086,630.
 
     The number of shares outstanding of IDEX Corporation's common stock, par
value $.01 per share (the "Common Stock"), as of January 29, 1999 was
29,463,390.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
     Portions of the 1998 Annual Report to shareholders of IDEX Corporation (the
"1998 Annual Report") are incorporated by reference into Parts I and II of this
Form 10-K and portions of the definitive Proxy Statement of IDEX Corporation
(the "1999 Proxy Statement") with respect to the 1999 annual meeting of
shareholders are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K.

================================================================================

 
                                     PART 1
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS.
 
     IDEX Corporation ("IDEX" or the "Company") designs, manufactures and
markets a broad range of pump products, dispensing equipment and other
engineered products serving a diverse customer base in the United States and
internationally. The Company believes that each of its principal business units
holds the number-one or number-two market share position in that unit's niche
market. IDEX believes that its consistent financial performance has been
attributable to the manufacture of quality proprietary products designed and
engineered by the Company and sold to a wide range of customers, coupled with
its ability to identify and successfully integrate strategic acquisitions. IDEX
consists of three reportable business segments: Pump Products Group, Dispensing
Equipment Group and Other Engineered Products Group.
 
PUMP PRODUCTS GROUP
 
     The Pump Products Group designs, manufactures and sells a wide variety of
industrial pumps and related controls, and low-horsepower compressors for the
movement of liquids, air and gases. The devices and equipment produced by this
Group are used in a large and diverse set of industries, including chemical
processing, machinery, water treatment, medical equipment, petroleum
distribution, oil and refining, and food processing. In 1998, the six business
units comprising the group -- Corken, Gast Manufacturing, Micropump,
Pulsafeeder, Viking Pump, and Warren Rupp -- accounted for 59% of the Company's
net sales. The Company acquired Gast Manufacturing Corporation ("Gast") on
January 21, 1998, for a cash purchase price of approximately $118 million.
Approximately 32% of 1998 net sales in this Group were to customers outside the
United States.
 
     Corken. Management estimates that Corken has approximately 50% of the U.S.
market for pumps and small horsepower compressors used in liquefied petroleum
gas distribution facilities. Corken produces low-horsepower compressors, vane
and turbine pumps and valves used for the transfer of liquefied petroleum gas,
compressed natural gas and other gaseous substances. Most of Corken's sales are
made through domestic and international distributors, and they often incorporate
Corken's products into engineered packages sold to end-users. Approximately 45%
of Corken's 1998 net sales were to customers outside the United States. Corken,
which was acquired by IDEX in 1991, is based in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.
 
     Gast Manufacturing. Gast Manufacturing is one of the world's leading
manufacturers of an extensive and versatile line of air-moving products,
including vacuum pumps, air motors, vacuum generators, regenerative blowers and
fractional horsepower compressors. Gast is headquartered in Benton Harbor,
Michigan, and has an assembly facility in England. Approximately 20% of Gast's
sales are to customers outside the United States. Management believes that Gast
has a leading position with an estimated one-third U.S. market share in air
motors, low and medium range vacuum pumps, and rotary and diaphragm fractional
horsepower compressors.
 
     Micropump. Micropump is, according to management estimates, the leader in
corrosion-resistant, magnetically-driven miniature pump technology with an
estimated 40% U.S. market share. Micropump's products include pumps and fluid
management systems for low-flow abrasive and corrosive applications such as
inks, dyes, solvents, chemicals, petrochemicals, acids and chlorides. Micropump
products are used in a variety of industries including chemical processing,
laboratory, medical, printing, electronics, pulp and paper, water treatment,
pharmaceutical and textiles. Approximately 50% of Micropump's 1998 net sales
were to customers outside the United States. Micropump, which was acquired by
IDEX in 1995, has its headquarters and principal manufacturing facility in
Vancouver, Washington, and also conducts operations in England.
 
     Pulsafeeder. Management estimates that Pulsafeeder has approximately 40% of
the U.S. market for metering pumps used in the process industries and water
treatment markets. Pulsafeeder designs, manufactures and markets a wide range of
metering pumps, special purpose rotary pumps, peristalic pumps, electronic
controls and dispensing equipment. These products regulate the precise flow of
liquids in mixing, blending and injection applications. Primary markets served
are water conditioning and wastewater treatment, chemical and hydrocarbon
processing, food processing, chemical metering and institutional warewash.
Pulsafeeder products
 

 
are sold through an extensive distribution network, which includes company sales
personnel, distributors and independent representatives and an estimated 30% of
its 1998 net sales were to customers outside the United States. IDEX acquired
Knight Equipment International, Inc. ("Knight"), a leading manufacturer of pumps
and dispensing equipment for industrial laundries, commercial dishwashing and
chemical metering, in December 1997. Knight is operated as part of Pulsafeeder.
Pulsafeeder, which was acquired by IDEX in 1992, is headquartered in Rochester,
New York, with additional manufacturing facilities in Punta Gorda, Florida, Lake
Forest, California, Covington, Georgia and Enschede, The Netherlands.
Pulsafeeder also has sales offices in Singapore and China.
 
     Viking Pump. Viking Pump is one of the world's largest manufacturers of
positive displacement rotary gear pumps. Management believes that Viking pumps
represent approximately 35% of the U.S. rotary gear pump market. Viking's other
products include rotary lobe and metering pumps, speed reducers, flow dividers
and basket-type line strainers. Viking pumps are used by numerous industries
such as the chemical, petroleum, food, pulp and paper, machinery and
construction industries. Sales of Viking pumps and replacement parts are made
through approximately 100 independent distributors and directly to original
equipment manufacturers. Approximately 30% of Viking's 1998 net sales were to
customers outside the United States. In addition to its facilities in Cedar
Falls, Iowa, Viking also maintains manufacturing facilities in England, Canada
and Ireland, and has sales offices in the Netherlands, Singapore, Mexico, Canada
and China. Viking operates two foundries in Cedar Falls, Iowa which supply a
majority of Viking's castings requirements. In addition, these foundries sell a
variety of castings to outside customers.
 
     Warren Rupp. Warren Rupp is a producer of air-operated and motor-driven
double-diaphragm pumps. Management believes that Warren Rupp has approximately
one-quarter of the U.S. market for air-operated double-diaphragm pumps. Blagdon
Pump, the U.K.-based manufacturer of air-operated diaphragm pumps acquired by
IDEX in April 1997, is operated as part of Warren Rupp. Warren Rupp's pumps are
well suited for pumping liquids, slurries and solids in suspension. End-user
markets include paint, chemical, mining, construction, and automotive service
industries. Warren Rupp pumps are sold through a network of independent
distributors and directly to a small number of original equipment manufacturers.
Sales to customers outside the U.S. represented approximately 50% of Warren
Rupp's 1998 net sales. Warren Rupp is headquartered in Mansfield, Ohio, and has
a sales office in Singapore. Blagdon Pump has a manufacturing facility in
England to serve the European market and a sales office in Singapore.
 
DISPENSING EQUIPMENT GROUP
 
     The Dispensing Equipment Group produces highly engineered equipment for
dispensing, metering and mixing tints, colorants, paints, inks and dyes, and
centralized lubrication systems. This equipment is used in a wide array of
industries around the world, such as paints and coatings, machinery, and
transportation equipment. In 1998, the two business units comprising this
group -- Fluid Management and Lubriquip -- accounted for 19% of the Company's
net sales. Approximately 46% of this Group's 1998 net sales were to customers
outside the United States.
 
     Fluid Management. Fluid Management is the world's leading manufacturer of
dispensing and mixing equipment that precisely meters and mixes a wide variety
of liquids including paints, colorants, ink, dyes and other liquids and pastes.
Management believes Fluid Management has an approximate 50% worldwide share in
its niche market. Its products can be found in local paint and building supply
stores, paint plants, vehicle manufacturing facilities and other locations where
fluids are dispensed and mixed in precise volumes. Fluid Management, which was
acquired by IDEX in 1996, has manufacturing facilities in Wheeling, Illinois,
the Netherlands and Australia, with sales and distribution facilities worldwide.
Approximately 55% of its 1998 sales were to customers outside the United States.
 
     Lubriquip. Lubriquip is, according to management estimates, the largest
United States producer of centralized oil and grease lubrication systems and
force-feed lubricators, with approximately one-third of the U.S. market for its
type of products. Lubriquip's lubrication system components include pumps and
pump packages for pneumatic, mechanical, electric and hydraulic operations,
metering devices, electronic controllers, monitors and timers, and accessories.
These systems are sold through a variety of sales channels,
 

 
including independent distributors, to a wide range of industrial markets
including machine tools (both automotive and general purpose), chemical
processing, construction equipment, food processing machinery, engine and
compressor, railroad, and over-the-road industries. Lubriquip's products are
available worldwide through over 100 independent distributors, with
international sales representing approximately 20% of its 1998 net sales.
Lubriquip, headquartered in Warrensville Heights, Ohio, also has a manufacturing
plant in Madison, Wisconsin and has sales offices in Belgium and Singapore.
 
OTHER ENGINEERED PRODUCTS GROUP
 
     The Other Engineered Products Group manufactures proprietary equipment,
including banding and clamping devices, fire fighting pumps and rescue tools.
These products are used in a broad range of industrial and commercial markets,
including transportation equipment, oil and gas, electronics, communications,
traffic and commercial signs, and fire and rescue. In 1998, the two business
units comprising this group -- Band-It and Hale Products -- accounted for 22% of
the Company's net sales. Approximately 53% of 1998 net sales in this group were
to customers outside the United States.
 
     Band-It. Band-It, headquartered in Denver, Colorado, is one of the largest
worldwide producers of stainless steel bands, buckles and preformed clamps and
related installation tools. Its products include stainless steel bands and
clamps for various municipal, commercial and industrial applications and road,
traffic and commercial sign-mounting systems. Management believes that Band-It
has approximately 50% of the U.S. market for high quality stainless steel band
and buckle. Its clamps are used to secure hoses to nipples, devices to pipes and
poles, signs to sign standards, cables in a group, insulation to pipes and for
hundreds of other industrial clamping applications. Band-It also has developed
an exclusive line of tools for installing its band, buckle and preformed clamps.
Band-It's Signfix subsidiary, acquired by IDEX in 1993, is the leading
U.K.-based manufacturer of sign-mounting devices and related equipment. Band-It
markets its products domestically and internationally. It has manufacturing and
distribution facilities in three locations in England, as well as Germany and
Singapore to serve the European and Far East markets. International sales
accounted for approximately 60% of Band-It's 1998 net sales. Its products are
sold through a worldwide network of over 4,500 distributors to a wide range of
markets, including the transportation, commercial and governmental signage,
utilities, mining, oil and gas, industrial maintenance, construction,
communication and electronics industries.
 
     Hale Products. Hale Products ("Hale"), acquired by IDEX in 1994, is the
world's leading manufacturer of truck-mounted fire-fighting pumps and also
manufactures a wide range of portable, mobile and freestanding pumping units.
Hale also is the world's leading manufacturer of rescue tool systems with the
Hurst Jaws of Life(R) and Lukas(R) rescue systems. Lukas, headquartered in
Germany, was acquired by IDEX in 1995. Hale is estimated to have a worldwide
market share for truck-mounted fire-fighting pumps and rescue systems in excess
of 50%. Sales of Hale's truck-mounted fire-fighting pumps are made directly to
manufacturers of fire trucks, while portable pumps and rescue tools are
generally sold through independent distributors. Approximately 50% of Hale's
1998 net sales were to customers outside the United States. Hale has its
headquarters and a manufacturing facility in Conshohocken, Pennsylvania. It also
has production facilities in North Carolina, Tennessee, England and Germany, and
service and distribution centers in Germany and Singapore.
 
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
 
     In December 1997, IDEX announced its intention to divest its Strippit and
Vibratech businesses. The Company completed the sale of Vibratech on June 9,
1998, for $23.0 million in cash, and the sale of Strippit on August 25, 1998,
for $19.5 million in cash and notes. The sale of Vibratech generated a gain on
disposition, while the Strippit sale resulted in a small loss. The proceeds were
used to repay borrowings under the Company's U.S. bank credit facilities. In
1998, these two businesses contributed net income of $10.2 million, including a
net gain of $9.0 million (net of taxes of $3.1 million) from the sale of these
units.
 

 
GENERAL ASPECTS APPLICABLE TO THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS GROUPS
 
COMPETITORS
 
     The Company's businesses are highly competitive in most product lines.
Generally, all of the Company's businesses compete on the basis of performance,
quality, service and price.
 
     Principal competitors of the businesses in the Pump Products Group are the
Blackmer division of Dover Corporation (with respect to rotary gear pumps, and
pumps and small horsepower compressors used in liquefied petroleum gas
distribution facilities); Milton Roy, a unit of Sundstrand Corporation (with
respect to metering pumps and controls); Roper Industries (with respect to
rotary gear pumps); Wilden Pump and Engineering Co., a division of Dover
Corporation (with respect to air-operated double-diaphragm pumps); Tuthill
Corporation (with respect to rotary gear pumps); and Thomas Industries (with
respect to vacuum pumps and compressors).
 
     The principal competitors of the Dispensing Equipment Group are Corob (with
respect to dispensing and mixing equipment for the paint industry) and Lincoln,
a unit of Pentair Corporation (with respect to centralized lubrication systems).
 
     The Other Engineered Products Group's principal competitors are A. J.
Gerrard (with respect to stainless steel bands, buckles and tools) and Waterous
Company, a subsidiary of American Cast Iron Pipe Company (with respect to
truck-mounted fire-fighting pumps).
 
EMPLOYEES
 
     At December 31, 1998, IDEX had approximately 3,800 employees. Approximately
16% were represented by labor unions with various contracts expiring through
March 2003. Management believes that the Company's relationship with its
employees is good. The Company has historically been able to satisfactorily
renegotiate its collective bargaining agreements, with its last work stoppage in
March 1993.
 
SUPPLIERS
 
     IDEX manufactures many of the parts and components used in its products.
Substantially all materials, parts and components purchased by IDEX are
available from multiple sources.
 
INVENTORY AND BACKLOG
 
     Backlogs do not have material significance in any of the Company's business
segments. The Company regularly and systematically adjusts production schedules
and quantities based on the flow of incoming orders. Backlogs are therefore
typically limited to approximately 1 to 1 1/2 months of production. While total
inventory levels may also be affected by changes in orders, the Company
generally tries to maintain relatively stable inventory levels based on its
assessment of the requirements of the various industries served.
 
SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
     For segment financial information for the years 1998, 1997, and 1996, see
the table titled "Company Business Group Financial Information" presented on
page 18 under "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations" and Note 10 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements" on page 30 of the 1998 Annual Report, which is incorporated herein
by reference.
 

 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
     The following table sets forth the names of the executive officers of the
Company, their ages, years of service, the positions held by them, and their
business experience during the past 5 years.
 

 
- ---------------
(1) The years of service for executive officers include the period prior to
    acquisition by IDEX or with IDEX's predecessor company.
 
     Mr. Boyce was elected Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive
Officer of the Company on January 22, 1988, the date of the Company's
acquisition of its six original operating subsidiaries from Houdaille
Industries, Inc. On January 1, 1998, Mr. Hansen assumed the title of President
from Mr. Boyce with Mr. Boyce continuing as Chairman of the Board and Chief
Executive Officer. In connection with Mr. Boyce's planned retirement on March
31, 1999, the Board named Mr. Hansen to serve as Chief Executive Officer on
April 1, 1999, with Mr. Boyce remaining as Chairman of the Board. Mr. Boyce is a
director of United Dominion Industries Ltd. and Walter Industries, Inc.
 
     Mr. Hansen was appointed President, Chief Operating Officer and Director of
IDEX by the Board on January 1, 1998. In connection with Mr. Boyce's planned
retirement on March 31, 1999, Mr. Hansen will serve as Chief Executive Officer
effective April 1, 1999. Previously, Mr. Hansen served as Vice President-
Operations and Chief Operating Officer from August 1994 to December 1997. Mr.
Hansen was Vice President-Group Executive of the Company from January 1993 to
July 1994. From 1989 to July 1994, Mr. Hansen was President of Viking Pump. Mr.
Hansen is a director of Gardner Denver Machinery, Inc.
 
     Mr. Sayatovic has been Senior Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial
Officer of the Company since January 1992 and was Vice President-Treasurer from
January 1988 to December 1991. He also served as Secretary from January 1988 to
February 1998.
 
     Mr. Derck has been Vice President-Human Resources of the Company since
November 1992.
 
     Mr. Windmuller has served as Vice President-Operations of the Company since
January 1998. Previously, Mr. Windmuller was President of Fluid Management from
January 1997 to December 1997. From July 1994 to December 1996, Mr. Windmuller
served as President of Viking Pump, and from May 1993 to June 1994 as Executive
Vice President of Viking Pump. Mr. Windmuller served as Vice President-
Engineering of Viking Pump from November 1991 to April 1993.
 

 
     Mr. Fluharty has served as Vice President-Corporate Marketing of the
Company since March 1997 and as Vice President-Group Executive since December
1998. He was President of Fluid Management from January 1998 to December 1998
and from April 1996 to February 1997, was President of Micropump. Previously,
Mr. Fluharty served as President of John Crane North America from May 1993 to
March 1996, as Executive Vice President of Viking Pump from May 1992 to April
1993, and Vice President-Marketing of Viking Pump from 1988 to April 1992.
 
     Mr. Metcalf has served as Vice President-Corporate Development of the
Company since March 1997. Mr. Metcalf was Director of Business Development of
the Company from March 1991 to February 1997.
 
     Mr. McMurray has been Vice President-Group Executive of the Company since
November 1998 and President of Viking Pump since January 1997. He was Executive
Vice President of Viking Pump from August 1994 to December 1996, and Vice
President Finance of Viking Pump from October 1992 to July 1994.
 
     Mr. Notaro has served as Vice President-General Counsel and Secretary since
March 1998. Previously, Mr. Notaro was a Partner of Hodgson, Russ, Andrews,
Woods and Goodyear LLP from January 1993 to February 1998.
 
     Mr. Usher has been Vice President-Group Executive of the Company since
August 1997 and President of Pulsafeeder since August 1994. From 1986 to July
1994, Mr. Usher served as President of Warren Rupp.
 
     Mr. Kooman has been Controller of the Company since November 1995. Mr.
Kooman served as Assistant Controller of Manufacturing Accounting from January
1988 to October 1995.
 
     Mr. Lennox has served as Treasurer of the Company since November 1995. From
April 1991 to October 1995, Mr. Lennox was Vice President-Controller of
Lubriquip. Mr. Lennox was Assistant Controller of Financial Accounting from
January 1988 to March 1991.
 
     The Company's executive officers are elected at a meeting of the Board of
Directors immediately following the annual meeting of shareholders, and they
serve until the next annual meeting of the Board, or until their successors are
duly elected.
 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
 
     The Company's principal plants and offices have an aggregate floor space
area of approximately 2.6 million square feet, of which 2.0 million square feet
(77%) are located in the U.S. and approximately .6 million (23%) are located
outside the U.S., primarily in the U.K. (10%), Germany (6%) and the Netherlands
(4%). These facilities are considered to be suitable and adequate for their
operations. Management believes that utilization of manufacturing capacity
ranges from 50% to 80% in each facility. The Company's executive office occupies
approximately 12,000 square feet of leased space in Northbrook, Illinois.
 
     Approximately 2.0 million square feet (77%) of the principal plant and
office floor area is owned by the Company, and the balance is held under lease.
Approximately 1.5 million square feet (58%) of the principal plant and office
floor area is held by business units in the Pump Products Group; .5 million
square feet (19%) is held by business units in the Dispensing Equipment Group;
and .6 million square feet (23%) is held by business units in the Other
Engineered Products Group.
 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.
 
     The Company and the Company's Subsidiaries ("Subsidiaries") are party to
various legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business, none of
which is expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company's business or
financial condition.
 

 
     The Subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal, state, and local laws,
rules and regulations pertaining to environmental, waste management, and health
and safety matters. Permits are or may be required for some of the Subsidiaries'
facilities and waste-handling activities and these permits are subject to
revocation, modification and renewal. In addition, risks of substantial costs
and liabilities are inherent in the Subsidiaries' operations and facilities, as
they are with other companies engaged in similar industries, and there can be no
assurance that such costs and liabilities will not be incurred. The Company is
not aware of any environmental, health or safety matter which could,
individually or in the aggregate, cause a material adverse effect on the
business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows of the
Company or any of its Subsidiaries.
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS. NONE.
 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS.
 
     Information regarding the prices of, and dividends on, the Common Stock,
and certain related matters, is incorporated herein by reference to "Shareholder
Information" on page 37 of the 1998 Annual Report.
 
     The principal market for the Common Stock is the New York Stock Exchange,
but the Common Stock is also listed on the Chicago Stock Exchange. As of January
29, 1999, the Common Stock was held by approximately 7,700 shareholders and
there were 29,463,390 shares of Common Stock outstanding.
 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.
 
     The information set forth under "Historical Data" on pages 14 and 15 of the
1998 Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS.
 
     The information set forth under "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations" on pages 16 to 21 of the 1998
Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK.
 
     The Company is subject to market risk associated principally with changes
in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. Interest rate exposure is
principally limited to the $283.4 million of long-term debt of the Company
outstanding at December 31, 1998. Approximately one-quarter of the debt is
priced at interest rates that float with the market. A 50 basis point movement
in the interest rate on the floating rate debt would result in an approximate
$350,000 annualized increase or decrease in interest expense and cash flows. The
remaining debt is either fixed rate debt or debt that has been essentially fixed
through the use of interest rate swaps. The Company will from time to time enter
into interest rate swaps on its debt, when it believes there is a clear
financial advantage for doing so. A formalized treasury risk management policy,
adopted by the Board of Directors, exists which describes the procedures and
controls over derivative financial and commodity instruments, including interest
rate swaps. Under the policy, the Company does not use derivative financial or
commodity instruments for trading purposes and the use of such instruments is
subject to strict approval levels by senior officers. Typically, the use of such
derivative instruments is limited to interest rate swaps on the Company's
outstanding long-term debt. The Company's exposure related to such derivative
instruments is, in the aggregate, not material to the Company's financial
position, results of operations and cash flows.
 
     The Company's foreign currency exchange rate risk is limited principally to
the British Pound Sterling, German Mark, Dutch Guilder and other Western
European currencies. The Company manages its foreign exchange risk principally
through the invoicing of customers in the same currency as the source of the
products. The implementation of the Euro currency as of January 1, 1999 is not
expected to materially affect the Company's foreign currency exchange risk
profile, although some customers may require the Company to invoice or pay in
Euros rather than the functional currency of the manufacturing entity.
 

 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.
 
     The Consolidated Financial Statements of IDEX, including the Notes thereto,
together with the independent auditors' report thereon of Deloitte & Touche LLP
on pages 22 to 34 of the 1998 Annual Report are incorporated herein by
reference.
 
     During the fourth quarter of 1998, the Company adopted Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 131, "Disclosures about Segments of an
Enterprise and Related Information." Pursuant to SFAS No. 131, IDEX realigned
its historical presentation of business segments into three reportable segments:
Pump Products, Dispensing Equipment and Other Engineered Products. As additional
information, presented below is IDEX's unaudited quarterly group financial
information for 1998 and 1997 reflecting the revised reporting structure.
 
                                IDEX CORPORATION
                COMPANY AND BUSINESS GROUP FINANCIAL INFORMATION
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)
 

 
- ---------------
See page 9 for note explanations.
 

 
                                IDEX CORPORATION
                COMPANY AND BUSINESS GROUP FINANCIAL INFORMATION
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)
 

 
- ---------------
(1) Includes acquisition of Gast Manufacturing (January 21, 1998), Knight
    Equipment (December 9, 1997) and Blagdon Pump (April 4, 1997) in the Pump
    Products Group.
 
(2) Group net sales include intersegment sales.
 
(3) Group operating income excludes unallocated corporate operating expenses.
 
(4) Excludes amortization of debt issuance expenses.
 
(5) Includes acquisition of Knight Equipment (December 9, 1997) and Blagdon Pump
    (April 4, 1997) in the Pump Products Group.
 
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH INDEPENDENT AUDITORS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
 
     None.
 

 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.
 
     Certain information regarding the directors of the Company is incorporated
herein by reference to the information set forth under the caption "Election of
Directors" in the 1999 Proxy Statement.
 
     Information regarding executive officers of the Company is incorporated
herein by reference to Item 1 of this report under the caption "Executive
Officers of the Registrant" on page 5.
 
     Certain information regarding compliance with Section 16(a) of the
Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is incorporated herein by
reference to the information set forth under "Compliance with Section 16(a) of
the Exchange Act" in the 1999 Proxy Statement.
 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.
 
     Information regarding executive compensation is incorporated herein by
reference to the materials under the caption "Compensation of Executive
Officers" in the 1999 Proxy Statement.
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.
 
     Information regarding security ownership of certain beneficial owners and
management is incorporated herein by reference set forth under the caption
"Security Ownership" in the 1999 Proxy Statement.
 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
 
     Information regarding certain relationships and related transactions is
incorporated herein by reference to the information set forth under the caption
"Certain Interests" in the 1999 Proxy Statement.
 

 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.
 
(A) 1. Financial Statements
 
    The following financial statements are incorporated herein by reference to
the 1998 Annual Report.
 

 

 
    3. Exhibits
 
        The exhibits filed with this report are listed on the "Exhibit Index."
 
(B) Report on Form 8-K
 
     In a report on Form 8-K, dated December 21, 1998, and filed with the
Securities Exchange Commission on December 21, 1998, the Company announced that
Donald N. Boyce, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, plans to retire as Chief
Executive Officer as of March 31, 1999, but will remain as Chairman of the
Company's Board of Directors. Mr. Boyce, 60, has been the Chief Executive
Officer of IDEX since its founding in 1988 and was previously Chief Executive
Officer of IDEX's predecessor, Houdaille Industries, Inc.
 
     Frank J. Hansen, 57, currently President and Chief Operating Officer, will
be named President and Chief Executive Officer as of April 1, 1999. The position
of Chief Operating Officer will remain unfilled for the present time. Mr. Hansen
joined IDEX's Viking Pump business unit in 1975 and held several management
positions there prior to being named President of Viking Pump in 1989. He became
an IDEX Vice President-Group Executive in 1993, was named Senior Vice
President-Operations in 1994, and assumed the positions of President and Chief
Operating Officer in January 1998.
 

 
                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
 
IDEX Corporation:
 
     We have audited the consolidated financial statements of IDEX Corporation
and its Subsidiaries as of December 31, 1998 and 1997 and for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 1998, and have issued our report thereon,
dated January 19, 1999: such financial statements and report are included in
your 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders and are incorporated herein by
reference. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule of IDEX
Corporation, listed in Item 14. This financial statement schedule is the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, such financial statement schedule,
when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements as a
whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth
herein.
 
DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
 
Chicago, Illinois
January 19, 1999
 
                       IDEX CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                SCHEDULE II -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
             FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998, 1997, AND 1996
 

 
- ---------------
(1) Represents uncollectible accounts, net of recoveries.
 
(2) Represents acquisition, translation and reclassification adjustments.
 

 
                                   SIGNATURES
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 5th day of
February, 1999.
 
                                          IDEX CORPORATION
 
                                          By     /s/ WAYNE P. SAYATOVIC
                                            ------------------------------------
                                                     Wayne P. Sayatovic
                                              Senior Vice President -- Finance
                                                and Chief Financial Officer
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
Report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated:
 

 

 
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
- ---------------
 * Filed herewith.
 
** Management contract or compensatory plan or agreement.
 

