10-K


h43960e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K - ANNUAL REPORT

e10vk


UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark one)

þ

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2006

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Commission file number 1-12317

NATIONAL OILWELL VARCO, INC.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware

76-0475815

(State or other jurisdiction

(IRS Employer

of incorporation or organization)

Identification No.)

10000 Richmond Avenue

Houston, Texas

77042-4200

(Address of principal executive offices)

(713) 346-7500

(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Common Stock, par value $.01

New York Stock Exchange

(Title of Class)

(Exchange on which registered)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of
the Securities Act.

Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
Section 15 (d) of the Act.

Yes

o

No

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer,
or a non-accelerated filer. See definition “accelerated filer and large accelerated filer” in Rule
12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large Accelerated Filer

þ

Accelerated Filer

o

Non-Accelerated Filer

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act). Yes

o

No

þ

The aggregate market value of voting and non-voting common stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant as of June 30, 2006 was $11.09 billion. As of February 16, 2007, there were 175,803,638
shares of the Company’s common stock ($0.01 par value) outstanding.

Documents Incorporated by Reference

Portions of the Proxy Statement in connection with the 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders are
incorporated in Part III of this report.



ITEM 1. BUSINESS

General

National Oilwell Varco, Inc. (“NOV” or the “Company”), a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1995,
is a leading worldwide provider of equipment and components used in oil and gas drilling and
production operations, oilfield services, and supply chain integration services to the upstream oil
and gas industry. The Company conducts operations in over 600 locations across six continents.

On March 11, 2005, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Varco International, Inc. (“Varco”)
with the issuance of 0.8363 shares of National-Oilwell, Inc. common stock for each Varco common
share (the “Merger”). The Company then changed its name from National-Oilwell, Inc. to National
Oilwell Varco, Inc. We have included the financial results of Varco in our consolidated financial
statements beginning March 11, 2005, the date Varco common shares were exchanged for NOV common
shares. We believe that the Merger has better positioned us to compete more effectively in the
global marketplace and provide greater scale to increase service to our customers, increase our
investment in research and development to accelerate innovation, and increase shareholder value.
The fiscal year ending December 31, 2006 represents the first full year of operations of the
combined entities.

The Company’s principal executive offices are located at 10000 Richmond Avenue, Houston, Texas
77042, its telephone number is (713) 346-7500, and its Internet web site address is

http://www.nov.com

. The Company’s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form
10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments thereto, are available free of charge on
its Internet website. These reports are posted on its website as soon as reasonably practicable
after such reports are electronically filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
The Company’s Code of Ethics is also posted on our website.

The Company has a long tradition of pioneering innovations which improve the cost-effectiveness,
efficiency, safety and environmental impact of oil and gas operations. The Company’s common stock
is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “NOV.” The Company operates through three
business segments: Rig Technology, Petroleum Services & Supplies, and Distribution Services.

Rig Technology

Our Rig Technology segment designs, manufactures, sells and services complete systems for the
drilling, completion, and servicing of oil and gas wells. The segment offers a comprehensive line
of highly-engineered equipment that automates complex well construction and management operations,
such as offshore and onshore drilling rigs; derricks; pipe lifting, racking, rotating and assembly
systems; coiled tubing equipment and pressure pumping units; well workover rigs; wireline winches;
and cranes. Demand for Rig Technology products is primarily dependent on capital spending plans by
drilling contractors, oilfield service companies, and oil and gas companies, and secondarily on the
overall level of oilfield drilling activity, which drives demand for spare parts for the segment’s
large installed base of equipment. We have made strategic acquisitions and other investments during
the past several years in an effort to expand our product offering and our global manufacturing
capabilities, including new operations in Canada, Norway, the United Kingdom, China, and Belarus.

Petroleum Services & Supplies

Our Petroleum Services & Supplies segment provides a variety of consumable goods and services used
to drill, complete, remediate and workover oil and gas wells and service pipelines, flowlines and
other oilfield tubular goods. The segment manufactures, rents and sells a variety of products and
equipment used to perform drilling operations, including transfer pumps, solids control systems,
drilling motors and other downhole tools, rig instrumentation systems, and mud pump consumables.
Demand for these services and supplies is determined principally by the level of oilfield drilling
and workover activity by drilling contractors, major and independent oil and gas companies, and
national oil companies. Oilfield tubular services include the provision of inspection and internal
coating services and equipment for drillpipe, linepipe, tubing, casing and pipelines; and the
design, manufacture and sale of coiled tubing pipe and advanced composite pipe for application in
highly corrosive environments. The segment sells its tubular goods and services to oil and gas
companies; drilling contractors; pipe distributors, processors and manufacturers; and pipeline
operators. This segment has benefited from several strategic acquisitions and other investments
completed during the past few years, including operations in Canada, the United Kingdom, China,
Kazakhstan, and Mexico.

Distribution Services

Our Distribution Services segment provides maintenance, repair and operating supplies and spare
parts to drill site and production locations worldwide. In addition to its comprehensive network of
field locations supporting land drilling operations throughout North America, the segment supports
major offshore drilling contractors through locations in Mexico, the Middle East, Europe, Southeast
Asia and South America. Distribution Services employs advanced information technologies to provide
complete procurement, inventory management and logistics services to its customers around the
globe. Demand for the segment’s services are determined primarily by the level of drilling and
servicing activity, and oil and gas production activities.



The following table sets forth the contribution to the Company’s total revenues of its three
operating segments for December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004 (in millions):

Years ended December 31,




Revenue:

Rig Technology

$

3,584.9

$

2,216.8

$

1,085.5

Petroleum Services &
Supplies

2,425.0

1,645.8

505.5

Distribution Services

1,369.6

1,074.5

905.1

Eliminations

(353.7

)

(292.6

)

(178.0

)

Total Revenue

$

7,025.8

$

4,644.5

$

2,318.1

See Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form-10-K
for financial information by segment and a geographical breakout of revenues and long-lived assets.

The Company has included a glossary of technical terms at the end of Item 1 of this Annual Report.

Influence of Oil and Gas Activity Levels on the Company’s Business

The oil and gas industry in which the Company participates has historically experienced significant
volatility. Demand for the Company’s services and products depends primarily upon the general level
of activity in the oil and gas industry worldwide, including the number of drilling rigs in
operation, the number of oil and gas wells being drilled, the depth and drilling conditions of
these wells, the volume of production, the number of well completions and the level of well
remediation activity. Oil and gas activity is in turn heavily influenced by, among other factors,
oil and gas prices worldwide. High levels of drilling and well-remediation activity generally spur
demand for the Company’s products and services used to drill and remediate oil and gas wells.
Additionally, high levels of oil and gas activity increase cash flows available for drilling
contractors, oilfield service companies, and manufacturers of oil country tubular goods to invest
in capital equipment which the Company sells.

On a worldwide basis, drilling activity was generally high in 2001, but began to decline toward the
end of the year due to lower oil and gas prices. This situation persisted throughout 2002.
However, beginning in late 2002, higher gas prices in the U.S. led to rising gas drilling activity
in Canada and most U.S. onshore areas. Higher oil prices also led to higher drilling activity
levels in 2003 in several international markets, including the Middle East, the Far East and
several key Latin American markets. However, other historically important markets for the Company
remained slow in 2003, including the Gulf of Mexico, the North Sea, and Venezuela. At the same
time, due to the fact that the demand for capital equipment tends to lag drilling activity, the
demand for the Company’s capital equipment generally weakened in 2003. This resulted in declining
backlogs through the year.

Beginning in early 2004, increasing oil and gas prices led to steadily rising levels of drilling
activity throughout the world. Concerns about the long-term availability of oil and gas supply
also began to build. Consequently, the worldwide rig count increased 10% in 2004, 15% in 2005 and
11% in 2006. As a result of higher cash flows realized by many drilling contractors and other
oilfield service companies, as well as the long-term concerns about supply-demand imbalance and the
need to replace aging equipment, market conditions for capital equipment purchases have improved
significantly since 2004 and 2005, resulting in higher backlogs for the Company at the end of 2006
compared to the end of 2004 and 2005. Backlog for the Company was at approximately $6.0 billion at
December 31, 2006 compared to approximately $2.3 billion and $0.6 billion for December 31, 2005 and
2004, respectively.

In 2006, most of the Company’s Rig Technology revenue resulted from major capital expenditures of
drilling contractors, well servicing companies, and oil companies on rig construction and
refurbishment, and well servicing equipment. These capital expenditures are influenced by the
amount of cash flow that contractors and service companies generate from drilling, completion, and
remediation activity; as well as by the availability of financing, the outlook for future drilling
and well servicing activity, and other factors. Generally the Company believes the demand for
capital equipment lags increases in the level of drilling activity. The remainder of the Rig
Technology segment’s revenue in 2006 was related to the sale of spare parts and consumables, the
provision of equipment-repair services, and the rental of equipment, which the Company believes are
generally determined directly by the level of drilling and well servicing activity.

The majority of the Company’s Petroleum Services & Supplies revenue is closely tied to drilling
activity, although a portion is related to the sale of capital equipment to drilling contractors,
which may somewhat lag the level of drilling activity. Portions of the segment’s revenue that are
not tied to drilling activity include (i) the sale of progressive cavity pumps and solids control
equipment for use in industrial applications; (ii) the performance of in-service pipeline
inspections; (iii) the sale of fiberglass and composite tubing to industrial customers, which is
generally unrelated to drilling or well remediation activity but may be tied somewhat to oil and
gas prices; and (iv) the sale of pipe inspection equipment to the manufacturers of oil country
tubular goods, which is indirectly related to drilling activity.

The Company’s revenue from Distribution Services is almost entirely driven by drilling activity and
oil and gas production activities.

Drilling and well servicing activity can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time. The
willingness of oil and gas operators to make capital investments to explore for and produce oil and
natural gas will continue to be influenced by numerous factors over which the Company has no
control, including: the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
(“OPEC”) to maintain oil price stability through voluntary production limits of oil; the level of
oil production by non-OPEC countries; supply and demand for oil and natural gas; general economic
and political conditions; costs of exploration and production; the availability of new leases and
concessions; and governmental regulations regarding, among other things, environmental protection,
taxation, price controls and product allocations. The willingness of drilling contractors and well
servicing companies to make capital expenditures for the type of specialized equipment the Company
provides is also influenced by numerous factors over which the Company has no control, including:
the general level of oil and gas well drilling and



servicing; rig dayrates; access to external financing; outlook for future increases in well
drilling and well remediation activity; steel prices and fabrication costs; and government
regulations regarding, among other things, environmental protection, taxation, and price controls.

Overview of Oil and Gas Well Drilling and Servicing Processes

Oil and gas wells are usually drilled by drilling contractors using a drilling rig. A bit is
attached to the end of a drill stem, which is assembled by the drilling rig and its crew from
30-foot joints of drillpipe and specialized drilling components known as downhole tools. Using the
conventional rotary drilling method, the drill stem is turned from the rotary table of the drilling
rig by torque applied to the kelly, which is screwed into the top of the drill stem. Increasingly,
drilling is performed using a drilling motor, which is attached to the bottom of the drill stem and
provides rotational force directly to the bit, rather than such force being supplied by the rotary
table. The use of a drilling motor permits the drilling contractor to drill directionally,
including horizontally. The Company sells and rents drilling motors and downhole tools through its
Petroleum Services & Supplies segment.

During drilling, heavy drilling fluids or “drilling muds” are pumped down the drill stem and forced
out through jets in the bit. The drilling mud returns to the surface through the space between the
borehole wall and the drill stem, carrying with it the drill cuttings drilled out by the bit. The
drill cuttings are removed from the mud by a solids control system (which can include shakers,
centrifuges and other specialized equipment) and disposed of in an environmentally sound manner.
The solids control system permits the mud, which is often comprised of expensive chemicals, to be
continuously reused and recirculated back into the hole.

Through its Rig Technology segment, the Company sells the large “mud pumps” that are used to pump
drilling mud through the drill stem. Through its Petroleum Services & Supplies business, the
Company sells transfer pumps and mud pump consumables; sells and rents solids control equipment;
and provides solids control and waste management services. Many operators internally coat the drill
stem to improve its hydraulic efficiency and protect it from corrosive fluids sometimes encountered
during drilling, and inspect and assess the integrity of the drill pipe from time to time. The
Company provides drillpipe inspection and coating services, and applies “hardbanding” material to
drillpipe to improve its wear characteristics. These services are provided through the Company’s
Petroleum Services & Supplies segment.

As the hole depth increases, the kelly must be removed frequently so that additional 30-foot joints
of drill pipe can be added to the drill stem. When the bit becomes dull or the equipment at the
bottom of the drill stem – including the drilling motors – otherwise requires servicing, the entire
drill stem is pulled out of the hole and disassembled by disconnecting the joints of drillpipe.
These are set aside or “racked,” the old bit is replaced or service is performed, and the drill
stem is reassembled and lowered back into the hole (a process called “tripping”). During drilling
and tripping operations, joints of drill pipe must be screwed together and tightened (“made up”),
and loosened and unscrewed (“spun out”). The Company’s Rig Technology business provides drilling
equipment to manipulate and maneuver the drill pipe in this manner. When the hole has reached
certain depths, all of the drill pipe is pulled out of the hole and larger diameter pipe known as
casing is lowered into the hole and permanently cemented in place in order to protect against
collapse and contamination of the hole. The casing is typically inspected before it is lowered into
the hole, a service the Company’s Petroleum Services & Supplies business provides. The Company’s
Rig Technology segment manufactures pressure pumping equipment that is used to cement the casing in
place.

The raising and lowering of the drill stem while drilling or tripping, and the lowering of casing
into the wellbore, are accomplished with the rig’s hoisting system. A conventional hoisting system
is a block and tackle mechanism that works within



the drilling rig’s derrick. The lifting of this mechanism is performed via a series of pulleys that
are attached to the drawworks at the base of the derrick. The Company’s Rig Technology segment
sells and installs drawworks and pipe hoisting systems.

During the course of normal drilling operations, the drill stem passes through different geological
formations, which exhibit varying pressure characteristics. If this pressure is not contained, oil,
gas and/or water would flow out of these formations to the surface. The two means of containing
these pressures are (i) primarily the circulation of drilling muds while drilling and (ii)
secondarily the use of blowout preventers should the mud prove inadequate and in an emergency
situation. The Company’s Rig Technology group sells and services blowout preventers.

Drilling muds are carefully designed to exhibit certain qualities that optimize the drilling
process. In addition to containing formation pressure, they must (i) provide power to the drilling
motor, (ii) carry drilled solids to the surface, (iii) protect the drilled formations from being
damaged, and (iv) cool the drill bit. Achieving these objectives often requires a formulation
specific to a given well and can involve the use of expensive chemicals as well as natural
materials such as certain types of clay. The fluid itself is often oil or more-expensive synthetic
mud. Given this expense, it is highly desirable to reuse as much of the drilling mud as possible.
Solids control equipment such as shale shakers, centrifuges, cuttings dryers, and mud cleaners help
accomplish this objective. The Company’s Petroleum Services & Supplies group rents, sells, operates
and services this equipment. Drilling muds are formulated based on expected drilling conditions.
However, as the hole is drilled, the drill stem may encounter a high pressure zone where the mud
density is inadequate to maintain sufficient pressure. Should efforts to “weight up” the mud in
order to contain such a pressure kick fail, a blowout could result, whereby reservoir fluids would
flow uncontrolled into the well. To prevent blowouts to the surface of the well, a series of
high-pressure valves known as blowout preventers (“BOPs”) are positioned at the top of the well
and, when activated, form tight seals that prevent the escape of fluids. When closed, conventional
BOPs prevent normal rig operations. Therefore, the BOPs are activated only if drilling mud and
normal well control procedures cannot safely contain the pressure. BOPs have been designed to
contain pressures of up to 20,000 psi.

The operations of the rig and the condition of the drilling mud are closely monitored by various
sensors, which measure operating parameters such as the weight on the rig’s hook, the incidence of
pressure kicks, the operation of the drilling mud pumps, etc. Through its Petroleum Services &
Supplies business, the Company sells and rents drilling rig instrumentation packages that perform
these monitoring functions.

During the drilling and completion of a well, there exists an ongoing need for various consumables
and spare parts. While most of these items are small, in the aggregate they represent an important
element of the process. Since it is impractical for each drilling location to have a full supply
of these items, drilling contractors and well service companies tend to rely on third parties to
stock and deliver these items. The Company provides this capability through its Distribution
Services segment, which stocks and sells spares and consumables made by third parties, as well as
spares and consumables by the company.

After the well has reached its total depth and the final section of casing has been set, the
drilling rig is moved off of the well and the well is prepared to begin producing oil or gas in a
process known as “well completion.” Well completion usually involves installing production tubing
concentrically in the casing. Due to the corrosive nature of many produced fluids, production
tubing is often inspected and coated, services offered by the Company’s Petroleum Services &
Supplies business. Sometimes operators choose to use corrosion resistant composite materials (which
the Company offers through its Petroleum Services & Supplies business), or corrosion-resistant
alloys, or operators sometimes pump fluids into wells to inhibit corrosion.

From time to time, a producing well may undergo workover procedures to extend its life and increase
its production rate. Workover rigs are used to disassemble the wellhead, tubing and other
completion components of an existing well in order to stimulate or remediate the well. Workover
rigs are similar to drilling rigs in their capabilities to handle tubing, but are usually smaller
and somewhat less sophisticated. The Company offers a comprehensive range of workover rigs through
its Rig Technology segment. Tubing and sucker rods removed from a well during a well remediation
operation are often inspected to determine their suitability to be reused in the well, which is a
service the Company’s Petroleum Services & Supplies business provides.

Frequently coiled tubing units or wireline units are used to accomplish certain well remediation
operations or well completions. Coiled tubing is a recent advancement in petroleum technology
consisting of a continuous length of reeled steel tubing which can be injected concentrically into
the production tubing all the way to the bottom of most wells. It permits many operations to be
performed without disassembling the production tubing, and without curtailing the production of the
well. Wireline winch units are devices that utilize single-strand or multistrand wires to perform
well-remediation operations, such as lowering tools and transmitting data to the surface. Through
the Rig Technology group, the Company sells and rents various types of coiled tubing equipment, and
wireline equipment and tools. The Company also manufactures and sells coiled tubing pipe through
its Petroleum Services & Supplies segment.



Rig Technology

The Company has a long tradition of pioneering innovations in drilling and well servicing equipment
which improve the efficiency, safety, and cost of drilling and well servicing operations. The Rig
Technology group designs, manufactures and sells a wide variety of top drives, automated pipe
handling systems, motion compensation systems, rig controls, BOPs, handling tools, drawworks,
risers, rotary tables, mud pumps, cranes, drilling motors and other drilling equipment for both the
onshore and offshore markets. The Rig Technology group also manufactures entire rig packages, both
drilling and workover, as well as well servicing equipment such as coiled tubing units, pressure
pumping equipment, and wireline winches.

The Rig Technology group sells directly to drilling contractors, shipyards and other rig
fabricators, well servicing companies, national oil companies, major and independent oil and gas
companies, supply stores, and pipe-running service providers. Demand for its products, several of
which are described below, is strongly dependent upon capital spending plans by oil and gas
companies and drilling contractors, and the level of oil and gas well drilling activity.

Land Rig Packages

. NOV designs, manufactures, assembles, upgrades, and supplies equipment sets
to a variety of land drilling rigs, including those specifically designed to operate in harsh
environments such as the Arctic Circle and the desert. Our key land rig product names include the

Ideal Rig

and

Rapid Rig

. NOV’s recent rig packages are designed to be fast moving, to utilize AC
technology, and to reduce manpower required to operate a rig.

Top Drives

. The Top Drive Drilling System (“TDS”), originally introduced by NOV in 1982,
significantly alters the traditional drilling process. The TDS rotates the drill stem from its top,
rather than by the rotary table, with a large electric motor affixed to rails installed in the
derrick that traverses the length of the derrick to the rig floor. Therefore, the TDS eliminates
the use of the conventional rotary table for drilling. Components of the TDS also are used to
connect additional joints of drill pipe to the drill stem during drilling operations, enabling
drilling with three joints of drill pipe compared to traditionally drilling with one joint of drill
pipe. Additionally, the TDS facilitates horizontal and extended reach drilling.

Drilling Motors.

NOV has helped lead the application of AC motor technology in the oilfield
industry. We are now transitioning from buying motors from third parties to building them in our
own facilities and further developing motor technology, including the introduction of permanent
magnet motor technology to the industry. These permanent magnet motors are being used in top
drives, cranes, mud pumps, winches, and drawworks.

Rotary Equipment

. The alternative to using a TDS to rotate the drill stem is to use a rotary
table, which rotates the pipe at the floor of the rig. The Rig Technology group produces rotary
tables as well as kelly bushings and master bushings for most sizes of kellys and makes of rotary
tables. In 1998, NOV introduced the Rotary Support Table for use on rigs with a TDS. The Rotary
Support Table is used in concert with the TDS to completely eliminate the need for the larger
conventional rotary table.

Pipe Handling Systems

. Pipe racking systems are used to handle drill pipe, casing and tubing on
a drilling rig. Vertical pipe racking systems move drill pipe and casing between the well and a
storage (“racking”) area on the rig floor. Horizontal racking systems are used to handle tubulars
while stored horizontally (for example, on the pipe deck of an offshore rig) and transport tubulars
up to the rig floor and into a vertical position for use in the drilling process.

Vertical pipe racking systems are used predominantly on offshore rigs and are found on almost all
floating rigs. Mechanical vertical pipe racking systems greatly reduce the manual effort involved
in pipe handling. Pipe racking systems, introduced by NOV in 1985, provide a fully automated
mechanism for handling and racking drill pipe during drilling and tripping operations, spinning and
torquing drill pipe, and automatic hoisting and racking of disconnected joints of drill pipe. These
functions can be integrated via computer controlled sequencing, and operated by a driller in an
environmentally secure cabin. An important element of this system is the Iron Roughneck, which was
originally introduced by NOV in 1976 and is an automated device that makes pipe connections on the
rig floor and requires less direct involvement of rig floor personnel in potentially dangerous
operations. The Automated Roughneck is an automated microprocessor-controlled version of the Iron
Roughneck.

Horizontal pipe transfer systems were introduced by NOV in 1993. They include the Pipe Deck Machine
(“PDM”), which is used to manipulate and move tubulars while stored in a horizontal position; the
Pipe Transfer Conveyor (“PTC”), which transports sections of pipe to the rig floor; and a Pickup
Laydown System (“PLS”), which raises the pipe to a vertical position for transfer to a vertical
racking system. These components may be employed separately, or incorporated together to form a
complete horizontal racking system, known as the Pipe Transfer System (“PTS”).

Pipe Handling Tools

. The Company’s pipe handling tools are designed to enhance the safety,
efficiency and reliability of pipe handling operations. Many of these tools have provided
innovative methods of performing the designated task through mechanization of functions previously
performed manually. The Rig Technology group manufactures various tools used to grip,



hold, raise, and lower pipe, and in the making up and breaking out of drill pipe, workstrings,
casing and production tubulars including spinning wrenches, manual tongs, torque wrenches and kelly
spinners.

Mud Pumps.

Mud pumps are high pressure pumps located on the rig that force drilling mud down the
drill pipe, through the drill bit, and up the space between the drill pipe and the drilled
formation (the annulus) back to the surface. These pumps, which generate pressures of up to 7500
psi, must therefore be capable of displacing drilling fluids several thousand feet down and back up
the well bore. The conventional mud pump design, known as the triplex pump, uses three
reciprocating pistons oriented horizontally. Recently, NOV has introduced the HEX Pump, which uses
six pumping cylinders, versus the three used in the triplex pump. Along with other design
features, the greater number of cylinders reduces pulsations (or surges) and increases the output
available from a given footprint. Reduced pulsation is desirable where downhole measurement
equipment is being used during the drilling process, as is often the case in directional drilling.

Hoisting Systems

. Hoisting systems are used to raise or lower the drill stem while drilling or
tripping, and to lower casing into the wellbore. The drawworks is the heart of the hoisting system.
It is a large winch that spools off or takes in the drilling line, which is in turn connected to
the drill stem at the top of the derrick. The drawworks also plays an important role in keeping
the weight on the drill bit at a desired level. This task is particularly challenging on offshore
drilling rigs, which are subject to wave motion. To address this, NOV has introduced the Active
Heave Drilling (“AHD”) Drawworks. The AHD Drawworks uses computer-controlled motors to compensate
for the motion experienced in offshore drilling operations.

Cranes.

NOV provides a comprehensive range of crane solutions, with purpose-built
products for all segments of the oil and gas industry as well as many other markets. The Company encompasses
a broad collection of brand names with international recognition, and includes a large staff of
engineers specializing in the design of cranes and related equipment. The product range extends
from small cargo-handling cranes to the world’s largest marine cranes. In all, the Company
provides over twenty crane product lines that include standard model configurations as well as
custom-engineered and specialty cranes.

Motion Compensation Systems

. Traditionally, motion compensation equipment is located on top of the
drilling rig and serves to stabilize the bit on the bottom of the hole, increasing drilling
effectiveness of floating offshore rigs by compensating for wave and wind action. The AHD
Drawworks, discussed above, was introduced to eliminate weight and improve safety, removing the
compensator from the top of the rig and integrating it into the drawworks system. In addition to
the AHD Drawworks, NOV has introduced an Active Heave Compensation (“AHC”) System that goes beyond
the capabilities of the AHD Drawworks to handle the most severe weather. Additionally, NOV
tensioning systems provide continuous axial tension to the marine riser pipe (larger diameter pipe
which connects floating drilling rigs to the well on the ocean floor) and guide lines on floating
drilling rigs, tension leg platforms and jack-up drilling rigs.

Blow-out Preventers

. BOPs are devices used to seal the space (“annulus”) between the drill pipe
and the borehole to prevent blow-outs (uncontrolled flows of formation fluids and gases to the
surface). The Rig Technology group manufactures a wide array of BOPs used in various situations.
Ram and annular BOPs are back-up devices that are activated only if other techniques for
controlling pressure in the wellbore are inadequate. When closed, these devices prevent normal rig
operations. Ram BOPs seal the wellbore by hydraulically closing rams (thick heavy blocks of steel)
against each other across the wellbore. Specially designed packers seal around specific sizes of
pipe in the wellbore, shear pipe in the wellbore or close off an open hole. Annular BOPs seal the
wellbore by hydraulically closing a rubber packing unit around the drill pipe or kelly or by
sealing against itself if nothing is in the hole. NOV’s Pressure Control While Drilling (“PCWD”)
BOP, introduced in 1995, allows operators to drill at pressures up to 2,000 psi without
interrupting normal operations, and can act as a normal spherical BOP at pressures up to 5,000 psi.

In 1998, NOV introduced the NXT

®

ram type BOP which eliminates door bolts, providing
significant weight, rig-time, and space savings. Its unique features make subsea operation more
efficient through faster ram configuration changes without tripping the BOP stack. In 2004, NOV
introduced the LXT, which features many of the design elements of the NXT, but is targeted at the
land market. In 2005, the Company began commercializing technology related to a continuous
circulation device. This device enables drilling contractors to make and break drill pipe
connections without stopping the circulation of drilling fluids, which helps increase drilling
efficiency.

Derricks and substructures.

Drilling activities are carried out from a drilling rig. A drilling
rig consists of one or two derricks; the substructure that supports the derrick(s); and the rig
package, which consists of the various pieces of equipment discussed above. The Rig Technology
segment designs, fabricates and services derricks used in both onshore and offshore applications,
and substructures used in onshore applications. The Rig Technology group also works with shipyards
in the fabrication of substructures for offshore drilling rigs.

Coiled Tubing Equipment

. Coiled tubing consists of flexible steel tubing manufactured in a
continuous string and spooled on a reel. It can extend several thousand feet in length and is run
in and out of the wellbore at a high rate of speed by a hydraulically operated coiled tubing unit.
A coiled tubing unit is typically mounted on a truck or skid (steel frames on which portable



equipment is mounted to facilitate handling with cranes or flatbed trucks) and consists of a
hydraulically operated tubing reel or drum, an injector head which pushes or pulls the tubing in or
out of the wellbore, and various power and control systems. Coiled tubing is typically used with
sophisticated pressure control equipment which permits the operator to continue to safely produce
the well. The Rig Technology group manufactures and sells both coiled tubing units and the
ancillary pressure control equipment used in these operations. Through its acquisition of Rolligon
in late 2006, the Company enhanced its portfolio by adding additional pressure pumping and coiled
tubing equipment products.

Currently, most coiled tubing units are used in well remediation and completion applications. The
Company believes that advances in the manufacturing process of coiled tubing, tubing fatigue
protection and the capability to manufacture larger diameter and increased wall thickness coiled
tubing strings have resulted in increased uses and applications for coiled tubing products. For
example, some well operators are now using coiled tubing in drilling applications such as slim hole
reentries of existing wells. NOV engineered and manufactured the first coiled tubing units built
specifically for coiled tubing drilling in 1996.

Generally, The Rig Technology group supplies customers with the equipment and components necessary
to use coiled tubing, which the customers typically purchase separately. The group’s coiled tubing
product line consists of coiled tubing units, coiled tubing pressure control equipment, pressure
pumping equipment, snubbing units (which are units that force tubulars into a well when pressure is
contained within the wellbore), nitrogen pumping equipment and cementing, stimulation, fracturing
and blending equipment.

Wireline Equipment

. NOV’s wireline products include wireline drum units, which consist of a
spool or drum of wireline cable, mounted in a mobile vehicle or skid, which works in conjunction
with a source of power (an engine mounted in the vehicle or within a separate “power pack” skid).
The wireline drum unit is used to spool wireline cable into or out of a well, in order to perform
surveys inside the well, sample fluids from the bottom of the well, retrieve or replace components
from inside the well, or to perform other well remediation or survey operations. The wireline used
may be “slickline,” which is conventional steel cable used to convey tools in or out of the well,
or “electric line,” which contains an imbedded single-conductor or multi-conductor electrical line
which permits communication between the surface and electronic instruments attached to the end of
the wireline at the bottom of the well.

Wireline units are usually used in conjunction with a variety of other pressure control equipment
which permit safe access into wells while they are flowing and under pressure at the surface. The
company engineers and manufactures a broad range of pressure control equipment for wireline
operations, including wireline blowout preventers, strippers, packers, lubricators and grease
injection units. Additionally, the Company makes wireline rigging equipment such as mast trucks.

Facilities.

The Company conducts Rig Technology manufacturing operations at major facilities in
Houston, Galena Park, Sugar Land, Conroe, Anderson, Fort Worth and Pampa, Texas; Tulsa and Duncan,
Oklahoma; Orange, California; Calgary, Nisku and Edmonton, Canada; Mexicali, Mexico; Kristiansand
and Stavanger, Norway; Etten-Leur, the Netherlands; Carquefou, France; Lanzhou and Shanghai, China;
and Jebal Ali, UAE. The Rig Technology group maintains sales and service offices in most major
oilfield markets, either directly or through agents.

Customers and Competition.

The Rig Technology segment sells directly to drilling contractors,
other rig fabricators, well servicing companies, pressure pumping companies, national oil
companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, supply stores, and pipe-running service
providers. Demand for its products is strongly dependent upon capital spending plans by oil and gas
companies and drilling contractors, and the level of oil and gas well drilling activity.

The products of the Rig Technology group are sold in highly competitive markets and its sales and
earnings can be affected by competitive actions such as price changes, new product development, or
improved availability and delivery. The group’s primary competitors are Access Oil Tools; Aker
Kvaerner AS; American Block; Bomco; Canrig (a division of Nabors Industries); Cavins Oil Tools;
Cameron; DenCon Oil Tools; Hydril Company; Hong Hua; IDM; LEWCO (a division of Rowan Companies);
M&I Electric; Tesco Corporation; Wirth M&B GmbH; Stewart & Stevenson, Inc.; ASEP; Crown Energy
Technologies; Huntings, Ltd.; Vanoil; Parveen Industries; and Weatherford International, Inc.
Management believes that the principal competitive factors affecting its Drilling Equipment
business are performance, quality, reputation, customer service, availability of products, spare
parts, and consumables, and breadth of product line and price.

Petroleum Services & Supplies

The Company provides a broad range of support equipment, spare parts, consumables and services
through the Petroleum Services & Supplies segment. The Petroleum Services & Supplies group sells
directly to drilling contractors; well servicing companies; oil and gas producers; national oil
companies; tubular processors, manufacturers and distributors; oilfield distributors; and pipeline
operators.



The Petroleum Services & Supplies group provides a variety of tubular services, composite tubing,
and coiled tubing to oil and gas producers, national oil companies, drilling contractors, well
servicing companies, pipeline operators, and tubular processors, manufacturers and distributors.
These include inspection and reclamation services for drill pipe, casing, production tubing, sucker
rods and line pipe at drilling and workover rig locations, at yards owned by its customers, at
steel mills and processing facilities that manufacture tubular goods, and at facilities which it
owns. The group also provides internal coating of tubular goods at several coating plants worldwide
and through licensees in certain locations. Additionally, the Company designs, manufactures and
sells high pressure fiberglass and composite tubulars for use in corrosive applications and coiled
tubing for use in well servicing applications; and provides in-service inspection of oil, gas and
product transmission pipelines through its application of instrumented survey tools (“smart pigs”)
which it engineers, manufactures and operates.

The Company’s customers rely on tubular inspection services to avoid failure of tubing, casing,
flowlines, pipelines and drill pipe. Such tubular failures are expensive and in some cases
catastrophic. The Company’s customers rely on internal coatings of tubular goods to prolong the
useful lives of tubulars and to increase the volumetric throughput of in-service tubular goods. The
Company’s customers sometimes use fiberglass or composite tubulars in lieu of conventional steel
tubulars, due to the corrosion-resistant properties of fiberglass and other composite materials.
Tubular inspection and coating services are used most frequently in operations in high-temperature,
deep, corrosive oil and gas environments. In selecting a provider of tubular inspection and tubular
coating services, oil and gas operators consider such factors as reputation, experience, technology
of products offered, reliability and price.

The Company’s Petroleum Services & Supplies group also provides products and services that are used
in the course of drilling oil and gas wells. The Downhole Tools business sells and rents drilling
motors and specialized downhole tools that are incorporated into the drill stem during drilling
operations (“Downhole Tools”), and are also used during fishing, well intervention, re-entry, and
well completion operations. The Solids Control business is engaged in the provision of
highly-engineered equipment, products and services which separate and manage drill cuttings
produced by the drilling process (“Solids Control”). Drill cuttings are usually contaminated with
petroleum or drilling fluids, and must be disposed of in an environmentally sound manner.
Additionally, efficient separation of drill cuttings enables the re-use of often costly drilling
fluids. The Instrumentation business rents and sells proprietary drilling rig instrumentation
packages and control systems which monitor various processes throughout the drilling operation,
under the name MD/Totco (“Instrumentation”). The Pumps & Expendables business provides centrifugal,
reciprocating, and progressing cavity pumps and pump expendables (“Pumps & Expendables”) into the
global oil and gas and industrial markets.

Tubular Coating

. The Company develops, manufactures and applies its proprietary tubular coatings,
known as Tube-Kote

®

coatings, to new and used tubulars. Tubular coatings help prevent
corrosion of tubulars by providing a tough plastic shield to isolate steel from corrosive oilfield
fluids such as CO


, H


S and brine. Delaying or preventing corrosion extends
the life of existing tubulars, reduces the frequency of well remediation and reduces expensive
interruptions in production. In addition, coatings are designed to increase the fluid flow rate
through tubulars by decreasing or eliminating paraffin and scale build-up, which can reduce or
block oil flow in producing wells. The smooth inner surfaces of coated tubulars often increase the
fluid through-put on certain high-rate oil and gas wells by reducing friction and turbulence. The
Company’s reputation for supplying quality internal coatings is an important factor in its
business, since the failure of coatings can lead to expensive production delays and premature
tubular failure. In 2005, NOV created a 60%-owned joint venture in China with the Huabei Petroleum
Administration Bureau, which coats Chinese produced drill pipe using NOV’s proprietary coatings.

Tubular Inspection.

Newly manufactured pipe sometimes contains serious defects that are not
detected at the mill. In addition, pipe can be damaged in transit and during handling prior to use
at the well site. As a result, exploration and production companies often have new tubulars
inspected before they are placed in service to reduce the risk of tubular failures during drilling,
completion, or production of oil and gas wells. Used tubulars are inspected by the Company to
detect service-induced flaws after the tubulars are removed from operation. Used drill pipe and
used tubing inspection programs allow operators to replace defective lengths, thereby prolonging
the life of the remaining pipe and saving the customer the cost of unnecessary tubular replacements
and expenses related to tubular failures.

Tubular inspection services employ all major non-destructive inspection techniques, including
electromagnetic, ultrasonic, magnetic flux leakage and gamma ray. These inspection services are
provided both by mobile units which work at the wellhead as used tubing is removed from a well, and
at fixed site tubular inspection locations. The group provides an ultrasonic inspection service for
detecting potential fatigue cracks in the end area of used drill pipe, the portion of the pipe that
traditionally has been the most difficult to inspect. Tubular inspection facilities also offer a
wide range of related services, such as API thread inspection, ring and plug gauging, and a
complete line of reclamation services necessary to return tubulars to useful service, including
tubular cleaning and straightening, hydrostatic testing and re-threading.



In addition, the Company applies hardbanding material to drillpipe, to enhance its wear
characteristics and reduce downhole casing wear as a result of the drilling process. In 2002, the
Company introduced its proprietary line of hardbanding material, TCS — 8000

ä

. The group also
cleans, straightens, inspects and coats sucker rods at 11 facilities throughout the Western
Hemisphere. Additionally, new sucker rods are inspected before they are placed into service, to
avoid premature failure, which can cause the oil well operator to have to pull and replace the
sucker rod.

Mill Systems and Sales.

The Company engineers and fabricates inspection equipment for steel
mills, which it sells and rents. The equipment is used for quality control purposes to detect
defects in the pipe during the high-speed manufacturing process. Each piece of mill inspection
equipment is designed to customer specifications and is installed and serviced by the Company.

Fiberglass & Composite Tubulars.

When compared to conventional carbon steel and even
corrosion-resistant alloys, resin-impregnated fiberglass and other modern plastic composites often
exhibit superior resistance to corrosion. Some producers manage the corrosive fluids sometimes
found in oil and gas fields by utilizing composite or fiberglass tubing, casing and line pipe in
the operations of their fields. In 1997, the Company acquired Fiber Glass Systems, a leading
provider of high pressure fiberglass tubulars used in oilfield applications, to further serve the
tubular corrosion prevention needs of its customers. Fiber Glass Systems has manufactured
fiberglass pipe since 1968 under the name “Star

®

,” and was the first manufacturer of
high-pressure fiberglass pipe to be licensed by the API in 1992. Through acquisitions and
investments in technologies, the Company has extended its fiberglass and composite tubing offering
into industrial and marine applications, in addition to its oilfield market.

Coiled Tubing.

Coiled tubing provides a number of significant functional advantages over the
principal alternatives of conventional drill pipe and workover pipe. Coiled tubing allows faster
“tripping,” since the coiled tubing can be reeled quickly on and off a drum and in and out of a
wellbore. In addition, the small size of the coiled tubing unit compared to an average workover rig
or drilling rig reduces preparation time at the well site. Coiled tubing permits a variety of
workover and other operations to be performed without having to pull the existing production tubing
from the well and allows ease of operation in horizontal or highly deviated wells. Thus, operations
using coiled tubing can be performed much more quickly and, in many instances, at a significantly
lower cost. Finally, use of coiled tubing generally allows continuous production of the well,
eliminating the need to temporarily stop the flow of hydrocarbons. As a result, the economics of a
workover are improved because the well can continue to produce hydrocarbons and thus produce
revenues while the well treatments are occurring. Continuous production also reduces the risk of
formation damage which can occur when the flow of fluids is stopped or isolated. Under normal
operating conditions, the Coiled Tubing string must be replaced every three to four months. NOV
designs, manufactures, and sells coiled tubing under the Quality Tubing brand name at its mill in
Houston, Texas.

Pipeline Inspection

. In-service inspection services for oil and gas pipelines identify anomalies
in pipelines without removing or dismantling the pipelines or stopping the product flow, giving
customers a convenient and cost-effective method of identifying potential defects. The Petroleum
Services & Supplies group inspects pipelines by launching a sophisticated survey instrument into
the pipeline. Propelled by the product flow, the instrument uses electromagnetics, ultrasonics, and
mechanical measurements received on digital and analog media to monitor the severity and location
of internal and external pitting-type corrosion as well as other mechanical anomalies in the
pipeline, providing a basis for evaluation and repair by the customer. Once the test is complete,
the survey instrument is returned to the Company, refurbished and used for future pipeline
inspections.

Downhole Tools.

NOV designs, manufacturers and services a wide array of downhole motors used in
straight hole, directional, slim hole, and coiled tubing drilling applications. These motors are
sold or leased under the brand names Trudrill

TM

and Vector

TM

. This business
also maintains a wide variety of motor power sections, which it incorporates into its own motors
and also sells to third parties. Downhole drilling motors utilize hydraulic horsepower from the
drilling fluid pumped down the drill stem to develop torque at the bit. Motors are capable of
achieving higher rotary velocities than can generally be achieved using conventional surface rotary
equipment. Motors are often used in conjunction with high speed PDC bits to improve rates of
penetration.

The Downhole Tools group also manufactures and sells drilling jars and fishing tools, which are
marketed under the Griffith

TM

and Bowen

TM

brand names. Drilling jars are
placed in the drill string, where they can be used to generate a sudden, jarring motion to free the
drill string should it become stuck in the wellbore during the drilling process. This jarring
motion is generated using hydraulic and/or mechanical force provided at the surface. In the event
that a portion of the drill string becomes stuck and cannot be jarred loose, fishing tools are run
into the wellbore on the end of the drill string to retrieve the portion that is stuck.

Recently, the Downhole Tools business introduced an electronic jar placement program that
determines the optimum jar placement in the drill string as well as the effects of hole angle, hole
curvature, and frictional drag on the activation of the drilling jar. This program has proven
suitable for straight, directional, and horizontal wellbore analysis, and improves the overall
efficiency of the drilling process.



NOV acquired NQL Energy Services, Inc. (“NQL”) in late 2006 for approximately $300 million in cash.
NQL manufactures, leases, sells and services downhole tools — including drilling motors, jars,
shock tools, reamers, and EM-MWD systems — in 23 locations across seven countries. This
transaction will help expand NOV’s downhole tools portfolio and increase exposure to directional
drilling services.

Solids Control

. The Solids Control product line uses a variety of technologies to separate drill
cuttings from drilling fluids, and to transport, dry and refine drill cuttings for safe disposal
under the Brandt NOV brand name. The Company believes the regulatory and industry trends toward
minimizing the environmental impact of drilling operations in a number of environmentally sensitive
oil and gas producing regions will lead to greater demand for solids control products and waste
management services. Waste management services cover many areas associated with the drilling of a
well included solids removal, solids transport, solids treatment and solids disposal. The Company
further believes the trend towards more technically complex drilling, including highly deviated
directional wells and slim-hole completions, will favorably impact the demand for solid controls
technology because of its ability to reduce costly downhole problems. As environmental constraints
are increased and as awareness of environmental protection grows, the Company believes that its
drill cuttings separation, cuttings transport and treating processes will experience increased
demand.

The Company has a history of introducing new solids control products and services obtained both
through its internal development and through acquiring or licensing technologies from others.
Current product offerings are circular, elliptical and linear motion shale shakers and shale shaker
screens that comply with the November 2004 API Recommended Practice 13C, degassers, desanders,
desilters, high speed/high capacity centrifuges and conventional centrifuges, thermal desorption
units, cuttings conveyance systems and closed loop drilling fluids systems at its facilities in
Conroe, Texas; Houston, Texas; Aberdeen, Scotland; Leduc, Alberta; and Trinidad.

Through development of new product offerings and strategic acquisitions the Company has become a
leading provider of thermal desorption cuttings processing services to the drilling industry.
Similar efforts have been successful in developing a broad range of services, including centrifugal
dryers, and the Brandt NOV FreeFlow system.

Instrumentation

. The Company’s Instrumentation business provides drilling rig operators real
time measurement and monitoring of critical parameters required to improve rig safety and
efficiency. In 1999, the Company introduced its RigSense

™

product, which combines
leading hardware and software technologies into an integrated drilling rig package. This product
permits access of drilling data from offsite locations, enabling company personnel to monitor
drilling operations from an office environment, through a secure link. Systems are both sold and
rented, and are typically comprised of several sensors placed throughout the rig to measure
critical drilling parameters such as weight on bit, hookload, standpipe pressure, mud pump strokes,
drilling mud levels, torque, and others, all networked back to a central command station for
review, recording and interpretation. The rig instrumentation packages typically provide multiple
screens and hazardous area touch-screen displays around the rig for various rig personnel to
perform individual jobs more effectively, and cameras for certain areas to promote safety and
permit remote monitoring. The Company has evolved from data collection to a leading drilling
information provider by using state-of-the-art satellite communications to reduce the gap from rigs
to corporate office. The reports on drilling activities and process are now provided from the rig
site information as a part of the business solution, DrillSuite

™

, to assist the
contractor in managing their business of drilling. DrillSuite

™

allows contractors to
streamline administration by eliminating manual entry of data, promotes accurate payroll processing
and invoicing, and includes asset tracking and maintenance programs. The real time information
provided also allows the Company to advance the drilling process using advanced drilling algorithms
and applying electronic controls such as to our Wildcat Auto Drilling System for better well
planning, enhanced rates of penetration, reduced program costs, and improved wellbore quality.

Pumps & Expendables

. The Company’s Pumps & Expendables business designs, manufactures, and sells
pumps that are used in oil and gas drilling operations and production applications. These pumps
include reciprocating, centrifugal, and progressive cavity pumps. (High pressure mud pumps are
sold within the Rig Technology segment.) These pumps are sold as individual units and unitized
packages with drivers, controls and piping. This group also manufactures fluid end expendables
(liners, valves, pistons, and plungers) fluid end modules, and a complete line of dies and inserts
for pipe handling. The group offers popular industry brand names like Wheatley, Gaso, and Omega
reciprocating pumps, acquired in September of 2000; Halco Centrifugal Pumps, acquired in January of
2002; Petroleum Expendable Products (PEP), acquired in May of 1997; and Phoenix Energy Products,
acquired in 1998.

The group, through its Mono/Monoflo business, is also a worldwide leader in the design and
manufacture of a wide range of progressive cavity pumps, grinders and screens used in various
industrial applications. Mono/Monoflo also manufactures a broad range of oilfield products which
include fluid transfer, artificial lift and power sections.



The group manufactures its pump products in Houston, Odessa and Marble Falls, Texas; Tulsa and
McAlester, Oklahoma; Scott, Louisiana; Manchester, England; and Melbourne, Australia.

Customers and Competition.

Customers for the Petroleum Services & Supplies’ tubular services
include major and independent oil and gas companies, national oil companies, drilling and workover
contractors, oilfield equipment and product distributors and manufacturers, oilfield service
companies, pipeline operators, steel mills, and other industrial companies. The Company’s
competitors include, among others, Ameron International Corp, EDO Corporation, Pipeline Integrity
International Ltd. (a division of General Electric), ShawCor Ltd., Smith International, Inc.,
Frank’s International, Inc., H. Rosen Engineering, GmbH; T.D.
Williamson, Inc.; Baker Hughes Incorporated;
Diascan; Magpie; Weatherford International Ltd.; Patterson Tubular Services; and Precision Tube (a division of
Maverick Tube). In addition, the group competes with a number of smaller regional competitors in
tubular inspection. Certain foreign jurisdictions and government-owned petroleum companies located
in some of the countries in which this group operates have adopted policies or regulations which
may give local nationals in these countries certain competitive advantages. Within the Company’s
corrosion control products, certain substitutes such as non-metallic tubulars, inhibitors,
corrosion resistant alloys, cathodic protection systems, and non-metallic liner systems also
compete with the Company’s products. Management believes that the principal competitive factors
affecting this business are performance, quality, reputation, customer service, availability of
products, spare parts, and consumables, and breadth of product line and price.

The primary customers for drilling services offered by the Petroleum Services & Supplies group
include drilling contractors, well servicing companies, major and independent oil and gas
companies, and national oil companies. Competitors in drilling services include Smith International
(“SWACO”); Derrick Manufacturing Corp.; Fluid Systems; Oil Tools Pte. Ltd; Peak Energy Services,
Ltd.; Petron Industries, Inc.; Epoch (a division of Nabors Industries); Pason Systems, Inc.;
Robbins & Myers; Kem-tron, Inc.; Double Life Corporation, Inc.; Oteco, Inc.; Southwest Oilfield
Products; Forum Oilfield Technologies; P-Quip Oilfield Products; and a number of regional
competitors. The Petroleum Services & Supplies group sells drilling services into highly
competitive markets. Management believes that on-site service is becoming an increasingly important
competitive element in this market, and that the principal competitive factors affecting the
business are performance, quality, reputation, customer service, product availability and
technology, breadth of product line and price.

Distribution Services

Through its network of over 180 locations worldwide, the Distribution Services group provides
supply chain management services to drilling contractors and operators around the world. This
group stocks and sells consumables maintenance, repair and operating supply (“MRO”) and spare parts
that are needed throughout the drilling, completion and production process. The supplies and
equipment stocked by our distribution service centers vary by location. Each distribution point
generally offers a large line of oilfield products including valves, fittings, flanges, spare parts
for oilfield equipment and miscellaneous expendable items.

NOV’s e-Distribution solutions leverage the flexible infrastructure of SAP™ to extend the
customer’s investment in systems and address the total cost of ownership by streamlining the
acquisition process from procurement to payment, by digitally managing approval routing and
workflow, and by providing robust reporting functionality.

Approximately 84% of the Distribution Services group’s sales in 2006 were in the United States and
Canada. The remainder comes from key international markets in Mexico, the North Sea, Middle East,
South America and the Far East.

Strategically the group continued to expand its alliances with oil and gas companies and certain
drilling contractors to increase its revenues in 2006. Additionally the group seeks to leverage
its extensive purchasing power to reduce the costs of the goods it purchases. In 2006, the group
built on the new vendor relationships it established with Chinese suppliers in 2005.

Customers and Competition.

The primary customers for Distribution Services include drilling
contractors, well servicing companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, and national
oil companies. Competitors in Distribution Services include Wilson Supply (a division of Smith
International), CE Franklin, Redman Pipe and Supply, and a number of regional competitors.



2006 Acquisitions and Other Investments

In 2006, the Company made the following acquisitions and outside investments:

Operating

Date of

Acquisition

Form

Segment

Transactions

Retsco Oilfield Field Equipment, Ltd.

Asset

Petroleum Services & Supply

February 2006

Soil Recovery A/S

Stock

Petroleum Services & Supply

March 2006

D.M.I. est SARL

Asset

Petroleum Services & Supply

April 2006

Core Motion, Inc.

License

Rig Technology

August 2006

In-Situ Oilfield Services Limited

Asset

Petroleum Services & Supply

September 2006

Longhorn Machine, L.P.

Asset

Rig Technology

September 2006

Rolligon, Ltd.

Asset

Rig Technology

November 2006

FITIRI, Inc.

Asset

Petroleum Services & Supply

November 2006

Toolbox Drilling Solutions Limited

Stock

Petroleum Services & Supply

December 2006

NQL Energy Services Inc.

Stock

Petroleum Services & Supply

December 2006

The Company paid an aggregate purchase price of $339.5 million ($329.7 million in net cash and $9.8
million of notes payable) for acquisitions and outside investments in 2006.

Seasonal Nature of the Company’s Business

Historically, the level of some of the Company’s businesses has followed seasonal trends to some
degree. In general the Rig Technology group has not experienced significant seasonal fluctuation
although orders for new equipment may be modestly affected by holiday schedules. There can be no
guarantee that seasonal effects will not influence future sales in this segment.

In Canada, the Petroleum Services & Supplies segment has typically realized high first quarter
activity levels, as operators take advantage of the winter freeze to gain access to remote drilling
and production areas. In past years, certain Canadian businesses within Petroleum Services &
Supplies and Distribution Services have declined during the second quarter due to warming weather
conditions which resulted in thawing, softer ground, difficulty accessing drill sites, and road
bans that curtailed drilling activity (“Canadian Breakup”). However, these businesses have
typically rebounded in the third and fourth quarter. Petroleum Services & Supplies activity in
both the U.S. and Canada sometimes increases during the third quarter and then peaks in
the fourth quarter as operators spend the remaining drilling and/or production capital budgets for
that year. Petroleum Services & Supplies revenues in the Rocky Mountain region sometimes decline
in the late fourth quarter or early first quarter due to harsh winter weather.

Within Petroleum Services & Supplies, the Pipeline Inspection business has typically experienced
reduced activity during the first quarter of the calendar year. The high winter demand for gas and
petroleum products in the northern hemisphere and the consequent curtailment of pipeline
maintenance and inspection programs often results in less opportunity to perform pipeline
inspection during this time. The segment’s fiberglass and composite tubulars business in China has
typically declined in the first quarter due to the impact of weather on manufacturing and
installation operations, and due to business slow downs associated with the Chinese New Year.

The Company anticipates that the seasonal trends described above will continue. However, there can
be no guarantee that spending by the Company’s customers will continue to follow patterns seen in
the past or that spending by other customers will remain the same as in prior years.

Marketing & Distribution Network

Substantially all of our Rig Technology capital equipment and spare parts sales, and a large
portion of our smaller pumps and parts sales, are made through our direct sales force and
distribution service centers. Sales to foreign state-owned oil companies are typically made in
conjunction with agent or representative arrangements. Products within our Petroleum Service &
Supplies segment are rented and sold worldwide through our own sales force and through commissioned
representatives. Distribution Services sales are made through our network of distribution service
centers. Customers for our products and services include drilling and other service contractors,
exploration and production companies, supply companies and nationally owned or controlled drilling
and production companies.



The Rig Technology segment’s customers include drilling contractors, shipyards and other rig
fabricators, well servicing companies, pressure pumpers, national oil companies, major and
independent oil and gas companies, supply stores, and pipe-running service providers. Demand for
its products is strongly dependent upon capital spending plans by oil and gas companies and
drilling contractors, and the level of oil and gas well drilling activity. Rig Technology
purchases can represent significant capital expenditures, and are often sold as part of a rig
fabrication or major rig refurbishment package. Sometimes these packages cover multiple rigs, and
often the Company bids jointly with other related product and services providers, such as rig
fabrication yards and rig design firms.

The Petroleum Services & Supplies group’s customers for tubular services include major and
independent oil and gas companies, national oil companies, oilfield equipment and product
distributors and manufacturers, drilling and workover contractors, oilfield service companies,
pressure pumpers, pipeline operators, pipe mills, manufactures and processors, and other industrial
companies. Certain tubular inspection and tubular coating products and services often are
incorporated as a part of a tubular package sold by tubular supply stores to end users. The Company
primarily has direct operations in the international marketplace, but operates through agents in
certain markets.

The Petroleum Services & Supplies group’s customers for drilling services are predominantly major
and independent oil and gas companies, national oil companies, drilling contractors, well servicing
companies, providers of drilling fluids, and other oilfield service companies. This group operates
sales and distribution facilities at strategic locations worldwide to service areas with high
drilling activity. Strategically located service and engineering facilities provide specialty
repair and maintenance services to customers. Sales of capital equipment are sometimes made through
rig fabricators, and often are bid as part of a rig fabrication package or rig refurbishment
package. Sometimes these packages cover multiple rigs, and often the Company bids jointly with
other related service providers.

Distribution Services sales are made through our network of distribution service centers. Customers
for our products and services include drilling and other service contractors, exploration and
production companies, supply companies and nationally owned or controlled drilling and production
companies.

The Company’s foreign operations, which include significant operations in Canada, Europe, the Far
East, the Middle East, Africa and Latin America, are subject to the risks normally associated with
conducting business in foreign countries, including foreign currency exchange risks and uncertain
political and economic environments, which may limit or disrupt markets, restrict the movement of
funds or result in the deprivation of contract rights or the taking of property without fair
compensation. Government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which the
Company operates have adopted policies (or are subject to governmental policies) giving preference
to the purchase of goods and services from companies that are majority-owned by local nationals. As
a result of such policies, the Company relies on joint ventures, license arrangements and other
business combinations with local nationals in these countries. In addition, political
considerations may disrupt the commercial relationship between the Company and such
government-owned petroleum companies. Although the Company has not experienced any significant
problems in foreign countries arising from nationalistic policies, political instability, economic
instability or currency restrictions, there can be no assurance that such a problem will not arise
in the future. See Note 15 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information
regarding geographic revenue information.

Research and New Product Development and Intellectual Property

The Company believes that it has been a leader in the development of new technology and equipment
to enhance the safety and productivity of drilling and well servicing processes and that its sales
and earnings have been dependent, in part, upon the successful introduction of new or improved
products. Through its internal development programs and certain acquisitions, the Company has
assembled an extensive array of technologies protected by a substantial number of trade and service
marks, patents, trade secrets, and other proprietary rights.

As of December 31, 2006, the Company held a substantial number of United States patents and had
several patent applications pending. Expiration dates of such patents range from 2007 to 2026. As
of this date, the Company also had foreign patents and patent applications pending relating to
inventions covered by the United States patents. Additionally, the Company maintains a substantial
number of trade and service marks and maintains a number of trade secrets.

Although the Company believes that this intellectual property has value, competitive products with
different designs have been successfully developed and marketed by others. The Company considers
the quality and timely delivery of its products, the service it provides to its customers and the
technical knowledge and skills of its personnel to be more important than its intellectual property
in its ability to compete. While the Company stresses the importance of its research and
development programs, the technical challenges and market uncertainties associated with the
development and successful introduction of new products are such that there can be no assurance
that the Company will realize future revenues from new products.



Engineering and Manufacturing

The manufacturing processes for the Company’s products generally consist of machining, welding and
fabrication, heat treating, assembly of manufactured and purchased components and testing. Most
equipment is manufactured primarily from alloy steel, and the availability and price of alloy steel
castings, forgings, purchased components and bar stock is critical to the production and timing of
shipments. Primary manufacturing facilities for the Rig Technology segment are located in Houston,
Galena Park, Sugar Land, Conroe, Anderson, Fort Worth and Pampa, Texas; Duncan and Tulsa, Oklahoma;
Orange, California; Calgary, Nisku and Edmonton, Canada; Mexicali, Mexico; Aberdeen, Scotland;
Kristiansand, and Stavanger, Norway; Etten-Leur, the Netherlands; Carquefou, France; Singapore;
Perth, Australia; Lanzhou and Shanghai, China; and Jebal Ali, UAE.

The Company’s Petroleum Services & Supplies segment manufactures or assembles the equipment and
products which it rents and sells to customers, and which it uses in providing services. Downhole
tools are manufactured at facilities in Houston, Texas; Nisku and Edmonton, Alberta. Solids
control equipment and screens are manufactured at facilities in Houston and Conroe, Texas; New
Iberia, Louisiana; Aberdeen, Scotland; Nisku and Alberta, Canada; Trinidad; and Macae, Brazil.
Instrumentation equipment is manufactured at Cedar Park and Houston, Texas facilities. Pumps are
manufactured at facilities in Houston, Odessa and Marble Falls, Texas; McAlester and Tulsa,
Oklahoma; Manchester, England; and Melbourne, Australia.

The group manufactures tubular inspection equipment and instrumented pipeline inspection tools at
its Houston, Texas facility for resale, and renovates and repairs equipment at its manufacturing
facilities in Houston, Texas; Celle, Germany; Nisku and Alberta, Canada; and Aberdeen, Scotland.
Fiberglass and composite tubulars and fittings are manufactured at facilities in San Antonio and
Big Spring, Texas; Little Rock, Arkansas; Tulsa, Oklahoma; Wichita, Kansas; and Harbin and Suzhou,
China facilities, while tubular coatings are manufactured in its Houston, Texas facility, or
through restricted sale agreements with third party manufacturers.

Certain of the Company’s manufacturing facilities and certain of the Company’s products have
various certifications, including, ISO 9001, API and ASME.

Raw Materials

The Company believes that materials and components used in its servicing and manufacturing
operations and purchased for sales are generally available from multiple sources. The prices paid
by the Company for its raw materials may be affected by, among other things, energy, steel and
other commodity prices; tariffs and duties on imported materials; and foreign currency exchange
rates. The Company experienced higher steel prices and greater difficulty securing necessary steel
supplies in 2004 and 2005 than it experienced during the preceding several years. In 2006, the
price for mild steel and standard grades stabilized while specialty alloy prices continued to rise
driven primarily by escalation in the price of the alloying agents. The Company has generally been
successful in its effort to mitigate the financial impact of higher raw materials costs on its
operations by applying surcharges to and adjusting prices on the products it sells. Furthermore,
NOV continued to expand its supply base in 2006 throughout the world to address our customers’
needs. However, higher prices and lower availability of steel and other raw material the Company
uses in its business may adversely impact future periods.

Backlog

The Company monitors its backlog of orders within its Rig Technology group to guide its planning.
Backlog includes orders greater than $250 thousand for most items and orders for wireline units in
excess of $75 thousand, and which require more than three months to manufacture and deliver.

Backlog measurements are made on the basis of written orders which are firm, but may be cancelable
by the customer. Most require reimbursement to the Company for costs incurred in such an event.
There can be no assurance that the backlog amounts will ultimately be realized as revenue, or that
the Company will earn a profit on backlog work. Our backlog for equipment at recent year-ends has
been:

December 31, 2006

$6.0 billion

December 31, 2005

2.3 billion

December 31, 2004

0.6 billion *

*

excludes Varco backlog

Employees

At December 31, 2006, the Company had a total of 26,861 employees, of which 3,885 were temporary
employees. Approximately 117 employees in the Company’s fiberglass tubulars plant in Little Rock,
Arkansas, and 100 employees of the



Company’s downhole tools product line, are subject to collective bargaining agreements.
Additionally, certain of the Company’s employees in certain foreign locations are subject to
collective bargaining agreements.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

You should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to other information contained
or incorporated by reference herein. Realization of any of the following risks could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.

We
are dependent upon the level of activity in the oil and gas industry, which is volatile

.

The oil and gas industry historically has experienced significant volatility. Demand for our
services and products depends primarily upon the number of oil rigs in operation, the number of oil
and gas wells being drilled, the depth and drilling conditions of these wells, the volume of
production, the number of well completions, capital expenditures of other oilfield service
companies and the level of workover activity. Drilling and workover activity can fluctuate
significantly in a short period of time, particularly in the United States and Canada. The
willingness of oil and gas operators to make capital expenditures to explore for and produce oil
and natural gas and the willingness of oilfield service companies to invest in capital equipment
will continue to be influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, including:

If there is a significant reduction in demand for drilling services, in cash flows of drilling
contractors, well servicing companies, or production companies or in drilling or well servicing rig
utilization rates, then demand for the products and services of the Company will decline.

Volatile oil and gas prices affect demand for our products.

Oil and gas prices have been volatile since 1990. In general, oil prices approximated $18-22 per
barrel from 1991 through 1997, experienced a decline into the low teens in 1998 and 1999, and have
generally ranged between $25-75 per barrel since 2000. Spot gas prices generally ranged between
$1.80-2.60 per mmbtu of gas from 1991 through 1999, then experienced severe spikes into the $10
range in 2001 and 2003. Absent occasional spikes and dips due to imbalances in supply and demand,
prices have generally ranged between $5.00-10.00 per mmbtu during the last two years.

Expectations for future oil and gas prices cause many shifts in the strategies and expenditure
levels of oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, particularly with respect to decisions to
purchase major capital equipment of the type we manufacture. Oil and gas prices, which are
determined by the marketplace, may fall below a range that is acceptable to our customers, which
could reduce demand for our products.

Competition in our industry could ultimately lead to lower revenues and earnings.

The oilfield products and services industry is highly competitive. We compete with national,
regional and foreign competitors in each of our current major product lines. These competitors may
have greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than us, and may be in a
better competitive position. The following competitive actions can each affect our revenues and
earnings:

•

price changes;

•

new product and technology introductions; and

•

improvements in availability and delivery.



In addition, certain foreign jurisdictions and government-owned petroleum companies located in some
of the countries in which we operate have adopted policies or regulations which may give local
nationals in these countries competitive advantages. Competition in our industry could lead to
lower revenues and earnings.

We have aggressively expanded our businesses and intend to maintain an aggressive growth strategy.

We have aggressively expanded and grown our businesses during the past several years, through
acquisitions and investment in internal growth. We anticipate that we will continue to pursue an
aggressive growth strategy but we cannot assure you that attractive acquisitions will be available
to us at reasonable prices or at all. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will successfully
integrate the operations and assets of any acquired business with our own or that our management
will be able to manage effectively the increased size of the Company or operate any new lines of
business. Any inability on the part of management to integrate and manage acquired businesses and
their assumed liabilities could adversely affect our business and financial performance. In
addition, we may need to incur substantial indebtedness to finance future acquisitions. We cannot
assure you that we will be able to obtain this financing on terms acceptable to us or at all.
Future acquisitions may result in increased depreciation and amortization expense, increased
interest expense, increased financial leverage or decreased operating income for the Company, any
of which could cause our business to suffer.

Our operating results have fluctuated during recent years and these fluctuations may continue.

We have experienced fluctuations in quarterly operating results in the past. We cannot assure you
that we will realize expected earnings growth or that earnings in any particular quarter will not
fall short of either a prior fiscal quarter or investors’ expectations. The following factors, in
addition to others not listed, may affect our quarterly operating results in the future:

There are risks associated with our presence in international markets, including political or
economic instability and currency restrictions.

Approximately 55% of our revenues in 2006 were derived from operations outside the United States
(based on revenue destination). Our foreign operations include significant operations in Canada,
Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Southeast Asia, South America and other international markets. Our
revenues and operations are subject to the risks normally associated with conducting business in
foreign countries, including uncertain political and economic environments, which may limit or
disrupt markets, restrict the movement of funds or result in the deprivation of contract rights or
the taking of property without fair compensation. Government-owned petroleum companies located in
some of the countries in which we operate have adopted policies, or are subject to governmental
policies, giving preference to the purchase of goods and services from companies that are
majority-owned by local nationals. As a result of these policies, we may rely on joint ventures,
license arrangements and other business combinations with local nationals in these countries. In
addition, political considerations may disrupt the commercial relationships between us and
government-owned petroleum companies.

Under broad powers granted to the President of Venezuela by the National Assembly on January 31,
2007, the Venezuelan government began asserting closer government control over its oil and gas
reserves. The Company generated revenue of $57.9 million from its Venezuelan operations in 2006,
and as of December 31, 2006 had a net equity investment in Venezuela of $45.3 million. These
political events could adversely affect our operations in Venezuela
(where we have operated for nearly 40 years) and financial results in the future.

The results of our operations are subject to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange
rates.

We earn revenues, pay expenses and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other that the
U.S. dollar, including the Canadian dollar, the Euro, the British Pound and the Norwegian Kroner.
Approximately 55% of our 2006 revenue was derived from sales outside the United States. Because
our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues,
income and expenses into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each
reporting period. Thus, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against other
currencies in which our operations are conducted will affect our revenues and operating income.
Because of the geographic diversity of our operations, weaknesses in some currencies might be
offset by strengths in others over time. We also use derivative financial instruments to further
reduce our net exposure



to currency exchange fluctuations. We had forward contracts with a notional amount of $1,477.2
million (with a fair value of $26.3 million) as of December 31, 2006 to reduce the impact of
foreign currency exchange rate movements. We are also subject to risks that the counterparties to
these contracts fail to meet the terms of our foreign currency contracts. We cannot assure you
that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates would not affect our financial results.

An
impairment of goodwill could reduce our earnings.

We recorded approximately $2.2 billion of goodwill on the consolidated balance sheet as of December
31, 2006. Goodwill is recorded when the purchase price of a business exceeds the fair market value
of the tangible and separately measurable intangible net assets. Generally accepted accounting
principles requires us to test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or when events or
circumstances occur indicating that goodwill might be impaired. If we were to determine that any of
our remaining balance of goodwill was impaired, we would record an immediate charge to earnings
with a corresponding reduction in stockholders’ equity and increase in balance sheet leverage as
measured by debt to total capitalization.

We could be adversely affected if we fail to comply with any of the numerous federal, state and
local laws, regulations and policies that govern environmental protection, zoning and other matters
applicable to our businesses.

Our businesses are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies
governing environmental protection, zoning and other matters. These laws and regulations have
changed frequently in the past and it is reasonable to expect additional changes in the future. If
existing regulatory requirements change, we may be required to make significant unanticipated
capital and operating expenditures. We cannot assure you that our operations will continue to
comply with future laws and regulations. Governmental authorities may seek to impose fines and
penalties on us or to revoke or deny the issuance or renewal of operating permits for failure to
comply with applicable laws and regulations. Under these circumstances, we might be required to
reduce or cease operations or conduct site remediation or other corrective action which could
adversely impact our operations and financial condition.

Our businesses expose us to potential environmental liability.

Our businesses expose us to the risk that harmful substances may escape into the environment, which
could result in:

•

personal injury or loss of life;

•

severe damage to or destruction of property; or

•

environmental damage and suspension of operations.

Our current and past activities, as well as the activities of our former divisions and
subsidiaries, could result in our facing substantial environmental, regulatory and other
liabilities. These could include the costs of cleanup of contaminated sites and site closure
obligations. These liabilities could also be imposed on the basis of one or more of the following
theories:

•

negligence;

•

strict liability;

•

breach of contract with customers; or

•

as a result of our contractual agreement to indemnify our customers in the normal course
of business, which is normally the case.

We may not have adequate insurance for potential environmental liabilities.

While we maintain liability insurance, this insurance is subject to coverage limits. In addition,
certain policies do not provide coverage for damages resulting from environmental contamination. We
face the following risks with respect to our insurance coverage:

•

we may not be able to continue to obtain insurance on commercially reasonable terms;

•

we may be faced with types of liabilities that will not be covered by our insurance;

•

our insurance carriers may not be able to meet their obligations under the policies; or

•

the dollar amount of any liabilities may exceed our policy limits.

Even a partially uninsured claim, if successful and of significant size, could have a material
adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements.

There are risks associated with certain contracts for our drilling equipment.

As of December 31, 2006, we had a backlog of approximately $6 billion of drilling equipment to be
manufactured, assembled, tested and delivered by our Rig Technology Group. The following factors,
in addition to others not listed, could reduce our margins on these contracts, adversely affect our
position in the market and subject us to contractual penalties:

Such developments could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements.



GLOSSARY OF OILFIELD TERMS

(Sources: Company management; “A Dictionary for the Petroleum
Industry,” The University of Texas at Austin, 2001.)

API

Abbr: American Petroleum Institute

Annular Blowout Preventer

A large valve, usually installed above the ram blowout preventers,
that forms a seal in the annular space between the pipe and the
wellbore or, if no pipe is present, in the wellbore itself.

Annulus

Automatic Pipe Handling

Systems (Automatic Pipe

Racker)

The open space around pipe in a wellbore through which fluids may pass.

A device used on a drilling rig to automatically remove and insert
drill stem components from and into the hole. It replaces the need for
a person to be in the derrick or mast when tripping pipe into or out
of the hole.

Automatic Roughneck

A large, self-contained pipe-handling machine used by drilling crew
members to make up and break out tubulars. The device combines a
spinning wrench, torque wrench, and backup wrenches.

Beam pump

Surface pump that raises and lowers sucker rods continually, so as to
operate a downhole pump.

Bit

The cutting or boring element used in drilling oil and gas wells. The
bit consists of a cutting element and a circulating element. The
cutting element is steel teeth, tungsten carbide buttons, industrial
diamonds, or polycrystalline diamonds (PDCs). These teeth, buttons, or
diamonds penetrate and gouge or scrape the formation to remove it. The
circulating element permits the passage of drilling fluid and utilizes
the hydraulic force of the fluid stream to improve drilling rates. In
rotary drilling, several drill collars are joined to the bottom end of
the drill pipe column, and the bit is attached to the end of the drill
collars. Drill collars provide weight on the bit to keep it in firm
contact with the bottom of the hole. Most bits used in rotary drilling
are roller cone bits, but diamond bits are also used extensively.

Blowout

An uncontrolled flow of gas, oil or other well fluids into the
atmosphere. A blowout, or gusher, occurs when formation pressure
exceeds the pressure applied to it by the column of drilling fluid. A
kick warns of an impending blowout.

Blowout Preventer (BOP)

Series of valves installed at the wellhead while drilling to prevent
the escape of pressurized fluids.

Blowout Preventer (BOP) Stack

The assembly of well-control equipment including preventers, spools,
valves, and nipples connected to the top of the wellhead.

Closed Loop Drilling Systems

A solids control system in which the drilling mud is reconditioned and
recycled through the drilling process on the rig itself.

Coiled Tubing

A continuous string of flexible steel tubing, often hundreds or
thousands of feet long, that is wound onto a real, often dozens of
feet in diameter. The reel is an integral part of the coiled tubing
unit, which consists of several devices that ensure the tubing can be
safely and efficiently inserted into the well from the surface.
Because tubing can be lowered into a well without having to make up
joints of tubing, running coiled tubing into the well is faster and
less expensive than running conventional tubing. Rapid advances in the
use of coiled tubing make it a popular way in which to run tubing into
and out of a well. Also called reeled tubing.

Cuttings

Fragments of rock dislodged by the bit and brought to the surface in
the drilling mud. Washed and dried cutting samples are analyzed by
geologist to obtain information about the formations drilled.



Directional Well

Well drilled in an orientation other than vertical in order to access
broader portions of the formation.

Drawworks

The hoisting mechanism on a drilling rig.
It is essentially a large winch that spools
off or takes in the drilling line and thus
raises or lowers the drill stem and bit.

Drill Pipe Elevator (Elevator)

On conventional rotary rigs and top-drive
rigs, hinged steel devices with manual
operating handles that crew members latch
onto a tool joint (or a sub). Since the
elevators are directly connected to the
traveling block, or to the integrated
traveling block in the top drive, when the
driller raises or lowers the block or the
top-drive unit, the drill pipe is also
raised or lowered.

Drilling jars

A percussion tool operated manually or
hydraulically to deliver a heavy downward
blow to free a stuck drill stem.

Drilling mud

A specially compounded liquid circulated
through the wellbore during rotary drilling
operations.

Drilling riser

A conduit used in offshore drilling through
which the drill bit and other tools are
passed from the rig on the water’s surface
to the sea floor.

Drill stem

All members in the assembly used for rotary
drilling from the swivel to the bit,
including the Kelly, the drill pipe and
tool joints, the drill collars, the
stabilizers, and various specialty items.

Formation

A bed or deposit composed throughout of
substantially the same kind of rock; often
a lithologic unit. Each formation is given
a name, frequently as a result of the study
of the formation outcrop at the surface and
sometimes based on fossils found in the
formation.

Hardbanding

A special wear-resistant material often
applied to tool joints to prevent abrasive
wear to the area when the pipe is being
rotated downhole.

Iron roughneck

A floor-mounted combination of a spinning
wrench and a torque wrench. The Iron
Roughneck moves into position hydraulically
and eliminates the manual handling involved
with suspended individual tools.

Jack-up rig

A mobile bottom-supported offshore drilling
structure with columnar or open-truss legs
that support the deck and hull. When
positioned over the drilling site, the
bottoms of the legs penetrate the seafloor.

Jar

A mechanical device placed near the top of
the drill stem which allows the driller to
strike a very heavy blow upward or downward
on stuck pipe.

Joint

1) In drilling, a single length (from 16
feet to 45 feet, or 5 meters to 14.5
meters, depending on its range length) of
drill pipe, drill collar, casing or tubing
that has threaded connections at both ends.
Several joints screwed together constitute
a stand of pipe. 2) In pipelining, a
single length (usually 40 feet-12 meters)
of pipe. 3) In sucker rod pumping, a
single length of sucker rod that has
threaded connections at both ends.

Kelly

The heavy steel tubular device, four- or
six-sided, suspended from the swivel
through the rotary table and connected to
the top joint of drill pipe to turn the
drill stem as the rotary table returns. It
has a bored passageway that permits fluid
to be circulated into the drill stem and up
the annulus, or vice versa. Kellys
manufactured to API specifications are
available only in four- or six-sided
versions, are either 40 or 54 feet (12 to
16 meters) long, and have diameters as
small as 2


/2 inches (6
centimeters) and as large as 6 inches (15
centimeters).

Kelly bushing

A special device placed around the kelly
that mates with the kelly flats and fits
into the master bushing of the rotary
table. The kelly bushing is designed so
that the kelly is free to move up or down
through it. The bottom of the bushing may
be shaped to fit the opening in



the master
bushing or it may have pins that fit into
the master bushing. In either case, when
the kelly bushing is inserted into the
master bushing and the master bushing is
turned, the kelly bushing also turns. Since
the kelly bushing fits onto the kelly, the
kelly turns, and since the kelly is made up
to the drill stem, the drill stem turns.
Also called the drive bushing.

Kelly spinner

A pneumatically operated device mounted on
top of the kelly that, when actuated,
causes the kelly to turn or spin. It is
useful when the kelly or a joint of pipe
attached to it must be spun up, that is,
rotated rapidly for being made up.

Kick

An entry of water, gas, oil, or other
formation fluid into the wellbore during
drilling. It occurs because the pressure
exerted by the column of drilling fluid is
not great enough to overcome the pressure
exerted by the fluids in the formation
drilled. If prompt action is not taken to
control the kick, or kill the well, a
blowout may occur.

Making-up

1. To assemble and join parts to form a complete unit (e.g., to
make up a string of drill pipe). 2. To screw together two
threaded pieces. Compare break out. 3. To mix or prepare (e.g.,
to make up a tank of mud). 4. To compensate for (e.g., to make
up for lost time).

Manual tongs (Tongs)

The large wrenches used for turning when making up or breaking out drill pipe,
casing, tubing, or other pipe; variously called casing tongs, pipe tongs, and so
forth, according to the specific use. Power tongs or power wrenches are pneumatically
or hydraulically operated tools that serve to spin the pipe up tight and, in some
instances to apply the final makeup torque.

Master bushing

A device that fits into the rotary table to accommodate the slips and drive the kelly
bushing so that the rotating motion of the rotary table can be transmitted to the
kelly. Also called rotary bushing.

Motion compensation

equipment

Any device (such as a bumper sub or heave compensator) that serves to maintain
constant weight on the bit in spite of vertical motion of a floating offshore
drilling rig.

Mud pump

A large, high-pressure reciprocating pump used to circulate the mud on a drilling rig.

Plug gauging

The mechanical process of ensuring that the inside threads on a piece of drill pipe
comply with API standards.

Pressure control equipment

1. The act of preventing the entry of formation fluids into a wellbore. 2. The act
of controlling high pressures encountered in a well.

Pressure pumping

Pumping fluids into a well by applying pressure at the surface.

Ram blowout preventer

A blowout preventer that uses rams to seal off pressure on a hole that is with or
without pipe. Also called a ram preventer.

Ring gauging

The mechanical process of ensuring that the outside threads on a piece of drill pipe
comply with API standards.

Riser

A pipe through which liquids travel upward.

Riser pipe

The pipe and special fitting used on floating offshore drilling rigs to established a
seal between the top of the wellbore, which is on the ocean floor, and the drilling
equipment located above the surface of the water. A riser pipe serves as a guide for
the drill stem from the drilling vessel to the wellhead and as a conductor or
drilling fluid from the well to the vessel. The riser consists of several sections of
pipe and includes special devices to compensate for any movement of the drilling rig
caused by waves. Also called marine riser pipe, riser joint.



Rotary table

The principal piece of equipment in the rotary table assembly; a turning device used
to impart rotational power to the drill stem while permitting vertical movement of
the pipe for rotary drilling. The master bushing fits inside the opening of the
rotary table; it turns the kelly bushing, which permits vertical movement of the
kelly while the stem is turning.

Rotating blowout
preventer

(Rotating Head)

A sealing device used to close off the annular space around the kelly in drilling
with pressure at the surface, usually installed above the main blowout preventers. A
rotating head makes it possible to drill ahead even when there is pressure in the
annulus that the weight of the drilling fluid is not overcoming; the head prevents
the well from blowing out. It is used mainly in the drilling of formations that have
low permeability. The rate of penetration through such formations is usually rapid.

Safety clamps

A clamp placed very tightly around a drill collar that is suspended in the rotary
table by drill collar slips. Should the slips fail, the clamp is too large to go
through the opening in the rotary table and therefore prevents the drill collar
string from falling into the hole. Also called drill collar clamp.

Shaker

See “Shale Shaker”

Shale shaker

A piece of drilling rig equipment that uses a vibrating screen to remove cuttings
from the circulating fluid in rotary drilling operations. The size of the openings in
the screen should be selected carefully to be the smallest size possible to allow 100
per cent flow of the fluid. Also called a shaker.

Slim-hole completions

(Slim-hole Drilling)

Drilling in which the size of the hole is smaller than the conventional hole diameter
for a given depth. This decrease in hole size enables the operator to run smaller
casing, thereby lessening the cost of completion.

Slips

Wedge-shaped pieces of metal with serrated inserts (dies) or other gripping
elements, such as serrated buttons, that suspend the drill pipe or drill
collars in the master bushing of the rotary table when it is necessary to
disconnect the drill stem from the kelly or from the top-drive unit’s drive
shaft. Rotary slips fit around the drill pipe and wedge against the master
bushing to support the pipe. Drill collar slips fit around a drill collar and
wedge against the master bushing to support the drill collar. Power slips are
pneumatically or hydraulically actuated devices that allow the crew to dispense
with the manual handling of slips when making a connection.

Solids

See “Cuttings”

Spinning wrench

Air-powered or hydraulically powered wrench used to spin drill pipe in making
or breaking connections.

Spinning-in

The rapid turning of the drill stem when one length of pipe is being joined to
another. “Spinning-out” refers to separating the pipe.

Stand

The connected joints of pipe racked in the derrick or mast when making a trip.
On a rig, the usual stand is about 90 feet (about 27 meters) long (three
lengths of drill pipe screwed together), or a treble.

String

Sucker rod

Tensioner

The entire length of casing, tubing, sucker rods, or drill pipe run into a hole.

A special steel pumping rod. Several rods screwed together make up the link
between the pumping unit on the surface and the pump at the bottom of the well.

A system of devices installed on a floating offshore drilling rig to maintain a
constant tension on the riser pipe, despite any vertical motion made by the
rig. The guidelines must also be tensioned, so a separate tensioner system is
provided for them.

Thermal desorption

The process of removing drilling mud from cuttings by applying heat directly to
drill cuttings.



Top drive

A device similar to a power swivel that is used in place of the rotary table to
turn the drill stem. It also includes power tongs. Modern top drives combine
the elevator, the tongs, the swivel, and the hook. Even though the rotary table
assembly is not used to rotate the drill stem and bit, the top-drive system
retains it to provide a place to set the slips to suspend the drill stem when
drilling stops.

Torque wrench

Spinning wrench with a gauge for measuring the amount of torque being applied
to the connection.

Trouble cost

Costs incurred as a result or unanticipated complications while drilling a
well. These cost are often referred to as contingency costs during the planning
phase of a well.

Well completion

1. The activities and methods of preparing a well for the production of oil
and gas or for other purposes, such as injection; the method by which one or
more flow paths for hydrocarbons are established between the reservoir and the
surface. 2. The system of tubulars, packers, and other tools installed beneath
the wellhead in the production casing; that is, the tool assembly that provides
the hydrocarbon flow path or paths.

Well stimulation

Any of several operations used to increase the production of a well, such as
acidizing or fracturing.

Well workover

The performance of one or more of a variety of remedial operations on a
producing oilwell to try to increase production oilwell to try to increase
production. Examples of workover jobs are deepening, plugging back, pulling and
resetting liners, and squeeze cementing.

Wellbore

A borehole; the hole drilled by the bit. A wellbore may have casing in it or it
may be open (uncased); or part of it may be cased, and part of it may be open.
Also called a borehole or hole.

Wireline

A slender, rodlike or threadlike piece of metal usually small in diameter, that
is used for lowering special tools (such as logging sondes, perforating guns,
and so forth) into the well. Also called slick line.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.



ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

The Company owned or leased approximately 638 facilities worldwide as of December 31, 2006,
including the following principal manufacturing, service, distribution and administrative
facilities:

Building

Property

Lease

Size (Square

Size

Owned/

Termination

Location

Description

Feet)

(Acres)

Leased

Date

Rig Technology:

Lanzhou, China

Mfg. Plant (Drilling Equipment) &

1,370,957


Building

10/20/20

Administrative Offices

Owned

*

Houston, Texas

West Little York Manufacturing

619,000


Owned

Facility, Repair, Service,

Administrative & Sales Offices

Pampa, Texas

Mfg. Plant

548,000


Owned

Houston, Texas

Mfg. Plant (Drilling Machinery and Equip)

417,000

Leased

Various

Carquefou, France

Mfg. Plant (Offshore Equipment)

213,000

Owned

Houston, Texas

Mfg. Plant (Braking Systems)

200,000


Owned

Houston, Texas

Mfg. Plant (Electrical Power Systems)

184,000


Owned

Houston, Texas

Mfg. Plant (Drilling Rigs and Components)

178,000

Owned

Fort Worth, Texas

Coiled Tubing Manufacturing Facility,

167,999


Leased

01/31/14

Warehouse, Administrative & Sales

Offices

Kristiansand, Norway

Mfg. (Drilling  and Offshore Equipment)

157,000

Owned

Orange, California

Manufacturing & Office Facility - 759

126,000


Building

04/30/12

N. Eckhoff

Owned

*

Aberdeen, Scotland

Pressure Control Manufacturing,

107,974


Leased

08/31/19

Administrative & Sales

Anderson, Texas

Rolligon Mfg. Facility,

105,000


Leased

11/06/11

Administrative & Sales Offices

Conroe, Texas

Mfg., Administration & Sales

86,000

Leased

12/31/21

Molde, Norway

Mfg. (Marine Handling Equipment)

78,000

Owned

Mexicali, Mexico

Mfg. Plant

76,402

Leased

04/01/14

Calgary, Alberta, Canada

Mfg. (Coiled Tubing  and Wireline Units)

76,000

Owned

Etten-Leur,
Netherlands

Mfg. Plant/Sales (Drilling Equipment)

75,000


Owned

Duncan, Oklahoma

Nitrogen Units Manufacturing

67,600


Owned

Facility, Warehouse & Offices

Houston, Texas

Brittmore Shaffer Repair & Service

66,500


Leased

11/01/11

Facility

Aberdeen, Scotland

Systems & Shaffer Sales, Service &

63,000


Owned

Distribution Facility

Edmonton, Alberta,
Canada

Mfg. (Drilling Machinery and Equip.)

61,000

Owned

Nisku, Alberta,
Canada

Mfg. (Drilling Machinery and Equip.)

60,000

Owned

Calgary, Alberta,

Coiled Tubing Manufacturing Facility,

Canada

Administrative & Sales Offices

48,040


Owned

Stavanger, Norway

Drilling Equipment Work Shop,

41,333


Leased

06/01/09

Warehouse & Customer Service Center

Tulsa, Oklahoma

Pumping Manufacturing Facility,

40,700


Leased

12/31/07

Warehouse & Offices

Tuas, Singapore

Coiled Tubing & Wireline Products

35,300


Building

04/15/14

Manufacturing & Administrative Facility

Owned

*



Building

Property

Lease

Size (Square

Size

Owned/

Termination

Location

Description

Feet)

(Acres)

Leased

Date

Singapore

Systems Offices, Service & Distribution Facility

35,079


Building

07/01/40

Owned*

Orange, California

Administrative Offices—743 N. Eckhoff

35,000


Leased

04/30/12

Great Yarmouth,

England

Coiled Tubing & Nitrogen Units

Manufacturing, Administrative & Sales Offices

29,000


Leased

08/22/11

Petroleum Services
& Supplies:

Al Khobar, Saudi

Reclamation, Inspection Facility &

Arabia

Offices

340,203


Leased

11/30/10

Houston, Texas

Sheldon Road: Inspection Facility

335,993


Owned

Houston, Texas

Holmes Road Complex: Manufacturing,

300,000


Owned

Warehouse, Corporate Offices, Coating

Manufacturing Plant & Pipeline

Services

Little Rock, Arkansas

Fiberglass Tubular Manufacturing

Plant, R&D Lab, Administrative Offices

262,784


Leased

01/01/07

Cedar Park, Texas

Instrumentation Manufacturing

260,000


Owned

Facility, Administrative & Sales

Offices

Manchester, England

Mfg. (Pumps and expendable parts)

244,000

Owned

Yopal, Colombia

Inspection  and Solids Control Warehouse &

215,280


Owned

Storage

Sand Springs,
Oklahoma

Fiberglass Tubular Manufacturing Plant

189,173


Owned

Amelia, Louisiana

Coating Plant & Inspection Facility

179,574


Leased

12/31/16

Houston, Texas

QT Coiled Tubing Manufacturing

172,472


Owned

Facility, Warehouse and Offices

Houston, Texas

Coating  Plant & Inspection Facility

168,683


Owned

Tulsa, Oklahoma

Mfg. (Pumps and expendable parts)

165,000

Owned

Edmonton, Alberta,
Canada

Mfg. (Downhole Tools)

162,000

Owned

Conroe, Texas

Solids Control & Pressure Control

160,000


Owned

Manufacturing Facility, Warehouse,

Administrative & Sales Offices &

Engineering Labs

Wichita, Kansas

Fiberglass Tubular Manufacturing Plant

129,746


Owned

Nisku, Alberta,

Trucking, Rod Plant, Inspection & Storage

121,545


Owned

Canada

Facility

McAlester, Oklahoma

Mfg. (Pumps)

120,000

Owned

Nisku, Alberta,

Coating Plant, Inspection & Drill Pipe

114,000


Owned

Canada

Facility

Nisku, Alberta,
Canada

Mfg. Downhole Tools

105,000

Owned

Amelia, Louisiana

Coating Plant, Inspection & Storage

102,000


Building

05/31/11

Facilities

Owned*

Casper, Wyoming

Inspection Facility

91,720


Owned

Midland, Texas

Coating Plant

87,000


Owned

Houston, Texas

Mfg. (Downhole Tools)

86,175

Leased

12/31/18

Houston, Texas

Highway 90: Coating Plant

83,000


Leased

07/31/11

San Antonio, Texas

Fiberglass Tubular Manufacturing Plant,

82,700


Owned

R & D Lab, Administrative Offices

Big Spring, Texas

Fiberglass Tubular Manufacturing

78,600


Owned

Plant & Administrative Offices

Aberdeen, Scotland

Solids Control Manufacturing Facility

77,400


Owned

Assembly, Administrative & Sales

Houston, Texas

Engineering/Technical Research Center

76,000


Owned

Bogota, Colombia

Solids Control & Inspection Yard & Warehouse

69,966

Leased

08/01/07



Building

Property

Lease

Size (Square

Size

Owned/

Termination

Location

Description

Feet)

(Acres)

Leased

Date

Navasota, Texas

Coating Plant, Inspection Pipe Storage

65,000

Building

06/30/13

Owned*

Marble Falls, Texas

Mfg. (Expendable parts)

65,000

Owned

Stafford, Texas

Mfg. and Service of Downhole tools

65,000

Owned

Leduc, Alberta, Canada

MDT, Shaffer,  Chimo, Alberta Instruments, Varco Services & Warehouse Facility

64,056


Owned

Su Zhou, People’s
Republic of China

Fiberglass Tubular Manufacturing Plant

60,000


Owned

Lone Star, Texas

Inspection Facility

56,700


Owned

Neiva, Columbia

Inspection Yard & Warehouse

54,898


Leased

02/01/08

Aberdeen, Scotland

Inspection Facility, Coating Plant,

53,425


Owned

Manufacturing, Administrative & Sales

Coevorden, Netherlands

Inspection Reclamation & Repair Facility

53,361


Leased

12/04/09

Harvey, Louisiana

Coating Plant & Inspection Facility

53,000


Owned &

09/30/07

Leased

Houston, Texas

Mfg. (Pumps and expendable parts)

51,000

Leased

12/31/10

Tuas, Singapore

Coating Plant & Inspection Facility

50,644


Building

06/09/09

Owned*

Houston, Texas

Warehouse, Distribution and Administration

48,000

Leased

02/01/11

Odessa, Texas

Coating Plant & Inspection Facility

45,332


Owned

Little Rock, Arkansas

Fiberglass Tubular Manufacturing Plant

45,000

Leased

10/01/09

Berlaimont, France

Coating Plant

44,000


Owned

Celle, Germany

Inspection Facility, Administrative &

43,560


Building


Engineering Offices

Owned*

Casper, Wyoming

Inspection Facility

41,030


Owned

Edmond, Oklahoma

Coating Plant

40,000


Owned

Farmington, New
Mexico

Inspection Storage Facilities

37,725


Leased

03/31/14

Odessa, Texas

Inspection Facility

33,910


Owned

Edmonton, Alberta,

Sucker Rod Inspection & Oilwell Engine Reclamation

32,550


Leased

04/30/13

Canada

Distribution:

Houston, Texas

Distribution and Warehouse

124,000

Owned/ Leased

12/31/21

Corporate:

Houston, Texas

Administration Offices

196,000

Office Building

Leased

12/01/17

Houston, Texas

Corporate Administrative Office

115,000

Office  Building

Leased

10/31/15

Houston, Texas

Administrative Offices

48,000

Office Building

Leased

10/31/15

*

Building owned but real estate leased.

We own or lease 305 repair and manufacturing facilities that refurbish and manufacture new
equipment and parts, and approximately 182 distribution service centers, and 150 service centers
that provide inspection and equipment rental worldwide.

We own undeveloped acreage next to several of our facilities, including over 100 acres of
undeveloped property located in Houston, Texas. Machinery, equipment, buildings, and other
facilities owned and leased are considered by management to be adequately maintained and adequate
for our operations.



ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

We have various claims, lawsuits and administrative proceedings that are pending or threatened, all
arising in the ordinary course of business, with respect to commercial, product liability and
employee matters. Although no assurance can be given with respect to the outcome of these or any
other pending legal and administrative proceedings and the effect such outcomes may have, we
believe any ultimate liability resulting from the outcome of such claims, lawsuits or
administrative proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial
statements.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the quarter ended December 31, 2006.



PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF
EQUITY SECURITIES

Market Information

Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol “NOV”. The
following table sets forth, for the calendar periods indicated, the range of high and low closing
prices for the common stock, as reported by the NYSE:



High

Low

High

Low

1st Quarter

76.54

57.00

50.21

33.23

2nd Quarter

71.85

56.50

48.52

39.74

3rd Quarter

68.08

56.33

67.45

46.70

4th Quarter

68.12

52.08

66.52

55.18

As of February 9, 2007, there
were 1,399 holders of record (excluding individual participants in
securities positions listing) of our common stock. Many stockholders
choose to own shares through brokerage accounts and other intermediaries rather than as holders of
record so the actual number of stockholders is unknown but significantly higher. We have never paid
cash dividends, and none are anticipated during 2007.

The information relating to our equity compensation plans required by Item 5 is incorporated by
reference to such information as set forth in Item 12. “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters” contained herein.

PERFORMANCE GRAPH

The graph below compares the cumulative total shareholder return on our common stock to the S&P 500
Index and the S&P Oil & Gas Equipment & Services Index. The total shareholder return assumes $100
invested on December 31, 2001 in National Oilwell Varco, the S&P 500 Index and the S&P Oil & Gas
Equipment & Services Index. It also assumes reinvestment of all dividends. The peer group is
weighted based on the market capitalization of each company. The results shown in the graph below
are not necessarily indicative of future performance.

Cumulative Total Return

12/01

12/02

12/03

12/04

12/05

12/06

National Oilwell Varco

100.00

105.97

108.49

171.23

304.22

296.85

S&P 500

100.00

77.90

100.24

111.15

116.61

135.03

S&P Oil & Gas Equipment & Services

100.00

88.51

110.41

145.60

216.30

249.92

This
information shall not be deemed to be “soliciting material”
or to be “filed” with the Commission or subject to
Regulation 14A (17 CFR 240.14a-1 – 240.14a-104), other than as
provided in Item 201(e) of Regulation S-K, or to the liabilities
of section 18 of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78r).

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

Year Ended December 31,


2005 (1)



2002 (2)

(dollars in millions, except per share data)

Operating Data:

Revenue

$

7,025.8

$

4,644.5

$

2,318.1

$

2,004.9

$

1,521.9

Operating profit

1,111.1

476.8

176.0

164.1

127.7

Income before taxes

1,049.2

430.0

138.9

121.8

106.7

Net income

$

684.0

$

286.9

$

115.2

$

79.7

$

67.1

Net income per share

Basic

$

3.90

$

1.83

$

1.34

$

0.94

$

0.83

Diluted

$

3.87

$

1.81

$

1.33

$

0.94

$

0.82

Other Data:

Depreciation and amortization

$

160.6

$

114.6

$

44.0

$

39.2

$

25.0

Capital expenditures

$

200.4

$

105.0

$

39.0

$

32.4

$

24.8

Balance Sheet Data:

Working capital

$

2,300.4

$

1,811.0

$

711.0

$

763.0

$

734.8

Total assets

9,019.3

6,678.5

2,576.5

2,213.1

1,942.5

Long-term debt, less current maturities

834.7

835.6

350.0

594.0

594.6

Stockholders’ equity

5,023.5

4,194.2

1,270.2

1,059.2

899.3

(1)

Financial results of Varco International, Inc. (“Varco”) have been included in our consolidated
financial statements beginning March 11, 2005, the date the Varco merger was completed and Varco
common shares were exchanged for our common shares. Financial information for prior periods and
dates may not be comparable with 2005 due to the impact of this business combination on our
financial position and results of operation. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for a description of the Varco merger and related adjusted financial information.
Results for the year ended December 31, 2005 include integration costs associated with the Varco
merger of $31.7 million and stock-based compensation costs of $15.6 million related to the
amortization expense of options assumed in the Varco merger.

(2)

In December 2002, we acquired Hydralift ASA, a Norwegian based company, for an
aggregate purchase price of approximately $300 million. The results of Hydralift’s operations have
been included in our income statements since the acquisition date.



ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

General Overview

The Company is a leading worldwide provider of highly engineered drilling and well-servicing
equipment, products and services to the exploration and production segments of the oil and gas
industry. With operations in over 600 locations across six continents, we design, manufacture and
service a comprehensive line of drilling and well servicing equipment; sell and rent drilling
motors, specialized downhole tools, and rig instrumentation; perform inspection and internal
coating of oilfield tubular products; provide drill cuttings separation, management and disposal
systems and services; provide expendables and spare parts used in conjunction with our large
installed base of equipment; and provide supply chain management services through our distribution
network. We also manufacture coiled tubing, provide in-service pipeline inspections, manufacture
high pressure fiberglass and composite tubing, and sell and rent advanced in-line inspection
equipment to makers of oil country tubular goods. We have a long tradition of pioneering
innovations which improve the cost-effectiveness, efficiency, safety, and environmental impact of
oil and gas operations.

Our revenues and operating results are directly related to the level of worldwide oil and gas
drilling and production activities and the profitability and cash flow of oil and gas companies and
drilling contractors, which in turn are affected by current and anticipated prices of oil and gas.
Oil and gas prices have been and are likely to continue to be volatile. See “Risk Factors”. We
conduct our operations through three business segments: Rig Technology, Petroleum Services &
Supplies and Distribution Services. See Item 1. Business for a discussion of each of these
business segments.

Operating Environment Overview

Our results are dependent on, among other things, the level of worldwide oil and gas drilling, well
remediation activity, the price of crude oil and natural gas, capital spending by other oilfield
service companies and drilling contractors, pipeline maintenance activity, and the worldwide oil
and gas inventory levels. Key industry indicators for the past three years include the following:

%

%

2006 vs.

2006 vs.

2006*

2005*

2004*



Active Drilling Rigs:

U.S.

1,648

1,381

1,190

19.3

%

38.5

%

Canada




2.6

%

27.4

%

International




1.9

%

10.6

%

Worldwide

3,043

2,747

2,395

10.8

%

27.1

%

Active Workover Rigs:

U.S.

1,572

1,354

1,236

16.1

%

27.2

%

Canada




(4.3

%)

1.8

%

North America

2,198

2,008

1,851

9.5

%

18.7

%

West Texas Intermediate
Crude Prices (per barrel)

$

66.00

$

56.65

$

41.44

16.5

%

59.3

%

Natural Gas Prices ($/mmbtu)

$

6.74

$

8.83

$

5.88

(23.7

%)

14.6

%

*

Averages for the years indicated.

See sources below.

The following table details the U.S., Canadian, and international rig activity and West Texas
Intermediate Oil prices for the three years ended December 31, 2006 on a quarterly basis:



Source: Rig count: Baker Hughes, Inc. (

www.bakerhughes.com

); West Texas Intermediate Crude Price:
Department of Energy, Energy Information Administration (

www.eia.doe.gov

).

Natural gas prices weakened in 2006 in comparison to 2005, while oil prices rose during the first
three quarters and softened in the fourth quarter of 2006. The average price per barrel of West
Texas Intermediate Crude reached historic heights in 2006, peaking at just over $77 in August. The
2006 average price for the year was the highest ever-annual average oil price at $66.00 per barrel,
an increase of 16.5% over the average for 2005. Natural gas prices were $6.74 per mmbtu, a
decrease of 23.7% compared to the 2005 average. Higher oil prices led to stronger rig activity
worldwide, increasing 10.8% for the full year in 2006 compared to 2005.

At February 9, 2007, there were 1,731 rigs actively drilling in the U.S., compared to 1,710 rigs at
December 29, 2006. The company believes that most current industry projections are forecasting
commodity prices to remain strong, and, as a result, U.S., Canada, and international drilling rig
activity is expected to continue at a high level. However, numerous events could significantly
alter these projections including political tensions in the Middle East, the acceleration or
deceleration of the recovery of the U.S. and world economies, a build up in the world inventory
levels, or numerous other events or circumstances.

Executive Summary

For the full year 2006, the Company generated earnings of $684.0 million, or $3.87 per fully diluted
share, on revenues of $7,025.8 million. Earnings (EPS) increased 114% and revenues increased 51%
from 2005 reported results.

The Company underwent a major transformation on March 11, 2005, when National Oilwell and Varco
merged. As a result, the reported financial results for 2005 do not include the 70 days of Varco
operations prior to the merger. The Company has presented supplemental adjusted results in its
2005 Form 10-K/A filing to give effect to the merger as of January 1, 2005, to better
identify trends in our businesses and provide more meaningful comparison. Some of the historical
periods referenced in the discussion and analysis below pertain to the results on this adjusted
combined basis, which the Company tends to look at internally to evaluate results. Additionally,
the Company’s disclosures since the merger through the first quarter of 2006 have identified
transaction, integration and stock-based compensation charges, including items such as severance,
restructuring, equipment and inventory rationalization, amortization of options issued to replace
Varco options, and write-offs of discontinued product lines related to the merger. The results of
the historical periods discussed below may exclude these items, as noted, in order to better
identify trends in our business and provide more meaningful comparison as well. The Company also



tends to look at these internally to evaluate results. Compared to combined revenues for both
National Oilwell and Varco for the full year 2005 of $4,952.4 million, revenues increased 42% in
2006.

Oil & Gas Equipment and Services Market

Activity levels and demand for our products and services improved in most of our markets during
2006 as compared to 2005. Recovering economies of developed nations, and the desire for improved
standards of living among many in developing nations, have increased demand for oil and gas. As a
result, oil and gas prices have increased significantly compared to price levels only a few years
ago, which has led to rising levels of exploration and development drilling in many oil and gas
basins around the globe.

The world-wide count of rigs actively drilling during 2006 as measured by Baker Hughes increased
10.8% from 2005. The rig count is a good measure of the level of oilfield activity and spending.
The worldwide active rig count decreased 1.3% from the third quarter of 2006 to the fourth quarter
of 2006, due primarily to a 10.9% sequential decline in Canada. Gas prices in North America
declined 7.2% in the third quarter, which led to lower levels of drilling in Canada in the fourth
quarter. Despite fourth quarter improvements in gas prices, seasonally-adjusted levels of drilling
in Canada remain lower than in recent years, and the Company’s outlook for Canadian activity
remains guarded. The rig count in non-North American markets, which tend to be driven more by oil
prices, continued to increase in the fourth quarter, and the current conditions favor continued
growth in international markets in 2007. The U.S. rig count was essentially flat from the third quarter
of 2006 to the fourth quarter of 2006 (up 0.1%), with increased land drilling offsetting reduced
offshore drilling. The Company expects the U.S. market to show modest growth in 2007, but
continued gas price weakness could lead to a reduction in activity in the U.S.

The mix of reported 2006 segment revenue of goods and services
destined for U.S. markets was 37% for
Rig Technology, 49% for Petroleum Services & Supplies and 60% for Distribution Services. Canadian destinations represented
4% of Rig Technology revenue, 11% of Petroleum Services & Supplies revenue and 23% of Distribution
Services revenue in 2006. Non-North American destinations were 59% of Rig Technology revenue, 40%
of Petroleum Services & Supplies revenue and 17% of Distribution Services revenue in 2006.

Oil and gas companies have increased their levels of investment in new oil and gas wells over the
past few years, to reverse the trend of declining reserves and to grow production to satisfy the
rising energy needs of the world. This has led to a level of drilling activity not seen since the
early 1980’s, which has, in turn, resulted in steadily rising demand for oilfield services over the
last several quarters in most markets. Much of the new incremental drilling activity is occurring
in harsh environments, and employs increasingly sophisticated technology to find and produce
reserves.

The rise in demand for drilling rigs has driven rig dayrates sharply higher over the past few
years, which has increased cash flows and available financing to drilling contractors. Rising
dayrates have caused many older rigs to be placed back into service, and we believe virtually every
drilling rig that can be economically refurbished is now working. The Company has played an
important role in providing the equipment, consumables and services needed to reactivate many of
these older rigs.

Higher utilization of drilling rigs has tested the capability of the world’s fleet of rigs, much of
which is old and of limited capability. Technology has advanced significantly since most of the
existing rig fleet was built. The industry invested little during the late 1980’s and 1990’s on
new drilling equipment, but drilling technology progressed steadily nonetheless, as the Company and
its competitors continued to invest in new and better ways of drilling. As a consequence, the
safety, reliability, and efficiency of new, modern rigs surpass the performance of most of the
older rigs at work today. Oil and gas producers demand top performance from drilling rigs,
particularly at the premium dayrates that are being paid today. As a result of this trend, the
Company has benefited from incremental demand for new products (such as our small iron roughnecks
for land rigs, our LXT BOPs, our Safe-T-Lite pump liner systems, among others) to upgrade certain
rig functions to make them safer and more efficient.

Drilling rigs are now being pushed to drill deeper wells, more complex wells, highly deviated wells
and horizontal wells, tasks which require larger rigs with more capabilities. Higher dayrates
magnify the opportunity cost of rig downtime, and rigs are being pushed to maximize revenue days
for their drilling contractor owners. The drilling process effectively consumes the mechanical
components of a rig, which wear out and need periodic repair or replacement. This process has been
accelerated by the high levels of rig utilization seen over the past few years. In preceding years
contractors could cannibalize mechanical components from their idle rigs, rather than purchase new
components. As the fleet of idle rigs has dwindled, the availability of used components has
dwindled as well, which has spurred incremental demand for rig components from the Company.

Changing methods of drilling have further benefited the Company’s business. Increasingly,
hydraulic power – in addition to conventional mechanical rotary power – is being used to apply
torque to the drill bit. This is done using downhole drilling motors powered by drilling fluids.
The Company is a major provider of downhole drilling motors, and has seen demand for this
application of its drilling motors increase over the last few years. This trend has also increased
demand for the Company’s high pressure mud pumps, which create the hydraulic power in the drilling
fluid which drive the drilling motors.

While the increasingly efficient equipment provided by the Company has mitigated the effect, high
activity levels have increased demand for personnel in the oilfield. Consequently, the Company,
its customers and its suppliers have experienced wage inflation in certain markets. Hiring
experienced drilling crews has been challenging for the drilling industry; however, the Company
believes crews generally prefer working on newer, more modern rigs. The Company’s products which
save labor and



increase efficiency (such as its automatic slips and pipe handling equipment) also make the rig
crew’s jobs easier, and make the rig a more desirable place to work.

Finally, the increase in drilling rig dayrates has made the economics of building new rigs
compelling in many markets. For the first time in many years, the world is actively building land
rigs and offshore rigs. Approximately 73 new jackup rigs and 46 new floating rigs have been
commenced since early 2005. The world’s rig fleet is aging. The average floating rig is 22 years
old, the average jackup rig is 24 years old, and the average land rig is estimated to be between 25
and 30 years old. We believe that new rigs we supply are replacing older models that are too
antiquated to attract experienced drilling crews or compete effectively. In spite of the many new
jackup rigs scheduled for delivery over the next three years, could possibly take the industry more than
20 years to fully replace the fleet of jackup rigs at the rate that new jackup rigs are presently being built, and the average age of the fleet will to
continue to increase. The growth in our backlog of capital equipment since early 2005 illustrates
the pressing needs of the drilling industry, which invested very little capital in new drilling
equipment for more than 20 years.

Segment Performance

Revenues for the Rig Technology group in 2006 were $3,584.9 million, up 53% from combined National
Oilwell and Varco revenues of $2,335.7 million in 2005. Operating profit was $621.4 million or
17.3% of sales in 2006, compared to $264.1 million or 11.3% of sales in 2005 for National Oilwell
and Varco combined, excluding transaction and integration charges from both periods. Operating
profit flow-through or leverage (the period-to-period increase in operating profit divided by the
increase in revenue) was 29% from 2005 to 2006, on the same adjusted basis. The 2006 results
benefited from higher volumes, improving pricing, and merger-related cost savings partly offset by
higher employee benefit costs and higher costs associated with purchased components.

The Company’s Rig Technology group reported a backlog of capital equipment orders totaling $6,005.7
million at December 31, 2006, up 161% from December 31, 2005. The group was awarded $6,021.6
million in new capital equipment orders in 2006, more than double its 2005 order level. The group
was awarded $1,263.7 million in new capital equipment orders in the fourth quarter, down from
record order levels in the third quarter, and added $132.1 million in orders to its backlog from
its fourth quarter acquisition of Rolligon. The Company has the capability to supply up to
approximately $48 million of equipment for a typical jackup rig, more than $230 million of
equipment for a new floating rig, and effectively all of a new land rig (which can range in price
from less than $1 million for a well service rig to over $50 million for a large harsh environment
rig).

Our strategy targets the premium end of the market, emphasizing technology, quality and
reliability. Most of the incremental growth in the backlog has been for offshore drilling
packages, but demand for land equipment rose significantly during the year as well. Backlog for
drilling equipment at December 31, 2006 was approximately 70% offshore and land rig equipment was
30%. The delivery of this equipment is typically tied to the construction schedule of the rig,
which can take as long as four years to complete. As a result much of our backlog delivery extends
well beyond 2007, and the Company has commissioning and installation work out as far as 2010. The
Company expects to generate revenue out of backlog of approximately $3.2 billion in 2007, $1.8
billion in 2008, and $1.0 billion in 2009 and beyond. Currently approximately 75% of the drilling
equipment in backlog is destined for international markets.

The increase in our backlog has made our execution commitments more challenging, and our quoted
delivery dates have extended significantly as a result. Many of the components the Company sells
now have deliveries out to 12 months or more. The Company’s manufacturing base relies on a
combination of internal and external capabilities. We intend to continue to quote realistic
delivery dates in view of these challenges, and have significantly increased the output of our
manufacturing plants in response to the high demand. This has been accomplished by rearranging the
manufacturing footprint of Varco and National Oilwell to enhance efficiency through the first 12
months following the merger, which resulted in significant year-over-year margin improvements in
our Rig Technology segment. We have also rolled out Quick Response Manufacturing (QRM) and lean
manufacturing techniques across a number of facilities, and have initiated conversions of several
more. Additionally, we are spending more capital, to fuel further production increases. The
Company is also providing its vendors with longer range forecasts to assist their planning, and
placing longer term orders to match our backlog. We are also qualifying new vendors around the
world, developing new supply relationships with machine shops, foundries and assembly operations
throughout North America, Europe and Asia.

High oil and gas activity levels also increased demand for the Company’s Petroleum Services &
Supplies group in 2006. The group posted very good results, generating $2,425.0 million in
revenue, an increase of 32% from 2005 combined National Oilwell and Varco revenues of $1,838.7
million. The group’s operating profit for the year was $556.4 million or 22.9% of sales, an
increase from combined National Oilwell and Varco 2005 operating profit of $328.6 million or 17.9%
of sales, excluding transaction and integration charges from both years. The group generated 39%
operating profit flow-through from 2005 to 2006, on the same adjusted basis, despite generally
rising personnel and materials costs.



Margins for the Petroleum Services & Supplies group improved in 2006 as a result of the higher
volumes and better pricing. The strong results were broad-based, with all major product and
service lines up year-over-year, at higher margins. Domestic and international revenues continued
to grow throughout the year; however, results in Canada through the second half of 2006 began to
soften (seasonally adjusted) as many of our customers in Canada are adopting a cautious outlook and
reducing activity in response to recent weakness in gas prices. This effect was partially offset
by the acquisition of a controlling stake in NQL in Canada in December 2006. The remaining shares
of NQL were acquired in January 2007, and the Company is presently integrating the operations into
its downhole tools product line to capture an estimated $8.0 million in annual cost savings. NQL
brings the group new square motor technology for performance drilling applications, a
mud-lubricated bearing assembly for high temperature deep drilling, and new MWD technology. During
2006 the group benefited from high demand for new drillpipe coating services, large shipments of
pipe inspection equipment into international pipe mills, and higher sales of drilling motors,
fishing tools, coiled tubing, rig instrumentation packages, and solids control equipment sales and
rentals. Additionally, higher oilfield activity led to high demand for drilling expendables and
multiplex pumps, and large shipments of fiberglass pipe into major development projects in
Kazakhstan, Chad, and elsewhere around the world.

The group has consistently posted revenue gains exceeding the growth in the rig count for the past
several quarters, which illustrates the value of the technologies it brings to drilling and
production operations. Its new technologies continue to gain acceptance with new customers. For
example, the group is a major source of coiled tubing, which is used in hydraulic fracturing
stimulation, and coal bed methane well dewatering. The group is a leading provider of fiberglass
pipe, used in corrosive oilfield environments, and a leading provider of thermal desorption
technologies used to clean drill cutting waste and recycle oil-based drilling fluids. The group is
the leading independent provider of drilling motors for horizontal, directional, and performance
drilling applications, and it provides satellite communication systems, including email accounts
for drillers and tool pushers, and autodrillers to improve drilling penetration rates, to several
hundred rigs around the globe. The group’s Mission product line manufactures sophisticated power
sections for drilling motors, and supplies high quality liners, pistons and rods for mud pumps.
The group is a leading provider of inspection and internal coating services for oilfield tubulars
and drillpipe. In each of these products and services the group’s strategy is to become the
preeminent leader, dedicated to providing the best service, the best products, and the best
technologies to keep our customer’s operations running smoothly.

The Company’s Distribution Services segment also benefited from higher demand for maintenance,
repair and operating supplies in 2006, due to increasing levels of oilfield activity. Revenues for
the group were $1,369.6 million in 2006, an increase of 27% from 2005 revenues of $1,074.5 million.
Operating profit was $96.1 million or 7.0% of sales in 2006, compared to $46.6 million or 4.3% of
sales in 2005. Operating profit flow-through was 17% from 2005 to 2006, higher than the 10% levels
seen in prior years due mainly to higher volumes and efficiencies.

Revenue growth year-over-year was broad based, with the U.S. domestic market posting the highest
growth rate, followed by international markets outside North America. All areas posted
double digit improvements, as many oil companies and drilling contractors are outsourcing their
purchasing of routine consumable items to the group, which offers greater purchasing power and
sophisticated information management techniques. Strategic alliance agreements with new customers
in several areas fueled much of the growth, and margin improvements were achieved by aggregating
bulk buying and close attention to costs. Purchases of large containers of consumables from Asia,
and cultivation of strategic vendors worldwide, have reduced costs on many items. Once in place
the strategic alliances provide the group a stable platform of business around which it can open
new locations at lower risk and cost. The group has expanded around the world by following our
customer’s rigs into new regions, and grown its North American business by capturing much more of
the customer’s expenditures. The group is also selling more MRO supplies internally to legacy
Varco organizations, which increased our leverage through greater purchase volumes.

Outlook

We believe that the outlook for the Company for 2007 remains positive, as historically high
commodity prices are expected to keep overall oil and gas activity high, and as the Company enters
2007 with a record level of backlog for capital equipment for its Rig Technology group.
Historically high levels of drilling across the U.S. and several major markets, including the
Middle East, North Africa, the Far East and the North Sea, are expected to continue to drive good
results. Nevertheless, we recognize that the warm winter of 2005 across North America has led to
seasonally high gas storage levels, which have reduced spot gas prices lately. This is leading to
softening in Canadian activity in particular, and some uncertainty in the outlook for continued U.S
drilling, which is primarily directed at gas. However, we believe that a decline in North American
gas drilling, were it to occur, would be short lived, owing to the high decline rates that many gas
wells experience. Gas production from resource plays- coal bed methane, tight sands and
shales- has increased to about 40% of total U.S gas production, and is believed to exhibit higher decline
rates than conventional reservoirs. We believe in the longer term North America faces significant
gas deliverability issues. North America has been unable to meaningfully increase gas production
despite significantly higher levels of gas drilling over the past several years, due ostensibly to more rapidly declining rates of productions.



Oil prices and supply remains subject to significant political risk in many international regions.
The growth of China and other emerging economies has added significant demand to the oil markets,
and new sources of supply continue to prove challenging to find and produce economically. Many
important oil producing countries appear to be in permanent decline. The Company expects the high
oil prices that have resulted to sustain high levels of oilfield activity in 2007, provided the
world’s major economies remain strong, and OPEC discipline keeps oil prices high.

The available supply of offshore rigs remains tight in many markets around the world. Quotation
activity for the Rig Technology group remains brisk in international markets, including platform
rig upgrade activity in the North Sea, and land and offshore rigs for the Middle East, North
Africa, India, China, Russia and the Caspian region. North America appears to be easing a bit,
particularly in Canada. Our moorings and crane business is increasing as several new FPSO, pipelay
and construction vessel projects are ongoing, driving higher demand for knuckle boom cranes, motion
compensated cranes, windlasses and winches. Several new shipyards are bidding new hulls to various
drilling contractors. The Company believes that higher pricing in the backlog should lift margins
further for the group in 2007, provided that it can continue to manage costs and projects
effectively.

Our outlook for the Company’s Petroleum Services & Supplies segment remains good, given our
activity assumptions, but we remain cautious about the outlook for drilling activity across North
America, due mainly to recent gas price weakness. While we are finding general pricing
improvements more difficult to effect lately, several product lines continue to raise prices, in
part to cover rising costs, particularly premium alloys and labor. In particular, Canada appears
to be the most competitive market we face, following high levels of inflation in the oilfield over
the past two years, which has made cost control there very challenging. In the U.S. demand appears
to be high and stable. We have seen older rigs laid down in the U.S., but many have been replaced
by the new, efficient, fit-for-purpose rigs our Rig Technology group supplies. As a result the
U.S. rig count has remained roughly flat since August. We believe that some of these older,
recently idled rigs may be pressuring rig dayrates in the U.S. Pipe inventory in domestic U.S.
yards has been moving downward following a reduction in activity by domestic mills and pipe
processors in the fourth quarter, and activity by these customers has not yet resumed to mid-2006
levels. We believe international business for the Petroleum Services & Supplies group appears to
continue to strengthen, and our pricing in these markets continues to move upward. We expect to
shift certain underutilized assets from North America into these higher growth areas in the coming
months.

The Company’s Distribution Services segment operates in a very competitive market, which makes
further margin expansion beyond the record margin posted for 2006 very challenging. We are
targeting further international expansion underpinned by new strategic alliances in 2007, and
believe that these will fuel additional growth, provided we can continue to execute these smoothly.
First quarter 2007 growth will prove challenging due to weather issues across the U.S., continuing
activity softness in Canada, and the non-recurrence of some international project work booked in
late 2006. The group instituted a number of cost reduction measures in Canada in response to the
slowing market conditions there.

The Company expects its capital spending in 2007 to rise to approximately $250 million, owing to
recent increases in investment in its Rig Technology group. Additionally, the Company continues to
invest in rental equipment and manufacturing capability in its Petroleum Services & Supplies
segment.



Results of Operations

Years Ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005

The following table summarizes the Company’s revenue and operating profit by operating segment in
2006 and 2005. The actual results include results from Varco operations from the acquisition date
of March 11, 2005 (in millions):

Years Ended December 31,

Variance



$

%

Revenue:

Rig Technology

$

3,584.9

$

2,216.8

$

1,368.1

61.7

%

Petroleum Services & Supplies

2,425.0

1,645.8

779.2

47.3

%

Distribution Services

1,369.6

1,074.5

295.1

27.5

%

Eliminations

(353.7

)

(292.6

)

(61.1

)

20.9

%

Total Revenue

$

7,025.8

$

4,644.5

$

2,381.3

51.3

%

Operating Profit:

Rig Technology

$

621.4

$

247.7

$

373.7

150.9

%

Petroleum Services & Supplies

556.4

300.1

256.3

85.4

%

Distribution Services

96.1

46.6

49.5

106.2

%

Unallocated expenses and eliminations

(123.7

)

(70.3

)

(53.4

)

76.0

%

Integration costs and stock-based
compensation

(39.1

)

(47.3

)

8.2

(17.3

%)

Total Operating Profit

$

1,111.1

$

476.8

$

634.3

133.0

%

Operating Profit %:

Rig Technology

17.3

%

11.2

%

Petroleum Services & Supplies

22.9

%

18.2

%

Distribution Services

7.0

%

4.3

%

Total Operating Profit %

15.8

%

10.3

%

Rig Technology

Rig Technology revenue for the year ended December 31, 2006 was $3,584.9 million, an increase of
$1,368.1 million (61.7%) compared to 2005. The increase can be attributed to the growing market
for capital equipment, as evidenced by backlog growth, price increases implemented in 2005 and
2006, increases in spare parts and service revenue, and the merger with Varco, which was completed
effective March 11, 2005. The increase in orders and backlog can be attributed to increased rig
construction projects and higher capital investment by drilling contractors in 2006 as compared to
2005.

Operating profit from Rig Technology was $621.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, an
increase of $373.7 million (150.9%) over the same period of 2005. The increase in operating profit
was largely due to the increased activity and pricing discussed above and the 2005 merger with
Varco. Additionally, 2005 operating profit included a second quarter charge of $21.7 million taken
on a large Kazakhstan rig fabrication project as a result of additional costs attributed to higher
rig-up and material costs than originally planned.

The Rig Technology group monitors its capital
equipment backlog to plan its business. New orders
are added to backlog only when we receive a firm written order for major drilling rig
components or a signed contract related to a construction project. The capital equipment backlog
was $6.0 billion at December 31, 2006, an increase of $3.7 billion (161.2%) over
backlog of $2.3 billion at
December 31, 2005. Substantially all of the current backlog will be delivered by the end of 2009.

Petroleum Services & Supplies

Revenue from Petroleum Services & Supplies was $2,425.0 million for 2006 compared to $1,645.8
million for 2005, an increase of $779.2 million (47.3%). In part, the increase was attributable to
the addition of product lines acquired from Varco, which totaled approximately $192.9 million. The
remaining increase was attributable to the higher demand for all products and services offered by
the segment. Solids control equipment sales and rentals, rig instrumentation packages, drillpipe
coating services,



fiberglass pipe, and pumping products achieved revenue increases ranging from 35% to 50%. These
increases were the result of strong North America and worldwide drilling markets, as reflected by
rig count increases of 15% and 11%, respectively, for 2006 compared to 2005. Petroleum Services &
Supplies also benefited from price increases implemented during 2005.

Operating profit from Petroleum Services & Supplies was $556.4 million for 2006 compared to $300.1
million for 2005, an increase of $256.3 million (85.4%). The incremental operating profit from the
addition of product lines acquired from Varco was approximately $28.4 million. The majority of the
remaining increase was attributable to higher profitability across virtually all product lines,
driven by higher volumes and improved pricing discussed above. Operating profit dollar increases
ranging from 73% to 103% were achieved from downhole tool sales and rentals, sales of pumping
products, inspection services, and solids control equipment sales and rentals.

Distribution Services

Revenue from Distribution Services totaled $1,369.6 million, an increase of $295.1 million (27%)
from the prior period. The number of drilling rigs actively searching for oil and gas is a key
metric for this business segment. According to the Baker Hughes rig count report, the average
number of rigs operating in the world in 2006 was up 11% over the prior period. The average rig
count in North America in 2006 was up 15% over the prior period to 2,118 rigs with our North
American revenues up $196.9 million (27%). In the International market, revenues increased 26%
while international rig count activity increased by 2%. The international revenue growth over the
prior period reflects additional large contract awards, the extension of US-based contracts into
the international arena, increased volume from our global alliance customers and increased export
activity.

From a product perspective, maintenance, repair and operating supply (“MRO”) commodities in 2006
experienced a 33% increase over 2005. Sales of our manufactured products increased nearly 40%
largely in the second half of the year. Margins were up considerably for MRO goods, driven by
strategic bulk purchases and positioning of key commodities. OEM product margins were largely flat
due to a large portion of these revenues locked in at fixed margins on committed contracts.

Operating income increased $49.5 million in 2006 to $96.1 million or 7.0% of revenue. Improved
supplier rebates coupled with increased operating efficiencies largely achieved by absorbing the
revenue increase across an already established distribution infrastructure and expense base were
the main contributors to operating income improvement.

Unallocated expenses and eliminations

Unallocated expenses and eliminations were $123.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2006
compared to $70.3 million for 2005. The increase in operations costs was primarily due to greater
inter-segment profit eliminations.

Integration costs and stock-based compensation

Integration and stock-based compensation costs were $39.1 million and $47.3 million for the years
ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively. The 2006 expense was comprised of
$7.9 million of integration costs and $31.2 million of recurring stock-based compensation expense
accounted for under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards Board (SFAS) No. 123(R),
“Accounting for Share-Based Payments”, which was adopted effective January 1, 2006. The 2005
expense was comprised of $31.7 million of Varco merger related integration costs which included
severance costs and other external costs directly related to the Merger, and $15.6 million of
stock-based compensation expense related to the intrinsic value of the unvested Varco options
exchanged in the Merger which were expensed over their remaining vesting periods.

Interest and financial costs

Interest and financial costs were $48.7 million for 2006 compared to $52.9 million for 2005. The
decrease was primarily due to favorable interest rate movements on the Company’s outstanding
interest rate swap agreements and repayment of the Company’s $150 million 6.875% Senior Notes on
July 1, 2005. See summary of outstanding debt at December 31, 2006 under Liquidity and Capital
Resources.

Other income (expense), net

Other income (expense), net was an expense of $31.3 million and income of $1.2 million for the
years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively. The increase in expense was
primarily due to a net foreign exchange loss which was $21.0 million for the year ended December
31, 2006, as compared to a net foreign exchange gain of $2.9 million for the year ended December
31, 2005. The 2006 foreign exchange losses were primarily due to the strengthening in Norwegian
Kroner, British Pound Sterling, and Euro currencies compared to the U.S. Dollar. See Item 7A.
“Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” Foreign Currency Exchange Rates.

Provision for income taxes

The effective tax rate for the fiscal year-ended December 31, 2006 was 33.9% compared to 32.3% for
2005. The higher 2006 tax rate was due primarily to increased state income tax expenses and
charges for increases in valuation allowances related to separate company operating losses that may
not be deductible in the future. The tax rates also reflect a lower percentage of



earnings in foreign jurisdictions with lower tax rates and reduced benefits in the US associated
with export sales in 2006 compared to 2005. The US laws granting this tax benefit were modified as
part of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 and this benefit will no longer be available after
2006. A new tax benefit associated with US manufacturing operations passed into law under the same
Act will be phased in over a five year period beginning in 2005. Whereas the timing of the phase
out of the export tax benefit and the phase in of the manufacturing tax benefit may differ, we
expect the tax reduction associated with the new manufacturing deduction, when fully implemented,
to be similar in amount to the export benefit. We anticipate our tax rate for 2007 to be in the
range of approximately 33% to 34% for continuing operations.

Years Ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004

The following table summarizes the Company’s revenue and operating profit by operating segment in
2005 and 2004 (in millions):

Years Ended December 31,

Variance



$

%

Revenue:

Rig Technology

$

2,216.8

$

1,085.5

$

1,131.3

104.2

%

Petroleum Services & Supplies

1,645.8

505.5

1,140.3

225.6

%

Distribution Services

1,074.5

905.1

169.4

18.7

%

Eliminations

(292.6

)

(178.0

)

(114.6

)

64.4

%

Total Revenue

$

4,644.5

$

2,318.1

$

2,326.4

100.4

%

Operating Profit:

Rig Technology

$

247.7

$

102.4

$

145.3

141.9

%

Petroleum Services & Supplies

300.1

62.7

237.4

378.6

%

Distribution Services

46.6

29.6

17.0

57.4

%

Unallocated expenses and eliminations

(70.3

)

(18.7

)

(51.6

)

275.9

%

Integration costs and stock-based
compensation

(47.3

)

—

(47.3

)

—

Total Operating Profit

$

476.8

$

176.0

$

300.8

170.9

%

Operating Profit %:

Rig Technology

11.2

%

9.4

%

Petroleum Services & Supplies

18.2

%

12.4

%

Distribution Services

4.3

%

3.3

%

Total Operating Profit %

10.3

%

7.6

%

Operations

Revenues in 2005 were $2,326.4 million (100.4%) higher than the previous year, while operating
profit was up 170.9%. The majority of the increase is attributable to the Varco acquisition which
resulted in approximately $767.3 million of additional revenue in the Rig Technology group and
$984.8 million for the additional product lines acquired from Varco in the Petroleum Services and
Supplies group. The remainder of the increase can be attributed to the high oil and gas activity
levels in 2005. Yearly average oil and gas prices in 2005 were $56.65 and $8.83, respectively, an
increase of 37% and 50%, respectively, over 2004. These higher oil and gas prices have led to
rising levels of exploration and development drilling in many oil and gas producing basins around
the globe, causing a growth in the market for capital equipment, as evidenced by backlog growth as
well as increases in spare parts and service revenue. The world-wide rig count, a good indicator
of oilfield activity and spending, increased 15% in 2005 to a yearly average of 2,747 rigs, up for
the third consecutive year. This has increased demand for Petroleum Services & Supplies. Sales of
composite fiberglass pipe, solids control products and services, drilling motors and jars, mud pump
expendables, coiled tubing pipe, rig instrumentation equipment and services, and tubular coating
and inspection have all benefited from the higher levels of exploration and production investment
in drilling and stimulating wells. Operating profit margins have also improved from 7.6% to 10.3%
due to achieving merger synergies, higher profitability from downhole tool sales and rentals, and
sales of pumping products, and increased operating efficiencies in the Distribution Services group
achieved by absorbing the revenue increase across an already established distribution
infrastructure.



One of our metrics used to plan the business is the capital equipment backlog. New orders are added
to backlog only when we receive a firm customer purchase order for major drilling rig components or
a signed contract related to a construction project. The capital equipment backlog was $2.3 billion
at December 31, 2005, an increase of $1.5 billion (191.6%) over backlog of $783 million (on an
adjusted basis for the Varco acquisition) at December 31, 2004. Substantially all of the current
backlog will be delivered by the end of 2007.

Unallocated Expenses and Eliminations

Unallocated expenses and eliminations were $70.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2005
compared to $18.7 million for 2004. The increase in operations costs was primarily due to costs
associated with Varco operations since the acquisition date and greater inter-segment profit
eliminations.

Stock-based compensation

Stock-based compensation expense of $15.6 million for 2005 was related to the amortization of
unvested options assumed as a result of the merger.

On February 21, 2006, the Company issued 2,340,000 stock options at an exercise price of $66.58.

Integration costs

Integration costs were $31.7 million for 2005 and consisted primarily of severance costs related to
former executive officers and employees of the Company.

Interest and financial costs

Interest and financial costs were $52.9 million for 2005 compared to $38.4 million for 2004. The
increase was primarily due to interest costs associated with debt assumed in the Varco transaction.
See summary of outstanding debt at December 31, 2005 under Liquidity and Capital Resources.

Provision for income taxes

The effective tax rate for the fiscal year-ended December 31, 2005 was 32.3% compared to 15.6% for
2004. The lower 2004 tax rate was due primarily to a non-recurring tax credit of $17 million
resulting from the release of a valuation allowance related to the American Jobs Creation Act of
2004. The tax rates reflect a lower percentage of earnings in foreign jurisdictions with lower tax
rates and reduced benefits in the US associated with export sales in 2005 compared to 2004. The US
laws granting this tax benefit were modified as part of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 and
this benefit will be phased out over the next year. A new tax benefit associated with US
manufacturing operations passed into law under the same Act will be phased in over the five years
beginning in 2005. Whereas the timing of the phase out of the export tax benefit and the phase in
of the manufacturing tax benefit may differ, we expect the tax reduction associated with the new
manufacturing deduction, when fully implemented, to be similar in amount to the export benefit.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

At December 31, 2006, the Company had cash and cash equivalents of $957.4 million, and total debt
of $840.3 million. At December 31, 2005, cash and cash equivalents were $209.4 million and total
debt was $841.3 million. The increase in cash holdings was primarily a result of increased
operating activities and securing project orders that require large down payments and early payment
terms. The Company’s outstanding debt at December 31, 2006 consisted of $200.0 million of 5.65%
senior notes due 2012, $200.0 million of 7.25% senior notes due 2011, $150.0 million of 6.5% senior
notes due 2011, $150.0 million of 5.5% senior notes due 2012, $100.0 million of 7.5% senior notes
due 2008, and other debt of $40.3 million. Included in other debt is the fair market value
adjustment of the Varco debt assumed in the acquisition, which resulted in additional debt
recognition of $29.2 million. The difference is being amortized to interest expense over the
remaining life of the debt.

Cash provided by operating activities in 2006 was $1,216.7 million compared to cash provided by
operating activities of $77.5 million in 2005. Cash was used by operations primarily through
increases in inventories of $619.9 million, receivables of $442.1 million, prepaid and other
current assets of $101.7 million and accounts payable of $93.5 million. These negative cash flows
were offset by net income of $684.0 million and increases in other assets and liabilities of
$1,085.0 million, billings in excess of costs of $466.4 million and non-cash charges of $160.6
million. Receivables increased due to greater revenue, pricing and activity in the fourth quarter of 2006
compared to the fourth quarter of 2005, while inventory and accrued liabilities
increased due to continued higher costs, activity, growing backlog
orders, and customer prepayments. Billings in excess of costs increased due to early payment terms in relation to
construction projects.

For the fiscal year-ended 2006, cash used by investing activities was $530.1 million compared to
$38.0 million provided for 2005. We used $253.8 million to purchase NQL Energy Services in
December 2006. Another $75.9 million was used in nine other acquisitions, including Rolligon, Ltd
and Soil Recovery A/S. Capital spending of $200.4 million was primarily related to rental



assets associated with the Company’s Petroleum Services & Supplies operations and capital expansion
related to increased capacity for manufacturing operations.

For the fiscal year-ended 2006, cash provided by financing activities was $41.1 million compared to
cash used of $40.4 million in 2005. Cash was provided by financing activities through proceeds
from stock options exercised of $32.7 million and excess tax benefit from exercise of stock options
of $13.5 million, offset by payments against lines of credit and other debt of $35.1 million.

On June 21, 2005, we amended and restated our existing $150 million revolving credit facility with
a syndicate of lenders to provide the Company a $500 million unsecured revolving credit facility.
The facility will expire in July 2010, and replaces the Company’s $175 million North American
revolving credit facility and our Norwegian facility. Subject to certain conditions, the Company
has the right to increase the facility to $750 million and to extend the term of the facility for
an additional year. At December 31, 2006, there were no borrowings against this facility, and
there were $254 million in outstanding letters of credit. Interest under this multicurrency
facility is based upon LIBOR, NIBOR or EURIBOR plus 0.30% subject to a ratings-based grid, or the
prime rate.

We believe cash generated from operations and amounts available under the credit facilities and
from other sources of debt will be sufficient to fund operations, working capital needs, capital
expenditure requirements and financing obligations. We also believe increases in capital
expenditures caused by any need to increase manufacturing capacity can be funded from operations or
through debt financing.

A summary of the Company’s outstanding contractual obligations at December 31, 2006 is as follows
(in millions):

Payment Due by Period

Less than 1

After 5

Total

Year

1-3 Years

4-5 Years

Years

Total debt

$

840.3

$

5.6

$

126.0

$

357.8

$

350.9

Operating leases

231.8

57.1

77.1

39.3

58.3

Total contractual obligations

$

1,072.1

$

62.7

$

203.1

$

397.1

$

409.2

Standby letters of credit

$

833.6

$

405.9

$

259.9

$

167.6

$

0.2

We intend to pursue additional acquisition candidates, but the timing, size or success of any
acquisition effort and the related potential capital commitments cannot be predicted. The Company
expects to increase its capital spending approximately 25% in 2007 to a range of $250 million. We
expect to fund future cash acquisitions and capital spending primarily with cash flow from
operations and borrowings, including the unborrowed portion of the credit facility or new debt
issuances, but may also issue additional equity either directly or in connection with acquisitions.
There can be no assurance that additional financing for acquisitions will be available at terms
acceptable to us.

Inflation has had an impact on certain of our operations in recent years. We believe that the
higher costs for energy, steel and other commodities experienced in 2006 have largely been
mitigated by increased prices and component surcharges for the products we sell. However, higher
steel, labor, energy or other commodity prices may adversely impact future periods.

Critical Accounting Estimates

In preparing the financial statements, we make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the
amounts reported. We periodically evaluate our estimates and judgments that are most critical in
nature which are related to revenue recognition under long-term construction contracts; allowance
for doubtful accounts; inventory reserves; impairments of long-lived assets (excluding goodwill);
goodwill impairment and income taxes. Our estimates are based on historical experience and on our
future expectations that we believe are reasonable. The combination of these factors forms the
basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily
apparent from other sources. Actual results are likely to differ from our current estimates and
those differences may be material.

Revenue Recognition under Long-term Construction Contracts

The Company uses the percentage-of-completion method to account for certain long-term construction
contracts in the Rig Technology group. These long-term construction contracts include the
following characteristics:

•

the contracts include custom designs for customer specific applications;

•

the structural design is unique and requires significant engineering efforts; and



•

construction projects often have progress payments.

This method requires the Company to make estimates regarding the total costs of the project,
progress against the project schedule and the estimated completion date, all of which impact the
amount of revenue and gross margin the Company recognizes in each reporting period. The Company
prepares detailed cost to complete estimates at the beginning of each project. Significant
projects and their related costs and profit margins are updated and reviewed at least quarterly by
senior management. Factors that may affect future project costs and margins include shipyard
access, weather, production efficiencies, availability and costs of labor, materials and
subcomponents and other factors as mentioned in “Risk Factors.” These factors can impact the
accuracy of the Company’s estimates and materially impact the Company’s future reported earnings.

Historically, the Company’s estimates have been reasonably dependable regarding the recognition of
revenues and gross profits on percentage of completion contracts, excluding $21.7 million of losses
recorded in 2005 resulting from changes in cost estimates relating to two rigs delivered to
Kazakhstan as discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations.” Excluding these losses, and based upon an analysis of percentage of completion
contracts for all open contracts outstanding at December 31, 2005 and 2004, adjustments
(representing the differences between the estimated and actual results) to all outstanding
contracts resulted in changes to gross profit margins of 1.1% ($12.1 million on $1.1 billion of
outstanding contracts) and 0.9% ($7.3 million on $697.3 million of outstanding contracts,
respectively). While the Company believes that its estimates on outstanding contracts at December
31, 2006 and in future periods will continue to be reasonably dependable under percentage of
completion accounting, the factors identified in the preceding paragraph could result in
significant adjustments in future periods. The Company has recorded revenue on outstanding
contracts of $1.6 billion at December 31, 2006.

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

The determination of the collectibility of amounts due from customer accounts requires the Company
to make judgments regarding future events and trends. Allowances for doubtful accounts are
determined based on a continuous process of assessing the Company’s portfolio on an individual
customer and overall basis. This process consists of a thorough review of historical collection
experience, current aging status of the customer accounts, and financial condition of the Company’s
customers. Based on a review of these factors, the Company will establish or adjust allowances for
specific customers and the accounts receivable portfolio as a whole. A substantial portion of the
Company’s revenues come from international oil companies, international shipyards, international
oilfield service companies, and government-owned or government-controlled oil companies. Therefore,
the Company has significant receivables in many foreign jurisdictions. If worldwide oil and gas
drilling activity or changes in economic conditions in foreign jurisdictions deteriorate, the
creditworthiness of the Company’s customers could also deteriorate and they may be unable to pay
these receivables, and additional allowances could be required. At December 31, 2006 and 2005,
allowance for bad debts totaled $30.4 million and $17.4 million, or 1.9% and 1.5% of accounts
receivable before the allowance, respectively.

Historically, the Company’s charge-offs and provisions for the allowance for doubtful accounts have
been immaterial to the Company’s consolidated financial statements. However, because of the risk
factors mentioned above, changes in our estimates could become material in future periods.

Inventory Reserves

Inventory is carried at the lower of cost or estimated net realizable value. The Company
determines reserves for inventory based on historical usage of inventory on-hand, assumptions about
future demand and market conditions, and estimates about potential alternative uses, which are
usually limited. The Company’s inventory consists of specialized spare parts, work in process, and
raw materials to support ongoing manufacturing operations and the Company’s large installed base of
specialized equipment used throughout the oilfield. Customers rely on the Company to stock these
specialized items to ensure that their equipment can be repaired and serviced in a timely manner.
The Company’s estimated carrying value of inventory therefore depends upon demand driven by oil and
gas drilling and well remediation activity, which depends in turn upon oil and gas prices, the
general outlook for economic growth worldwide, available financing for the Company’s customers,
political stability in major oil and gas producing areas, and the potential obsolescence of various
types of equipment we sell, among other factors. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, inventory reserves
totaled 4.7% and 4.5% of gross inventory, respectively. Recent high demand and a strong outlook
for oilfield equipment sales provide the basis for the Company’s December 31, 2006 and 2005
estimates regarding the future usage and realizable value of inventory.

While inventory reserves and accruals have not had a material impact on the Company’s financial
results for the periods covered in this report, changes in worldwide oil and gas activity, or the
development of new technologies which make older drilling



technologies obsolete, could require the Company to record additional allowances to reduce the
value of its inventory. Such changes in our estimates could be material under weaker market
conditions or outlook.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets (Excluding Goodwill)

Long-lived assets, which include property, plant and equipment and identified intangible assets,
comprise a significant amount of the Company’s total assets. The Company makes judgments and
estimates in conjunction with the carrying value of these assets, including amounts to be
capitalized, depreciation and amortization methods and estimated useful lives.

Additionally, the carrying values of these assets are reviewed for impairment periodically or
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be
recoverable. An impairment loss is recorded in the period in which it is determined that the
carrying amount is not recoverable. This requires the Company to make long-term forecasts of its
future revenues and costs related to the assets subject to review. These forecasts require
assumptions about demand for the Company’s products and services, future market conditions and
technological developments. The forecasts are dependent upon assumptions regarding oil and gas
prices, the general outlook for economic growth worldwide, available financing for the Company’s
customers, political stability in major oil and gas producing areas, and the potential obsolescence
of various types of equipment we sell, among other factors. Significant and unanticipated changes
to these assumptions or the intended use of these assets could require a provision for impairment
in a future period. There have been no impairment charges of long-lived assets for the years ended
December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004.

Goodwill Impairment

The Company recorded approximately $2.2 billion of goodwill on its consolidated balance sheet as of
December 31, 2006. Generally accepted accounting principles require the Company to test goodwill
for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events or circumstances occur indicating that
goodwill might be impaired. Events or circumstances which could indicate a potential impairment of
goodwill could include (but are not limited to) a significant reduction in worldwide oil and gas
prices or drilling; a significant reduction in profitability or cash flow of oil and gas companies
or drilling contractors; a significant reduction in worldwide well remediation activity; a
significant reduction in capital investment by other oilfield service companies; or a significant
increase in worldwide inventories of oil or gas. The timing and magnitude of any goodwill
impairment charge, which could be material, would depend on the timing and severity of the event or
events triggering the charge and would require a high degree of management judgment.

The Company performs a review of goodwill for impairment annually or earlier if indicators of
potential impairment exist. The annual impairment tests are performed during the fourth quarter of
each year. If it is determined that goodwill is impaired, that impairment is measured based on the
amount by which the book value of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. The implied fair value
of goodwill and identified intangibles is determined by deducting the fair value of a reporting
unit’s identifiable assets and liabilities from the fair value of that reporting unit as a whole.
Additional impairment assessments may be performed on an interim basis if the Company encounters
events or changes in circumstances that would indicate that, more likely than not, the carrying
amount of goodwill and identified intangibles has been impaired. Fair value of the reporting units
is determined based on internal management estimates, using a combination of three methods:
discounted cash flow, comparable companies, and representative transactions. Changes in the
assumptions used in the fair value calculation could result in an estimated reporting unit fair
value that is below the carrying value, which may give rise to an impairment of goodwill. In
addition to the annual review, the Company also tests for impairment should an event occur or
circumstances change that may indicate a reduction in the fair value of a reporting unit below its
carrying value. The Company had no impairment of goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2006,
2005, and 2004.

Income Taxes

The Company is a US registered company and is subject to income taxes in the US. The Company
operates through various subsidiaries in a number of countries throughout the world. Income taxes
have been provided based upon the tax laws and rates of the countries in which the Company operates
and income is earned.

The Company’s annual tax provision is based on expected taxable income, statutory rates and tax
planning opportunities available in the various jurisdictions in which it operates. The
determination and evaluation of the annual tax provision and tax positions involves the
interpretation of the tax laws in the various jurisdictions in which the Company operates. It
requires significant judgment and the use of estimates and assumptions regarding significant future
events such as the amount, timing and character of income, deductions and tax credits. Changes in
tax laws, regulations, and treaties, foreign currency exchange restrictions or the Company’s level
of operations or profitability in each jurisdiction could impact the tax liability in any given
year. The Company also operates in many jurisdictions where the tax laws relating to the pricing
of transactions between related parties are



open to interpretation, which could potentially result in aggressive tax authorities asserting
additional tax liabilities with no offsetting tax recovery in other countries.

The Company maintains liabilities for estimated tax exposures in jurisdictions of operation. The
annual tax provision includes the impact of income tax provisions and benefits for changes to
liabilities that the Company considers appropriate, as well as related interest. Tax exposure
items primarily include potential challenges to intercompany pricing and certain tax credits which
may not ultimately be sustained. These exposures are resolved primarily through the settlement of
audits within these tax jurisdictions or by judicial means. The Company is subject to audits by
federal, state and foreign jurisdictions which may result in proposed assessments. The Company
believes that an appropriate liability has been established for estimated exposures under the
guidance in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 5,

Accounting for
Contingencies

. However, actual results may differ materially from these estimates. The Company
reviews these liabilities quarterly and to the extent audits or other events result in an
adjustment to the liability accrued for a prior year, the effect will be recognized in the period
of the event.

The Company currently has recorded valuation allowances that the Company intends to maintain until
it is more likely than not the deferred tax assets will be realized. Other than valuation
allowances associated with tax attributes acquired through acquisitions, income tax expense
recorded in the future will be reduced to the extent of decreases in the Company’s valuation
allowances. The realization of remaining deferred tax assets is primarily dependent on future
taxable income. Any reduction in future taxable income including but not limited to any future
restructuring activities may require that the Company record an additional valuation allowance
against deferred tax assets. An increase in the valuation allowance would result in additional
income tax expense in such period and could have a significant impact on future earnings. If a
change in a valuation allowance occurs, which was established in connection with an acquisition,
such adjustment may impact goodwill rather than the income tax provision.

As the result of current period earnings and changes in estimates of future taxable income in
certain tax jurisdictions, the Company recognized a decrease of $18.6 million in goodwill during
the fourth quarter of 2005 related to the reversal of a valuation allowance associated with net
operating loss carryovers acquired in the February 28, 2000 acquisition of Hitec, AS.

The Company has not provided for deferred taxes on the unremitted earnings of certain subsidiaries
that are permanently reinvested. Should the Company make a distribution from the unremitted
earnings of these subsidiaries, the Company may be required to record additional taxes. Unremitted
earnings of these subsidiaries were $1,116.3 million and $441.4 million at December 31, 2006 and
2005, respectively. The Company makes an annual determination whether to permanently reinvest
these earnings. If, as a result of these reassessments, the Company distributes these earnings in
the future, additional tax liability would result, offset by any available foreign tax credits.

The Company does not believe it is possible to reasonably estimate the potential impact of changes
to the assumptions and estimates identified because the resulting change to our tax liability, if
any, is dependent on numerous factors which cannot be reasonably estimated. These include, among
others, the amount and nature of additional taxes potentially asserted by local tax authorities;
the willingness of local tax authorities to negotiate a fair settlement through an administrative
process; the impartiality of the local courts; and the potential for changes in the tax paid to one
country to either produce, or fail to produce, an offsetting tax change in other countries.

Recently Issued Accounting Standards

In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48 (“FIN 48”), “Accounting for Uncertainty in
Income Taxes, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109.” This interpretation clarifies the
accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise’s financial statements in
accordance with FASB Statement No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes.” The interpretation
prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for a tax position taken or expected
to be taken in a tax return and also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest
and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure, and transition. The provisions of FIN 48
are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006, and we will be required to adopt
this interpretation in the first quarter of 2007. We are currently evaluating the effect FIN 48
will have on our consolidated financial position, cash flows, and results from operations.

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, “Fair Value Measurements” (“SFAS 157”). SFAS 157
establishes a framework for fair value measurements in the financial statements by providing a
single definition of fair value, provides guidance on the methods used to estimate fair value and
increases disclosures about estimates of fair value. SFAS 157 is effective for fiscal years
beginning after November 15, 2007. We are currently evaluating the effect SFAS 157 will have on
our consolidated financial position, cash flows, and results from operations.

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158, “Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit
Pension and Other Postretirement Plans — An amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and
132(R)” (“SFAS 158”). SFAS 158 requires



employers to recognize the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit
postretirement plan as an asset or liability in its statement of financial position and to
recognize changes in that funded status in the year in which the changes occur through
comprehensive income of a business entity. The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS 158
effective December 31, 2006 with no material impact on the
Consolidated Financial Statements. See Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Forward–Looking Statements

Some of the information in this document contains, or has incorporated by reference,
forward-looking statements. Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about
our beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements typically
are identified by use of terms such as “may,” “will,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” and
similar words, although some forward-looking statements are expressed differently. You should be
aware that our actual results could differ materially from results anticipated in the
forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including but not limited to changes in oil
and gas prices, customer demand for our products and worldwide economic activity. You should also
consider carefully the statements under “Risk Factors” which address additional factors that could
cause our actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Given
these uncertainties, current or prospective investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on
any such forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update any such factors or
forward-looking statements to reflect future events or developments.



ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

We are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. Additional
information concerning each of these matters follows:

Foreign Currency Exchange Rates

We have extensive operations in foreign countries. The net assets and liabilities of these
operations are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, although such fluctuations
generally do not affect income since their functional currency is typically the local currency.
These operations also have net assets and liabilities not denominated in the functional currency,
which exposes us to changes in foreign currency exchange rates that do impact income. During the
years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, the Company reported foreign currency gains (losses)
of ($21.0) million, $2.9 million, and ($9.3) million respectively. The gains (losses) were
primarily due to exchange rate fluctuations related to monetary asset balances denominated in
currencies other than the functional currency. The foreign exchange loss is primarily the result
in the strengthening of the following major currencies against the US Dollar: British Pound –
13.8%, Euro – 11.5% and the Norwegian Kroner – 8.9%. Further strengthening of these currencies
against the US Dollar may continue to create similar losses in future periods to the extent we
maintain net assets and liabilities not denominated in the functional currency of the countries
using the above currencies as their functional currency.

Some of our revenues in foreign countries are denominated in U.S. dollars, and therefore, changes
in foreign currency exchange rates impact our earnings to the extent that costs associated with
those U.S. dollar revenues are denominated in the local currency. Similarly some of our revenues
are denominated in foreign currencies, but have associated U.S. dollar costs, which also gives rise
to foreign currency exchange rate exposure. In order to mitigate that risk, we may utilize foreign
currency forward contracts to better match the currency of our revenues and associated costs. We do
not use foreign currency forward contracts for trading or speculative purposes.

At December 31, 2006, we had entered into foreign currency forward contracts with notional amounts
aggregating $130.1 million to hedge cash flow exposure to currency fluctuations in various foreign
currencies. These exposures arise when local currency operating expenses are not in balance with
local currency revenue collections. Ineffectiveness was not material on these foreign currency
forward contracts. Based on quoted market prices as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 for contracts
with similar terms and maturity dates, we have recorded a gain (loss) of $1.0 million and ($7.3)
million, respectively, to adjust these foreign currency forward contracts to their fair market
value. This gain (loss) is included in other comprehensive income in the consolidated balance
sheet. It is expected that $1.0 million of the gain will be reclassified into earnings within the
next 12 months. The Company currently has cash flow hedges in place through the first quarter of
2008.

The Company had foreign currency forward contracts with notional amounts aggregating $1,268.1
million designated and qualifying as fair value hedges to hedge exposure to currency fluctuations
in various foreign currencies. Based on quoted market prices as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 for
contracts with similar terms and maturity dates, we recorded a gain (loss) of $25.0 million and
($5.1) million, respectively, to adjust these foreign currency forward contracts to their fair
market value. This gain (loss) is offset by designated gains (losses) on the firm commitments.
Ineffectiveness was not material on these foreign currency forward contracts.

The Company had foreign currency forward contracts with notional amounts aggregating $79.0 million
to offset exposures to the currency fluctuation of nonfunctional currency balance sheet accounts,
primarily consisting of account receivables and account payables, and are not designated as hedges.
Therefore, changes in the fair value of these contracts are recorded each period in current
earnings.



The maturity of the above forward contracts by currency is:

Hedge Classification

Currency





Total

Cash Flow

USD

$

129.0

$

1.1

$

—

$

—

$

130.1

Fair Value

EUR

$

102.9

$

31.6

$

3.7

$

—

$

138.2

GBP

13.7

0.4

—

—

14.1

KRW

0.7

0.6

—

—

1.3

SGD

3.1

1.0

—

—

4.1

USD

818.1

220.0

70.9

1.4

1,110.4

$

938.5

$

253.6

$

74.6

$

1.4

$

1,268.1

Balance Sheet

EUR

$

1.2

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

1.2

SDG

1.0

—

—

—

1.0

USD

76.8

—

—

—

76.8

$

79.0

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

79.0

Total

$

1,146.5

$

254.7

$

74.6

$

1.4

$

1,477.2

The Company had other financial market risk sensitive instruments denominated in foreign currencies
totaling $103.4 million as of December 31, 2006 excluding trade receivables and payables, which
approximate fair value. These market risk sensitive instruments consisted of cash balances and
overdraft facilities. The Company estimates that a hypothetical 10% movement of all applicable
foreign currency exchange rates on these financial market risk sensitive instruments could affect
net income by $6.7 million.

The counterparties to forward contracts are major financial institutions. The credit ratings and
concentration of risk of these financial institutions are monitored on a continuing basis. In the
unlikely event that the counterparties fail to meet the terms of a foreign currency contract, our
exposure is limited to the foreign currency rate differential.

Interest Rate Risk

At December 31, 2006 our long term borrowings consisted of $100 million in 7.5% senior notes, $150
million in 6.5% senior notes, $200 million in 7.25% senior notes, $200 million in 5.65% senior
notes and $150 million in 5.5% senior notes. We had $40.3 million of other borrowings at December
31, 2006. We occasionally have borrowings under our other credit facilities, and a portion of
these borrowings could be denominated in multiple currencies which could expose us to market risk
with exchange rate movements. These instruments carry interest at a pre-agreed upon percentage
point spread from either LIBOR, NIBOR or EURIBOR, or at the prime interest rate. Under our credit
facilities, we may, at our option, fix the interest rate for certain borrowings based on a spread
over LIBOR, NIBOR or EURIBOR for 30 days to 6 months. Our objective is to maintain a portion of our
debt in variable rate borrowings for the flexibility obtained regarding early repayment without
penalties and lower overall cost as compared with fixed-rate borrowings.

As of December 31, 2006, we had three interest rate swap agreements with an aggregate notional
amount of $100 million associated with our 2008 senior notes. Under this agreement, we receive
interest at a fixed rate of 7.5% and pay interest at a floating rate of six-month LIBOR plus a
weighted average spread of approximately 4.675%. The swap agreements will settle semi-annually and
will terminate in February 2008. The swap agreements originally entered into by Varco were
recorded at their fair market value at the date of the Merger and no longer qualify as effective
hedges under FAS 133. The swaps will be marked-to-market for periods subsequent to the Merger and
any change in their value will be reported as an adjustment to interest expense. The change in the
fair market value of the interest swap agreements resulted in a $1.0 million increase in interest
expense for the period ended December 31, 2006.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENT AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Attached hereto and a part of this report are financial statements and supplementary data listed in
Item 15.



ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

None.

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

(i) Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures

As required by SEC Rule 13a-15(b), we have evaluated,
under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer,
the effectiveness of the design
and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e) under the
Exchange Act) as of the end of the period covered by this report. Our disclosure controls and procedures are
designed to provide reasonable assurance that the information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports
that it files under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management, including our
principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as
appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding
required disclosure and is recorded, precessed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the
rules and forms of the SEC. Our principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that our
current disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2006 at the reasonable assurance level.

Pursuant to section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer have provided certain certifications to the Securities and Exchange Commission.
These certifications are included herein as Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2.

(ii) Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

(a) Management’s annual report on internal control over financial reporting.

The Company’s management report on internal control over financial reporting is set forth in this
annual report on Page 50 and is incorporated herein by reference.

(b) Attestation report of the independent registered public accounting firm

The attestation report of Ernst & Young LLP, the Company’s independent registered public accounting
firm, on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting is set forth in this annual report on page 52 and is incorporated by reference
here in.

(c) Changes in internal control

There were no changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred
during the Company’s last fiscal quarter covered by this report that have materially affected, or
are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting.

ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION

None.



PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Incorporated by reference to the definitive Proxy Statement for the 2007 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Incorporated by reference to the definitive Proxy Statement for the 2007 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS

Incorporated by reference to the definitive Proxy Statement for the 2007 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders.

Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans

The following table sets forth information as of our fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, with
respect to compensation plans under which our common stock may be issued:

Number of securities

remaining available for

Number of securities to be

future issuance under equity

issued upon exercise of

Weighted-average exercise

compensation plans

outstanding options, warrants

price of outstanding

(excluding securities

and rights

options, warrant and rights

reflected in column (a)(c))

Plan Category

(a)

(b)

(1)

Equity compensation
plans approved by
security holders

5,284,883

$

46.56

5,124,000

Equity compensation
plans not approved
by security holders

—

—

—

Total

5,284,883

$

46.56

5,124,000

(1)

Shares could be issued other than upon the exercise of stock options, warrants or rights;
however, none are anticipated during 2007.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

Incorporated by reference to the definitive Proxy Statement for the 2007 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders.

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

Incorporated by reference to the definitive Proxy Statement for the 2007 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders.



PART IV

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

Financial Statements and Exhibits

(1)

Financial Statements

The following financial statements are presented in response to Part II, Item 8:

Page

Consolidated Balance Sheets


Consolidated Statements of Income


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows


Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity and Comprehensive Income


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


(2) Financial Statement Schedule

Schedule II – Valuation and Qualifying Accounts


All schedules, other than Schedule II, are omitted because they are not applicable, not required or
the information is included in the financial statements or notes thereto.

(3)

Exhibits

2.1

Amended and Restated Agreement and Plan of Merger, effective as of August 11, between
National-Oilwell, Inc. and Varco International, Inc. (4).

3.1

Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of National-Oilwell, Inc. (Exhibit 3.1) (1).

3.2

Amended and Restated By-laws of National Oilwell Varco, Inc. (Exhibit 3.2) (7).

10.1

Employment Agreement dated as of January 1, 2002 between Merrill A. Miller, Jr. and National
Oilwell. (Exhibit 10.1) (2).

10.2

Employment Agreement dated as of January 1, 2002 between Dwight W. Rettig and National
Oilwell, with similar agreements with Kevin A. Neveu and Mark A. Reese. (Exhibit 10.2) (2).

10.3

Form of Amended and Restated Executive Agreement of Clay C. Williams and Haynes Smith.
(Exhibit 10.12) (3).

10.4

National Oilwell Varco Long-Term Incentive Plan (5)*.

10.5

Form of Employee Stock Option Agreement (Exhibit 10.1) (8)

10.6

Form of Non-Employee Director Stock Option Agreement (Exhibit 10.2) (8).

10.7

Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of June 21, 2005, among National Oilwell
Varco, Inc., the financial institutions signatory thereto, including Wells Fargo Bank,
National Association, in their capacities as lenders thereunder, as US administrative agent
for the lenders, as Lead Arranger and Sole Book Runner, DnB NOR Bank ASA, as Norwegian
Administrative Agent, DnB NOR Bank ASA and the Bank of Nova Scotia as Co-Documentation
Agents, and Comerica Bank and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as Co-Syndication Agents. (Exhibit
10.1) (6).

21.1

Subsidiaries of the Registrant

23.1

Consent of Ernst & Young LLP

24.1

Power of Attorney (included on signature page hereto).



31.1

Certification pursuant to Rule 13a-14a and Rule 15d-14(a) of the Securities and Exchange Act,
as amended

31.2

Certification pursuant to Rule 13a-14a and Rule 15d-14(a) of the Securities and Exchange Act,
as amended

32.1

Certification pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

32.2

Certification pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

*

Compensatory plan or arrangement for management or others

(1)

Filed as an Exhibit to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on August 11, 2000.

(2)

Filed as an Exhibit to our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on March 28, 2002.

(3)

Filed as an Exhibit to Varco International, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on May
6, 2004.

(4)

Filed as Annex A to our Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed on September 16, 2004.

(5)

Filed as Annex D to our Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed on January
31, 2005.

(6)

Filed as an Exhibit to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 23, 2005.

(7)

Filed as an Exhibit to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 18, 2005.

(8)

Filed as an Exhibit to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 23, 2006.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated.

Each person whose signature appears below in so signing, constitutes and appoints Merrill A.
Miller, Jr. and Clay C. Williams, and each of them acting alone, his true and lawful
attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution, for him and in his name, place and
stead, in any and all capacities, to execute and cause to be filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission any and all amendments to this report, and in each case to file the same, with all
exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, and hereby ratifies and confirms all
that said attorney-in-fact or his substitute or substitutes may do or cause to be done by virtue
hereof.

Signature

Title

Date

/s/ MERRILL A. MILLER, JR.

Merrill A. Miller, Jr.

Chairman, President and Chief Executive
Officer

February 26, 2007

/s/ CLAY C. WILLIAMS

Clay C. Williams

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer

February 26, 2007

/s/ ROBERT W. BLANCHARD

Robert W. Blanchard

Vice President, Corporate Controller and
Chief Accounting Officer

February 26, 2007

/s/ GREG L. ARMSTRONG

Greg L. Armstrong

Director

February 26, 2007

/s/ ROBERT E. BEAUCHAMP

Robert E. Beauchamp

Director

February 26, 2007

/s/ BEN A. GUILL

Ben A. Guill

Director

February 26, 2007

/s/ DAVID D. HARRISON

David D. Harrison

Director

February 26, 2007

/s/ ROGER L. JARVIS

Roger L. Jarvis

Director

February 26, 2007

/s/ ERIC L. MATTSON

Eric L. Mattson

Director

February 26, 2007

/s/ JEFFERY A. SMISEK

Jeffery A. Smisek

Director

February 26, 2007



MANAGEMENT’S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

National Oilwell Varco, Inc.’s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate
internal control over financial reporting. National Oilwell Varco, Inc.’s internal control system
was designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles.

Internal control over financial reporting cannot provide absolute assurance of achieving financial
reporting objectives because of its inherent limitations. Internal control over financial reporting
is a process that involves human diligence and compliance and is subject to lapses in judgment and
breakdowns resulting from human failures. Internal control over financial reporting also can be
circumvented by collusion or improper management override. Because of such limitations, there is a
risk that material misstatements may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis by internal
control over financial reporting. However, these inherent limitations are known features of the
financial reporting process. Therefore, it is possible to design into the process safeguards to
reduce, though not eliminate, this risk.

Management has used the framework set forth in the report entitled “Internal Control—Integrated
Framework” published by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations (“COSO”) of the Treadway
Commission to evaluate the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting. Management has concluded that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting
was effective as of December 31, 2006. Ernst & Young LLP has issued an attestation report on
management’s assessment of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.

/s/ Merrill A. Miller, Jr.

Merrill A. Miller, Jr.

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

/s/ Clay C. Williams

Clay C. Williams

Senior Vice President and

Chief Financial Officer

Houston, Texas

February 26, 2007



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

The Board of Directors and Shareholders

National Oilwell Varco, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of National Oilwell Varco, Inc. as of
December 31, 2006 and 2005 and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders’ equity
and comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December
31, 2006. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the index at Item
15(a). These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our
audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects, the consolidated financial position of National Oilwell Varco, Inc. at December
31, 2006 and 2005, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of
the three years in the period ended December 31, 2006, in conformity with U.S generally accepted
accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when
considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all
material respects the information set forth therein.

As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted Statements of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (R) and No. 158
on January 1, 2006 and December 31, 2006,
respectively.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the effectiveness of National Oilwell Varco, Inc.’s internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal Control -
Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
and our report dated February 26, 2007 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Houston, Texas

February 26, 2007



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

The Board of Directors and Shareholders

National Oilwell Varco, Inc.

We have audited management’s assessment, included in the accompanying Management’s Report on
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, that National Oilwell Varco, Inc. maintained effective
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, based on criteria established in
Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). National Oilwell Varco, Inc.’s management is responsible
for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on management’s assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal
control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, evaluating management’s assessment, testing and evaluating the
design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1)
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company;
and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, management’s assessment that National Oilwell Varco, Inc. maintained effective
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, is fairly stated, in all
material respects, based on the COSO criteria. Also, in our opinion, National Oilwell Varco, Inc.
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2006, based on the COSO criteria.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of National Oilwell Varco, Inc. as of
December 31, 2006 and 2005, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders’ equity
and comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December
31, 2006 of National Oilwell Varco, Inc. and our report dated February 26, 2007 expressed an
unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Houston, Texas

February 26, 2007



NATIONAL OILWELL VARCO, INC.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(In millions, except share data)

December 31,



ASSETS

Current assets:

Cash and cash equivalents

$

957.4

$

209.4

Receivables, net

1,614.6

1,139.2

Inventories, net

1,828.8

1,198.3

Costs in excess of billings

308.9

341.9

Deferred income taxes

101.6

58.6

Prepaid and other current assets

154.3

50.8

Total current assets

4,965.6

2,998.2

Property, plant and equipment, net

1,022.1

877.6

Deferred income taxes

56.1

52.2

Goodwill

2,244.7

2,117.7

Intangibles, net

705.2

611.5

Other assets

25.6

21.3

$

9,019.3

$

6,678.5

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Current liabilities:

Accounts payable

$

505.2

$

568.2

Accrued liabilities

1,420.2

432.0

Billings in excess of costs

564.4

98.1

Current portion of long-term debt and short-term borrowings

5.6

5.7

Accrued income taxes

169.8

83.2

Total current liabilities

2,665.2

1,187.2

Long-term debt

834.7

835.6

Deferred income taxes

389.0

373.3

Other liabilities

71.4

63.7

Total liabilities

3,960.3

2,459.8

Commitments and contingencies

Minority interest

35.5

24.5

Stockholders’ equity:

Common stock – par value $.01; 175,571,663 and 174,362,488 shares
issued and outstanding at December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005

1.8

1.7

Additional paid-in capital

3,461.7

3,400.9

Deferred stock-based compensation

—

(16.5

)

Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)

46.1

(21.8

)

Retained earnings

1,513.9

829.9

5,023.5

4,194.2

$

9,019.3

$

6,678.5

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.



NATIONAL OILWELL VARCO, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

(In millions, except per share data)

Years Ended December 31,




Revenue:

Sales

$

5,472.5

$

3,605.5

$

2,137.8

Services

1,553.3

1,039.0

180.3

Total

7,025.8

4,644.5

2,318.1

Cost of revenue:

Cost of sales

4,230.4

2,905.1

1,700.6

Cost of services

1,034.8

752.2

113.7

Total

5,265.2

3,657.3

1,814.3

Gross profit

1,760.6

987.2

503.8

Selling, general, and administrative

641.6

478.7

327.8

Integration costs

7.9

31.7

—

Operating profit

1,111.1

476.8

176.0

Interest and financial costs

(48.7

)

(52.9

)

(38.4

)

Interest income

18.1

4.9

3.5

Other income (expense), net

(31.3

)

1.2

(2.2

)

Income before income taxes and minority interest

1,049.2

430.0

138.9

Provision for income taxes

355.7

138.9

21.6

Income before minority interest

693.5

291.1

117.3

Minority interest in income of consolidated
subsidiaries

9.5

4.2

2.1

Net income

$

684.0

$

286.9

$

115.2

Net income per share:

Basic

$

3.90

$

1.83

$

1.34

Diluted

$

3.87

$

1.81

$

1.33

Weighted average shares outstanding:

Basic

175.2

156.4

85.8

Diluted

176.8

158.3

86.5

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.



NATIONAL OILWELL VARCO, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(In millions)

Years Ended December 31,




Cash flow from operating activities:

Net income

$

684.0

$

286.9

$

115.2

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided
by operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization

160.6

114.6

44.0

Tax benefit from exercise of nonqualified stock options

—

29.7

3.4

Excess benefit from the exercise of stock options

(13.5

)

—

—

Other

58.4

18.7

(11.8

)

Changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions:

Receivables

(442.1

)

(293.9

)

(8.6

)

Inventories

(619.9

)

(215.4

)

(105.8

)

Costs in excess of billings

33.0

(131.1

)

(106.4

)

Prepaid and other current assets

(101.7

)

(8.6

)

27.4

Accounts payable

(93.5

)

68.1

174.3

Billings in excess of costs

466.4

94.5

(17.7

)

Other assets/liabilities, net

1,085.0

114.0

52.2

Net cash provided by operating activities

1,216.7

77.5

166.2

Cash flow from investing activities:

Purchases of property, plant and equipment

(200.4

)

(105.0

)

(39.0

)

Cash acquired in Varco merger, net

—

163.5

—

Business acquisitions, net of cash acquired

(329.7

)

(16.0

)

(2.8

)

Other

—

(4.5

)

35.8

Net cash provided (used) by investing activities

(530.1

)

38.0

(6.0

)

Cash flow from financing activities:

Borrowing against lines of credit and other debt

30.0

418.8

521.6

Payments against lines of credit and other debt

(35.1

)

(571.1

)

(631.5

)

Excess tax benefit from exercise of stock options

13.5

—

—

Proceeds from stock options exercised

32.7

111.9

14.6

Net cash provided (used) by financing activities

41.1

(40.4

)

(95.3

)

Effect of exchange rate changes on cash

20.3

(8.4

)

3.6

Net increase in cash and cash equivalents

748.0

66.7

68.5

Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period

209.4

142.7

74.2

Cash and cash equivalents, end of period

$

957.4

$

209.4

$

142.7

Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information:

Cash payments during the period for:

Interest

$

56.2

$

61.5

$

34.0

Income taxes

$

272.4

$

88.3

$

21.4

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.



NATIONAL OILWELL VARCO, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

(In millions)

Unearned

Accumulated Other

Shares

Additional Paid in

Stock-Based

Comprehensive

Outstanding

Common Stock

Capital

Compensation

Income (Loss)

Retained Earnings

Total

Balance at December 31, 2003

85.1

$

0.9

$

674.9

$

—

$

(44.4

)

$

427.8

$

1,059.2

Net income

—

—

—

—

—

115.2

115.2

Other comprehensive income

Currency translation adjustments

—

—

—

—

71.3

—

71.3

Derivative financial instruments

—

—

—

—

1.1

—

1.1

Minimum liability of defined benefit plans

—

—

—

—

5.4

—

5.4

Comprehensive income

193.0

Stock options exercised

0.9

—

14.6

—

—

—

14.6

Tax benefit of options exercised

—

—

3.4

—

—

—

3.4

Balance at December 31, 2004

86.0

$

0.9

$

692.9

$

—

$

33.4

$

543.0

$

1,270.2

Net income

—

—

—

—

—

286.9

286.9

Other comprehensive income

Currency translation adjustments

—

—

—

—

(50.3

)

—

(50.3

)

Derivative financial instruments

—

—

—

—

(8.5

)

—

(8.5

)

Minimum liability of defined benefit plans

—

—

—

—

3.6

—

3.6

Comprehensive income

231.7

Stock issued and stock options assumed for
acquisition

84.0

0.8

2,566.5

(32.1

)

—

—

2,535.2

Amortization of unearned stock-based
compensation

—

—

—

15.6

—

—

15.6

Common stock issued

4.4

—

111.8

—

—

—

111.8

Tax benefit of options exercised

—

—

29.7

—

—

—

29.7

Balance at December 31, 2005

174.4

$

1.7

$

3,400.9

$

(16.5

)

$

(21.8

)

$

829.9

$

4,194.2

Net income

—

—

—

—

—

684.0

684.0

Other comprehensive income

Currency translation adjustments

—

—

—

—

66.8

—

66.8

Derivative financial instruments

—

—

—

—

8.0

—

8.0

Minimum liability of defined benefit plans

—

—

—

—

(6.6

)

—

(6.6

)

Comprehensive income

752.2

Adoption of FAS158, net of tax

—

—

—

—

(0.3

)

—

(0.3

)

Adoption of FAS123(R)

—

—

(16.5

)

16.5

—

—

—

Stock-based compensation expense

—

—

31.2

—

—

—

31.2

Common stock issued

1.2

0.1

32.6

—

—

—

32.7

Tax benefit of options exercised

—

—

13.5

—

—

—

13.5

Balance at December 31, 2006

175.6

$

1.8

$

3,461.7

$

—

$

46.1

$

1,513.9

$

5,023.5

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.



NATIONAL OILWELL VARCO, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. Organization and Basis of Presentation

Nature of Business

We design, construct, manufacture and sell comprehensive systems, components, and products used in
oil and gas drilling and production, provide oilfield services and supplies, and distribute
products and provide supply chain integration services to the upstream oil and gas industry. Our
revenues and operating results are directly related to the level of worldwide oil and gas drilling
and production activities and the profitability and cash flow of oil and gas companies, drilling
contractors and oilfield service companies, which in turn are affected by current and anticipated
prices of oil and gas. Oil and gas prices have been and are likely to continue to be volatile.

Basis of Consolidation

The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of National Oilwell Varco,
Inc. and its majority-owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany transactions and balances
have been eliminated in consolidation. Investments that are not wholly-owned, but where we exercise
control, are fully consolidated with the equity held by minority owners and their portion of net
income (loss) reflected as minority interest in the accompanying financial statements. Investments
in unconsolidated affiliates, over which we exercise significant influence, but not control, are
accounted for by the equity method. Investments in which we exercise no control or significant
influence would be accounted for under the cost method. Certain reclassifications have been made
to the 2005 and 2004 consolidated financial statements in order for them to conform with the 2006
presentation.

2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

The carrying amounts of financial instruments including cash and cash equivalents, receivables, and
payables approximated fair value because of the relatively short maturity of these instruments.
Cash equivalents include only those investments having a maturity date of three months or less at
the time of purchase. The carrying values of other financial instruments approximate their
respective fair values.

Derivative Financial Instruments

We record all derivative financial instruments at their fair value in our consolidated balance
sheet. Except for our balance sheet hedges and interest rate swap agreements discussed below, all
derivative financial instruments we hold are designated as either cash flow or fair value hedges
and are highly effective in offsetting movements in the underlying risks. Accordingly, gains and
losses from changes in the fair value of designated derivative financial instruments are deferred
and recognized in earnings as revenues or costs of sales as the underlying transactions occur.

We use foreign currency forward contracts and options to mitigate our exposure to changes in
foreign currency exchange rates on recognized nonfunctional currency monetary accounts, forecasted
transactions and firm sale and purchase commitments to better match the local currency cost
components of non-functional currency transactions. Such arrangements typically have terms between
two and fifteen months, but may have longer terms depending on the project and our backlog. We may
also use interest rate contracts to mitigate our exposure to changes in interest rates on
anticipated long-term debt issuances. We do not use derivative financial instruments for trading
or speculative purposes.

At December 31, 2006, we had entered into foreign currency forward contracts with notional amounts
aggregating $130.1 million designated and qualifying as cash flow hedges to hedge exposure to
currency fluctuations in various foreign currencies. These exposures arise when local currency
operating expenses are not in balance with local currency revenue collections. Ineffectiveness was
not material on these foreign currency forward contracts. Based on quoted market prices as of
December 31, 2006 for contracts with similar terms and maturity dates, we have recorded a gain of
$1.0 million, net of tax of $0.4 million, to adjust these foreign currency forward contracts to
their fair market value. This gain is included in other comprehensive income in the consolidated
balance sheet. It is expected that all of this gain will be reclassified into earnings within the
next 12 months. The Company currently has cash flow hedges in place through the first quarter of
2008.



At December 31, 2006, the Company had foreign currency forward contracts with notional amounts
aggregating $1,268.1 million designated and qualifying as fair value hedges to hedge exposure to
currency fluctuations in various foreign currencies. Based on quoted market prices as of December
31, 2006 for contracts with similar terms and maturity dates, we recorded a gain of $25.0 million
to adjust these foreign currency forward contracts to their fair market value. This gain offsets
designated losses on firm commitments. The Company currently has fair value hedges in place
through the first quarter of 2010. Ineffectiveness was not material on these foreign currency
forward contracts.

The Company had foreign currency forward contracts with notional amounts aggregating $79.0 million
to offset exposures to currency fluctuation of nonfunctional currency balance sheet accounts,
primarily consisting of accounts receivable and accounts payable and are not designated as hedges.
Therefore, changes in the fair value of these contracts are recorded each period in current
earnings.

As of December 31, 2006, we had three interest rate swap agreements with an aggregate notional
amount of $100 million associated with our 2008 senior notes. Under these agreements, we receive
interest at a fixed rate of 7.5% and pay interest at a floating rate of six-month LIBOR plus a
weighted average spread of approximately 4.675%. The swap agreements will settle semi-annually and
will terminate in February 2008. The swap agreements originally entered into by Varco were
recorded at their fair market value at the date of the Merger and no longer qualify as effective
hedges under FAS 133. The swaps are marked-to-market for periods subsequent to the Merger and any
change in their value will be reported as an adjustment to interest expense. The change in the
fair market value of the interest rate swap agreements resulted in a $1.0 million increase in
interest expense for the period ended December 31, 2006.

Inventories

Inventories consist of raw materials, work-in-process and oilfield and industrial finished
products, manufactured equipment and spare parts. Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or
market using the first-in, first-out or average cost methods. Allowances for excess and obsolete
inventories are determined based on our historical usage of inventory on-hand as well as our future
expectations related to our installed base and the development of new products. The allowance,
which totaled $86.1 million and $56.8 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, is the amount
necessary to reduce the cost of the inventory to its estimated realizable value.

Property, Plant and Equipment

Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost. Expenditures for major improvements that
extend the lives of property and equipment are capitalized while minor replacements, maintenance
and repairs are charged to operations as incurred. Disposals are removed at cost less accumulated
depreciation with any resulting gain or loss reflected in operations. Depreciation is provided
using the straight-line method or declining balance method over the estimated useful lives of
individual items. Depreciation expense was $119.2 million, $83.0 million and $41.6 million for the
years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004.

Long-lived Assets

We record impairment
losses on long-lived assets used in operations when events and circumstances indicate that the
assets might be impaired and the undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated by those assets
are less than the carrying amount of those assets. The carrying value of assets used in operations
that is not recoverable is reduced to fair value if lower than carrying value. In determining the
fair market value of the assets, we consider market trends and recent transactions involving sales
of similar assets, or when not available, discounted cash flow analysis.

Intangible Assets

On at least an annual basis, we assess whether goodwill is impaired. Our annual impairment tests
are performed at the beginning of the fourth quarter of each year and have indicated no impairment.
If we determine that goodwill is impaired, we measure that impairment based on the amount by
which the book value of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. The implied fair value of goodwill
is determined by deducting the fair value of a reporting unit’s identifiable assets and liabilities
from the fair value of that reporting unit as a whole. Additional impairment assessments may be
performed on an interim basis if we encounter events or changes in circumstances that would
indicate that, more likely than not, the carrying amount of goodwill has been impaired. Fair value
of the reporting units is determined based on internal management estimates using a combination of
three methods: discounted cash flows, comparable companies and representative transactions.



Goodwill is identified by segment as follows (in millions):

Petroleum

Rig

Services &

Distribution

Corporate /

Technology

Supplies

Services

Eliminations

Total

Balance December 31, 2004

$

424.4

$

173.3

$

35.1

$

6.2

$

639.0

Purchase price and other adjustments

(6.4

)

—

(0.4

)

—

(6.8

)

Goodwill acquired during period

719.8

786.5

—

—

1,506.3

Translation adjustments

(20.6

)

(0.6

)

0.3

0.1

(20.8

)

Balance December 31, 2005

1,117.2

959.2

35.0

6.3

2,117.7

Purchase price and other adjustments

(14.3

)

(6.9

)

—

—

(21.2

)

Goodwill acquired during period

37.8

79.0

—

—

116.8

Translation adjustments

27.6

3.6

0.2

—

31.4

Balance December 31, 2006

$

1,168.3

$

1,034.9

$

35.2

$

6.3

$

2,244.7

During
2006 we recorded adjustments reducing goodwill by $22.1 million
related to the finalization of Varco purchase accounting.

Identified intangible assets with determinable lives consist primarily of customer relationships,
trademarks, trade names, patents, and technical drawings acquired in acquisitions, and are being
amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of 2-30 years. Amortization
expense of identified intangibles is expected to be approximately $50 million in each of the next
five years.

Identified intangible assets are identified by segment as follows (in millions):

Petroleum

Rig

Services &

Distribution

Corporate /

Technology

Supplies

Services

Eliminations

Total

Balance December 31, 2004

$

81.1

$

7.4

$

2.5

$

—

$

91.0

Additions to intangible assets

217.4

341.9

—

—

559.3

Amortization

(12.7

)

(18.5

)

(0.4

)

—

(31.6

)

Translation

(7.3

)

—

0.1

—

(7.2

)

Balance December 31, 2005

278.5

330.8

2.2

—

611.5

Additions to intangible assets

0.5

130.0

—

—

130.5

Amortization

(18.0

)

(22.7

)

(0.3

)

—

(41.0

)

Translation

3.2

1.0

—

—

4.2

Balance December 31, 2006

$

264.2

$

439.1

$

1.9

$

—

$

705.2

Identified intangible assets by major intangible assets classification consist of (in millions):

Accumulated

Gross

Amortization

Net Book Value

December 31, 2006:

Customer relationships

$

460.9

$

(45.5

)

$

415.4

Trademarks

200.2

(11.9

)

188.3

Other

121.1

(19.6

)

101.5

Total identified intangibles

$

782.2

$

(77.0

)

$

705.2

December 31, 2005:

Customer relationships

$

353.2

$

(22.2

)

$

331.0

Trademarks

193.9

(4.6

)

189.3

Other

100.4

(9.2

)

91.2

Total identified intangibles

$

647.5

$

(36.0

)

$

611.5



Foreign Currency

The functional currency for most of our foreign operations is the local currency. The cumulative
effects of translating the balance sheet accounts from the functional currency into the U.S. dollar
at current exchange rates are included in accumulated other comprehensive income. Revenues and
expenses are translated at average exchange rates in effect during the period. Certain other
foreign operations use the U.S. dollar as the functional currency. Accordingly, financial
statements of these foreign subsidiaries are remeasured to U.S. dollars for consolidation purposes
using current rates of exchange for monetary assets and liabilities and historical rates of
exchange for nonmonetary assets and related elements of expense. Revenue and other expense
elements are remeasured at rates that approximate the rates in effect on the transaction dates. For
all operations, gains or losses from remeasuring foreign currency transactions into the functional
currency are included in income. Net foreign currency transaction gains (losses) were ($21.0)
million, $2.9 million and ($9.3) million for the years ending December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively, and are included in other income (expense) in the accompanying statement of
operations.

Revenue Recognition

The Company’s products and services are sold based upon purchase orders or contracts with the
customer that include fixed or determinable prices and that do not include right of return or other
similar provisions or other significant post delivery obligations. Except for certain construction
contracts described below, the Company records revenue at the time its manufacturing process is
complete, the customer has been provided with all proper inspection and other required
documentation, title and risk of loss has passed to the customer, collectibility is reasonably
assured and the product has been delivered. Customer advances or deposits are deferred and
recognized as revenue when the Company has completed all of its performance obligations related to
the sale. The Company also recognizes revenue as services are performed. The amounts billed for
shipping and handling cost are included in revenue and related costs are included in costs of
sales.

Revenue Recognition under Long-term Construction Contracts

The Company uses the percentage-of-completion method to account for certain long-term construction
contracts in the Rig Technology group. These long-term construction contracts include the
following characteristics:

•

the contracts include custom designs for customer specific applications;

•

the structural design is unique and requires significant engineering efforts; and

•

construction projects often have progress payments.

This method requires the Company to make estimates regarding the total costs of the project,
progress against the project schedule and the estimated completion date, all of which impact the
amount of revenue and gross margin the Company recognizes in each reporting period. The Company
prepares detailed cost to complete estimates at the beginning of each project. Significant
projects and their related costs and profit margins are updated and reviewed at least quarterly by
senior management. Factors that may affect future project costs and margins include shipyard
access, weather, production efficiencies, availability and costs of labor, materials and
subcomponents and other factors. These factors can impact the accuracy of the Company’s estimates
and materially impact the Company’s future reported earnings.

The asset, “Costs in excess of billings,” represents revenues recognized in excess of amounts
billed. The liability, “Billings in excess of costs,” represents billings in excess of revenues
recognized.

Income Taxes

The liability method is used to account for income taxes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are
determined based on differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities
and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when the differences
are expected to reverse. Valuation allowances are established when necessary to reduce deferred tax
assets to amounts which are more likely than not to be realized.

Concentration of Credit Risk

We grant credit to our customers, which operate primarily in the oil and gas industry.
Concentrations of credit risk are limited because we have a large number of geographically diverse
customers, thus spreading trade credit risk. We control credit risk



through credit evaluations, credit limits and monitoring procedures. We perform periodic credit
evaluations of our customers’ financial condition and generally do not require collateral, but may
require letters of credit for certain international sales. Credit losses are provided for in the
financial statements. Allowances for doubtful accounts are determined based on a continuous process
of assessing the Company’s portfolio on an individual customer and overall basis. This process
consists of a thorough review of historical collection experience, current aging status of the
customer accounts, and financial condition of the Company’s customers. Based on a review of these
factors, the Company will establish or adjust allowances for specific customers and the accounts
receivable portfolio as a whole. Accounts receivable are net of allowances for doubtful accounts
of approximately $30.4 million and $17.4 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

Stock-Based Compensation

Prior to January 1, 2006 the Company accounted for its stock option plans using the intrinsic value
method of accounting provided under APB Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,”
(“APB 25”) and related interpretations, as permitted by FASB Statement No. 123, “Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation,” (“SFAS 123”) under which no compensation expense was recognized for
stock option grants. Stock-based compensation was a pro forma disclosure in the financial
statement footnotes and continues to be for periods prior to
January 1, 2006.

Effective January 1, 2006 the Company adopted the fair value recognition provisions of FASB
Statement No. 123(R), “Share-Based Payment,” (“SFAS 123(R)”) using the modified-prospective
transition method. Under this transition method, compensation cost recognized in 2006 includes: a)
compensation cost for all share-based payments granted prior to January 1, 2006, but for which the
requisite service period had not been completed as of December 31, 2006 based on the grant date
fair value estimated in accordance with the original provisions of SFAS 123, and b) compensation
cost for all share-based payments granted subsequent to January 1, 2006 based on the grant date
fair value estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 123(R).

Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), the Company presented all tax benefits of deductions
resulting from the exercise of options as operating cash flows in the Statement of Consolidated
Cash Flows. SFAS 123(R) requires the cash flows resulting from tax deductions in excess of the
compensation cost recognized for those options (excess tax benefits) to be classified as financing
cash flows.

The Company provides compensation benefits to employees and non-employee directors under
share-based payment arrangements, including various employee stock option plans.

Total compensation cost that has been charged against income for all share-based compensation
arrangements was $31.2 million and $15.6 million for 2006 and 2005, respectively. The total income
tax benefit recognized in the income statement for all share-based compensation arrangements was
$8.6 million and $5.7 million for 2006 and 2005, respectively.

The $16.5 million of unearned stock-based compensation on the Company’s balance sheet at December
31, 2005 was reclassified to paid-in-capital upon the adoption of SFAS 123(R).



Pro Forma Net Income

The following table provides pro forma net income and income per share had the Company applied the
fair value method of SFAS 123(R) for the years ended
December 31, 2005 and 2004 (in
millions, except per share data):

Years Ended December 31,



Net income, as reported

$

286.9

$

115.2

Add:

Total stock-based employee
compensation expense
included in net income, net
of related tax effects

10.1

—

Deduct:

Total stock-based employee
compensation expense
determined under fair value
based method for all
awards, net of related tax
effects

(15.3

)

(7.4

)

Pro forma net income

$

281.7

$

107.8

Net income per common share:

Basic, as reported

$

1.83

$

1.34

Basic, pro forma

$

1.80

$

1.26

Diluted, as reported

$

1.81

$

1.33

Diluted, pro forma

$

1.78

$

1.25

Environmental Liabilities

When environmental assessments or remediations are probable and the costs can be reasonably
estimated, remediation liabilities are recorded on an undiscounted basis and are adjusted as
further information develops or circumstances change.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported and
contingent amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements and
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ
from those estimates.

Net Income Per Share

The following table sets forth the computation of weighted average basic and diluted shares
outstanding (in millions, except per share data):

Years Ended December 31,




Numerator:

Net income

$

684.0

$

286.9

$

115.2

Denominator:

Basic—weighted average common shares outstanding

175.2

156.4

85.8

Dilutive effect of employee stock options

1.6

1.9

0.7

Diluted outstanding shares

176.8

158.3

86.5

Basic earnings per share

$

3.90

$

1.83

$

1.34

Diluted earnings per share

$

3.87

$

1.81

$

1.33

In addition, we had stock options outstanding that were anti-dilutive totaling 2.3 million at
December 31, 2006, nil at December 31, 2005, and 0.8 million at December 31, 2004.

Recently Issued Accounting Standards



In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48 (“FIN 48”), “Accounting for Uncertainty in
Income Taxes, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109.” This interpretation clarifies the
accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise’s financial statements in
accordance with FASB Statement No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes.” The interpretation
prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for a tax position taken or expected
to be taken in a tax return and also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest
and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure, and transition. The provisions of FIN 48
are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006, and we will be required to adopt
this interpretation in the first quarter of 2007. We are currently evaluating the effect FIN 48
will have on our consolidated financial position, cash flows, and results from operations.

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, “Fair Value Measurements” (“SFAS 157”). SFAS 157
establishes a framework for fair value measurements in the financial statements by providing a
single definition of fair value, provides guidance on the methods used to estimate fair value and
increases disclosures about estimates of fair value. SFAS 157 is effective for fiscal years
beginning after November 15, 2007. We are currently evaluating the effect SFAS 157 will have on
our consolidated financial position, cash flows, and results from operations.

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158, “Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit
Pension and Other Postretirement Plans — An amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and
132(R)” (“SFAS 158”). SFAS 158 requires employers to recognize the overfunded or underfunded
status of a defined benefit postretirement plan as an asset or liability in its statement
of financial position and to recognize changes in that funded status in the year in which the
changes occur through comprehensive income of a business entity. The Company adopted the
provisions of SFAS 158 effective December 31, 2006 with no
material impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements. See Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.

3. Varco Merger

Pursuant to our Amended and Restated Agreement and Plan of Merger with Varco International, Inc.
(“Varco”), a Delaware corporation, effective as of August 11, 2004 (the “Agreement Date”), we
issued 0.8363 shares of National Oilwell common stock for each Varco common share on March 11, 2005
(the “Merger”) and changed our name to National Oilwell Varco, Inc. We have included the financial
results of Varco in our consolidated financial statements beginning March 11, 2005 (the “Merger
Date”), the date Varco common shares were exchanged for National Oilwell common shares.

The Merger has been accounted for as a purchase business combination. Assets acquired and
liabilities assumed were recorded at their fair values as of March 11, 2005. The total purchase
price is $2,579.3 million, including the fair value of Varco stock options assumed and merger
related transaction costs, and is comprised of (in millions):

Shares issued to acquire the outstanding common stock of Varco (84.0 million
shares at $29.99 per share)

$

2,518.4

Fair value of Varco stock options assumed

48.9

Unearned compensation related to stock options assumed

(32.1

)

Merger related transaction costs

44.1

Total purchase price

$

2,579.3

The fair value of shares issued was determined using an average price of $29.99, which represented
the average closing price of our common stock from five trading days before to five trading days
after the Agreement Date. The fair value of options assumed was calculated using the Black-Scholes
valuation model with the following assumptions as of the Merger Date: expected life from vest date
ranging from 0.64 years to 3.6 years, risk-free interest rate of 2.0% — 3.1%, expected volatility
of 34% to 47% and no dividend yield. In accordance with our Agreement and Plan of Merger, the
number of Varco options exchanged was determined by multiplying the number of Varco options
outstanding at closing by 0.8363. Approximately 2.2 million of the 4.0 million Varco options
outstanding were fully vested as of the Merger. The portion of the intrinsic value of unvested
Varco options related to future service has been allocated to unearned compensation cost and is
being amortized using the remaining vesting period of 2.3 years. Stock-based compensation expense
of $15.6 million related to the amortization of the unvested options was recognized in the year
ended December 31, 2005. The $16.5 million of unearned stock-based compensation on the company’s
balance sheet at December 31, 2005 was reclassified to paid-in-capital upon the adoption of SFAS
123(R).

Merger related transaction costs include severance and other external costs directly related to the
Merger.

Integration costs of $31.7 million in 2005 were comprised of $11.9 million for severance cost,
$11.2 million for discontinued inventory, $4.8 million for combining operations and $3.8 million of
other. Integration costs of $7.9 million in the first quarter of 2006 were comprised of $6.6
million for discontinued inventory, $0.5 million for combining operations and $0.8 million of
other.



Purchase Price Allocation

Under the purchase method of accounting, the total purchase price was allocated to Varco’s net
tangible and identifiable intangible assets based on their fair values as of March 11, 2005 as set
forth below (in millions). The excess of the purchase price over the net tangible and identifiable
intangible assets was recorded as goodwill. The allocation of the purchase price was based upon
valuations of an independent, third party.

Cash and marketable securities

$

163.5

Trade receivables

385.3

Other current assets

28.5

Inventory

377.1

Property, plant and equipment

598.4

Goodwill, nondeductible

1,469.4

Customer relationships (useful lives of 12-18
years)

345.8

Trademarks (useful lives of 20-30 years)

145.3

Patents (useful life of 10 years)

60.2

Other non-current assets

11.3

Accounts payable and accrued liabilities

(230.5

)

Income taxes payable

(13.7

)

Debt

(492.8

)

Deferred tax liabilities, net

(213.3

)

Other non-current liabilities

(54.0

)

Minority interest

(1.2

)

Total purchase price

$

2,579.3

Pro Forma Financial Information

The unaudited financial information in the table below summarizes the combined results of
operations of National-Oilwell and Varco, on a pro forma basis, as though the companies had been
combined as of the beginning of each of the periods presented. The pro forma financial information
is presented for informational purposes only and may not be indicative of the results of operations
that would have been achieved if the Merger had taken place at the beginning of each of the periods
presented. The pro forma financial information for the year ended December 31, 2005 includes
certain merger-related items of $47.3 million such as charges associated with integration expenses,
stock-based compensation charges for unvested options assumed, and severance expenses recorded by
National-Oilwell in its statements of operations related to change in control provisions that were
triggered as part of our Agreement and Plan of Merger in March 2005. The pro forma financial
information for all periods presented includes the business combination accounting effect on
historical Varco revenues, adjustments to depreciation on acquired property, and amortization
charges from acquired intangible assets, and related tax effects.

The unaudited pro forma financial information
for the year ended December 31, 2005 combines the historical results for National-Oilwell for the year ended December 31, 2005
and the historical results for Varco for the year ended December 31, 2005 (in millions):

December 31,


Total revenues

$

4,952.4

Net income

$

304.4

Basic net income per share

$

1.76

Diluted net income per share

$

1.74

4. Other Acquisitions


In December 2006, the Company acquired 87% of the outstanding shares of NQL Energy Services Inc.
(“NQL”), a provider of downhole tools, technology and services used primarily in drilling
applications in the oil and gas and utility industries on a worldwide basis, for an aggregate cash
purchase price of approximately $253.8 million. Based on preliminary independent third-party
valuations, the Company allocated $126.6 million to intangible assets (12.1 year weighted-average
life), comprised of: $107.5 million of customer relationships (15.5 year weighted-average life),
$3.1 million of trademarks (5.2 year weighted-



average life), and $16.0 million of other intangible assets (5.5 year weighted-average life). The
remaining 13% of NQL’s outstanding shares were acquired in January 2007. Due to this subsequent
event, the $38.1 million purchase price of the remaining shares is included in current liabilities
on the December 31, 2006 balance sheet. This acquisition complements our comprehensive offering of
downhole tools.

The Company also completed nine additional acquisitions for an aggregate purchase price of $85.3
million consisting of cash of $75.9 million and notes and accrued payables of $9.4 million. These
acquisitions included:

•

Rolligon Ltd., a Texas-based manufacturer of coiled tubing support units and related
equipment.

•

Soil Recovery A/S, a Danish-based designer and manufacturer of soil recovery units used
to process drilled cuttings for final disposal.

The following table summarizes the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities
assumed at the date of acquisition of the 2006 acquisitions (in millions):

All Other

NQL

Acquisitions

Total

Current assets, net of cash acquired

$

68.9

$

30.5

$

99.4

Property, plant and equipment

64.3

13.6

77.9

Intangible assets

126.6

3.9

130.5

Goodwill

60.1

56.7

116.8

Total assets acquired

319.9

104.7

424.6

Current liabilities

65.7

19.4

85.1

Long term debt

0.4

9.4

9.8

Total liabilities

66.1

28.8

94.9

Cash consideration, net of cash
acquired

$

253.8

$

75.9

$

329.7


Excluding
the Varco merger, the Company paid an aggregate purchase price
of $20.7 million ($16.0 million in cash and $4.7 million of notes payable) for acquisitions and
equity investments in 2005.


We spent $2.8 million during 2004 acquiring
businesses, with the largest being a
distribution operation in Australia.

Each of the acquisitions were accounted for using the purchase method of accounting and,
accordingly, the results of operations of each business is included in the consolidated results of
operations from the date of acquisition. A summary of the acquisitions follows (in millions):




Fair value of assets acquired, net of cash acquired

$

424.6

$

31.0

$

2.8

Cash paid, net of cash acquired

(329.7

)

(16.0

)

(2.8

)

Liabilities assumed and debt issued

$

94.9

$

15.0

$

—

Excess purchase price over fair value of assets
acquired

$

116.8

$

13.9

$

—

5. Inventories

At December 31, inventories consist of (in millions):



Raw materials and supplies

$

266.5

$

220.4

Work in progress

520.9

267.5

Finished goods and purchased products

1,041.4

710.4

$

1,828.8

$

1,198.3



6. Property, Plant and Equipment

At December 31, property, plant and equipment consist of the following (in millions):

Estimated

Useful Lives



Land and buildings

5-35 Years

$

361.7

$

292.4

Operating equipment

3-15 Years

774.5

729.9

Rental equipment

3-12 Years

259.9

144.9

1,396.1

1,167.2

Less accumulated depreciation

(374.0

)

(289.6

)

$

1,022.1

$

877.6

7. Accrued Liabilities

At December 31, accrued liabilities consist of (in millions):



Compensation

$

160.0

$

111.0

Customer prepayments

538.4

76.8

Warranty

57.3

24.9

Interest

11.9

11.7

Taxes (non income)

34.1

23.6

Insurance

39.1

30.2

Accrued purchase orders

334.9

29.3

Hedge
commitments

33.0

—

Other

211.5

124.5

Total

$

1,420.2

$

432.0

8. Costs and Estimated Earnings on Uncompleted Contracts

At December 31, costs and estimated earnings on uncompleted contracts consist of (in millions):



Costs incurred on uncompleted contracts

$

1,924.0

$

1,440.9

Estimated earnings

470.0

300.6

2,394.0

1,741.5

Less: Billings to date

2,649.5

1,497.7

$

(255.5

)

$

243.8

Costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted contracts

$

308.9

$

341.9

Billings in excess of costs and estimated earnings on uncompleted contracts

(564.4

)

(98.1

)

$

(255.5

)

$

243.8



9. Long-Term Debt

At December 31, debt consists of (in millions):



$100.0 million Senior Notes, interest at 7.5% payable semiannually, principal due
on February 15, 2008

$

101.9

$

103.6

$150.0 million Senior Notes, interest at 6.5% payable semiannually, principal due
on March 15, 2011

150.0

150.0

$200.0 million Senior Notes, interest at 7.25% payable semiannually, principal due
on May 1, 2011

215.2

218.7

$200.0 million Senior Notes, interest at 5.65% payable semiannually, principal due
on November 15, 2012

200.0

200.0

$150.0 million Senior Notes, interest at 5.5% payable semiannually, principal due
on November 19, 2012

151.6

151.8

Other

21.6

17.2

Total debt

840.3

841.3

Less current portion

5.6

5.7

Long-term debt

$

834.7

$

835.6

Principal payments of debt for years subsequent to 2006 are as follows (in millions):


$

5.6


121.1


4.9


5.0


352.8

Thereafter

350.9

$

840.3

Senior Notes

The unsecured Senior Notes contain reporting covenants and the credit facility contains financial
covenants regarding maximum debt to capitalization and minimum interest coverage. We were in
compliance with all covenants at December 31, 2006.

Revolver Facilities

On June 21, 2005, we amended and restated our existing $150 million revolving credit facility with
a syndicate of lenders to provide the Company a $500 million unsecured revolving credit facility.
This facility will expire in July 2010, and replaces the Company’s $175 million North American
revolving credit facility and our Norwegian facility. Subject to certain conditions, the Company
has the right to increase the facility to $750 million and to extend the term of the facility for
an additional year. At December 31, 2006, there were no borrowings against this facility, and
there were $254 million in outstanding letters of credit. Interest under this multicurrency
facility is based upon LIBOR, NIBOR or EURIBOR plus 0.30% subject to a ratings-based grid, or the
prime rate.

Other

Other debt includes approximately $10 million in promissory notes due to former owners of
businesses acquired who remain employed by the company.

At December 31, 2006, there were $246 million of funds available under the revolving credit
facility. The Company also has $580 million of additional outstanding letters of credit at
December 31, 2006, primarily in Norway, that are not under the Company’s senior credit facility.



10. Employee Benefit Plans

We have benefit plans covering substantially all of our employees. Defined-contribution benefit
plans cover most of the U.S. and Canadian employees and benefits are based on years of service, a
percentage of current earnings and matching of employee contributions. Employees in our Norwegian
operations can elect to participate in a defined-contribution plan in lieu of a local defined
benefit plan. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, expenses for
defined-contribution plans were $16.8 million, $19.9 million, and $14.2 million, and all funding is
current.

Certain retired or terminated employees of predecessor or acquired companies participate in a
defined benefit plan in the United States. None of the participants in this plan are eligible to
accrue benefits. In addition, approximately 397 U.S. retirees and spouses participate in defined
benefit health care plans of predecessor or acquired companies that provide postretirement medical
and life insurance benefits. Active employees are ineligible to participate in any of these defined
benefit plans. Our subsidiaries in the United Kingdom and Norway also have defined benefit pension
plans covering virtually all of their employees.

Net periodic benefit cost for our defined benefit pension plans in the United States, the United
Kingdom and Norway was as follows (in millions):

Pension benefits

Postretirement benefits

For the year







Service cost – benefits earned during the period

$

3.8

$

3.4

$

2.9

$

—

$

—

$

0.1

Interest cost on projected benefit obligation

10.7

10.0

8.6

1.0

0.9

0.5

Expected return on plan assets

(10.5

)

(9.2

)

(8.8

)

—

—

—

Net amortization and deferral

0.8

1.5

1.5

0.2

0.2

0.2

Curtailment/settlement gain

(0.4

)

—

—

—

—

—

Net periodic benefit cost

$

4.4

$

5.7

$

4.2

$

1.2

$

1.1

$

0.8

The change in benefit obligation, plan assets and the funded status of the defined benefit pension
plans in the United States, United Kingdom, and Norway and defined postretirement plans in the
United States, using a measurement date of September 30, 2006 or 2005, follows (in millions):

Pension benefits

Postretirement benefits

At year end





Benefit obligation at beginning of year

$

183.9

$

158.4

$

19.0

$

7.3

Service cost

3.8

3.4

—

—

Interest cost

10.7

10.0

1.0

0.9

Actuarial loss (gain)

17.8

7.3

(2.3

)

1.2

Benefits paid

(9.1

)

(6.6

)

(1.4

)

(1.2

)

Participant contributions

0.8

0.8

—

—

Acquisitions

—

27.4

—

10.8

Exchange rate loss (gain)

21.5

(16.8

)

—

—

Curtailments/settlements

(0.4

)

—

—

—

Other

0.9

—

0.7

—

Benefit obligation at end of year

$

229.9

$

183.9

$

17.0

$

19.0

Accumulated benefit obligation at end of year

$

214.7

$

170.8

Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year

$

142.6

$

135.3

$

—

$

—

Actual return

11.8

20.1

—

—

Benefits paid

(8.0

)

(5.8

)

(1.4

)

—

Contributions

18.8

7.1

1.4

—

Exchange rate (loss) gain

18.2

(14.1

)

—

—

Fair value of plan assets at end of year

$

183.4

$

142.6

$

—

$

—

Funded status

$

(46.5

)

$

(31.3

)

$

(16.6

)

$

(18.5

)

Unrecognized actuarial net loss

32.0

14.4

2.2

4.4

Prior service costs not yet recognized

0.9

0.1

(0.7

)

0.1

Accrued benefit cost

$

(13.6

)

$

(16.8

)

$

(15.1

)

$

(14.0

)



Amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheets consist of (in millions):

Pension benefits

Postretirement benefits





Current assets

$

—

$

0.7

$

—

$

—

Non current assets

0.9

0.1

—

—

Non current liabilities

(47.4

)

(41.9

)

(16.6

)

(14.0

)

Accumulated other comprehensive income

32.9

24.3

1.5

—

Accrued benefit cost

$

(13.6

)

$

(16.8

)

$

(15.1

)

$

(14.0

)

The incremental effect of applying SFAS 158 on individual line items in the balance sheet as of
December 31, 2006 were as follows (in millions):

Before

After

Application of

Application of

SFAS 158

Adjustments

SFAS 158

Noncurrent assets

$

26.7

$

(25.8

)

$

0.9

Noncurrent liabilities

(89.4

)

25.4

(64.0

)

Accumulated other comprehensive income

34.0

0.4

34.4

$

(28.7

)

$

—

$

(28.7

)

Defined Benefit Pension Plans

Assumed long-term rates of return on plan assets, discount rates and rates of compensation
increases vary for the different plans according to the local economic conditions.

The assumption rates used for benefit obligations are as follows:

Years ending December 31,



Discount rate:

United States plan

5.97

%

5.66

%

International plans

4.75 - 5.25

%

5.66

%

Salary increase:

United States plan

N/A

4.0

%

International plans

2.25 – 3.00

%

2.0 – 2.75

%

The assumption rates used for net periodic benefit costs are as follows:

Years ending December 31,




Discount rate:

United States plan

5.66

%

6.0

%

6.25

%

International plans

5.66

%

6.0

%

6.0

%

Salary increase:

United States plan

N/A

N/A

N/A

International plans

2.00 – 2.75

%

2.5 – 2.75

%

2.5

%

Expected return on assets:

United States plan

7.75

%

8.5

%

8.5

%

International plans

5.25 – 6.85

%

6.25 – 7.17

%

6.5 – 7.75

%

In determining the overall expected long-term rate of return for plan assets, the Company takes
into consideration the historical experience as well as future expectations of the asset mix
involved. As different investments yield different returns, each asset category is reviewed
individually and then weighted for significance in relation to the total portfolio.

The weighted-average asset allocations at December 31, 2006 and 2005, by asset category are as
follows:





United States

International

United States

International

Equity securities

60.2

%

48.3

%

59.5

%

48.6

%

Fixed income

—

—

35.5

%

—

Debt securities

38.8

%

34.4

%

—

34.1

%

Real estate

—

5.0

%

—

5.1

%

Other

1.0

%

12.3

%

5.0

%

12.2

%

Total

100.0

%

100.0

%

100.0

%

100.0

%

In the U.S., our investment strategy includes a balanced approach with target allocation
percentages of 60% equity investments and 40% debt securities. Our target allocation percentages in
the United Kingdom plans are 50-60% equity securities and 40-50% debt securities. The Norwegian
target investment allocation percentage is 100% insurance contracts. Our pension investment
strategy worldwide prohibits a direct investment in our own stock.

Information for pension plans with projected and accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan
assets (in millions):

For year ending 2006

For year ending 2005

United States

International

United States

International

Projected benefit obligation

$

29.4

$

109.2

$

31.1

$

87.6

Accumulated benefit obligation

29.4

102.2

30.8

80.1

Fair value of assets

16.5

74.7

14.3

59.8

Additional information for defined benefit plans (in millions):

For year ending 2006

For year ending 2005

United States

International

United States

International

Accumulated benefit obligation

$

29.4

$

102.2

$

30.8

$

80.1

Change in minimum liability
included in other
comprehensive income, net of
tax

(0.5

)

(6.4

)

0.2

3.4

In 2007, the Company expects to contribute $1.0 million in the U.S. and $5.5 million
internationally to its pension plans and $1.4 million to its other postretirement benefit plans.

In addition, the following benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, as appropriate,
are expected to be paid (in millions):

United States

International

Plan

Plans


$

2.6

$

5.7


2.7

5.8


2.8

6.2


2.7

6.5


2.6

6.9

Subsequent five years

11.4

43.6



Defined Benefit Healthcare Plans ($ in millions)

Year ending

December 31,

Fiscal Period January 1 to December 31



Disclosure Assumptions

For determining benefit obligations at year-end

Discount rate

5.97

%

5.66

%

Salary increase

5.0

%

5.0

%

For determining net periodic cost for year

Discount rate

5.66

%

5.78-6.0

%

Salary increase

5.0

%

5.0

%

Expected return on assets

N/A

N/A

Measurement date

9/30/2006

9/30/2005

Effect of 1% annual increase in health care cost trend rate:

Aggregate of the Service Cost and Interest Cost — Dollar change

$

0.09

$

0.08

APBO — Dollar Change

$

1.430

$

1.590

Effect of 1% annual decrease in health care cost trend rate:

Aggregate of the Service Cost and Interest Cost — Dollar change

$

(0.08

)

$

(0.07

)

APBO — Dollar Change

$

(1.233

)

$

(1.363

)

Cash Flows:

Employer contribution (expected during fiscal year beginning in 2006)

$

1.4

Estimated future benefit payments during fiscal year ending:


$

1.4


1.4


1.4


1.4


1.4

Subsequent five years

6.6

The assumed weighted-average annual rate of increase in the per capita cost of covered benefits is
9.0% for 2007 and is assumed to decrease gradually to 5.0% for 2012 and remain at that level
thereafter. The health care cost trend rate assumption has a significant effect on the amounts
reported.



11. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)

The components of other comprehensive income (loss) are as follows (in millions):

Cumulative

Change in

Currency

Derivative

Pension

Translation

Financial

Liability

Adjustment

Instruments

Total

Balance at December 31, 2003

$

(17.4

)

$

(27.8

)

$

0.8

$

(44.4

)

Current period activity

8.0

71.3

1.5

80.8

Tax effect

(2.6

)

—

(0.4

)

(3.0

)

Balance at December 31, 2004

(12.0

)

43.5

1.9

33.4

Current period activity

4.7

(49.0

)

(11.8

)

(56.1

)

Tax effect

(1.1

)

(1.3

)

3.3

0.9

Balance at December 31, 2005

(8.4

)

(6.8

)

(6.6

)

(21.8

)

Adoption of FAS 158, net of tax

(0.3

)

—

—

(0.3

)

Current period activity

(9.3

)

61.2

11.3

63.2

Tax effect

2.7

5.6

(3.3

)

5.0

Balance at December 31, 2006

$

(15.3

)

$

60.0

$

1.4

$

46.1

12. Commitments and Contingencies

We are involved in various claims, regulatory agency audits and pending or threatened legal actions
involving a variety of matters. The total liability on these matters cannot be
determined; however, in our opinion, any ultimate liability, to the extent not otherwise provided
for, should not materially affect our financial position, liquidity or results of operations.

Our business is affected both directly and indirectly by governmental laws and regulations relating
to the oilfield service industry in general, as well as by environmental and safety regulations
that specifically apply to our business. Although we have not incurred material costs in connection
with our compliance with such laws, there can be no assurance that other developments, such as new
environmental laws, regulations and enforcement policies thereunder may not result in additional,
presently unquantifiable, costs or liabilities to us.

The Company leases certain facilities and equipment under operating leases that expire at various
dates through 2049. These leases generally contain renewal options and require the lessee to pay
maintenance, insurance, taxes and other operating expenses in addition to the minimum annual
rentals. Rental expense related to operating leases approximated $95.4 million, $59.1 million, and
$22.4 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Future minimum lease commitments under noncancellable operating leases with initial or remaining
terms of one year or more at December 31, 2006 are payable as follows (in millions):


$

57.1


44.6


32.5


22.1


17.2

Thereafter

58.3

Total future lease commitments

$

231.8

13. Common Stock

National Oilwell Varco has authorized 500 million shares of $.01 par value common stock. We also
have authorized 10 million shares of $.01 par value preferred stock, none of which is issued or
outstanding.



Stock Options

Under the terms of National Oilwell Varco’s Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended, 7.5 million
shares of common stock are authorized for the grant of options to officers, key employees,
non-employee directors and other persons. Options granted under our stock option plan generally
vest over a three-year period starting one year from the date of grant and expire ten years from
the date of grant. The purchase price of options granted may not be less than the closing market price of
National Oilwell Varco common stock on the date of grant. At December 31, 2006, approximately 5.1
million shares were available for future grants.

We also have inactive stock option plans that were acquired in connection with the acquisitions of
Dreco Energy Services, Ltd. in 1997, IRI International Corporation in 2000 and Varco International,
Inc in March 2005. We converted the outstanding stock options under these plans to options to
acquire our common stock, and no further options are being issued or are outstanding under these plans. Stock option
information summarized below includes amounts for the National Oilwell Varco and Long-Term
Incentive Plan and stock plans of acquired companies.

Options outstanding at December 31, 2006 under the stock option plans have exercise prices between
$9.05 and $66.58 per share, and expire at various dates from February 12, 2007 to February 22,
2016.

The following summarizes options activity:

Years Ended December 31,




Average

Average

Average

Number of

Exercise

Number of

Exercise

Number of

Exercise

shares

Price

shares

Price

shares

Price

Shares under option at beginning
of year

4,340,842

30.36

3,732,316

$

26.69

3,610,571

$

23.83

Granted

2,340,000

66.58

5,292,074

28.88

1,142,500

28.22

Cancelled

(207,698

)

46.86

(452,098

)

27.95

(96,570

)

27.91

Exercised

(1,193,213

)

27.15

(4,231,450

)

25.41

(924,185

)

17.28

Shares under option at end of year

5,279,931

46.56

4,340,842

30.36

3,732,316

$

26.69

Exercisable at end of year

1,344,149

27.70

913,558

$

23.77

1,657,162

$

29.66

The following summarizes information about stock options outstanding as of December 31, 2006:

Options Outstanding

Options Exercisable

Weighted-Avg

Range of

Remaining

Weighted-Avg

Weighted-Avg

Exercise Price

Contractual Life

Shares

Exercise Price

Shares

Exercise Price

$9.05 to $19.39

4.12

170,064

15.73

170,064

15.73

$20.07 to $36.34

7.11

1,874,002

28.94

889,449

25.79

$37.60 to $66.58

8.73

3,235,865

58.38

284,636

40.83

Totals

8.00

5,279,931

46.56

1,344,149

27.70

The weighted-average fair value of options granted during 2006, 2005 and 2004 was approximately
$23.79, $16.85 (excluding options assumed in the Varco merger), and $13.19 per share, as determined
using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.

The assumptions used in the Black-Scholes option-pricing model were:

Assumptions




Risk-free interest rate

4.6

%

3.7

%

2.7

%

Expected dividend

—

—

—

Expected option life (years)

3.75

5.00

5.00

Expected Volatility


%


%


%

Stock option awards are granted with an exercise price equal to the closing market price of the
Company’s stock price on the date of grant. Stock options generally vest over a three-year period
with one third vesting in each successive year so that the option is fully exercisable after three
years and generally have ten year contractual terms.



Upon adoption of SFAS 123(R), we began recording expense related to the value of employee stock
options on the date of grant using the Black Scholes model. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R),
the value of each employee stock option was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes
model for the purpose of the pro forma financial information in accordance with SFAS 123. The
determination of fair value of share-based payment awards on the date of grant using an
option-pricing model is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of
highly complex and subjective variables. These variables include, but are not limited to, the
expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, and actual and projected employee
stock option exercise activity. The use of the Black Scholes model requires the use of extensive
actual employee exercise activity data and the use of a number of complex assumptions including
expected volatility, risk-free interest rate, expected dividends and expected term.

Year Ended

Year Ended

December 31, 2006

December 31, 2005

Expected volatility

39.37

%

46.0

%

Risk-free interest rate

4.56

%

3.68

%

Expected dividends

0.0

%

0.0

%

Expected term (in years)

3.75

5.0

Forfeiture rate

1.09

%

5.0

%

We used the actual volatility for traded options on our stock since March 11, 2005 (the Varco
merger date) as the expected volatility assumption required in the Black Scholes model, which is
consistent with SFAS 123(R) and SAB 107. Prior to the first quarter of fiscal 2006, we used our
historical stock price volatility in accordance with SFAS 123 for purposes of our pro forma
information.

The risk-free interest rate assumption is based upon observed interest rates appropriate for the
term of our employee stock options. The dividend yield assumption is based on the history and
expectation of dividend payouts. The estimated expected term is based on actual employee exercise
activity for the past ten years.

As stock-based compensation expense recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Income in 2006 is
based on awards ultimately expected to vest, it has been reduced for estimated forfeitures. SFAS
123(R) requires forfeitures to be estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in
subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. Forfeitures were estimated
based on historical experience.

The following summary presents information regarding outstanding options as of December 31, 2005
and changes during 2006 with regard to options under all stock option plans:

Weighted Average

Remaining

Weighted Average

Contractual Term

Aggregate

Shares

Exercise Price

(years)

Intrinsic Value

Outstanding at December 31,

4,340,842

$

30.36

Granted

2,340,000

$

66.58

Exercised

(1,193,213

)

$

27.15

Cancelled

(207,698

)

$

46.86

Outstanding at December 31,

5,279,931

$

46.56

8.00

$

89,407,875

Vested or expected to vest

5,222,379

$

46.56

8.00

$

88,433,329

Exercisable at December 31,

1,344,149

$

27.70

6.30

$

45,044,731

The weighted-average grant date fair values of options granted during 2006 and 2005 were $23.79 and
$16.85 (excluding options assumed in the Varco merger) respectively. The total intrinsic value of
options exercised during 2006 and 2005 was $49.6 million and $148.0 million, respectively.

As of December 31, 2006, total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested stock options
was $49.4 million. This cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2
years. The total fair value of stock vested in 2006 and 2005 was



approximately $22.1 million and
$29.8 million respectively. Cash received from option exercises for 2006 and 2005 was $32.7 million
and $111.9 million, respectively. The actual tax benefit realized for the tax deductions from
option exercises totaled $15.2 million and $31.1 million, respectively, for 2006 and 2005. Cash
used to settle equity instruments granted under all share-based payment arrangements for 2006 and
2005 was immaterial in both periods.

The impact of adopting SFAS 123(R) on January 1, 2006, on the Company’s income before income taxes,
net income and basic and diluted earnings per share for 2006 was immaterial.

14. Income Taxes

The domestic and foreign components of income before income taxes were as follows (in millions):

December 31,

December 31,

December 31,




Domestic

$

627.1

$

213.6

$

51.5

Foreign

422.1

216.4

87.4

$

1,049.2

$

430.0

$

138.9

The components of the provision for income taxes consisted of (in millions):

December 31,

December 31,

December 31,




Current:

Federal

$

255.8

$

70.5

$

9.8

State

14.4

2.8

(3.3

)

Foreign

99.3

67.6

21.8

369.5

140.9

28.3

Deferred:

Federal

(36.5

)

2.6

(12.8

)

State

(2.0

)

(0.7

)

2.2

Foreign

24.7

(3.9

)

3.9

(13.8

)

(2.0

)

(6.7

)

$

355.7

$

138.9

$

21.6

The difference between the effective tax rate reflected in the provision for income taxes and the
U.S. federal statutory rate was as follows (in millions):

Years Ended

December 31,

December 31,

December 31,




Federal income tax at statutory rate

$

367.2

$

150.5

$

48.6

Foreign income tax rate differential

(28.6

)

(13.3

)

(2.3

)

State income tax, net of federal
benefit

9.3

1.4

1.0

Tax benefit of foreign sales income

(5.2

)

(6.8

)

(3.1

)

Nondeductible expenses

7.3

5.0

1.3

Foreign dividends net of FTCs

3.4

6.2

3.2

Change in deferred tax valuation
allowance

2.7

(4.4

)

(20.3

)

Prior year taxes

(3.0

)

(2.1

)

(7.2

)

Other

2.6

2.4

0.4

$

355.7

$

138.9

$

21.6



Significant components of our deferred tax assets and liabilities were as follows (in millions):

December 31,

December 31,



Deferred tax assets:

Allowances and operating liabilities

$

115.4

$

62.4

Net operating loss carryforwards

28.5

11.8

Foreign tax credit carryforwards

0.6

4.8

Capital loss carryforwards

0.2

0.2

Other

19.8

33.5

Total deferred tax assets

164.5

112.7

Valuation allowance for deferred tax assets

(6.8

)

(1.9

)

157.7

110.8

Deferred tax liabilities:

Tax over book depreciation

89.0

98.2

Intangible assets

210.0

215.5

Deferred income

55.4

15.6

Other

34.6

44.0

Total deferred tax liabilities

389.0

373.3

Net deferred tax asset (liability)

$

(231.3

)

$

(262.5

)

In the United States, the Company has $58.1 million of net operating loss carryforwards as of
December 31, 2006, which expire at various dates through 2025. The potential benefit of $20.4
million has been recorded with $3.7 million valuation allowance. Future income tax payments will
be reduced when the Company ultimately realizes the benefit of these net operating losses. If
the Company ultimately realizes the benefit of these net operating loss carryforwards, the
valuation allowance of $3.7 million would reduce future income tax expense.

During
2006 the Company recorded $32.1 million in deferred tax assets with a
corresponding reduction in goodwill related to the finalization of
Varco purchase accounting.

Also in the United States, the Company has $.6 million of excess foreign tax credits as of December
31, 2006, which expire at various dates through 2014. These credits have been allotted a full
valuation allowance and would be realized as a reduction of future income tax payments. If the
Company ultimately realizes the benefit of these excess foreign tax credits, the valuation
allowance of $0.6 million would reduce goodwill.

Outside the United States, the Company has $28.9 million of net operating loss carryforwards as of
December 31, 2006. Of this amount, $24.5 million will expire at various dates through 2016 and
$4.4 million is available indefinitely. The related potential benefit available of $8.1 million
has been recorded with a valuation allowance of $2.3 million. If the Company ultimately realizes
the benefit of these net operating losses, the valuation allowance of $2.3 million would reduce
income tax expense.

Also outside the United States, the Company has $0.6 million of capital loss carryforwards as of
December 31, 2006, which can be carried forward indefinitely. The related potential benefit of
$0.2 million has been recorded with a full valuation allowance of $0.2 million. These capital
losses are not available to reduce future operating income but if realized will reduce future
capital gains and will result in a reduction of future income tax expense.

The deferred tax valuation allowance increased $4.9 million and decreased $14.9 million for the
periods ending December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Of the net increase recorded in 2006,
$2.7 million was recorded as an increase of income tax expense, $1.6 million was recorded as an
increase in deferred tax assets and $0.6 million was recorded as an increase in goodwill. Of the
net decrease recorded in 2005, $4.4 was recorded as a reduction of income tax expense and $18.1 as
a reduction of goodwill. The decreases recorded in 2005 were partially offset by an increase in
deferred tax valuation allowances of $7.6 million due to exchange rate movements in foreign
jurisdictions. The increase recorded in 2006 resulted from losses sustained in the US by a
subsidiary that reports its taxes separately from the consolidated group. The decrease recorded in
2005 occurred primarily in operations outside the United States where earnings improvements
resulted in the utilization of loss carryforwards to the extent the valuation allowances were no
longer required.

Undistributed earnings of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries amounted to $1,116.3 million and
$441.4 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005. Those earnings are considered to be permanently
reinvested and no provision for U.S. federal and state income taxes has been made. Distribution of
these earnings in the form of dividends or otherwise could result in either U.S. federal taxes
(subject to an adjustment for foreign tax credits) and withholding taxes payable in various foreign
countries. Determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred U.S. income tax liability is not
practical; however, unrecognized foreign tax credit



carryforwards would be available to reduce some
portion of the U.S. liability. Withholding taxes of approximately $43.4 million would be payable
upon remittance of all previously unremitted earnings at December 31, 2006.

Because of the number of tax jurisdictions in which the Company operates, its effective tax rate
can fluctuate as operations and the local country tax rates fluctuate. The Company is also subject
to audits by federal, state and foreign jurisdictions which may result in proposed assessments. The
Company’s future tax provision will reflect any favorable or unfavorable adjustments to its
estimated tax liabilities when resolved. The Company is unable to predict the outcome of these
matters.

In October of 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the “Jobs Act”) was signed into law
which introduced a special one-time dividends received deduction on the repatriation of foreign
earnings to a U.S. taxpayer (repatriation provision), provided certain criteria are net. The Act
provides for a special one-time deduction of 85 percent of certain foreign earnings that are
repatriated in either the Company’s last tax year that began before the enactment date, or the
first tax year that begins during the one-year period beginning on the date of enactment. The
maximum amount of the Company’s foreign earnings that qualify for temporary deduction is $408.2
million. The Company repatriated none of its foreign earnings in 2004 or 2005 under the
repatriation provisions of the Jobs Act.

15. Business Segments and Geographic Areas

The Company’s operations consist of three reportable segments: Rig Technology, Petroleum Services &
Supplies and Distribution Services.

Rig Technology:

Our Rig Technology Group designs, manufactures, sells and services complete rig
systems for the drilling, completion, and remediation of oil and gas wells. The Group offers a
comprehensive line of highly-engineered machinery which automates complex well construction and
management operations, such as offshore and onshore drilling rigs; pipe racking, rotating and
assembly systems; coiled tubing equipment and pressure pumping units; well workover rigs; wireline
winches; and cranes.

Petroleum Services & Supplies:

Our Petroleum Services & Supplies Group provides a variety of
consumable goods and services used to drill, complete, remediate and workover oil and gas wells,
and manage pipelines, flowlines and other oilfield tubular goods. The Group manufactures, rents
and sells a variety of products and equipment used to perform drilling operations, including solids
control systems, drilling motors, rig instrumentation systems, and drilling mud pump consumables.

Distribution Services:

Our Distribution Services Group provides maintenance, repair and operating
supplies and spare parts to drill site and production locations worldwide. In addition to its
comprehensive network of field locations supporting land drilling operations throughout North
America, the Group supports major offshore drilling contractors through locations in the Middle
East, Europe, Southeast Asia and South America. The Group employs advanced information
technologies to provide complete procurement, inventory management and logistics services to its
customers around the globe.

The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as those described in the summary
of significant accounting policies of the Company. The Company evaluates performance of each
reportable segment based upon its operating income, excluding non-recurring items.

No single customer accounted for 10% or more of consolidated revenues during the three years ended
December 31, 2006.



Summarized financial information is as follows (in millions):

Geographic Areas:

United

United

States

Canada

Norway

Kingdom

Other

Total

December 31, 2006

Revenues

$

3,985.1

$

714.9

$

987.2

$

402.2

$

936.4

$

7,025.8

Long-lived assets

596.3

115.8

42.1

88.7

179.2

1,022.1

December 31, 2005

Revenues

$

2,646.6

$

653.6

$

394.8

$

298.0

$

651.5

$

4,644.5

Long-lived assets

584.1

82.7

32.6

57.1

121.1

877.6

December 31, 2004

Revenues

$

1,303.6

$

403.1

$

274.1

$

99.7

$

237.6

$

2,318.1

Long-lived assets

126.1

33.2

33.1

24.4

38.3

255.1

Business Segments:

Petroleum

Services &

Distribution

Unallocated/

Rig Technology

Supplies

Services

Eliminations

Total

December 31, 2006

Revenues

$

3,584.9

$

2,425.0

$

1,369.6

$

(353.7

)

$

7,025.8

Operating profit

608.5

545.6

94.0

(137.0

)

1,111.1

Capital expenditures

46.8

138.5

3.7

11.4

200.4

Depreciation and amortization

48.1

100.9

5.3

6.3

160.6

Goodwill

1,168.3

1,034.9

35.2

6.3

2,244.7

Total assets

4,936.8

3,248.3

592.7

241.5

9,019.3

December 31, 2005

Revenues

$

2,216.8

$

1,645.8

$

1,074.5

$

(292.6

)

$

4,644.5

Operating profit

238.4

281.0

46.6

(89.2

)

476.8

Capital expenditures

22.9

72.6

3.7

5.8

105.0

Depreciation and amortization

35.4

68.9

5.4

4.9

114.6

Goodwill

1,117.2

959.2

35.0

6.3

2,117.7

Total assets

3,310.3

2,717.5

479.7

171.0

6,678.5

December 31, 2004

Revenues

$

1,085.5

$

505.5

$

905.1

$

(178.0

)

$

2,318.1

Operating profit

102.4

62.7

29.6

(18.7

)

176.0

Capital expenditures

15.3

19.5

2.3

1.9

39.0

Depreciation and amortization

16.2

18.5

6.8

2.5

44.0

Goodwill

424.4

173.3

35.1

6.2

639.0

Total assets

1,329.5

720.4

386.5

140.1

2,576.5



16. Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)

Summarized quarterly results, were as follows (in millions, except per share data). The 2005
results include Varco operations from the acquisition date of March 11, 2005:

Second

Third

Fourth

First Quarter

Quarter

Quarter

Quarter

Total

Year ended December 31, 2006

Revenues

$

1,511.8

$

1,657.4

$

1,777.9

$

2,078.7

$

7,025.8

Gross Profit

349.8

400.7

442.7

567.4

1,760.6

Net income

120.3

147.9

176.6

239.2

684.0

Net income per basic share

0.69

0.84

1.01

1.36

3.90

Net income per diluted share

0.68

0.84

1.00

1.35

3.87

Year ended December 31, 2005

Revenues

$

814.9

$

1,215.7

$

1,236.5

$

1,377.4

$

4,644.5

Gross Profit

161.8

255.2

258.7

311.5

987.2

Net income

35.6

61.2

88.5

101.6

286.9

Net income per basic share

0.34

0.35

0.51

0.58

1.83

Net income per diluted share

0.33

0.35

0.50

0.58

1.81



SCHEDULE II

NATIONAL OILWELL VARCO, INC.

VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

Years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004

Additions

(Deductions)

Charge

Balance

charged to

offs

Balance

beginning

costs and

and

end of

of year

expenses

other

year

(in millions)

Allowance for doubtful accounts:


$

17.4

$

17.3

$

(4.3

)

$

30.4


12.8

7.8

(3.2

)

17.4


18.3

4.0

(9.5

)

12.8

Allowance for excess and obsolete inventories:


$

56.8

$

36.9

$

(7.6

)

$

86.1


41.2

24.0

(8.4

)

56.8


45.3

15.6

(19.7

)

41.2

Valuation allowance for deferred tax assets:


$

1.9

$

2.7

$

2.2

$

6.8


16.8

(4.4

)

(10.5

)

1.9


36.9

(20.3

)

0.2

16.8



EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit

Number

Description

2.1

Amended and Restated Agreement and Plan of Merger, effective as of August 11, between
National-Oilwell, Inc. and Varco International, Inc. (4).

3.1

Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of National-Oilwell, Inc. (Exhibit 3.1) (1).

3.2

Amended and Restated By-laws of National Oilwell Varco, Inc. (Exhibit 3.2) (7).

10.1

Employment Agreement dated as of January 1, 2002 between Merrill A. Miller, Jr. and National
Oilwell. (Exhibit 10.1) (2).

10.2

Employment Agreement dated as of January 1, 2002 between Dwight W. Rettig and National
Oilwell, with similar agreements with Kevin A. Neveu and Mark A. Reese. (Exhibit 10.2) (2).

10.3

Form of Amended and Restated Executive Agreement of Clay C. Williams and Haynes Smith.
(Exhibit 10.12) (3).

10.4

National Oilwell Varco Long-Term Incentive Plan (5)*.

10.5

Form of Employee Stock Option Agreement (Exhibit 10.1) (8)

10.6

Form of Non-Employee Director Stock Option Agreement (Exhibit 10.2) (8).

10.7

Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of June 21, 2005, among National Oilwell
Varco, Inc., the financial institutions signatory thereto, including Wells Fargo Bank,
National Association, in their capacities as lenders thereunder, as US administrative agent
for the lenders, as Lead Arranger and Sole Book Runner, DnB NOR Bank ASA, as Norwegian
Administrative Agent, DnB NOR Bank ASA and the Bank of Nova Scotia as Co-Documentation
Agents, and Comerica Bank and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as Co-Syndication Agents. (Exhibit
10.1) (6).

21.1

Subsidiaries of the Registrant

23.1

Consent of Ernst & Young LLP

24.1

Power of Attorney (included on signature page hereto).

31.1

Certification pursuant to Rule 13a-14a and Rule 15d-14(a) of the Securities and Exchange Act,
as amended

31.2

Certification pursuant to Rule 13a-14a and Rule 15d-14(a) of the Securities and Exchange Act,
as amended

32.1

Certification pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

32.2

Certification pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

*

Compensatory plan or arrangement for management or others

(1)

Filed as an Exhibit to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on August 11, 2000.

(2)

Filed as an Exhibit to our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on March 28, 2002.

(3)

Filed as an Exhibit to Varco International, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on May
6, 2004.

(4)

Filed as Annex A to our Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed on September 16, 2004.

(5)

Filed as Annex D to our Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed on January
31, 2005.

(6)

Filed as an Exhibit to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 23, 2005.

(7)

Filed as an Exhibit to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 18, 2005.

(8)

Filed as an Exhibit to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 23, 2006.