10-K


h13619e10vk.htm

NATIONAL-OILWELL, INC.- DECEMBER 31, 2003

e10vk


FORM 10-K

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

(Mark one)

þ

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Commission file number 1-12317

NATIONAL-OILWELL, INC.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware

76-0475815

(State or other jurisdiction

of incorporation or organization)

(IRS Employer

Identification No.)

10000 Richmond Avenue

Houston, Texas

77042-4200

(Address of principal executive offices)

(713) 346-7500

(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Common Stock, par value $.01

New York Stock Exchange

(Title of Class)

(Exchange on which registered)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.

YES

þ

NO

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K.

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes

þ

No

o

The aggregate market value of voting and non-voting common stock held by
non-affiliates of the registrant as of June 30, 2003 was $1.8 billion. As of
March 1, 2004, there were 85,495,262 shares of the Company’s common stock
($0.01 par value) outstanding.

Documents Incorporated by Reference

Portions of the Proxy Statement in connection with the 2004 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders are incorporated in Part III of this report.



Item 1. Business

GENERAL

National Oilwell designs, manufactures and sells comprehensive systems,
components, and products used in oil and gas drilling and production, as well
as distributes products and provides services to the exploration and production
segment of the oil and gas industry.

Our Products and Technology segment designs and manufactures complete land
drilling and workover rigs, as well as drilling related systems on offshore
rigs. Technology has increased the desirability of one vendor assuming
responsibility for the entire suite of components used in the drilling process,
as mechanical and hydraulic components are replaced by or augmented with
integrated computerized systems. In addition to traditional components such as
drawworks (the hoisting winch used to raise and lower drill pipe), mud pumps
(used to circulate drilling fluids), top drives (used to turn drill pipe),
derricks, cranes, jacking and mooring systems (used to raise, lower and anchor
offshore jackup drilling rigs), and other structural components, we provide
automated pipehandling, control and electrical power systems. We have also
developed new technology for drawworks and mud pumps applicable to the highly
demanding offshore markets.

Non-capital revenue sources within our Products and Technology segment include
drilling motors and specialized downhole tools that are sold or rented, spare
parts and service on the large installed base of our equipment, expendable
parts for mud pumps and other equipment, and smaller downhole, progressive
cavity and transfer pumps.

Our Distribution Services segment provides maintenance, repair and operating
supplies and spare parts to drill site and production locations throughout
North America and to offshore contractors worldwide. Increasingly, this
business also is expanding to locations outside North America, including the
Middle East, Southeast Asia, and South America. Using our information
technology platforms and processes, we can provide complete procurement,
inventory management, and logistics services to our customers.

BUSINESS STRATEGY

National Oilwell’s business strategy is to enhance its market positions and
operating performance in the upstream oil and gas business by:

Leveraging our Capital Equipment Installed Base

We believe our market position and comprehensive product offering present
substantial opportunities to capture a significant portion of expenditures for
the construction of new drilling rigs and equipment as well as the upgrade and
refurbishment of existing drilling rigs and equipment. Over the next few years,
the advanced age of the existing fleet of drilling rigs, coupled with drilling
activity involving greater depths and extended reach, is expected to generate
demand for new equipment. National Oilwell’s automation and control systems
offer the potential to improve the performance of new and existing drilling
rigs. The large installed base of our equipment also provides recurring demand
for spare parts and expendable products necessary for proper and efficient
operation.

Expanding our Non-Capital Products Business

Our non-capital equipment revenues continue to represent approximately half of
our products and technology business. We rent and sell high-performance
drilling motors and downhole tools and manufacture certain expendable products and spare parts needed in the drilling
and production process. We believe additional expansion in the non-capital
upstream oil and gas industry would be beneficial to our business and our
customers.



Furthering our Information Technology and Process Improvement Strategy

National Oilwell has developed an integrated information technology and process
improvement strategy to enhance procurement, inventory management and logistics
activities. As a result of the need to improve industry efficiency, oil and gas
companies and drilling contractors are frequently seeking alliances with
suppliers, manufacturers and service providers to achieve cost and capital
improvements. We believe we are well positioned to provide these services as a
result of our:

-

large and geographically diverse network of distribution service
centers in major oil and gas producing areas;

-

strong relationship with a large community of industry suppliers;

-

knowledge of customer's procurement processes, supplier's
capabilities and product's performance; and

-

information systems that offer customers and suppliers enhanced
capabilities.

In addition, the integration of our distribution expertise, extensive network
and growing base of customer alliances provides an increased opportunity for
cost-effective marketing of our manufactured parts and equipment.

Continuing our Acquisitions Strategy

We believe the oilfield service and equipment industry will continue to
experience consolidation as businesses seek to align themselves with other
market participants in order to gain access to broader markets and integrated
product offerings. Since 1997, we have completed thirty-nine acquisitions and
plan to continue to participate in this consolidation trend. The aggregate
effect of these acquisitions has positively impacted our ability to provide
complete drilling equipment systems to our customers.

OPERATIONS

Products and Technology

National Oilwell designs, manufactures and sells drilling systems and
components for both land and offshore drilling rigs as well as complete land
drilling and well servicing rigs. Mechanical components include drawworks, mud
pumps, top drives, solids control equipment (used to remove particulates from
drilling fluids), traveling equipment (hooks and blocks used to hoist and lower
drill pipe) and rotary tables (used to rotate drill pipe). These components are
essential to pump fluids and hoist, support and rotate the drill string. Many
of these components are designed specifically for applications in offshore,
extended reach and deep land drilling operations. This equipment is installed
on new rigs and often replaced during the upgrade and refurbishment of existing
rigs.



We design and manufacture masts, derricks and substructures for use on land
rigs and on fixed and mobile offshore platforms suitable for drilling
applications to depths of up to 30,000 feet or more. Other products include
cranes, jacking and mooring systems, reciprocating and centrifugal pumps and
fluid end expendables for all major manufacturers’ pumps. Our business includes
the sale of replacement parts for our own manufactured machinery and equipment.

We also design and manufacture electrical systems and control and data
acquisition systems for drilling related operations and automated and remotely
controlled machinery for drilling rigs. Our control systems can control and
monitor many simultaneous operations on a drilling rig and often form the basis
for our state-of-the-art driller’s cabin. Our automated pipe handling system
provides an efficient and cost effective method of joining lengths of drill
pipe or casing, as does our iron roughneck. These and similar technologically
advanced products can greatly improve the safety on rigs, often by reducing the
number of persons working on the drilling floor.

While offering a complete line of conventional rigs, National Oilwell has
extensive experience in providing rig designs to satisfy requirements for harsh
or specialized environments. Such products include drilling and well servicing
rigs designed for the Arctic, highly mobile drilling and well servicing rigs
for jungle and desert use, modular well servicing rigs for offshore platforms
and modular drilling facilities for North Sea platforms. We also design and
produce fully integrated drilling equipment packages for offshore rigs.

National Oilwell designs and manufactures drilling motors, drilling jars and
specialized drilling tools for rent and sale. We also design and manufacture a
complete line of fishing tools, used to remove objects stuck in the wellbore,
and progressive cavity pumps.

Distribution Services

National Oilwell provides distribution services through its network of 146
distribution service centers. National Oilwell’s distribution service centers
are located throughout the oil and gas producing regions of North America, with
92 in the United States, 40 in Canada, and the remainder in various
international locations. These distribution service centers stock and sell a
variety of expendable items for oilfield applications and spare parts for our
proprietary equipment. As oil and gas companies and drilling contractors have
refocused on their core competencies and emphasized efficiency initiatives to
reduce costs and capital requirements, our distribution services have expanded
to offer outsourcing and alliance arrangements that include comprehensive
procurement, inventory management and logistics support. In addition, we
believe we have a competitive advantage in the distribution services business
by distributing products manufactured by us and from the association of this
business with our Products and Technology segment.

The supplies and equipment stocked by our distribution service centers vary by
location. Each distribution point generally offers a large line of oilfield
products including valves, fittings, flanges, spare parts for oilfield
equipment and miscellaneous expendable items.

Most drilling contractors and oil and gas companies typically buy supplies and
equipment pursuant to non-exclusive contracts, which normally specify a
discount from list price for each product or product category. Our goal is to
create strategic alliances with our customers whereby we become the customer’s
primary supplier of those items. In certain cases, we assume responsibility for
procurement, inventory management and product delivery for the customer,
occasionally by working directly out of the customer’s facilities.

We believe e-commerce brings a significant advantage to larger companies that
are technologically proficient. Our e-commerce system can interface directly
with customers’ systems to maximize efficiencies for us and for our customers. We believe we
have an advantage in this effort due to our investment in technology,
geographic size, knowledge of the industry and customers, existing
relationships with vendors and existing means of product delivery.



Marketing

Substantially all of our capital equipment and spare parts sales, and a large
portion of our smaller pumps and parts sales, are made through our direct sales
force and distribution service centers. Sales to foreign state-owned oil
companies are typically made in conjunction with agent or representative
arrangements. Our downhole products are generally rented and sold worldwide
through our own sales force and through commissioned representatives.
Distribution sales are made through our network of distribution service
centers. Customers for our products and services include drilling and other
service contractors, exploration and production companies, supply companies and
nationally owned or controlled drilling and production companies.

Competition

The oilfield services and equipment industry is highly competitive and our
revenues and earnings can be affected by price changes, introduction of new
technologies and products and improved availability and delivery. Our Products
and Technology business segment competes with several companies in North
America that have drilling products that compete directly with certain of our
products. Our Distribution Services business segment competes with various
smaller regional competitors who may have strong direct ties with smaller or
decentralized drilling and production companies and other multinational
distribution companies on the basis of service and price. None of these
competing companies dominate in any of the business segments or geographic
areas in which we operate.

Manufacturing and Backlog

National Oilwell has manufacturing facilities located in the United States,
Canada, England, France, Norway and China. The manufacture of parts or purchase
of components is sometimes outsourced to qualified subcontractors. The
manufacturing operations require a variety of components, parts and raw
materials which we purchase from multiple commercial sources. We have not
experienced and do not expect any significant delays in obtaining deliveries of
materials.

Sales of products are made on the basis of written orders and oral commitments.
Our backlog for equipment at recent year-ends has been:

December 31, 2003

$339 million

December 31, 2002

364 million

December 31, 2001

385 million

Distribution Suppliers

National Oilwell obtains products sold by its Distribution Services business
from a number of suppliers, including our own Products and Technology segment.
No single supplier of products is significant to our operations. We have not
experienced and do not expect a shortage of products that we sell.



Engineering

National Oilwell maintains a staff of engineers and technicians to:

-

design and test new products, components and systems for use in
drilling and pumping applications;

-

enhance the capabilities of existing products; and

-

assist our sales organization and customers with special projects.

Our product engineering efforts focus on developing technology to improve the
economics and safety of drilling and production processes, and to emphasize
technology and complete drilling solutions.

Patents and Trademarks

National Oilwell owns or has a license to use a number of patents covering a
variety of products. Although in the aggregate these patents are of importance,
we do not consider any single patent to be of a critical or essential nature.
In general, our business has historically relied upon technological
capabilities, quality products and application of expertise rather than
patented technology.

Employees

As of December 31, 2003, we had a total of 7,500 employees, 4,700 of whom were
salaried and 2,800 of whom were paid on an hourly basis. Of this workforce,
1,350 employees are employed in Canada, 775 in Norway, 450 in the United
Kingdom and 925 in other locations outside the United States. We also had
approximately 1,200 employees in our joint venture operation in Lanzhou, China.

Available Information Regarding our SEC Filings

Our corporate offices are located at 10000 Richmond Avenue, Houston, Texas
77042-4200. Our phone number at that location is (713) 346-7500 and our
Internet address is www.natoil.com. Information we make public about our
company, including all SEC required filings, is available to you, free of
charge, at our Internet address. Our Code of Ethics is also posted on our
website.

RISK FACTORS

You should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to
other information contained or incorporated by reference herein. Realization
of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.

Demand for Our Products is Dependent Upon the Price of Oil and Gas and the
Willingness to Explore and Produce Oil and Gas.

National Oilwell is dependent upon the oil and gas industry and its
willingness to explore for and produce oil and gas. The industry’s willingness
to explore and produce depends upon the prevailing view of future product
prices. Many factors affect the supply and demand for



oil and gas and therefore influence product prices, including:

If there is a significant reduction in demand for drilling services, in
cash flows of drilling contractors or production companies or in drilling or
well servicing rig utilization rates, then demand for our products will
decline.

Volatile Oil and Gas Prices Affect Demand for Our Products.

Oil and gas prices have been volatile since 1990. In general, oil prices
approximated $18-22 per barrel from 1991 through 1997, experienced a decline
into the low teens in 1998 and 1999, and have generally ranged between $25-35
per barrel since 2000. Spot gas prices generally ranged between $1.80-2.60 per
mmbtu of gas from 1991 through 1999, then experienced severe spikes into the
$10 range in 2001 and 2003. Absent occasional spikes and dips due to
imbalances in supply and demand, prices have generally ranged between
$4.00-6.00 per mmbtu during the last two years.

Expectations for future oil and gas prices cause many shifts in the
strategies and expenditure levels of oil and gas companies and drilling
contractors, particularly with respect to decisions to purchase major capital
equipment of the type we manufacture. Industry activity and our revenues have
responded slowly to the higher commodity prices that have existed since the
second quarter of 2002, presumably due to concerns that these prices will not
continue in the current range. Oil and gas prices, which are determined by the
marketplace, may fall below a range that is acceptable to our customers, which
could reduce demand for our products.

Competition in our Industry Could Ultimately Lead to Lower Revenues and
Earnings.

The oilfield products and services industry is highly competitive. The
following competitive actions can each affect our revenues and earnings:

•

price changes;

•

new product and technology introductions; and

•

improvements in availability and delivery.

National Oilwell’s Products and Technology business segment competes with
several companies in North America that have drilling products that compete
directly with certain of our products. National Oilwell’s Distribution
Services business segment faces competition from various smaller regional
competitors who have strong direct ties with smaller or decentralized drilling
and production companies, as well as other multinational distribution companies
who
compete based on service and price. Competition in our industry could lead
to lower revenues and earnings.



Because Some of Our Products are Used in Potentially Hazardous Activities, We
Face Potential Product Liability and Warranty Claims.

Customers use some of our products in potentially hazardous drilling,
completion and production applications that can cause:

•

injury or loss of life;

•

damage to property, equipment or the environment; and

•

suspension of operations.

We may be named as a defendant in product liability or other lawsuits
asserting potentially large claims if an accident occurs at a location where
our equipment and services have been used. We are currently party to various
legal and administrative proceedings. The outcome of any such legal or
administrative proceedings could have an adverse effect on our financial
condition.

The Location of Some of our Customers in Foreign Markets that may have Unstable
Economies or Governments Could Have a Negative Impact on Our Revenues and
Earnings.

Some of our revenues depend upon customers in the Middle East, Africa,
Southeast Asia, South America and other international markets. These revenues
are subject to risks of instability of foreign economies and governments. Laws
and regulations limiting exports to particular countries can affect our sales,
and sometimes export laws and regulations of one jurisdiction contradict those
of another.

National-Oilwell Sells Products and Services Outside the United States.
Changes in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Could Have a Negative Impact on our
Revenues and Earnings.

We are exposed to the risks of changes in exchange rates between the U.S.
dollar and foreign currencies. Our Norwegian companies enter into foreign
exchange forward contracts, primarily between the Norwegian kroner and the US
dollar, to hedge cash flows on certain significant contracts. Our decisions
regarding the need for hedging foreign currencies in Norway and other countries
can adversely affect our operating results.

Our Growth Could Cause Difficulties Integrating Operations that We Acquire.

We have made 39 acquisitions since April 1997, including nine in 2003 and
four in 2002. We do not know whether suitable acquisition candidates will be
available on reasonable terms or if we will have access to adequate funds to
complete any desired acquisition. In addition, we may not be able to
successfully integrate the operations of the acquired companies. Combining
organizations could interrupt the activities of some or all of our businesses
and have a negative impact on operations.

Our Indebtedness Could Limit Our Ability to Borrow Additional Funds and/or Make
Us Vulnerable to General Adverse Economic and Industry Conditions.



In 1998, National Oilwell issued $150 million of 6.875% unsecured senior notes
due July 1, 2005. In 2001, we issued an additional $150 million of 6.5%
unsecured senior notes due March 15, 2011. In 2002, we issued $200 million of
5.65% unsecured senior notes due November 15, 2012. We also have $313 million
in committed credit facilities (reduced to $269 million in February 2004) and
an additional $134 million available in uncommitted facilities. Our leverage
requires us to use some of our cash flow from operations for payment of
interest on our debt. Our leverage may also make it more difficult to obtain
additional financing in the future. Further, our leverage could make us more
vulnerable to economic downturns and competitive pressures.

We do not currently have sufficient cash to repay the notes that are due July
1, 2005, and we have no arrangements in place to refinance. There is no
assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient cash or borrow funds in
the future to allow us to repay this debt.



Item 2. Properties

National Oilwell owned or leased approximately 240 facilities worldwide as of
December 31, 2003, including the following principal manufacturing and
administrative facilities:

Approximate

Building Space

Location

(square foot)

Description

Status

Lanzhou, China (joint venture)

1,248,000

Manufactures drilling machinery and equipment

Owned

Pampa, Texas

548,000

Manufactures drilling machinery and equipment

Owned

Houston, Texas

540,000

Manufactures downhole tools and mobile rigs

Owned

Houston, Texas

417,000

Manufactures drilling machinery and equipment

Leased

Manchester, England

244,000

Manufactures pumps and expendable parts

Owned

Carquefou, France

213,000

Manufactures offshore equipment

Owned

Houston, Texas

200,000

Manufactures braking systems and generators

Owned

Houston, Texas

184,000

Manufactures electrical power systems

Owned

Houston, Texas

178,000

Manufactures drilling components and rigs

Owned

Tulsa, Oklahoma

165,000

Manufactures pumps and expendable parts

Owned

Edmonton, Alberta, Canada

162,000

Manufactures downhole tools

Owned

Kristiansand, Norway

157,000

Manufactures drilling and offshore equipment

Owned

McAlester, Oklahoma

120,000

Manufactures pumps and expendable parts

Owned

Houston, Texas

115,000

Administrative offices

Leased

Houston, Texas

84,000

Distribution and warehousing operations

Owned

Calgary, Alberta, Canada

76,000

Manufactures coiled tubing units and wireline trucks

Owned

Molde, Norway

68,000

Manufactures marine handling equipment

Owned

Marble Falls, Texas

65,000

Manufactures drilling expendable parts

Owned

Edmonton, Alberta, Canada

61,000

Manufactures drilling machinery and equipment

Owned

Nisku, Alberta, Canada

60,000

Manufactures drilling machinery and equipment

Owned

Houston, Texas

51,000

Manufactures pumps and expendable parts

Owned

We own or lease 68 satellite repair and manufacturing facilities that refurbish
and manufacture new equipment and parts and approximately 146 distribution
service centers worldwide. We believe the capacity of our facilities is
adequate to meet demand currently anticipated for 2004.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

National Oilwell has various claims, lawsuits and administrative proceedings
that are pending or threatened, all arising in the ordinary course of business,
with respect to commercial, product liability and employee matters. Although
no assurance can be given with respect to the outcome of these or any other
pending legal and administrative proceedings and the effect such outcomes may
have, we believe any ultimate liability resulting from the outcome of such
proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated
financial statements.

Item 4. Submission Of Matters To A Vote Of Security Holders

No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the quarter
ended December 31, 2003.



Part II

Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

Market Information

National Oilwell common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (ticker
symbol: NOI). The following table sets forth the stock price range during the
past three years:




Quarter

High

Low

High

Low

High

Low

First

$

23.44

$

19.36

$

26.25

$

16.43

$

40.50

$

33.65

Second

24.78

20.54

28.81

20.91

39.55

26.80

Third

21.80

17.86

21.29

15.19

25.74

12.91

Fourth

22.99

18.01

23.31

17.69

20.86

13.85

As of March 1, 2004, there were 531 holders of record of National Oilwell
common stock. Many stockholders choose to own shares through brokerage accounts
and other intermediaries rather than as holders of record so the actual number
is unknown but significantly higher. National Oilwell has never paid cash
dividends, and none are anticipated during 2004.

Item 6. Selected Financial Data

Year Ended December 31,





1999 (3)

(in thousands of U.S. dollars, except per share amounts)

Operating Data:

Revenues

$

2,004,920

$

1,521,946

$

1,747,455

$

1,149,920

$

839,648

Operating income (1) (4)

158,988

134,323

189,277

48,456

1,325

Income (loss) before taxes (4)

110,506

112,465

168,017

27,037

(14,859

)

Net income (loss) (2)

76,821

73,069

104,063

13,136

(9,385

)

Net income (loss) per share

Basic (2)

0.91

0.90

1.29

0.17

(0.13

)

Diluted (2)

0.90

0.89

1.27

0.16

(0.13

)

Other Data:

Depreciation and amortization

39,182

25,048

38,873

35,034

25,541

Capital expenditures

32,378

24,805

27,358

24,561

17,547

Balance Sheet Data:

Working capital

794,185

768,852

631,257

480,321

452,015

Total assets

2,242,736

1,977,228

1,471,696

1,278,894

1,005,715

Long-term debt, less current maturities

593,980

594,637

300,000

222,477

196,053

Stockholders’ equity

1,090,429

933,364

867,540

767,206

596,375

(1)

In connection with the IRI International Corporation merger in 2000, we
recorded charges of $14.1 million related to direct merger costs,
personnel reductions, and facility closures and inventory write-offs of
$15.7 million due to product line rationalization.

(2)

We adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142,
“Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” (SFAS 142), effective January 1,
2002. The effects of not amortizing goodwill and other intangible assets
in periods prior to the adoption of SFAS 142 would have resulted in net
income (loss) of $115.0 million, $23.1 million, and $(4.0) million for
the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000, and 1999, respectively; basic
earnings per common share of $1.42, $0.29, and $(0.06) for the years
ending December 31, 2001, 2000, and 1999, respectively; and diluted
earnings per common share of $1.41, $0.29, and $(0.06) for the years
ending December 31, 2001, 2000, and 1999, respectively.

(3)

Data for 1999 is restated to combine IRI International and
Dupré
results pursuant to pooling-of-interests accounting.



(4)

2003 includes a $6.3 million pre-tax charge ($4.4 million after tax)
related to a clearing account problem within the Distribution Group’s
purchasing system that had accumulated over a three-year period. We have
not restated prior periods, as the impact is not considered material.



Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

General Overview

We design, manufacture and sell drilling systems, drilling equipment and
downhole products as well as distribute maintenance, repair and operating
products to the oil and gas industry. Our revenues and operating results are
directly related to the level of worldwide oil and gas drilling and production
activities and the profitability and cash flow of oil and gas companies and
drilling contractors, which in turn are affected by current and anticipated
prices of oil and gas. Oil and gas prices have been and are likely to continue
to be volatile. This is a cyclical industry and, unlike most prior cycles,
sustained, relatively high oil and gas prices have not driven a corresponding
level of increased spending by our customers. See “Risk Factors”.

We conduct our operations through the following segments:

Products and Technology

Our Products and Technology segment designs and manufactures complete land
drilling and workover rigs, and drilling related systems for offshore rigs.
Technology has increased the desirability of one vendor assuming responsibility
for the entire suite of components used in the drilling process, as mechanical
and hydraulic components are replaced by or augmented with integrated
computerized systems. In addition to traditional components such as drawworks,
mud pumps, top drives, derricks, cranes, jacking and mooring systems, and other
structural components, we provide automated pipehandling, control and
electrical power systems. We have also developed new technology for drawworks
and mud pumps applicable to the highly demanding offshore markets. We have made
strategic acquisitions during the past several years in an effort to expand our
product offering and our global manufacturing capabilities, including new
operations in Norway, the United Kingdom and China. Product and Technology
revenues are directly dependent on the levels of worldwide drilling activity.

Distribution Services

Our Distribution Services segment provides maintenance, repair and operating
supplies and spare parts from our network of distribution service centers to
drill site and production locations throughout North America and to offshore
contractors worldwide. Products are purchased from numerous manufacturers and
vendors, including our Products and Technology segment. We have expanded this
business to locations outside North America, including Europe, the Middle East,
Southeast Asia, and South America. We have made significant investments in
systems, staffing and inventory in the international market and, using our
information technology platforms and processes, we can provide complete
procurement, inventory management, and logistics services to our customers.
Approximately half of Distribution Services revenues are tied to worldwide
drilling activity, and the balance relates to the production of oil and gas
reserves.



Results of Operations

Operating results by segment are as follows (in millions):

Year Ended December 31,




Revenues:

Revenues from backlog

$

623.1

$

390.4

$

454.3

Noncapital equipment

691.6

526.9

666.6

Products and Technology

1,314.7

917.3

1,120.9

Distribution Services

792.0

686.2

707.8

Eliminations

(101.7

)

(81.5

)

(81.3

)

Total

$

2,005.0

$

1,522.0

$

1,747.4

Operating Income:

Products and Technology

$

165.1

$

127.0

$

171.0

Distribution Services

6.5

18.1

28.5

Corporate

(12.6

)

(10.8

)

(10.2

)

Total

$

159.0

$

134.3

$

189.3

Capital equipment backlog:

Beginning of year

$

363.6

$

384.9

$

282.2

Add: Orders, net

598.4

199.1

557.0

Less: Revenues

623.1

390.4

454.3

End of year

$

338.9

$

363.6

(1)

$

384.9

(1)

Includes $170 million Hydralift backlog @ 12/31/02

Products and Technology

Year 2003 versus 2002

Revenues in the Products and Technology segment in 2003 increased $397.4
million over the prior year, with virtually all of the increase attributable to
our acquisitions of Hydralift and Monoflo. Major international construction
projects are generally long-term contracts, thus less susceptible to changes in
oil and gas prices or rig count movements. Our revenues from backlog increased
$233 million, primarily resulting from the addition of the Hydralift
operations. Sales and rentals of downhole motors and fishing tools increased
approximately $32 million, primarily due to the resurging North American
drilling rig count. Spare part and service revenues accounted for the remaining
incremental revenues. Operating income in 2003 increased $38.1 million over
2002 and generated a flow-through percentage of 9.6%. Flow-through, defined as
incremental operating profit divided by incremental revenues, is a key
financial metric for our company. While we target a flow-through rate of 25%
for this group, this was not expected in 2003 as the increased revenues came
from acquisitions which in turn included large amounts of overhead and
administrative costs. Product mix unfavorably impacted gross margin as the
lower margins on the major projects reduced gross margin %, another important
metric, by almost 4%. Operating expenses incurred to generate the margins
resulting from the incremental sales volume were approximately $81 million
higher than the prior year, due primarily to the addition of Hydralift and
Monoflo.



One of our primary metrics is the capital equipment backlog. New orders are
added to backlog only when we receive a firm customer purchase order for major
drilling rig components or a
signed contract related to a construction project. The Products and Technology
capital equipment backlog was $339 million at December 31, 2003, $364 million
at December 31, 2002 and $385 million at December 31, 2001. Backlog at December
31, 2002 includes $170 million acquired in late December through the purchase
of Hydralift ASA. Backlog from Hydralift is also contained in the December 31,
2003 amount but quantification is not possible due to the overlap with products
from our other operations. Substantially all of the current backlog is expected
to be shipped by mid-year 2005.

Year 2002 versus 2001

Products and Technology revenues in 2002 were $203.6 million (18%) lower than
the previous year as moderate oil and gas prices failed to sustain the 2001
levels of market activity in all product areas. Revenues from backlog were down
$64 million while related spare parts and expendable parts were lower than 2001
by $38 million. Sales and rentals of downhole motors and fishing tools
decreased by approximately $74 million, impacted by its strong dependence on
the North American market. Operating income fell $44 million in 2002 when
compared to the prior year, impacted by the margin reduction due to the
significantly lower volume. Changes in sales price did not have any
significant effect on revenues compared to the prior year. The absence of
amortization of goodwill in 2002, as required per the new accounting guidance,
favorably impacted operating income by $10.4 million. Reductions in
compensation expense also contributed approximately $11.0 million in operating
income when compared to the prior year. Revenues from the mid-December 2002
acquisition of Hydralift ASA, and the consolidation of our Chinese joint
venture, each contributed $8.0 million in revenues and $0.3 million and $2.2
million in operating income, respectively.

Distribution Services

Year 2003 versus 2002

Revenues for the Distribution Services segment increased $105.8 million (15%)
over the prior year. North American revenues recorded the largest gains,
reflecting the increase in the number of operating rigs. According to the Baker
Hughes rig count report, the average number of rigs operating in 2003 in the
United States and Canada were 1,032, and 372 - increases of 202 and 106 over
the prior year. Canadian revenues were up $37 million, or 24%, while the U.S.
revenues improved $51 million, or 14%. We expanded our presence in the
international market as we recorded revenue gains of $18 million (12%) over the
year 2002, primarily due to an alliance in Indonesia and our new operations in
Mexico. Our base margin % remained flat as our customers remained sensitive to
price changes, which had no significant effect on 2003 revenues. Substantially
all of the 2003 revenue growth was in the maintenance, repair and operating
supplies (“MRO”) products. Despite the revenue increase, operating income in
2003 fell $11.6 million to a disappointing $6.5 million. This reduction was
primarily due to recording a $6.3 million pre-tax charge related to a clearing
account problem uncovered in our purchasing system that had accumulated over a
three year period. This amount relates to periods prior to 2003 and we have not
restated prior periods as the impact is not considered material. A key
financial metric for this low-margin business is “% of operating expenses to
revenue,” which remained flat at 18% for 2003. In November 2003, we acquired
Corlac Equipment Ltd., a Canadian pump distributor, and their 2003 revenues and
operating income were not significant.



Year 2002 versus 2001

Distribution Services revenues fell $21.6 million, or 3%, from the 2001 level
as this segment’s strategy to create strategic alliances and expand its
international presence made significant market penetration during a difficult
market. North American revenues fell approximately 16% due to the lower
activity level while shipments in the international market almost doubled.
Sales of our own-make products increased almost 12% while MRO sales fell almost
5%. Changes in sales price did not have any significant effect on revenues
compared to the prior year. Operating income in 2002 was $10.4 million lower
than the prior year. Margin reduction, due to the lower volume and project
bidding pressures, contributed to approximately 80% of the operating income
shortfall with the remainder due to significant infrastructure growth.

Corporate

Corporate charges represent the unallocated portion of centralized and
executive management costs. Year 2003 costs of $12.6 million reflect certain
corporate-led marketing and product sourcing initiatives, and general overhead
incurred to support a larger company. Year 2004 corporate charges are expected
to approximate $13 million due to recent acquisitions.

Interest Expense

Year 2003 interest expense of $35.5 million increased $11.4 million from the
prior year. Annual interest due on the November 2002 issuance of senior notes
accounted for $9.9 million of the increase. Borrowings in Norway attributable
to the Hydralift operations incurred approximately $3 million in additional
interest which was offset in part by lower borrowing rates on the U.S.
revolving credit facility. Our average borrowing cost during 2003 of 5.6%
reflected a decrease of 0.8 percentage points from the prior year due to the
lower interest rates on the credit facilities.

Interest expense in 2002 totaled $24.1 million, an increase of $1.3 million
from the prior year. All of this increase is a direct result of our
mid-November 2002 sale of $200 million of 5.65% unsecured senior notes. Our
average borrowing cost during 2002 of 6.4% remained the same as 2001.

Other Income (Expense)

The devaluation of the U.S. dollar during 2003 impacted our operations,
primarily in Canada, Norway and the United Kingdom. We recorded foreign
exchange losses in our income statement of approximately $7.2 million in 2003,
compare to $0.3 million in the prior year.

Income Taxes

National Oilwell is subject to U.S. federal, state and foreign taxes and
recorded a combined tax rate of 29% in 2003, 35% in 2002 and 38% in 2001. The
reduction in the 2003 effective tax rate was primarily due to the lower tax
rate on increased foreign income and the benefit associated with export sales.
We expect our tax rate in 2004 to approximate 29%. This effective tax rate in
2004 includes continued benefits associated with export sales, which is
currently the subject of legislation to repeal these benefits. If repealed and
not replaced with similar benefits, we expect our effective tax rate to
approximate 32%.



Liquidity and Capital Resources

At December 31, 2003, our working capital totaled $794 million, an increase of
$25 million from December 31, 2002. We have seen a general increase in
activity levels which are reflected in our receivables, inventory and payables
balances. Receivables increased approximately $33 million due primarily to the
2003 acquisitions. We have not experienced substantial improvements in our
collections process as our days sales outstanding (DSO) metric remained in the
mid-90 days. Inventories have increased $77 million, partially due to the
Monoflo and Corlac acquisitions as well as a $9 million increase in
Distribution Services to support their international market penetration. These
increases were offset in part by a $60 million increase in accounts payable. We
recorded approximately $15 million of our debt obligations to a current
liability as our Norwegian facility had a NOK 100 million repayment due in May
2004. Our principal source of cash is from operations. Our ability to collect
our customer receivables and obtain prepayments from our customers to help fund
major projects are critical to our cash generation needs. Our primary cash uses
include acquisitions, capital expenditures to enhance our existing operations,
and repayment of debt obligations.

Total capital expenditures were $32.4 million during 2003, $24.8 million in
2002 and $27.4 million in 2001. The majority of these capital expenditures
represent additions and enhancements to the downhole rental tool fleet and
information management and inventory control systems. Capital expenditures are
expected to approximate $35 million in 2004, slightly below our anticipated
depreciation expense in that year, with continued emphasis on rental tools and
information technology. We believe we have sufficient existing manufacturing
capacity to meet currently anticipated demand through 2004 for our products and
services.

In November 2002, we sold $200 million of 5.65% unsecured senior notes due
November 15, 2012. Interest is payable on May 15 and November 15 of each year.
In March 2001, we sold $150 million of 6.50% unsecured senior notes due March
15, 2011, with interest payable on March 15 and September 15 of each year. In
June 1998, we sold $150 million of 6.875% unsecured senior notes due July 1,
2005, with interest payments due annually on January 1 and July 1.

At December 31, 2003, we had two committed credit facilities, a North
American and a Norwegian facility, totaling $313 million. Both facilities
are available for general corporate purposes and acquisitions, including
letters of credit and performance bonds.

Our North American facility is a three-year unsecured $175 million revolving
credit facility with availability up to $50 million for issuance of letters
of credit that expires July 31, 2005. At December 31, 2003, borrowings
against this facility totaled $40 million and there were $15 million in
outstanding letters of credit. Interest (1.6% @ 12/31/03) is based upon
prime or Libor plus 0.5% subject to a ratings based grid.

Our Norwegian facility, which expires in 2006, has multi-currency term loans
and revolving credit facilities totaling $138 million, with $38 million
available for letter of credit purposes. At December 31, 2003, borrowings
against this facility totaled $70 million, including $40 million in term
loans with $15 million due in May 2004, and there were $25 million in
outstanding letters of credit. Interest (3.4% @ 12/31/03) is based upon a
pre-agreed percentage point spread from either the prime interest rate,
NIBOR or EURIBOR. In February 2004, we reduced the commitment by $44 million
to $94 million and borrowed $40 million against the North American facility
to repay all the term loans.



We also have additional uncommitted credit facilities totaling $134 million
that are used primarily for letters of credit, bid bonds and performance
bonds. At December 31, 2003, there were no borrowings against these
additional credit facilities and there were $35 million in outstanding
letters of credit and performance bonds.

The senior notes contain reporting covenants and the credit facilities contain
financial covenants and ratios regarding maximum debt to capital and minimum
interest coverage. We were in compliance with all covenants governing these
facilities at December 31, 2003.

We believe cash generated from operations and amounts available under our
credit facilities and from other sources of debt will be sufficient to fund
operations, working capital needs, capital expenditure requirements and
financing obligations. We also believe any significant increase in capital
expenditures caused by any need to increase manufacturing capacity can be
funded from operations or through debt financing.

We have not entered into any transactions, arrangements, or relationships with
unconsolidated entities or other persons which would materially affect
liquidity, or the availability of or requirements for capital resources.

A summary of our outstanding contractual obligations and other commercial
commitments at December 31, 2003 is as follows (in thousands):

Payments Due by Period

Less than 1

Contractual Obligations

Total

year

1-3 years

4-5 years

After 5 years

Long Term Debt

$

608,890

$

14,910

$

243,980

$

—

$

350,000

Operating Leases

58,300

15,423

29,520

7,050

6,307

Total contractual obligations

$

667,190

$

30,333

$

273,500

$

7,050

$

356,307

Amount of Commitment Expiration per Period

Less than 1

Commercial Commitments

Total

year

1-3 years

4-5 years

After 5 years

Line of Credit

$

313,570

$

—

$

313,570

$

—

$

—

Standby Letters of Credit

74,937

61,818

10,446

2,673

—

Total commercial commitments

$

388,507

$

61,818

$

324,016

$

2,673

$

—

In February 2004, we reduced the line of credit commitment by $44 million to
$269 million.

We intend to pursue additional acquisition candidates, but the timing, size
or success of any acquisition effort and the related potential capital
commitments cannot be predicted. We expect to fund future cash
acquisitions primarily with cash flow from operations and borrowings,
including the unborrowed portion of the credit facility or new debt
issuances, but may also issue additional equity either directly or in
connection with acquisitions. There can be no assurance that acquisition
funds will be available at terms acceptable to us.

Inflation has not had a significant impact on National Oilwell’s operating
results or financial condition in recent years.



Market Risk Disclosure

We are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest
rates. Additional information concerning each of these matters follows:

Foreign Currency Exchange Rates

We have operations in foreign countries, including Canada, Norway and the
United Kingdom, as well as operations in Latin America, China and other
European countries. The net assets and liabilities of these operations are
exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, although such
fluctuations generally do not affect income since their functional currency is
the local currency. These operations also have net assets and liabilities not
denominated in the local currency, which exposes us to changes in foreign
currency exchange rates that do impact income. We recorded foreign exchange
losses in our income statement of approximately $7.2 million in 2003, compare
to $0.3 million in the prior year. We do not believe that a hypothetical 10%
movement in these foreign currencies would have a material impact on our
earnings.

Some of our revenues in foreign countries are denominated in US dollars, and
therefore, changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact our earnings to
the extent that costs associated with those US dollar revenues are denominated
in the local currency. In order to mitigate that risk, we may utilize foreign
currency forward contracts to better match the currency of our revenues and
associated costs. We do not use foreign currency forward contracts for trading
or speculative purposes. The counterparties to these contracts are major
financial institutions, which minimizes counterparty credit risk.

Interest Rate Risk

Our long term borrowings consist of $150 million in 6.875% senior notes, $150
million in 6.5% senior notes and $200 million in 5.65% senior notes. We also
have borrowings under our other facilities totaling $108.9 million at December
31, 2003 (weighted average interest rate of 2.8% at December 31, 2003). A
portion of the borrowings are denominated in multiple currencies which could
expose us to market risk with exchange rate movements. These instruments carry
interest at a pre-agreed upon percentage point spread from either the prime
interest rate, LIBOR, NIBOR or EURIBOR. Under our credit facilities, we may, at
our option, fix the interest rate for certain borrowings based on a spread over
LIBOR, NIBOR or EURIBOR for 30 days to 6 months. Based upon our December 31,
2003 borrowings under our variable rate facilities of $108.9 million, an
immediate change of one percent in the interest rate would cause a change in
annual interest expense of approximately $1.1 million. Our objective in
maintaining a portion of our debt in variable rate borrowings is the
flexibility obtained regarding early repayment without penalties and lower
overall cost as compared with fixed-rate borrowings.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make certain
estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial
statements and accompanying notes. Our estimation process generally relates to
potential bad debts, obsolete and slow moving inventory, revenue recognition on
long term contracts, value of intangible assets, and deferred income tax
accounting. Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements contains the
accounting policies governing each of these matters. Our estimates are based on
historical experience and on our future expectations that we believe to be
reasonable under the circumstances. The combination of these factors result in
the amounts shown as carrying values of assets and liabilities in the
financial
statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from our current
estimates and those differences may be material.



We believe the following accounting policies are the most critical in the
preparation of our consolidated financial statements:

We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for accounts receivables by
providing for specifically identified accounts where collectibility is doubtful
and a general allowance based on the aging of the receivables compared to past
experience and current trends. A majority of our revenues come from drilling
contractors, independent oil companies, international oil companies and
government-owned or government-controlled oil companies, and we have
receivables, some denominated in local currency, in many foreign countries. If,
due to changes in worldwide oil and gas drilling activity or changes in
economic conditions in certain foreign countries, our customers were unable to
repay these receivables, additional allowances would be required.

Allowances for inventory obsolescence are determined based on our historical
usage of inventory on-hand as well as our future expectations related to our
substantial installed base and the development of new products. Changes in
worldwide oil and gas drilling activity and the development of new technologies
associated with the drilling industry could require additional allowances to
reduce the value of inventory to the lower of its cost or net realizable value.

We recognize revenue on long-term fabrication contracts using the percentage of
completion method that requires us to make estimates regarding the total costs
of the project, our progress against the project schedule and the estimated
completion date, all of which impacts the amount of revenue and gross margin we
recognize in each reporting period. It is likely that our estimates will be
revised in the near term as these projects near completion and require changes
in cost of engineering, manufacturing or subcontractor production. Provisions
for anticipated losses on long-term contracts are recorded in full when such
losses become evident.

We account for our defined benefit pension plans in accordance with Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 87, Employers’ Accounting for Pensions
(FAS 87), which requires that amounts recognized in the financial statements be
determined on an actuarial basis. Significant elements in determining our
pension income or expense in accordance with FAS 87 are the discount rate
assumption and the expected return on plan assets. The discount rate used
approximates the weighted average rate of return on high-quality fixed income
investments whose maturities match the expected payouts. The expected return on
plan assets is based upon the geometric mean of historical returns of a number
of different equities, including stocks, bonds and U.S. treasury bills. The
assumed long-term rate of return on assets is applied to a calculated value of
plan assets, which results in an estimated return on plan assets that is
included in current year pension income or expense. The difference between this
expected return and the actual return on plan assets is deferred and amortized
against future pension income or expense. A substantial portion of our pension
amounts relate to our defined benefit plans in the United States, Norway and
the United Kingdom. Between the years 2000-2003, we assumed that the expected
long-term rate of return on plan assets for these plans would be between 6.3%
and 8.5%. Prior to 2001, our actual cumulative long-term rate of return on the
pension assets of these plans was in excess of these amounts; however, these
plans’ assets have recently earned substantially less than the assumed rates of
return. The impact of our pension plans on our 2003 results of operations, cash
flow and liquidity has been immaterial but recent actual returns of the plan
assets may effect future contributions to the plans and our earnings. The
amount of unrecognized losses on pension assets is $22.0 million.

Business acquisitions are accounted for using the purchase method of
accounting. The cost of the acquired company is allocated to identifiable
tangible and intangible assets based on estimated



fair value, with the excess
allocated to goodwill. On at least an annual basis, we assess whether goodwill
is impaired. Our annual impairment tests are performed at the beginning of the
4th quarter of each year. If we determine that goodwill is impaired, we measure
that impairment
based on the amount by which the book value of goodwill exceeds its implied
fair value. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined by deducting the
fair value of a reporting unit’s identifiable assets and liabilities from the
fair value of that reporting unit as a whole. Additional impairment assessments
may be performed on an interim basis if we encounter events or changes in
circumstances that would indicate that, more likely than not, the carrying
amount of goodwill has been impaired. The fair value of the reporting units is
determined based on internal management estimates which consider multiple
valuation techniques.

Our net deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded at the amount that is
more likely than not to be realized or paid. Should we determine that we would
not be able to realize all or part of the net deferred tax asset in the future,
an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the
period of such determination.

Recently Issued Accounting Standards

In January 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 46, “Consolidation of
Variable Interest Entities,” (“FIN 46”), which is effective January 31, 2003
for any new interests in VIEs created after that date. In December 2003,
the FASB made certain modifications and technical corrections to FIN 46 that
are required to be applied to all entities no later than March 31, 2004.
This statement addresses the consolidation of variable interest entities
(“VIEs”) by business enterprises that are the primary beneficiaries. A VIE
is an entity that does not have sufficient equity investment at risk to
permit it to finance its activities without additional subordinated
financial support, or whose equity investors lack the characteristics of a
controlling financial interest. The primary beneficiary of a VIE is the
enterprise that has the majority of the expected losses or expected residual
returns associated with the VIE. We do not have any material interests in
VIEs created prior to February 1, 2003 that will require consolidation when
FIN 46 is applied to all entities in the first quarter of 2004.

On December 8, 2003, the President signed into law the Medicare Prescription
Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. This Act introduces a Medicare
prescription drug benefit as well as a federal subsidy to sponsors of retiree
healthcare benefit plans that provide a benefit that is at least actuarially
equivalent to the Medicare benefit. As allowed by FASB Staff Position 106-1,
Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription
Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, we have elected to defer
recognizing the effects of the Act on our accumulated postretirement benefit
obligation and net periodic postretirement benefit cost in the consolidated
financial statements and notes to consolidated financial statements until
authoritative guidance on the accounting for the federal subsidy is issued. The
FASB plans to issue authoritative guidance on the accounting for subsidies
later in 2004. When the authoritative guidance is issued, we may be required to
change previously reported information.

Forward–Looking Statements

Some of the information in this document contains, or has incorporated by
reference, forward-looking statements. Statements that are not historical
facts, including statements about our beliefs and expectations, are
forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements typically are identified
by use of terms such as “may,” “will,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” and
similar words, although some forward-looking statements are expressed
differently. You should be aware that our actual results could differ
materially from results anticipated in the forward-looking statements due to a
number of factors, including but not limited to changes in oil and gas prices,
customer demand for our products and worldwide economic activity. You should
also consider carefully the statements under “Risk Factors” which address
additional factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those set
forth in the forward-looking statements. Given these
uncertainties, current or prospective investors are cautioned not to place
undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements. We undertake no
obligation to update any such factors or forward-looking statements to reflect
future events or developments.



Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Incorporated by reference to Item 7 above, “Market Risk Disclosure.”

Item 8. Financial Statement and Supplementary Data

Attached hereto and a part of this report are financial statements and
supplementary data listed in Item 15.

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

Item 9a. Controls and Procedures



Part III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Incorporated by reference to the definitive Proxy Statement for the
2004 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

Item 11. Executive Compensation

Incorporated by reference to the definitive Proxy Statement for the 2004 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

Incorporated by reference to the definitive Proxy Statement for the
2004 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans

The following table sets forth information as of our fiscal year ended December
31, 2003, with respect to compensation plans under which our common stock may
be issued:

Number of securities

remaining available for

Number of securities

future issuance under

to be issued upon

Weighted-average

equity compensation

exercise of

exercise price of

plans (excluding

outstanding options,

outstanding options,

securities reflected in

warrants and rights

warrants and rights

column (a))

Plan Category

(a)

(b)

(c) (1)

Equity compensation
plans approved by security holders

3,610,571

$

23.83

3,488,821

Equity compensation
plans not approved by security holders




Total

3,610,571

$

23.83

3,488,821

(1)

Shares could be issued other than upon the exercise of stock
options, warrants or rights; however, none are anticipated during
2004. On March 11, 2004, we issued 1,170,000 stock options at an
exercise price of $28.22.



Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

Incorporated by reference to the definitive Proxy Statement for the
2004 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

Item 14

.

Principal Accountant Fees and Services

Incorporated by reference to the definitive Proxy Statement for the
2004 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.



Part IV

Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

a) Financial Statements and Exhibits

1.

Financial Statements

The following financial statements are presented in response to Part II, Item 8:

Page(s) in

This Report

Consolidated Balance Sheets


Consolidated Statements of Operations


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows


Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


2.

Financial Statement Schedules

Schedule II – Valuation and Qualifying Accounts


All schedules, other than Schedule II, are omitted because they are not
applicable, not required or the information is included in the financial
statements or notes thereto.

3.

Exhibits



b) Reports on Form 8-K

A report on Form 8 – K was filed on February 12, 2004 regarding a press
release announcing our financial results for the fourth quarter and full
year ended December 31, 2003.

A report on Form 8 – K was filed on October 28, 2003 regarding a press
release announcing our financial results for the third quarter and nine
months ended September 30, 2003.

A report on Form 8 – K was filed on October 10, 2003 announcing our
establishment of a governance hotline that allows anonymous, confidential
communication with our non-management directors.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Annual Report on Form 10-K to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

National-Oilwell, Inc.

Date: March 11, 2004

By:

/

s/ Steven W. Krablin

Steven W. Krablin

Sr. Vice President and

Chief Financial Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

Each person whose signature appears below in so signing, constitutes and
appoints Steven W. Krablin and M. Gay Mather, and each of them acting alone,
his true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of
substitution, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all
capacities, to execute and cause to be filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission any and all amendments to this report, and in each case to file the
same, with all exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith,
and hereby ratifies and confirms all that said attorney-in-fact or his
substitute or substitutes may do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

Signature

Title

Date

/s/Merrill A. Miller, Jr.

Merrill A. Miller, Jr.

Chairman, President and Chief Executive
Officer (Principal Executive Officer)

March 11, 2004

/s/Steven W. Krablin

Steven W. Krablin

Sr. Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
(Principal Financial Officer and Principal Accounting
Officer)

March 11, 2004

/s/Hushang Ansary

Hushang Ansary

Director

March 11, 2004

/s/Robert E. Beauchamp

Robert E. Beauchamp

Director

March 11, 2004

/s/Ben A. Guill

Ben A. Guill

Director

March 11, 2004

/s/David D. Harrison

David D. Harrison

Director

March 11, 2004

Roger L. Jarvis

Director

/s/William E. Macaulay

William E. Macaulay

Director

March 11, 2004

/s/Frederick W. Pheasey

Frederick W. Pheasey

Director

March 11, 2004

/s/Joel V. Staff

Joel V. Staff

Director

March 11, 2004



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

The Board of Directors and Shareholders

National-Oilwell, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
National-Oilwell, Inc. as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the related
consolidated statements of operations, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2003. Our audits also
included the financial statement schedule listed in the index at Item 15 (a).
These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements and schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test
basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used
and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of
National-Oilwell, Inc. at December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the consolidated
results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 2003, in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States.
Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered
in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly
in all material respects the information set forth therein.

As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, in 2002
the Company changed its method of accounting for goodwill and other intangible
assets.

/s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Houston, Texas

February 12, 2004



NATIONAL-OILWELL, INC.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(In thousands, except share data)

December 31,

December 31,



ASSETS

Current assets:

Cash and cash equivalents

$

74,217

$

118,338

Receivables, net

460,910

428,116

Inventories

546,690

470,088

Costs in excess of billings

107,625

53,805

Deferred income taxes

15,410

26,783

Prepaid and other current assets

41,548

26,504

Total current assets

1,246,400

1,123,634

Property, plant and equipment, net

252,365

208,420

Deferred income taxes

52,391

36,864

Goodwill

587,341

512,219

Intangibles, net

79,281

69,357

Property held for sale

8,693

7,389

Other assets

16,265

19,345

$

2,242,736

$

1,977,228

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Current liabilities:

Current
portion of long-term debt

14,910

—

Accounts payable

228,576

168,548

Customer prepayments

26,424

9,533

Accrued compensation

25,382

17,323

Billings in excess of costs

49,259

61,738

Accrued income taxes

24,673

23,773

Other accrued liabilities

82,991

73,867

Total current liabilities

452,215

354,782

Long-term debt

593,980

594,637

Deferred income taxes

52,368

54,612

Other liabilities

37,996

30,229

Total liabilities

1,136,559

1,034,260

Commitments and contingencies

Minority interest

15,748

9,604

Stockholders’ equity:

Common stock
- - par value $.01; 85,124,979 and 81,014,713 shares
issued and outstanding at December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002



Additional paid-in capital

674,965

594,849

Accumulated other comprehensive loss

(44,374

)

(44,461

)

Retained earnings

458,987

382,166

1,090,429

933,364

$

2,242,736

$

1,977,228

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.



NATIONAL-OILWELL, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

(In thousands, except per share data)

Year Ended December 31,




Revenues

$

2,004,920

$

1,521,946

$

1,747,455

Cost of products and services sold

1,540,743

1,160,082

1,319,621

Gross profit

464,177

361,864

427,834

Selling, general, and administrative

305,189

227,541

238,557

Operating income

158,988

134,323

189,277

Interest and financial costs

(38,928

)

(27,279

)

(24,929

)

Interest income

2,317

2,638

1,775

Other income (expense), net

(5,726

)

3,656

1,894

Income before income taxes and minority interest

116,651

113,338

168,017

Provision for income taxes

33,685

39,396

63,954

Income before minority interest

82,966

73,942

104,063

Minority interest in income of consolidated subsidiaries

(6,145

)

(873

)

—

Net income

$

76,821

$

73,069

$

104,063

Net income per share:

Basic

$

0.91

$

0.90

$

1.29

Diluted

$

0.90

$

0.89

$

1.27

Weighted average shares outstanding:

Basic

84,549

80,974

80,813

Diluted

84,985

81,709

81,733

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.



NATIONAL-OILWELL, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(In thousands)

Year Ended December 31,




Cash flow from operating activities:

Net income

$

76,821

$

73,069

$

104,063

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash
provided (used) by operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization

39,182

25,048

38,873

Provision for losses on receivables

5,709

3,606

3,897

Provision for deferred income taxes

6,840

11,446

7,847

Gain on sale of assets

(5,833

)

(4,551

)

(2,878

)

Foreign currency transaction losses, net

7,214



Tax benefit from exercise of nonqualified stock options

3,888


2,348

Changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions:

Receivables

(6,176

)

58,953

(74,700

)

Inventories

(51,302

)

25,189

(71,906

)

Costs in excess of billings

(53,820

)

—

—

Prepaid and other current assets

(13,930

)

(2,960

)

2,411

Accounts payable

61,415

(32,031

)

(23,357

)

Billings in excess of cost

(12,479

)

—

—

Other assets/liabilities, net

(26,441

)

(54,035

)

(20,199

)

Net cash provided (used) by operating activities

31,010

104,369

(33,028

)

Cash flow from investing activities:

Purchases of property, plant and equipment

(32,378

)

(24,805

)

(27,358

)

Proceeds from sale of assets

7,887

12,534

7,927

Businesses acquired and investments in joint ventures, net of cash

(78,004

)

(213,052

)

(38,517

)

Net cash used by investing activities

(102,495

)

(225,323

)

(57,948

)

Cash flow from financing activities:

Borrowings against lines of credit

454,574

303,220

294,084

Payments against lines of credit

(439,073

)

(311,018

)

(354,310

)

Net proceeds from issuance of long-term debt

—

199,070

146,631

Proceeds from stock options exercised

9,709

2,015

6,938

Other

—

1,363

—

Net cash provided by financing activities

25,210

194,650

93,343

Effect of exchange rates on cash

2,154

1,422

(1,606

)

Increase (decrease) in cash and equivalents

(44,121

)

75,118


Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year

118,338

43,220

42,459

Cash and cash equivalents, end of year

$

74,217

$

118,338

$

43,220

Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information:

Cash payments during the period for:

Interest

$

35,095

$

21,579

$

20,772

Income taxes

30,650

45,615

26,775

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.



NATIONAL-OILWELL, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

(In thousands, except share data)

Accumulated

Additional

Other

Common

Paid-in

Comprehensive

Retained

Stock

Capital

Loss

Earnings

Total

Balance at December 31, 2000

$


$

583,225

$

(21,858

)

$

205,034

$

767,206

Net income

104,063

104,063

Other comprehensive income

Currency translation adjustments

(11,569

)

(11,569

)

Marketable securities valuation adjustment

(1,446

)

(1,446

)

Comprehensive income

91,048

Stock options exercised


6,934

6,938

Tax benefit of options exercised

2,348

2,348

Balance at December 31, 2001

$


$

592,507

$

(34,873

)

$

309,097

$

867,540

Net income

73,069

73,069

Other comprehensive income

Currency translation adjustments

2,474

2,474

Interest rate contract



Minimum liability of defined benefit plans

(12,948

)

(12,948

)

Comprehensive income

63,481

Stock options exercised


2,014

2,015

Tax benefit of options exercised



Balance at December 31, 2002

$


$

594,849

$

(44,461

)

$

382,166

$

933,364

Net income

76,821

76,821

Other comprehensive income

Currency translation adjustments

4,602

4,602

Interest rate contract

(78

)

(78

)

Minimum liability of defined benefit plans

(4,437

)

(4,437

)

Comprehensive income

76,908

Stock issued for acquisition


66,528

66,560

Stock options exercised


9,700

9,709

Tax benefit of options exercised

3,888

3,888

Balance at December 31, 2003

$


$

674,965

$

(44,374

)

$

458,987

$

1,090,429

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.



NATIONAL-OILWELL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. Organization and Basis of Presentation

Nature of Business

We design, manufacture and sell comprehensive systems, components, and products
used in oil and gas drilling and production, as well as distribute products and
provide supply chain integration services to the upstream oil and gas industry.
Our revenues and operating results are directly related to the level of
worldwide oil and gas drilling and production activities and the profitability
and cash flow of oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, which in turn
are affected by current and anticipated prices of oil and gas. Oil and gas
prices have been and are likely to continue to be volatile.

S

ummary of Significant Accounting Policies

Basis of
Consolidation

The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
National-Oilwell, Inc. and its majority-owned subsidiaries. All significant
intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
Investments that are not wholly-owned, but where we exercise control, are fully
consolidated with the equity held by minority owners and their portion of net
income (loss) reflected as minority interest in the accompanying financial
statements. Investments in unconsolidated affiliates, over which we exercise
significant influence, but not control, are accounted for by the equity method.
Investments in which we exercise no control or significant influence would be
accounted for under the cost method. Certain reclassifications have been made
to the 2002 and 2001 consolidated financial statements in order for them to
conform with the 2003 presentation.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

The carrying amounts of financial instruments including cash and cash
equivalents, receivables, and payables approximated fair value because of the
relatively short maturity of these instruments. Cash equivalents include only
those investments having a maturity date of three months or less at the time of
purchase. The carrying values of other financial instruments approximate their
respective fair values.

Derivative Financial Instruments

We record all derivative financial instruments at their fair value in our
consolidated balance sheet. All derivative financial instruments we hold are
designated as cash flow hedges and are highly effective in offsetting movements
in the underlying risks. Accordingly, gains and losses from changes in the fair
value of derivative financial instruments are deferred and recognized in
earnings as the underlying transactions occur. Because our derivative financial
instruments are so closely related to the underlying transactions, hedge
ineffectiveness is insignificant.

We use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate our exposure to changes
in foreign currency exchange rates on firm sale commitments to better match the
local currency cost components of our fixed US dollar contracts. Such
arrangements typically have terms between three months and one year, depending
upon the customer’s purchase order. We may also use interest rate contracts to
mitigate our exposure to changes in interest rates on anticipated long-term debt issuances.
These contracts are typically short term in nature. We do not use derivative financial instruments
for trading or speculative purposes.



Inventories

Inventories consist of oilfield products, manufactured equipment, manufactured
specialized drilling products and downhole motors and spare parts for
manufactured equipment and drilling
products. Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market using the
first-in, first-out or average cost methods. Allowances for excess and obsolete
inventories are determined based on our historical usage of inventory on-hand
as well as our future expectations related to our substantial installed base
and the development of new products. The allowance, which totaled $46.2 million
and $49.4 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002, is the amount necessary to
reduce the cost of the inventory to its estimated realizable value.

Property, Plant and Equipment

Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost. Expenditures for major
improvements that extend the lives of property and equipment are capitalized
while minor replacements, maintenance and repairs are charged to operations as
incurred. Disposals are removed at cost less accumulated depreciation with any
resulting gain or loss reflected in operations. Depreciation is provided using
the straight-line method or declining balance method over the estimated useful
lives of individual items. Depreciation expense was $37.4 million, $25.0
million and $27.1 million for the years ending December 31, 2003, 2002 and
2001.

Long-lived
Assets

We record impairment losses on long-lived assets used in operations when events
and circumstances indicate that the assets might be impaired and the
undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated by those assets are less than
the carrying amount of those assets. The carrying value of assets used in
operations that is not recoverable is reduced to fair value if lower than
carrying value. In determining the fair market value of the assets, we consider
market trends and recent transactions involving sales of similar assets, or
when not available, discounted cash flow analysis.

Assets Held for
Sale

In the course of integrating acquisitions and streamlining operations, we have
closed certain manufacturing facilities and non-strategic assets. Facilities
that are available for immediate sale, under a formal plan that is probable of
completion within one year, are classified as held for sale. When we designate
an asset as held for sale, we adjust its carrying value to the lower of its
current carrying amount or the estimated fair value less costs to sell and stop
recording depreciation expense. Carrying values are adjusted to reflect any
subsequent deterioration in fair value.

Intangible Assets

Beginning in 2002, we adopted FAS 142 “Accounting for Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets” and accordingly stopped amortizing goodwill that arose from
acquisitions before June 30, 2001. The effect of not amortizing goodwill and
other intangibles in periods prior to adoption follows (in thousands):




Reported net income

$

104,063

Add back: Goodwill amortization, net of tax

10,959

Adjusted net income

$

115,022

Adjusted net income per share:

Basic

$

1.42

Diluted

$

1.41

Weighted average shares outstanding:

Basic

80,813

Diluted

81,733

On at least an annual basis, we assess whether goodwill is impaired. Our annual
impairment tests are performed at the beginning of the 4th quarter of each year
and have indicated no impairment. If we determine that goodwill is impaired,
we measure that impairment based on the amount by which the book value of
goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. The implied fair value of goodwill is
determined by deducting the fair value of a reporting unit’s identifiable
assets and liabilities from the fair value of that reporting unit as a whole.
Additional impairment assessments may be performed on an interim basis if we
encounter events or changes in circumstances that would indicate that, more
likely than not, the carrying amount of goodwill has been impaired. Fair value
of the reporting units is determined based on internal management estimates.

Identified intangible assets with determinable lives consist primarily of
technical drawings acquired in the December 2002 acquisition of Hydralift and
are being amortized on a straight-line basis over estimated useful lives of
15-20 years. The balance at December 31, 2003 and 2002 was $28 million (net of
accumulated amortization of $1.2 million) and $29.2 million. Amortization
expense of identified intangibles is expected to be approximately $1.5 million
in each of the next five years.

Identified intangible assets with indefinite lives consist primarily of
tradenames acquired in the acquisitions of Hydralift and Mono in December 2002
and January 2003. The balance at December 31, 2003 and 2002 was $49.5 million
and $40.2 million. Indefinite lived intangible assets are not amortized, but
are subject to an impairment test on at least an annual basis. An impairment
charge would be recognized if the fair value were determined to be less than
the carrying amount. Our annual impairment tests have indicated no impairment.

Deferred financing costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the life
of the related debt securities.

Foreign Currency

The functional currency for certain of our foreign operations is the local
currency. The cumulative effects of translating the balance sheet accounts
from the functional currency into the U.S. dollar at current exchange rates are
included in accumulated other comprehensive income. Revenues and expenses are
translated at average exchange rates in effect during the period. Certain
other foreign operations use the U.S. dollar as the functional currency.
Accordingly, financial statements of these foreign subsidiaries are remeasured
to U.S. dollars for consolidation purposes using current rates of exchange for
monetary assets and liabilities and historical rates of exchange for
nonmonetary assets and related elements of expense. Revenue and other expense
elements are remeasured at rates that approximate the rates in effect on the
transaction dates.



For all operations, gains or losses from remeasuring foreign
currency transactions into the functional currency are included in income. Net
foreign currency transaction losses were $7.2 million, $0.3
million and $0.6 million for the years ending December 31, 2003, December 31,
2002 and December 31, 2001, and are included in other income(expense) in the
accompanying statement of operations.

Revenue Recognition

Product and service sales are recognized on purchase orders or contracts when
product delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, pricing is fixed
or determinable, and collection is reasonably assured. Our arrangements do not
include right of return or other similar provisions or other significant post
delivery obligations. Revenues from arrangements with multiple elements are
recognized based on the relative fair value of each element and when the
delivered elements have value to customers on a stand-alone basis. Amounts
allocated to each element are based on its objectively determined fair value,
such as the sales price for the product or service when it is sold separately
or competitor prices for similar products or services. Customer advances or
deposits are deferred and recognized as revenue when we have completed all of
our performance obligations related to the sale. The amounts billed for
shipping and handling costs are included in revenue and related costs are
included in costs of sales.

Long-term fabrication contracts are recorded on the percentage-of-completion
method. Revenues and gross profit are recognized as work is performed either on
an incurred cost to total expected cost basis or based upon engineering
estimates. Contract costs include all direct material, labor and subcontract
costs. Provisions for anticipated losses on long-term contracts are recorded in
full when such losses become evident.

Income Taxes

The liability method is used to account for income taxes. Deferred tax assets
and liabilities are determined based on differences between financial reporting
and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax
rates and laws that will be in effect when the differences are expected to
reverse. Valuation allowances are established when necessary to reduce deferred
tax assets to amounts which are more likely than not to be realized.

Concentration of Credit Risk

We grant credit to our customers, which operate primarily in the oil and gas
industry. Concentrations of credit risk are limited because we have a large
number of geographically diverse customers, thus spreading trade credit risk.
We control credit risk thorough credit evaluations, credit limits and
monitoring procedures. We perform periodic credit evaluations of our customers’
financial condition and generally do not require collateral, but may require
letters of credit for certain international sales. Credit losses are provided
for in the financial statements. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts
for accounts receivables by providing for specifically identified accounts
where collectibility is doubtful and an additional allowance based on the aging
of the receivables compared to past experience and current trends. Accounts
receivable are net of allowances for doubtful accounts of approximately $18.3
million and $12.6 million at December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002,
respectively.

Stock-Based Compensation

We use the intrinsic value method in accounting for our stock-based employee
compensation plans.

Assuming that we had accounted for our stock-based compensation using the
alternative fair value method of accounting under FAS No. 123 and amortized the
fair value to expense over the option’s vesting period, our net income and net
income per share would have been (in thousands, except per share data):






Net income:

As reported

$

76,821

$

73,069

$

104,063

Pro forma

$

68,269

$

63,926

$

94,227

Basic net income per share:

As reported

$

0.91

$

0.90

$

1.29

Pro forma

0.81

0.79

1.17

Diluted net income per share:

As reported

$

0.90

$

0.89

$

1.27

Pro forma

0.80

0.78

1.15

These pro forma results may not be indicative of future effects.

Environmental Liabilities

When environmental assessments or remediations are probable and the costs can
be reasonably estimated, remediation liabilities are recorded on an
undiscounted basis and are adjusted as further information develops or
circumstances change.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect reported and contingent amounts of assets
and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements and reported amounts
of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could
differ from those estimates.

Net Income Per Share

The following table sets forth the computation of weighted average basic and
diluted shares outstanding (in thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




Denominator for basic earnings per
share - weighted average

84,549

80,974

80,813

Effect of dilutive securities:

Employee stock options




Denominator for diluted earnings per
share - adjusted weighted average
shares and assumed conversions

84,985

81,709

81,733



In addition, we had stock options outstanding that were anti-dilutive totaling
2,340,795 at December 31, 2003, 1,649,090 at December 31, 2002, and 1,797,925
at December 31, 2001.

Recently Issued Accounting Standards

In January 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 46, “Consolidation of
Variable Interest Entities,” (“FIN 46”), which is effective January 31, 2003
for any new interests in VIEs created after that date. In December 2003,
the FASB made certain modifications and technical
corrections to FIN 46 that are required to be applied to all entities no
later than March 31, 2004. This statement addresses the consolidation of
variable interest entities (“VIEs”) by business enterprises that are the
primary beneficiaries. A VIE is an entity that does not have sufficient
equity investment at risk to permit it to finance its activities without
additional subordinated financial support, or whose equity investors lack
the characteristics of a controlling financial interest. The primary
beneficiary of a VIE is the enterprise that has the majority of the expected
losses or expected residual returns associated with the VIE. We do not have
any material interests in VIEs created prior to February 1, 2003 that will
require consolidation when FIN 46 is applied to all entities in the first
quarter of 2004.

2. Acquisitions

Year 2003

On January 16, 2003, we acquired the Mono pumping products business from
Halliburton Energy Services for approximately $91 million, consisting of $24
million in cash and 3.2 million shares of our common stock valued at $67
million. This transaction, which consisted of purchasing all the outstanding
stock of Monoflo, Inc. in the United States and Mono Group in the United
Kingdom, strengthens our non-capital product line within our Products &
Technology segment.The purchase price has been allocated to the assets acquired
and liabilities assumed based on their relative fair values determined by
independent appraisals and other valuations. We acquired net current assets of
$11 million, fixed assets of $30 million and identified intangible assets with
indefinite lives (tradenames) of $9 million, resulting in goodwill of $41
million. All of the goodwill from this acquisition has been allocated to the
Products and Technology segment. The Monoflo, Inc. goodwill totaling $23
million will be fully deductible for tax purposes and the Mono Group goodwill
of $18 million is not deductible for tax purposes.

During the remainder of 2003 we made eight other acquisitions representing cash
outlays totaling $54 million primarily expanding our Distribution network. The
acquisition of all the stock of Corlac Equipment Ltd., a Canadian pump
distributor, in November 2003 represented the largest of these purchases at
$25.1 million. Aggregate goodwill relating to these acquisitions was $16
million and has been allocated primarily to our Distribution segment.

Year 2002

On December 18, 2002, we completed a cash tender offer for 92% of the common
shares of Hydralift ASA, a Norwegian based company specializing in the offshore
drilling equipment industry. By December 31, 2002, we had substantially
completed the acquisition of the remaining shares for a total purchase price,
including the assumption of debt and net of cash acquired, of approximately
$300 million. The results of Hydralift’s operations have been included in our
income statement since the acquisition date.

As a result of this acquisition, we strengthened our position in the offshore
drilling market and gained access to new product lines that complement our
existing product offerings. The combination of our product offerings will open
new markets to us, particularly within the FPSO (floating production storage
and offloading) market.



The purchase price has been allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities
assumed based on their relative fair values. We finalized the purchase price
allocation in 2003 based upon independent appraisals, other valuations and
other actions. All of the goodwill from this acquisition has been allocated to
the Products and Technology segment and will be fully deductible for tax
purposes.

The final allocation of the
purchase price follows (in thousands):

Assets acquired:

Cash

$

47,000

Other current assets

142,000

Fixed assets

30,000

Other

27,000

Goodwill

153,000

Intangible assets

-Indefinite lives (tradenames)

40,000

-Finite lives (primarily drawings)

29,000

468,000

Liabilities assumed:

Current liabilities

105,000

Debt obligations

93,000

Other

13,000

211,000

Net assets acquired

$

257,000

The following unaudited pro forma information assumes the acquisition of
Hydralift had occurred as of the beginning of each year shown (in thousands):



Revenues

$

1,862,372

$

2,003,995

Net income

87,148

116,718

Per diluted share

$

1.07

$

1.43

Adjustments made to derive the pro forma data relate principally to acquisition
financing. These results are not necessarily indicative of what actually would
have occurred if the acquisition had happened as of the beginning of 2002 or
2001 nor are they indicative of future results. The estimated effects of cost
reductions arising from the acquisition of Hydralift have been excluded.

During 2002 we also acquired three other businesses, primarily within our
Products and Technology segment, for approximately $17 million in cash.

Year 2001

In 2001, we acquired nine companies for an aggregate of $51 million in cash.
Individual purchase prices ranged from $0.6 million to $16.5 million. Each of
these acquisitions enhanced or expanded our market position within each of our
segments. Five of these acquisitions related to our Products and Technology
segment and four related to our Distribution segment. Aggregate goodwill
relating to these acquisitions was $30 million and approximately half of this
amount is deductible for tax purposes.



3.

Inventories

Inventories consist of (in thousands):

December 31,

December 31,



Raw materials and supplies

$

45,354

$

60,699

Work in process

107,747

109,924

Finished goods and purchased products

393,589

299,465

Total

$

546,690

$

470,088

4.

Property, Plant and Equipment

Property, plant and equipment consists of (in thousands):

Estimated

December 31,

December 31,

Useful Lives



Land and improvements

2-20 Years

$

23,689

$

11,927

Buildings and improvements

5-31 Years

99,898

74,610

Machinery and equipment

5-12 Years

154,727

111,652

Computer and office equipment

3-10 Years

95,600

92,794

Rental equipment

1-7  Years

75,732

77,328

449,646

368,311

Less accumulated depreciation

(197,281

)

(159,891

)

$

252,365

$

208,420

5.

Long-Term Debt

Long-term debt consists of (in thousands):

December 31,

December 31,



Credit facilities

$

108,890

$

94,637

6.875% senior notes

150,000

150,000

6.50% senior notes

150,000

150,000

5.65% senior notes

200,000

200,000

608,890

594,637

Less current portion

14,910

—

$

593,980

$

594,637



In November 2002, we sold $200 million of 5.65% unsecured senior notes due
November 15, 2012. Interest is payable on May 15 and November 15 of each year.
In March 2001, we sold $150 million of 6.50% unsecured senior notes due March
15, 2011, with interest payable on March 15 and September 15 of each year. In
June 1998, we sold $150 million of 6.875% unsecured senior notes due July 1,
2005, with interest payments due on January 1 and July 1.

At December 31, 2003, we had two committed credit facilities, a North
American and a Norwegian facility, totaling $313 million. Both facilities
are available for general corporate purposes and acquisitions, including
letters of credit and performance bonds.

Our North American facility is a three-year unsecured $175 million revolving
credit facility with availability up to $50 million for issuance of letters
of credit that expires July 31, 2005. At December 31, 2003, borrowings
against this facility totaled $40 million and there were $15 million in
outstanding letters of credit. Interest (1.6% @ 12/31/03) is based upon
prime or Libor plus 0.5% subject to a ratings based grid.

Our Norwegian facility, which expires in 2006, has multi-currency term loans
and revolving credit facilities totaling $138 million, with $38 million
available for letter of credit purposes. At December 31, 2003, borrowings
against this facility totaled $70 million, including $40 million in term
loans with $15 million due in May 2004, and there were $25 million in
outstanding letters of credit. Interest (3.4% @ 12/31/03) is based upon a
pre-agreed percentage point spread from either the prime interest rate,
NIBOR or EURIBOR. In February 2004, we reduced this facility by $44 million
to $94 million and borrowed $40 million against the North American facility
to repay all the term loans.

We also have additional uncommitted credit facilities totaling $134 million
that are used primarily for letters of credit, bid bonds and performance
bonds. At December 31, 2003, there were no borrowings against these
additional credit facilities and there were $35 million in outstanding
letters of credit and performance bonds.

The senior notes contain reporting covenants and the credit facilities contain
financial covenants and ratios regarding maximum debt to capital and minimum
interest coverage. We were in compliance with all covenants governing these
facilities at December 31, 2003.

6. Employee Benefit Plans

We have benefit plans covering substantially all of our employees.
Defined-contribution benefit plans cover most of the U.S. and Canadian
employees and benefits are based on years of service, a percentage of current
earnings and matching of employee contributions. Employees in our Norwegian
operations can elect to participate in a defined-contribution plan in lieu of a
local defined benefit plan. For the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and
2001, pension expense for defined-contribution plans was $13.1 million, $9.1
million and $6.0 million, and all funding is current.

Certain retired or terminated employees of predecessor or acquired companies
participate in a defined benefit plan in the United States. None of the
participants in this plan are eligible to accrue benefits. In addition,
approximately 160 U.S. retirees and spouses participate in defined benefit
health care plans of predecessor or acquired companies that provide
postretirement medical and life insurance benefits. Active employees are
ineligible to participate in any of these defined benefit plans. Our
subsidiaries in the United Kingdom and Norway also have defined benefit pension
plans covering virtually all of their employees.



Net periodic benefit cost (credit) for our defined benefit pension plans in the United States, the United Kingdom
and Norway was as follows (in thousands):

Pension benefits

Postretirement benefits

For the year







Service cost -  benefits earned during the period

$

2,991

$


$

—

$


$


$


Interest cost on projected benefit obligation

7,471

3,313

1,194




Expected return on plan assets

(7,484

)

(3,886

)

(1,183

)

—

—

—

Net amortization and deferral

1,412






Net periodic benefit cost (credit)

$

4,390

$

(77

)

$


$


$


$


The change in benefit obligation, plan assets and the funded status of the
defined benefit pension plans in the United States, United Kingdom, and Norway
and defined postretirement plans in the United States, using a measurement date
of September 31, 2003 or 2002, follows (in thousands):

Pension benefits

Postretirement benefits

At year end





Benefit obligation at beginning of year

$

64,710

$

49,605

$

8,489

$

7,416

Service cost

2,991




Interest cost

7,471

3,336



Actuarial (gain) loss

(9,483

)

10,973

(518

)

1,094

Benefits paid

(4,759

)

(2,996

)

(628

)

(645

)

Participant contributions



—


Acquisitions

69,360

—

—

—

Exchange rate gain

10,974

—

—

—

Other


3,357


—

Benefit obligation at end of year

$

142,232

$

64,710

$

8,035

$

8,489

Accumulated benefit obligation at end of year

$

132,997

$

64,332

Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year

$

44,675

$

51,211

$

—

$

—

Actual return

8,811

(9,335

)

—

—

Benefits paid

(4,743

)

(2,996

)

(628

)

(645

)

Contributions

3,782

1,621



Acquisitions

58,718

—

—

—

Exchange rate gain

9,367

—

—

—

Other

(169

)

4,174

—

—

Fair value of plan assets at end of year

$

120,441

$

44,675

—

—

Funded status

$

(21,791

)

$

(20,035

)

(8,035

)

(8,489

)

Unrecognized actuarial net loss

22,016

31,815

3,587

4,270

Prior service costs not yet recognized





Minimum pension liability

(26,485

)

(19,698

)

—

—

Other


(10,543

)


—

Prepaid (accrued) benefit cost

$

(25,616

)

$

(18,180

)

(4,152

)

(4,006

)



Additional disclosures for the U.S.defined benefit plan and defined benefit
health care plans in the United States follow (in thousands):

National Oilwell Defined Benefit Pension Plan

Fiscal Period January 1 to December 31

FYE 2003

FYE 2002

Disclosure Assumptions

For determining benefit obligations at year-end:

Discount rate

6.25

%

6.50

%

Salary increase

n/a

n/a

For determining net periodic cost for year:

Discount rate

6.50

%

6.87

%

Salary increase

n/a

n/a

Expected return on assets

8.50

%

8.50

%

Measurement date

9/30/2003

9/30/2002

Plan Asset Allocation

Target 2004

FYE 12/31/2003

FYE 12/31/2002

Asset category

Equity securities

55-65

%

60.5

%

57.0

%

Debt securities

35-45

%

38.0

%

40.2

%

Real estate

—

—

—

Other

—

1.5

%

2.8

%

Total


%


%

Information for Pension Plans with Accumulated Benefit
Obligations in Excess of Plan Assets

Projected benefit obligation

$

17,536

$

17,549

Accumulated benefit obligation

17,536

17,549

Fair value of assets

12,341

11,210

Additional Information for Defined Benefit Pension Plans

Accumulated benefit obligation

$

17,536

$

17,549

Increase in minimum liability included in other comprehensive income

(573

)

(6,065

)

Cash Flows

Employer contributions (expected during fiscal year beginning in 2004)

$

1,200



Defined Benefit Healthcare Plans

Fiscal Period January 1 to December 31

FYE 2003

FYE 2002

Disclosure Assumptions

For determining benefit obligations at year-end:

Discount rate

6.25

%

6.50

%

Salary increase

5.00

%

5.00

%

For determining net periodic cost for year:

Discount rate

6.50

%

6.87

%

Salary increase

5.00

%

5.00

%

Expected return on assets

n/a

n/a

Measurement date

9/30/2003

9/30/2002

Effect of 1% annual increase in health care cost trend rate:

Aggregate of
the Service Cost and Interest Cost - Dollar change

$


$


APBO - Dollar change

$


$


Effect of 1% annual decrease in health care cost trend rate:

Aggregate of
the Service Cost and Interest Cost - Dollar change

$

(36

)

$

(40

)

APBO - Dollar change

(622

)

(656

)

On December 8, 2003, the President signed into law the Medicare Prescription
Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. This Act introduces a Medicare
prescription drug benefit as well as a federal subsidy to sponsors of retiree
healthcare benefit plans that provide a benefit that is at least actuarially
equivalent to the Medicare benefit. As allowed by FASB Staff Position 106-1,
Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription
Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, we have elected to defer
recognizing the effects of the Act on our accumulated postretirement benefit
obligation and net periodic postretirement benefit cost in the consolidated
financial statements and notes to consolidated financial statements until
authoritative guidance on the accounting for the federal subsidy is issued. The
FASB plans to issue authoritative guidance on the accounting for subsidies
later in 2004. When the authoritative guidance is issued, we
may be required to change previously reported information.



7. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income / (Loss)

The components of other comprehensive loss are as follows (in thousands):

Cumulative

Cumulative

Change in

Currency

Marketable

Minimum

Translation

Interest

Securities

Pension Liability

Adjustment

Rate Contract

Valuation Adj.

Total

Balance at December 31, 2000

$

—

$

(23,323

)

$

—

$

1,465

$

(21,858

)

Current period activity

(11,569

)

(2,191

)

(13,760

)

Tax effect



Balance at December 31, 2001

—

(34,892

)

—


(34,873

)

Current period activity

(19,698

)

2,474

1,363

—

(15,861

)

Tax effect

6,750

(477

)

6,273

Balance at December 31, 2002

(12,948

)

(32,418

)



(44,461

)

Current period activity

(6,787

)

4,602

(120

)

—

(2,305

)

Tax effect

2,350


2,392

Balance at December 31, 2003

$

(17,385

)

$

(27,816

)

$


$


$

(44,374

)

8. Commitments and Contingencies

We lease land, buildings, storage facilities, vehicles, data processing
equipment and software under operating leases expiring in various years through
2012. Rent expense for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 was
$24.6 million, $21.2 million and $19.0 million. Our minimum rental commitments
for operating leases at December 31, 2003 were as follows: 2004 - $15.4
million; 2005 - $12.4 million; 2006 - $9.3 million; 2007 - $7.8 million; 2008 -
$7.0 million and subsequent to 2008 - $6.3 million.

We are involved in various claims, regulatory agency audits and pending or
threatened legal actions involving a variety of matters. The total liability on
these matters at December 31, 2003 cannot be determined; however, in our
opinion, any ultimate liability, to the extent not otherwise provided for,
should not materially affect our financial position, liquidity or results of
operations.

Our business is affected both directly and indirectly by governmental laws and
regulations relating to the oilfield service industry in general, as well as by
environmental and safety regulations that specifically apply to our business.
Although we have not incurred material costs in connection with our compliance
with such laws, there can be no assurance that other developments, such as
stricter environmental laws, regulations and enforcement policies thereunder
could not result in additional, presently unquantifiable, costs or liabilities
to us.



9. Common Stock

National Oilwell has authorized 150 million shares of $.01 par value common
stock. We also have authorized 10 million shares of $.01 par value preferred
stock, none of which is issued or outstanding.

Under the terms of National Oilwell’s Stock Award and Long-Term Incentive Plan,
as amended, 8.4 million shares of common stock are authorized for the grant of
options to officers, key employees, non-employee directors and other persons.
Options granted under our stock option plan generally vest over a three-year
period starting one year from the date of grant and expire five or ten years
from the date of grant. The purchase price of options granted may not be less
than the market price of National Oilwell common stock on the date of grant.
At December 31, 2003, approximately 3.5 million shares were available for
future grants.

We also have inactive stock option plans that were acquired in connection with
the acquisitions of Dreco Energy Services, Ltd. in 1997, and Hitec ASA and IRI
International Corporation in 2000. We converted the outstanding stock options
under these plans to options to acquire our common stock and no further options
are being issued under these plans. Stock option information summarized below
includes amounts for the National Oilwell Stock Award and Long-Term Incentive
Plan and stock plans of acquired companies.

Options outstanding at December 31, 2003 under the stock option plans have
exercise prices between $5.62 and $40.50 per share, and expire at various dates
from February 9, 2004 to September 24, 2013.

The following summarizes options activity:

Years Ended December 31,




Average

Average

Average

Number of

Exercise

Number of

Exercise

Number of

Exercise

shares

Price

shares

Price

shares

Price

Shares under option at beginning of year

3,790,496

$

21.99

3,094,160

$

22.95

2,792,585

$

16.50

Granted

1,035,000

20.05

977,500

18.53

911,626

40.50

Cancelled

(304,659

)

28.01

(133,465

)

28.54

(218,086

)

25.47

Exercised

(910,266

)

10.47

(147,699

)

13.52

(391,965

)

16.39

Shares under option at end of year

3,610,571

$

23.83

3,790,496

$

21.99

3,094,160

$

22.95

Exercisable at end of year

1,713,647

$

25.47

2,119,692

$

18.71

1,474,833

$

15.68



The following summarizes information about stock options outstanding as of
December 31, 2003:

Weighted-Avg.

Options Outstanding

Options Exercisable

Range of

Remaining

Weighted-Avg.

Weighted-Avg.

Exercise Price

Contractual Life

Shares

Exercise Price

Shares

Exercise Price

$5.62 to $19.39

6.48

1,269,776

$

16.54

603,855

$

14.34

$20.14 to $25.50

7.99

1,508,410

21.00

535,910

22.57

$33.00 to $40.50

7.09

832,385

40.07

573,882

39.88

Totals

7.25

3,610,571

$

23.83

1,713,647

$

25.47

The weighted average fair value of options granted during 2003, 2002 and 2001
was approximately $8.88, $8.95, and $22.04 per share, as determined using the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model.

The assumptions used in the Black-Scholes option-pricing model were:

Assumptions




Risk-free interest rate

2.6

%

2.4

%

6.3

%

Expected dividend

—

—

—

Expected option life (years)




Expected volatility


%


%


%

On March 11, 2004, we issued 1,170,000 stock options at an exercise price of
$28.22.



10. Income Taxes

The domestic and foreign components of income before income taxes were as
follows (in thousands):

December 31,

December 31,

December 31,




Domestic

$

19,051

$

45,716

$

101,700

Foreign

97,600

67,622

66,317

$

116,651

$

113,338

$

168,017

The components of the provision for income taxes consisted of (in thousands):

December 31,

December 31,

December 31,




Current:

Federal

$

3,349

$

11,315

$

32,222

State




Foreign

22,561

15,726

23,304

26,845

27,950

56,107

Deferred:

Federal


4,888

4,925

State

1,666

1,144


Foreign

4,458

5,414

2,531

6,840

11,446

7,847

$

33,685

$

39,396

$

63,954

The difference between the effective tax rate reflected in the provision for
income taxes and the U.S. federal statutory rate was as follows (in
thousands):

December 31,

December 31,

December 31,




Federal
income tax at statutory rate

$

40,828

$

39,668

$

58,806

Foreign
income tax rate differential

(7,873

)

(3,295

)

1,405

State income tax, net of federal benefit




Tax benefit of foreign sales income

(3,045

)

(1,580

)

(1,575

)

Nondeductible expenses

1,646

1,053

2,423

Tax benefit of capital loss carryovers

(765

)

—

—

Foreign dividends net of FTCs

(2,757

)

1,176

(1,967

)

Net operating loss carryforwards

(708

)

—

2,948

Change in deferred taxvaluation allowance

6,940


1,223

Prior year taxes

(1,171

)

1,126

—

Other

(18

)



$

33,685

$

39,396

$

63,954



The effective tax rate includes benefits associated with export sales, which is
currently the subject of legislation to repeal these benefits. If repealed and
not replaced with similar benefits, we expect our effective tax rate to
increase.

Significant components of National Oilwell’s deferred tax assets and
liabilities were as follows (in thousands):

December 31,

December 31,



Deferred tax assets:

Allowances and operating liabilities

$

30,273

$

29,047

Net operating loss carryforwards

29,406

23,891

Foreign tax credit carryforwards

21,879

15,082

Capital loss carryforward

4,921

3,527

Other

18,174

22,012

Total
deferred tax assets

104,653

93,559

Valuation
allowance for deferred tax assets

(36,852

)

(29,912

)

67,801

63,647

Deferred tax liabilities:

Tax over book depreciation

30,013

14,168

Operating and other assets

10,569

31,688

Other

11,786

8,756

Total
deferred tax liabilities

52,368

54,612

Net deferred
tax assets

$

15,433

$

9,035

In the United States, the Company has $4.3 million of net operating loss
carryforwards as of December 31, 2003, which expire at various dates through
2018. The potential benefit of $1.7 million has been recorded with no
valuation allowance. Future income tax payments will be reduced when the
Company ultimately realizes the benefit of these net operating losses.

Also in the United States, the Company has $10.0 million of capital loss
carryforwards as of December 31, 2003, which expire at various dates through
2005. The related potential benefit of $3.9 million has been recorded with a
valuation allowance of $3.9 million. These capital losses are not available to
reduce future operating income but if realized will reduce future capital gains
and will result in a reduction of future tax expense. The Company has $ 21.9
million of excess foreign tax credits as of December 31, 2003, which expire at
various dates through 2008. Certain of these credits have been allotted a
valuation allowance of $ 18.4 million and would be realized as a reduction of
future income tax expense.

Outside the United States, the company has $96.0 million of net operating loss
carryforwards as of December 31, 2003. Of this amount, $91.9 million will
expire at various dates through 2013 and $4.1 million is available
indefinitely. The related potential benefit available of $27.7 million has
been recorded with a valuation allowance of $13.4 million. If the Company
ultimately realizes the benefit of these net operating losses, $9.4 million
would reduce goodwill and other intangible assets and $4.0 million would reduce
income tax expense.

Also outside the United States, the company has $3.4 million of capital loss
carryforwards as of December 31, 2003, which can be carried forward
indefinitely. The related potential benefit of $1.0 million has been recorded
with a valuation allowance of $1.0 million. These capital losses are not
available to reduce future operating income but if realized will reduce future
capital gains and will result in a $0.3 million reduction of future income tax
expense and a $0.7 million reduction in goodwill and other intangible assets.



The deferred tax valuation allowance increased $6.9 million for the period
ending December 31, 2003 and $0.4 million for the period ending December 31,
2002. These increases resulted primarily from the recognition of additional
excess foreign tax credits and capital loss carryforwards that may not be
realized in the future. National-Oilwell’s deferred tax assets are expected to
be realized principally through future earnings.

Undistributed earnings of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries amounted to $252.6
million and $193.4 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002. Those earnings are
considered to be permanently
reinvested and no provision for U.S. federal and state income taxes has been
made. Distribution of these earnings in the form of dividends or otherwise
could result in either U.S. federal taxes (subject to an adjustment for foreign
tax credits) and withholding taxes payable in various foreign countries.
Determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred U.S. income tax liability
is not practical; however, unrecognized foreign tax credit carryforwards would
be available to reduce some portion of the U.S. liability. Withholding taxes
of approximately $26.6 million would be payable upon remittance of all
previously unremitted earnings at December 31, 2003.

11. Business Segments and Geographic Areas

National Oilwell’s operations consist of two segments: Products and Technology
and Distribution Services. The Products and Technology segment designs and
manufactures a variety of oilfield equipment for use in oil and gas drilling,
completion and production activities. The Distribution Services segment
distributes an extensive line of oilfield supplies and equipment. Intersegment
sales and transfers are accounted for at commercial prices and are eliminated
in consolidation. The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the
same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies of
the Company. The Company evaluates performance of each reportable segment based
upon its operating income, excluding non-recurring items.

No single customer accounted for 10% or more of consolidated revenues during
the three years ended December 31, 2003.



Summarized financial information is as follows (in thousands):

Geographic Areas:

United

United

States

Canada

Norway

Kingdom

Other

Eliminations

Total

December 31,

Revenues from:

Unaffiliated customers

$

1,022,171

$

337,998

$

386,788

$

77,755

$

180,208

$

—

$

2,004,920

Interarea sales

133,144

57,338

46,853

3,835

4,964

(246,134

)

—

Total revenues

1,155,315

395,336

433,641

81,590

185,172

(246,134

)

2,004,920

Long-lived assets

138,245

26,877

40,344

22,424

24,475

—

252,365

December 31, 2002

Revenues from:

Unaffiliated customers

$

1,054,956

$

254,361

$

86,169

$

44,733

$

81,727

$

—

$

1,521,946

Interarea sales

108,191

59,370

18,561

7,393

1,199

(194,714

)

—

Total revenues

1,163,147

313,731

104,730

52,126

82,926

(194,714

)

1,521,946

Long-lived assets

138,543

25,948

18,298

6,136

19,495

—

208,420

December 31, 2001

Revenues from:

Unaffiliated customers

$

1,280,598

$

337,447

$

38,171

$

42,978

$

48,261

$

—

$

1,747,455

Interarea sales

129,525

45,890

11,591

7,421


(194,872

)

—

Total revenues

1,410,123

383,337

49,762

50,399

48,706

(194,872

)

1,747,455

Long-lived assets

129,586

27,497

5,110

4,252

2,506

—

168,951



Business Segments

Products and

Distribution

Corporate/

Technology

Services

Eliminations

Total

December 31, 2003

Revenues from:

Unaffiliated customers

$

1,215,944

$

788,976

$

—

$

2,004,920

Intersegment sales

98,748

2,988

(101,736

)

—

Total revenues

1,314,692

791,964

(101,736

)

2,004,920

Operating income (loss)

165,078

6,497

(a)

(12,587

)

158,988

Capital expenditures

25,512

3,789

3,077

32,378

Depreciation and amortization

30,085

5,765

3,332

39,182

Goodwill

546,626

35,831

4,884

587,341

Identifiable assets

1,792,676

363,753

86,307

2,242,736

December 31, 2002

Revenues from:

Unaffiliated customers

$

837,750

$

684,196

$

—

$

1,521,946

Intersegment sales

79,500

1,978

(81,478

)

—

Total revenues

917,250

686,174

(81,478

)

1,521,946

Operating income (loss)

127,011

18,083

(10,771

)

134,323

Capital expenditures

19,849

3,612

1,344

24,805

Depreciation and amortization

19,340

4,883


25,048

Goodwill

490,878

16,457

4,884

512,219

Identifiable assets

1,640,171

266,663

70,394

1,977,228

December 31, 2001

Unaffiliated customers

$

1,041,614

$

705,817

$


$

1,747,455

Intersegment sales

79,305

2,001

(81,306

)

—

Total revenues

1,120,919

707,818

(81,282

)

1,747,455

Operating income (loss)

171,013

28,473

(10,209

)

189,277

Capital expenditures

22,170

4,066

1,122

27,358

Depreciation and amortization

31,882

6,428


38,873

Goodwill

332,121

15,089

4,884

352,094

Identifiable assets

1,178,118

260,212

33,366

1,471,696

(a)

Includes a $6.3 million pre-tax charge related to the accumulated
clearing account problem within the purchasing system.



12.

Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)

Summarized quarterly results, were as follows (in thousands, except per share
data):

1st Quarter

2nd Quarter

3rd Quarter

4th Quarter

Total

Year ended December 31, 2003 (as restated)

Revenues

$

500,576

$

475,398

$

498,600

$

530,346

$

2,004,920

Gross Profit

118,211

106,624

118,843

120,499

464,177

Income before taxes

29,152

27,969

32,943

26,587

116,651

Minority interest

(1,926

)

(1,112

)

(1,002

)

(2,105

)

(6,145

)

Net income

17,341

18,267

21,704

19,509

(a)

76,821

Net income per basic share

0.21

0.22

0.26

0.23

0.91

Net income per diluted share

0.21

0.21

0.25

0.23

0.90

Year ended December 31, 2003 (as previously reported)

Revenues

$

500,576

$

475,398

$

498,600

$

530,346

$

2,004,920

Gross Profit

120,445

109,117

119,781

114,834

464,177

Income before taxes

31,914

30,990

34,409

19,338

116,651

Minority interest

(1,926

)

(1,112

)

(1,002

)

(2,105

)

(6,145

)

Net income

19,166

20,360

22,714

14,581

76,821

Net income per basic share

0.23

0.24

0.27

0.17

0.91

Net income per diluted share

0.23

0.24

0.27

0.17

0.90

Year ended December 31, 2002

Revenues

$

388,986

$

372,390

$

366,929

$

393,641

$

1,521,946

Gross Profit

93,045

87,404

88,533

92,882

361,864

Income before taxes

33,102

26,501

27,743

25,992

113,338

Minority interest

—

—

—

(873

)

(873

)

Net income

21,185

16,961

17,756

17,167

73,069

Net income per basic share

0.26

0.21

0.22

0.21

0.90

Net income per diluted share

0.26

0.21

0.22

0.21

0.89

(a) Reflects an income tax benefit of $2.7 million related to a revision
of the annual effective tax rate to 29%.

During the 4

th

quarter of 2003 we identified a clearing account problem within
the Distribution Group’s purchasing system that had accumulated over a three
year period. As a result, a $10.6 million pre-tax charge ($6.9 million
after-tax) was recorded in the 4

th

quarter of 2003 to correct the problem. We
determined that approximately $6.3 million of this amount relates to periods
prior to 2003 and have not restated prior periods as the impact is not
considered material. This amount is included in the results of operations for
the 4

th

quarter of 2003. Quarterly periods for 2003 have been restated to
reflect the impact of the clearing account problem in 2003 on previously
reported quarterly results.



Schedule II

National-Oilwell, Inc.

Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

Years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001

Additions

(Deductions)

Balance

charged to

Charge

Balance

beginning

costs and

offs and

end of

of year

expenses

other

year

(in thousands)

Allowance for doubtful accounts:


$

12,576

$

5,709

$


$

18,317


9,094

3,606

(124

)

12,576


5,885

3,897

(688

)

9,094

Valuation allowance for deferred tax assets:


$

29,912

$

6,940

$

—

$

36,852


29,512


—

29,912


28,289

1,223

—

29,512



EXHIBIT INDEX