10-K


h23183e10vk.htm

NATIONAL-OILWELL, INC.- DECEMBER 31, 2004

e10vk


FORM 10-K

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

(Mark one)

þ

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES

EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Commission file number 1-12317

NATIONAL-OILWELL, INC.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware

76-0475815

(State or other jurisdiction

(IRS Employer

of incorporation or organization)

Identification No.)

10000 Richmond Avenue

Houston, Texas

77042-4200

(Address of principal executive offices)

(713) 346-7500

(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Common Stock, par value $.01

New York Stock Exchange

(Title of Class)

(Exchange on which registered)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed
by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or
for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

YES

þ

NO

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of
the Act). Yes

þ

No

o

The aggregate market value of voting and non-voting common stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant as of June 30, 2004 was $2.7 billion. As of March 1, 2005, there were 86,187,403 shares
of the Company’s common stock ($0.01 par value) outstanding.

Documents Incorporated by Reference

Portions of the Proxy Statement in connection with the 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders are
incorporated in Part III of this report.



Item 1. Business

GENERAL

National Oilwell designs, manufactures and sells comprehensive systems, components, and equipment
used in oil and gas drilling and production, as well as distributes products and provides services
to the exploration and production segment of the oil and gas industry.

Our Products and Technology segment designs and manufactures complete land drilling and workover
rigs, as well as drilling related systems for offshore rigs. Technology has increased the
desirability of one vendor assuming responsibility for the entire suite of components used in the
drilling process, as mechanical and hydraulic components are replaced by or augmented with
integrated computerized systems. In addition to traditional components such as drawworks (the
hoisting winch used to raise and lower drill pipe), mud pumps (used to circulate drilling fluids),
top drives (used to turn drill pipe), derricks, cranes, jacking and mooring systems (used to raise
and lower offshore jackup drilling rigs and anchor floating drilling rigs), and other structural
components, we provide automated pipehandling, control and electrical power systems. We have also
developed new technology for drawworks and mud pumps applicable to the highly demanding offshore
markets.

Non-capital revenue sources within our Products and Technology segment include drilling motors and
specialized downhole tools that are sold or rented, spare parts and service on the large installed
base of our equipment, expendable parts for mud pumps and other equipment, and smaller downhole,
progressive cavity and transfer pumps.

Our Distribution Services segment provides maintenance, repair and operating supplies and spare
parts to drill site and production locations throughout North America and to offshore contractors
worldwide. Increasingly, this business also is expanding to locations outside North America,
including the Middle East, Southeast Asia, and South America. Using our information technology
platforms and processes, we can provide complete procurement, inventory management, and logistics
services to our customers.

BUSINESS STRATEGY

National Oilwell’s business strategy is to enhance its market positions and operating performance
in the upstream oil and gas business by:

Leveraging our Capital Equipment Installed Base

We believe our market position and comprehensive product offering present substantial opportunities
to capture a significant portion of expenditures for the construction of new drilling rigs and
equipment as well as the upgrade and refurbishment of existing drilling rigs and equipment. Over
the next few years, the advanced age of the existing fleet of drilling rigs, coupled with drilling
activity involving greater depths and extended reach, is expected to generate demand for new
equipment. National Oilwell’s automation and control systems offer the potential to improve the
performance of new and existing drilling rigs. The large installed base of our equipment also
provides recurring demand for spare parts and expendable products necessary for proper and
efficient operation.



Expanding our Non-Capital Products Business

Our non-capital equipment revenues continue to represent approximately half of our products and
technology business. We rent and sell high-performance drilling motors and downhole tools and
manufacture certain expendable products and spare parts needed in the drilling and production
process. We believe additional expansion in the non-capital upstream oil and gas industry would be
beneficial to our business and our customers.

Furthering our Information Technology and Process Improvement Strategy

National Oilwell has developed an integrated information technology and process improvement
strategy to enhance procurement, inventory management and logistics activities. As a result of the
need to improve industry efficiency, oil and gas companies and drilling contractors are frequently
seeking alliances with suppliers, manufacturers and service providers to achieve cost and capital
improvements. We believe we are well positioned to provide these services as a result of our:

•

large and geographically diverse network of distribution service centers in major oil and gas producing areas;

•

strong relationship with a large community of industry suppliers;

•

knowledge of customer’s procurement processes, supplier’s capabilities and product’s performance; and

•

information systems that offer customers and suppliers enhanced capabilities.

In addition, the integration of our distribution expertise, extensive network and growing base of
customer alliances provides an increased opportunity for cost-effective marketing of our
manufactured parts and equipment.

Continuing our Acquisitions Strategy

We believe the oilfield service and equipment industry will continue to experience consolidation as
businesses seek to align themselves with other market participants in order to gain access to
broader markets and integrated product offerings. Since 1997, we have completed forty-two
acquisitions and plan to continue to participate in this consolidation trend. The aggregate effect
of these acquisitions has positively impacted our ability to provide complete drilling equipment
systems to our customers.

OPERATIONS

Products and Technology

National Oilwell designs, manufactures and sells drilling systems and components for both land and
offshore drilling rigs as well as complete land drilling and well servicing rigs. Mechanical
components include drawworks, mud pumps, top drives, solids control equipment (used to remove
particulates from drilling fluids), traveling equipment (hooks and blocks used to hoist and lower
drill pipe) and rotary tables (used to rotate drill pipe). These components are essential to pump
fluids and hoist, support and rotate the drill string. Many of these components are designed
specifically for applications in offshore, extended reach and deep land drilling operations. This
equipment is installed on new rigs and often replaced during the upgrade and refurbishment of
existing rigs.

We design and manufacture masts, derricks and substructures for use on land rigs and on fixed and
mobile offshore platforms suitable for drilling applications to depths of up to 30,000 feet or
more. Other products include cranes,



jacking and mooring systems, reciprocating and centrifugal pumps and fluid end expendables for all
major manufacturers’ pumps. Our business includes the sale of replacement parts for our own
manufactured machinery and equipment.

We also design and manufacture electrical systems and control and data acquisition systems for
drilling related operations and automated and remotely controlled machinery for drilling rigs. Our
control systems can control and monitor many simultaneous operations on a drilling rig and often
form the basis for our state-of-the-art driller’s cabin. Our automated pipe handling system
provides an efficient and cost effective method of joining lengths of drill pipe or casing, as does
our iron roughneck. These and similar technologically advanced products can greatly improve the
safety on rigs, often by reducing the number of persons working on the drilling floor.

While offering a complete line of conventional rigs, National Oilwell has extensive experience in
providing rig designs to satisfy requirements for harsh or specialized environments. Such products
include drilling and well servicing rigs designed for the Arctic, highly mobile drilling and well
servicing rigs for jungle and desert use, modular well servicing rigs for offshore platforms and
modular drilling facilities for North Sea platforms. We also design and produce fully integrated
drilling equipment packages for offshore rigs.

National Oilwell designs and manufactures drilling motors, drilling jars and specialized drilling
tools for rent and sale. We also design and manufacture a complete line of fishing tools, used to
remove objects stuck in the wellbore, and progressive cavity pumps.

Distribution Services

National Oilwell provides distribution services through its network of 147 distribution service
centers. National Oilwell’s distribution service centers are located throughout the oil and gas
producing regions of North America, with 90 in the United States, 41 in Canada, and the remainder
in various international locations. These distribution service centers stock and sell a variety of
expendable items for oilfield applications and spare parts for our proprietary equipment. As oil
and gas companies and drilling contractors have refocused on their core competencies and emphasized
efficiency initiatives to reduce costs and capital requirements, our distribution services have
expanded to offer outsourcing and alliance arrangements that include comprehensive procurement,
inventory management and logistics support. In addition, we believe we have a competitive advantage
in the distribution services business by distributing products manufactured by us and from the
association of this business with our Products and Technology segment.

The supplies and equipment stocked by our distribution service centers vary by location. Each
distribution point generally offers a large line of oilfield products including valves, fittings,
flanges, spare parts for oilfield equipment and miscellaneous expendable items.

Most drilling contractors and oil and gas companies typically buy supplies and equipment pursuant
to non-exclusive contracts, which normally specify a discount from list price for each product or
product category. Our goal is to create strategic alliances with our customers whereby we become
the customer’s primary supplier of those items. In certain cases, we assume responsibility for
procurement, inventory management and product delivery for the customer, occasionally by working
directly out of the customer’s facilities.

We believe e-commerce brings a significant advantage to larger companies that are technologically
proficient. Our e-commerce system can interface directly with customers’ systems to maximize
efficiencies for us and for our customers. We believe we have an advantage in this effort due to
our investment in technology, geographic size, knowledge of the industry and customers, existing
relationships with vendors and existing means of product delivery.



Marketing

Substantially all of our capital equipment and spare parts sales, and a large portion of our
smaller pumps and parts sales, are made through our direct sales force and distribution service
centers. Sales to foreign state-owned oil companies are typically made in conjunction with agent or
representative arrangements. Our downhole products are generally rented and sold worldwide through
our own sales force and through commissioned representatives. Distribution sales are made through
our network of distribution service centers. Customers for our products and services include
drilling and other service contractors, exploration and production companies, supply companies and
nationally owned or controlled drilling and production companies.

Competition

The oilfield services and equipment industry is highly competitive and our revenues and earnings
can be affected by price changes, introduction of new technologies and products and improved
availability and delivery. Our Products and Technology business segment competes with several
companies in North America that have drilling products that compete directly with certain of our
products. Our Distribution Services business segment competes with various smaller regional
competitors who may have strong direct ties with smaller or decentralized drilling and production
companies and other multinational distribution companies on the basis of service and price. None
of these competing companies dominate in any of the business segments or geographic areas in which
we operate.

Manufacturing and Backlog

National Oilwell has manufacturing facilities located in the United States, Canada, England,
France, Norway and China. The manufacture of parts or purchase of components is sometimes
outsourced to qualified subcontractors. The manufacturing operations require a variety of
components, parts and raw materials which we purchase from multiple commercial sources. We have not
experienced and do not expect any significant delays in obtaining deliveries of materials.

Sales of products are made on the basis of written orders and oral commitments. Our backlog for
equipment at recent year-ends has been:

December 31, 2004

$605 million

December 31, 2003

339 million

December 31, 2002

364 million

Distribution Suppliers

National Oilwell obtains products sold by its Distribution Services business from a number of
suppliers, including our own Products and Technology segment. No single supplier of products is
significant to our operations. We have not experienced and do not expect a shortage of products
that we sell.

Engineering

National Oilwell maintains a staff of engineers and technicians to:

•

design and test new products, components and systems for use in drilling and pumping
applications;

•

enhance the capabilities of existing products; and

•

assist our sales organization and customers with special projects.

Our product engineering efforts focus on developing technology to improve the economics and safety
of drilling and production processes, and to emphasize technology and complete drilling solutions.



Patents and Trademarks

National Oilwell owns or has a license to use a number of patents covering a variety of products.
Although in the aggregate these patents are of importance, we do not consider any single patent to
be of a critical or essential nature. In general, our business has historically relied upon
technological capabilities, quality products and application of expertise rather than patented
technology.

Employees

As of December 31, 2004, we had a total of 7,550 employees, 4,630 of whom were salaried and 2,920
of whom were paid on an hourly basis. Of this workforce, 1,575 employees are employed in Canada,
790 in Norway, 450 in the United Kingdom and 800 in other locations outside the United States. In
addition, we also had approximately 1,215 employees in our joint venture operation in Lanzhou,
China.

Available Information Regarding our SEC Filings

Our corporate offices are located at 10000 Richmond Avenue, Houston, Texas 77042-4200. Our phone
number at that location is (713) 346-7500 and our Internet address is www.natoil.com. Information
we make public about our company, including all SEC required filings, is available to you, free of
charge, at our Internet address. Our Code of Ethics is also posted on our website.

RISK FACTORS

You should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to other information
contained or incorporated by reference herein. Realization of any of the following risks could
have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of
operations.

Risks Related to the Merger and the Related Transactions

On August 11, 2004, we agreed to combine our businesses with Varco International, Inc. by merging
Varco with and into National Oilwell, with National Oilwell continuing as the surviving
corporation. Consummation of the merger requires approval by the stockholders of both companies and
also approval from various regulatory agencies. We anticipate completion of the merger during
March 2005.

We may not be able to successfully integrate our operations with Varco and realize the anticipated
benefits of the merger.

Achieving the benefits we expect from the merger will depend in large part on integrating our
technology, operations and personnel in a timely and efficient manner to minimize the impact on
customers, employees and management. Integration of the two previously independent companies will
be a complex, time consuming and costly process. Failure to timely and successfully integrate these
companies may have a material adverse effect on the combined company’s business, financial
condition and results of operations. The difficulties of combining the companies will present
challenges to the combined company’s management, including:

•

operating a significantly larger combined company with operations in more geographic
areas and with more business lines;

•

integrating personnel with diverse backgrounds and organizational cultures;

•

coordinating sales and marketing functions;



•

retaining key employees, customers or suppliers;

•

preserving the research and development, collaboration, distribution, marketing,
promotion and other important relationships of National Oilwell and Varco;

•

establishing the internal controls and procedures that the combined company will be
required to maintain under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; and

•

consolidating other corporate and administrative functions.

The combined company will also be exposed to other risks that are commonly associated with
transactions similar to the merger, such as unanticipated liabilities and costs, some of which may
be material, and diversion of management’s attention. As a result, we cannot assure you that we
will realize any of the anticipated benefits of the merger, including anticipated cost savings, and
failure to do so could adversely affect the business of the combined company after the merger.

The costs of the merger could adversely affect combined financial results.

We expect the total merger-related costs, exclusive of employee benefit costs, to be approximately
$30.0 million, consisting primarily of financial advisory, legal and accounting fees, financial
printing costs and other related charges. The amount of these expenses is a preliminary estimate
and is subject to change. In addition, the combined company will incur certain integration costs,
including, but not limited to, costs associated with consolidating administrative and operational
functions and the closure of certain facilities. If the benefits of the merger do not exceed the
costs associated with the merger, including any dilution to the stockholders of both companies
resulting from the issuance of shares in connection with the merger, the combined company’s
financial results, including earnings per share, could be adversely affected.

The exchange ratio for National Oilwell common stock to be received in the merger is fixed and will
not be adjusted in the event of any change in stock price.

Upon completion of the merger, each share of Varco common stock will be exchanged for 0.8363 of a
share of National Oilwell common stock. This conversion number is fixed and will not be adjusted as
a result of any change in the price of National Oilwell common stock or Varco common stock. In
addition, neither National Oilwell nor Varco may terminate the merger agreement solely because of
changes in the market price of either company’s common stock.

National Oilwell stockholders will be diluted by the merger.

The merger will dilute the ownership position of the present stockholders of National Oilwell.
Based on the number of shares of Varco common stock outstanding as of January 27, 2005, National
Oilwell will issue to Varco stockholders approximately 82,099,809 shares of National Oilwell common
stock in the merger. As a result, Varco stockholders and National Oilwell stockholders will hold
approximately 49% and 51%, respectively, of the combined company’s common stock outstanding after
the completion of the merger, based on the common stock of National Oilwell and Varco outstanding
as of January 27, 2005.

Failure to complete the merger or delays in completing the merger could negatively impact National
Oilwell’s stock price and future business and operations.

If the merger is not completed for any reason, National Oilwell and Varco may be subject to a
number of material risks, including the following:



•

We would not realize the benefits expected from becoming part of a combined company,
including potentially enhanced financial and competitive position;

•

National Oilwell may be required to pay Varco a termination fee of $75 million or reimburse
Varco for up to $5 million in merger related expenses;

•

the price of National Oilwell common stock may decline to the extent that the current
market price of the common stock reflects a market assumption that the merger will be
completed; and

•

some costs related to the merger, such as legal, accounting and financial advisor fees,
must be paid even if the merger is not completed.

In addition, in response to the announcement of the merger, customers may delay or defer purchasing
decisions. Any delay or deferral of purchasing decisions by customers could negatively affect the
business and results of operations of National Oilwell, regardless of whether the merger is
ultimately completed. Similarly, current and prospective employees of National Oilwell may
experience uncertainty about their future roles with the companies until after the merger is
completed or if the merger is not completed. This may adversely affect the ability of National
Oilwell to attract and retain key management, marketing and technical personnel.

Furthermore, while the merger agreement is in effect, subject to certain limited exceptions,
National Oilwell is prohibited from soliciting, initiating or encouraging or entering into any
extraordinary transactions, such as a merger, sale of assets or other business combination, with
any third party, subject to exceptions set forth in the merger agreement. As a result of these
limitations, National Oilwell may lose opportunities to enter into a more favorable transaction.
Finally, if the merger is terminated and the National Oilwell board of directors determines to seek
another merger or business combination, we cannot assure you that it will be able to find a
transaction providing as much stockholder value as this merger.

National Oilwell and Varco could be required to divest, hold separate or license assets to complete
the merger.

We cannot complete the merger until the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust
Improvements Act of 1976 or any other applicable waiting period has expired or is otherwise
terminated. On September 10, 2004, National Oilwell and Varco made the required filings relating to
the merger with the FTC and the DOJ. On October 12, 2004, National Oilwell and Varco received a
request for additional information and documentary material from the DOJ, which they furnished.
National Oilwell and Varco have also made required filings relating to the merger with various
government authorities in a number of foreign jurisdictions in which one or both companies have
sufficient market presence to require filings. We continue to work with these various governmental
agencies to obtain regulatory clearance to complete the merger. As a prerequisite to obtaining the
expiration or termination of this waiting period, or to avoid an injunction by the Department of
Justice or another governmental entity, whether foreign or domestic, National Oilwell, Varco or
both companies may be required to divest, hold separate or license certain assets. Although each of
National Oilwell and Varco have agreed to use their reasonable best efforts to obtain the
expiration or termination of this waiting period and to obtain any other governmental clearance or
approvals under federal, state or foreign antitrust laws, neither National Oilwell nor Varco is
required to divest, hold separate or license any of their respective businesses, product lines or
assets, take or agree to take any other action or agree to any limitation, that would reasonably be
expected to have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations or
prospects of National Oilwell or Varco.

Divestitures or licensing of assets can be time consuming and may delay or prevent completion of
the proposed merger. Because there may be a limited number of potential buyers or licensees for the
assets subject to divestiture or license and because potential buyers will likely be aware of the
circumstances of the sale or license, these assets could be sold or licensed at prices or rates
lower than their fair market values or the prices National Oilwell or Varco paid for these assets.
Asset divestitures or licenses of National Oilwell’s or Varco’s assets could also significantly
reduce the value of the combined company, eliminate potential cost savings opportunities or lessen
the anticipated benefits of the merger.



Some of the directors and executive officers of National Oilwell have interests that differ in
several respects from their respective stockholders.

In considering the recommendation of the board of directors of National Oilwell to adopt the merger
agreement, the stockholders of National Oilwell should consider that some of their respective
directors and executive officers have interests that differ from, or are in addition to, their
interests as stockholders of National Oilwell generally. These interests include the expectation of
being elected a director or appointed an officer of the combined company, the benefits that
directors and officers may receive in connection with any acceleration of the vesting of their
outstanding equity awards as a result of the merger or their terminations of service, and the
potential payments that certain officers of National Oilwell may receive as a result of the
merger. As a result, these officers and directors may be more likely to vote to adopt the merger
agreement than if they did not hold these interests. You should consider whether these interests
may have influenced these officers and directors to support or recommend the merger.

If National Oilwell or Varco fails to obtain all required consents and waivers, third parties may
terminate or alter existing contracts.

Certain agreements with suppliers, customers, licensors or other business partners may require
National Oilwell or Varco to obtain the approval or waiver of these other parties in connection
with the merger. National Oilwell and Varco have agreed to use reasonable efforts to secure the
necessary approvals and waivers. However, we cannot assure you that National Oilwell and/or Varco
will be able to obtain all of the necessary approvals and waivers, and failure to do so could have
a material adverse effect on the business of the combined company after the merger.

Risks Related to National Oilwell

National Oilwell is dependent upon the oil and gas industry, which may be volatile

.

The oil and gas industry historically has experienced significant volatility. Demand for our
services and products depends primarily upon the number of oil rigs in operation, the number of oil
and gas wells being drilled, the depth and drilling conditions of these wells, the volume of
production, the number of well completions, capital expenditures of other oilfield service
companies and the level of workover activity. Drilling and workover activity can fluctuate
significantly in a short period of time, particularly in the United States and Canada. The
willingness of oil and gas operators to make capital expenditures to explore for and produce oil
and natural gas and the willingness of oilfield service companies to invest in capital equipment
will continue to be influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, including:



•

environmental regulations.

If there is a significant reduction in demand for drilling services, in cash flows of drilling
contractors or production companies or in drilling or well servicing rig utilization rates, then
demand for the products and services of the combined company after the merger will decline.

Volatile oil and gas prices affect demand for our products.

Oil and gas prices have been volatile since 1990. In general, oil prices approximated $18-22 per
barrel from 1991 through 1997, experienced a decline into the low teens in 1998 and 1999, and have
generally ranged between $25-50 per barrel since 2000. Spot gas prices generally ranged between
$1.80-2.60 per mmbtu of gas from 1991 through 1999, then experienced severe spikes into the $10
range in 2001 and 2003. Absent occasional spikes and dips due to imbalances in supply and demand,
prices have generally ranged between $4.00-6.00 per mmbtu during the last two years.

Expectations for future oil and gas prices cause many shifts in the strategies and expenditure
levels of oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, particularly with respect to decisions to
purchase major capital equipment of the type we manufacture. Industry activity and our revenues
have responded slowly to the higher commodity prices that have existed since the second quarter of
2002, presumably due to concerns that these prices will not continue in the current range. Oil and
gas prices, which are determined by the marketplace, may fall below a range that is acceptable to
our customers, which could reduce demand for our products.

Competition in our industry could ultimately lead to lower revenues and earnings.

The oilfield products and services industry is highly competitive. National Oilwell competes with
national, regional and foreign competitors in each of their current major product lines. These
competitors may have greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than
National Oilwell, and may be in a better competitive position. The following competitive actions
can each affect our revenues and earnings:

•

price changes;

•

new product and technology introductions; and

•

improvements in availability and delivery.

In addition, certain foreign jurisdictions and government-owned petroleum companies located in some
of the countries in which we operate have adopted policies or regulations which may give local
nationals in these countries competitive advantages. Competition in our industry could lead to
lower revenues and earnings.

National Oilwell has aggressively expanded its businesses, and intends to maintain an aggressive
growth strategy.

National Oilwell has aggressively expanded and grown its businesses during the past several years,
primarily through acquisitions. We anticipate that we will continue to pursue an aggressive growth
strategy but we cannot assure you that attractive acquisitions will be available to us at
reasonable prices or at all. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will successfully integrate
the operations and assets of any acquired business with our own or that our management will be able
to manage effectively the increased size of the combined company or operate any new lines of
business. Any inability on the part of management to integrate and manage acquired businesses and
their assumed liabilities could adversely affect our business and financial performance. In
addition, we may need to incur substantial indebtedness to finance future acquisitions. We cannot
assure you that we will be able to obtain this financing on terms acceptable to us or at all.
Future acquisitions may result in increased depreciation and



amortization expense, increased interest expense, increased financial leverage or decreased
operating income for the combined company, any of which could cause our business to suffer.

Our operating results have fluctuated during recent years and these fluctuations may continue.

We have experienced fluctuations in quarterly operating results in the past. We cannot assure you
that we will realize expected earnings growth or that earnings in any particular quarter will not
fall short of either a prior fiscal quarter or investors’ expectations. The following factors, in
addition to others not listed, may affect our quarterly operating results in the future:

There are risks associated with our presence in international markets, including political or
economic instability and currency restrictions.

Approximately 44% of National Oilwell’s revenues in 2004 were derived from operations outside the
United States. National Oilwell’s foreign operations include significant operations in Europe, the
Middle East, Africa, Southeast Asia, South America and other international markets. Our revenues
and operations are subject to the risks normally associated with conducting business in foreign
countries, including uncertain political and economic environments, which may limit or disrupt
markets, restrict the movement of funds or result in the deprivation of contract rights or the
taking of property without fair compensation. Government-owned petroleum companies located in some
of the countries in which we operate have adopted policies, or are subject to governmental
policies, giving preference to the purchase of goods and services from companies that are
majority-owned by local nationals. As a result of these policies, we may rely on joint ventures,
license arrangements and other business combinations with local nationals in these countries. In
addition, political considerations may disrupt the commercial relationships between National
Oilwell and government-owned petroleum companies.

An impairment of goodwill could reduce the combined company’s earnings.

National Oilwell has recorded approximately $639 million of goodwill on its consolidated balance
sheet as of December 31, 2004.We currently expect to record approximately $1,579 million of
goodwill upon completion of the merger with Varco, but that estimate is subject to change based
upon the final number of shares of National Oilwell common stock issued at the time of closing and
the final valuation of Varco’s identified assets and liabilities. Consequently, following the
merger, we expect that approximately $2,218 million, representing approximately 38% of the combined
company’s consolidated assets on a pro forma as adjusted basis, may be recorded as goodwill.
Goodwill is recorded when the purchase price of a business exceeds the fair market value of the
tangible and separately measurable intangible net assets. Generally accepted accounting principles
requires us to test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or when events or circumstances
occur indicating that goodwill might be impaired. If we were to determine that any of our remaining
balance of goodwill was impaired, we would record an immediate charge to earnings with a
corresponding reduction in stockholders’ equity and increase in balance sheet leverage as measured
by debt to total capitalization.



We could be adversely affected if we fail to comply with any of the numerous federal, state and
local laws, regulations and policies that govern environmental protection, zoning and other matters
applicable to our businesses.

Our businesses are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies
governing environmental protection, zoning and other matters. These laws and regulations have
changed frequently in the past and it is reasonable to expect additional changes in the future. If
existing regulatory requirements change, we may be required to make significant unanticipated
capital and operating expenditures. We cannot assure you that our operations will continue to
comply with future laws and regulations. Governmental authorities may seek to impose fines and
penalties on us or to revoke or deny the issuance or renewal of operating permits for failure to
comply with applicable laws and regulations. Under these circumstances, we might be required to
reduce or cease operations or conduct site remediation or other corrective action which could
adversely impact our operations and financial condition.

Our businesses expose us to potential environmental liability.

Our businesses expose us to the risk that harmful substances may escape into the environment, which
could result in:

•

personal injury or loss of life;

•

severe damage to or destruction of property; or

•

environmental damage and suspension of operations.

Our current and past activities, as well as the activities of our former divisions and
subsidiaries, could result in our facing substantial environmental, regulatory and other
liabilities. These could include the costs of cleanup of contaminated sites and site closure
obligations. These liabilities could also be imposed on the basis of one or more of the following
theories:

•

negligence;

•

strict liability;

•

breach of contract with customers; or

•

as a result of our contractual agreement to indemnify our customers in the normal course of
business, which is normally the case.

We may not have adequate insurance for potential environmental liabilities.

While we maintain liability insurance, this insurance is subject to coverage limits. In addition,
certain policies do not provide coverage for damages resulting from environmental contamination. We
face the following risks with respect to our insurance coverage:

•

we may not be able to continue to obtain insurance on commercially reasonable terms;

•

we may be faced with types of liabilities that will not be covered by our insurance;

•

our insurance carriers may not be able to meet their obligations under the policies; or

•

the dollar amount of any liabilities may exceed our policy limits.

Even a partially uninsured claim, if successful and of significant size, could have a material
adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements.



Item 2. Properties

National Oilwell owned or leased approximately 268 facilities worldwide as of December 31,
2004, including the following principal manufacturing and administrative facilities:

Approximate

Building Space

Location

(square foot)

Description

Status

Lanzhou, China (joint venture)

1,248,000

Manufactures drilling machinery and equipment

Owned

Pampa, Texas

548,000

Manufactures drilling machinery and equipment

Owned

Houston, Texas

540,000

Manufactures downhole tools and mobile rigs

Owned

Houston, Texas

417,000

Manufactures drilling machinery and equipment

Leased

Manchester, England

244,000

Manufactures pumps and expendable parts

Owned

Carquefou, France

213,000

Manufactures offshore equipment

Owned

Houston, Texas

200,000

Manufactures braking systems and generators

Owned

Houston, Texas

184,000

Manufactures electrical power systems

Owned

Houston, Texas

178,000

Manufactures drilling components and rigs

Owned

Tulsa, Oklahoma

165,000

Manufactures pumps and expendable parts

Owned

Edmonton, Alberta, Canada

162,000

Manufactures downhole tools

Owned

Kristiansand, Norway

157,000

Manufactures drilling and offshore equipment

Owned

McAlester, Oklahoma

120,000

Manufactures pumps and expendable parts

Owned

Houston, Texas

115,000

Administrative offices

Leased

Houston, Texas

84,000

Distribution and warehousing operations

Owned

Calgary, Alberta, Canada

76,000

Manufactures coiled tubing units and wireline trucks

Owned

Molde, Norway

68,000

Manufactures marine handling equipment

Owned

Marble Falls, Texas

65,000

Manufactures drilling expendable parts

Owned

Edmonton, Alberta, Canada

61,000

Manufactures drilling machinery and equipment

Owned

Nisku, Alberta, Canada

60,000

Manufactures drilling machinery and equipment

Owned

Houston, Texas

51,000

Manufactures pumps and expendable parts

Owned

We own or lease 79 repair and manufacturing facilities that refurbish and manufacture new equipment
and parts and approximately 147 distribution service centers worldwide. We believe the capacity of
our facilities is adequate to meet demand currently anticipated for 2005.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

National Oilwell has various claims, lawsuits and administrative proceedings that are pending
or threatened, all arising in the ordinary course of business, with respect to commercial, product
liability and employee matters. Although no assurance can be given with respect to the outcome of
these or any other pending legal and administrative proceedings and the effect such outcomes may
have, we believe any ultimate liability resulting from the outcome of such proceedings will not
have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements.

Item 4. Submission Of Matters To A Vote Of Security Holders

No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the quarter ended December 31,
2004.



Part II

Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

Market Information

National Oilwell common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (ticker symbol: NOI). The
following table sets forth the stock price range during the past three years:




Quarter

High

Low

High

Low

High

Low

First

$

31.08

$

21.66

$

23.44

$

19.36

$

26.25

$

16.43

Second

31.74

25.42

24.78

20.54

28.81

20.91

Third

33.55

31.24

21.80

17.86

21.29

15.19

Fourth

37.38

31.54

22.99

18.01

23.31

17.69

As of March 1, 2005, there were 478 holders of record of National Oilwell common stock. Many
stockholders choose to own shares through brokerage accounts and other intermediaries rather than
as holders of record so the actual number is unknown but significantly higher. National Oilwell has
never paid cash dividends, and none are anticipated during 2005.

Item 6. Selected Financial Data

Year Ended December 31,






(in millions of U.S. dollars, except per share amounts)

Operating Data:

Revenues

$

2,318.1

$

2,004.9

$

1,521.9

$

1,747.5

$

1,149.9

Operating income (1) (3)

168.6

159.0

134.3

189.3

48.5

Income before taxes (3)

131.5

116.7

113.3

168.0

27.0

Net income (2)

110.2

76.8

73.1

104.1

13.1

Net income per share

Basic (2)

1.28

0.91

0.90

1.29

0.17

Diluted (2)

1.27

0.90

0.89

1.27

0.16

Other Data:

Depreciation and amortization

44.0

39.2

25.0

38.9

35.0

Capital expenditures

39.0

32.4

24.8

27.4

24.6

Balance Sheet Data:

Working capital

737.2

794.2

768.9

631.3

480.3

Total assets

2,598.7

2,242.7

1,977.2

1,471.7

1,278.9

Long-term debt, less current maturities

350.0

594.0

594.6

300.0

222.5

Stockholders’ equity

1,296.4

1,090.4

933.4

867.5

767.2

(1)

2003 includes a $6.3 million pre-tax charge ($4.4 million after tax) related to a clearing
account problem within the Distribution Group’s purchasing system that had accumulated over
a three-year period. We have not restated prior periods, as the impact is not considered
material.

(2)

We adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and
Other Intangible Assets” (SFAS 142), effective January 1, 2002. The effects of not amortizing
goodwill and other intangible assets in periods prior to the adoption of SFAS 142 would have
resulted in net income of $115.0 million and $23.1 million for the years ended December 31,
2001 and 2000, respectively; basic earnings per common share of $1.42 and $0.29 for the years
ending December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively; and diluted earnings per common share of
$1.41 and $0.29 for the years ending December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

(3)

In connection with the IRI International Corporation merger in 2000, we recorded charges
of $14.1 million related to direct merger costs, personnel reductions, and facility closures
and inventory write-offs of $15.7 million due to product line rationalization.



Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

General Overview

We design, manufacture and sell drilling systems, drilling equipment and downhole products as
well as distribute maintenance, repair and operating products to the oil and gas industry. Our
revenues and operating results are directly related to the level of worldwide oil and gas drilling
and production activities and the profitability and cash flow of oil and gas companies and drilling
contractors, which in turn are affected by current and anticipated prices of oil and gas. Oil and
gas prices have been and are likely to continue to be volatile. See “Risk Factors”.

We conduct our operations through the following segments:

Products and Technology

Our Products and Technology segment designs and manufactures complete land drilling and workover
rigs, and drilling related systems for offshore rigs. Technology has increased the desirability of
one vendor assuming responsibility for the entire suite of components used in the drilling process,
as mechanical and hydraulic components are replaced by or augmented with integrated computerized
systems. In addition to traditional components such as drawworks, mud pumps, top drives, derricks,
cranes, jacking and mooring systems, and other structural components, we provide automated
pipehandling, control and electrical power systems. We have also developed new technology for
drawworks and mud pumps applicable to the highly demanding offshore markets. We have made strategic
acquisitions during the past several years in an effort to expand our product offering and our
global manufacturing capabilities, including new operations in Norway, the United Kingdom and
China. Product and Technology revenues are directly dependent on the levels of worldwide drilling
activity.

Distribution Services

Our Distribution Services segment provides maintenance, repair and operating supplies and spare
parts from our network of distribution service centers to drill site and production locations
throughout North America and to offshore contractors worldwide. Products are purchased from
numerous manufacturers and vendors, including our Products and Technology segment. We have expanded
this business to locations outside North America, including Europe, the Middle East, Southeast
Asia, and South America. We have made significant investments in systems, staffing and inventory
in the international market and, using our information technology platforms and processes, we can
provide complete procurement, inventory management, and logistics services to our customers.



Results of Operations

Operating results by segment are as follows (in millions):

Year Ended December 31,




Revenues:

Revenues from backlog

$

695.1

$

623.1

$

390.4

Noncapital equipment

841.9

691.5

526.8

Products and Technology

1,537.0

1,314.6

917.2

Distribution Services

905.1

792.0

686.2

Eliminations

(124.0

)

(101.7

)

(81.5

)

Total

$

2,318.1

$

2,004.9

$

1,521.9

Operating Income:

Products and Technology

$

157.4

$

165.1

$

127.0

Distribution Services

29.6

6.5

18.1

Corporate

(18.4

)

(12.6

)

(10.8

)

Total

$

168.6

$

159.0

$

134.3

Capital equipment backlog:

Beginning of year

$

338.9

$

363.6

$

384.9

Add: Orders, net

961.3

598.4

199.1

Less: Revenues

695.1

623.1

390.4

End of year

$

605.1

$

338.9

$

363.6

(1

)

(1) Includes $170 million Hydralift backlog @ 12/31/02

Products and Technology

Year 2004 versus 2003

Products and Technology revenues in 2004 were $222.4 million (17%) higher than the previous year.
Yearly average oil and gas prices in 2004 were $41.37 and $5.95, an increase of 34% and 8% over
2003. These higher oil and gas prices have encouraged many of our customers to order new capital
equipment, or refurbish their existing equipment, generating additional capital equipment revenues
in 2004 of $72 million. The number of worldwide rigs actively searching for oil and gas increased
approximately 10% in 2004 to a yearly average of 2,395 rigs. This metric is a key driver of our
noncapital equipment revenues which were $150 million higher in 2004. Drilling spare parts,
expendable pumps and related parts, downhole motors and fishing tools, and service work all showed
significant increases during 2004. Despite the higher revenues, operating income declined
approximately $8 million (5%). Gross margins were negatively impacted by the increase of lower
margin capital equipment revenues, higher steel prices during the first half of the year and higher
agent commissions. Operating expenses increased primarily due to higher employee benefit costs.

One of our primary metrics is the capital equipment backlog. New orders are added to backlog only
when we receive a firm customer purchase order for major drilling rig components or a signed
contract related to a construction project. New orders received in 2004 for capital equipment
totaled $961 million, far exceeding the previous year’s record of $598 million. The capital
equipment backlog was $605 million at December 31,



2004, $339 million at December 31, 2003 and $364 million at December 31, 2002. All of the current
backlog will be delivered by the end of 2006.

Year 2003 versus 2002

Revenues in the Products and Technology segment in 2003 increased $397.4 million over the prior
year, with virtually all of the increase attributable to our acquisitions of Hydralift and Monoflo.
Major international construction projects are generally long-term contracts, thus less susceptible
to changes in oil and gas prices or rig count movements. Our revenues from backlog increased $233
million, primarily resulting from the addition of the Hydralift operations. Sales and rentals of
downhole motors and fishing tools increased approximately $32 million, primarily due to the
resurging North American drilling rig count. Spare part and service revenues accounted for the
remaining incremental revenues. Operating income in 2003 increased $38.1 million over 2002 and
generated a flow-through percentage of 9.6%. Flow-through, defined as incremental operating profit
divided by incremental revenues, is a key financial metric for our company. While we target a
flow-through rate of 25% for this group, this was not expected in 2003 as the increased revenues
came from acquisitions which in turn included large amounts of overhead and administrative costs.
Product mix unfavorably impacted gross margin as the lower margins on the major projects reduced
gross margin % by almost 4%. Operating expenses incurred to generate the margins resulting from the
incremental sales volume were approximately $81 million higher than the prior year, due primarily
to the addition of Hydralift and Monoflo.

The Products and Technology capital equipment backlog was $339 million at December 31, 2003, $364
million at December 31, 2002 and $385 million at December 31, 2001. Backlog at December 31, 2002
includes $170 million acquired in late December through the purchase of Hydralift ASA. Backlog from
Hydralift is also contained in subsequent backlog totals but quantification is not possible due to
the overlap with products from our other operations.

Distribution Services

Year 2004 versus 2003

Revenues in 2004 of $905.1 million for the Distribution Services segment established a new record,
increasing $113 million (14%) over 2003. The number of drilling rigs actively searching for oil and
gas is a key metric for this business. According to the Baker Hughes rig count report, the average
number of rigs operating in the world in 2004 continued to climb to levels not seen since 1985. The
average rig count in the United States in 2004 was up 15% over the prior year to 1,190 rigs with
our U.S. revenues up $49 million (11%). While the Canadian rig count was virtually flat during
2004, our Canadian revenues were up $44 million (24%) primarily due to strong tubular sales and the
inclusion of a late 2003 acquisition, Corlac Equipment Ltd., in our Canadian results for the full
year. In the international market, our revenue increase of 11% linked favorably with the
international rig count increase in 2004 of 8%. From a product perspective, maintenance, repair and
operating supplies (“MRO”) products recorded the most growth, a $78 million increase over the prior
year. Sales of our manufactured products increased $20 million and tubular products recorded a $15
million increase over 2003. Operating income increased $23.1 million in 2004 to $29.6 million.
Excluding the non-recurring clearing account matter recorded in 2003, operating income increased
$16.8 million. Margin on the incremental revenues was partially offset by higher distribution
service center costs to handle the increased market activity.

Year 2003 versus 2002

Revenues for the Distribution Services segment increased $105.8 million (15%) over the prior year.
North American revenues recorded the largest gains, reflecting the increase in the number of
operating rigs. According to the Baker Hughes rig count report, the average number of rigs
operating in 2003 in the United



States and Canada were 1,032, and 372 — increases of 202 and 106 over the prior year. Canadian
revenues were up $37 million, or 24%, while the U.S. revenues improved $51 million, or 14%. We
expanded our presence in the international market as we recorded revenue gains of $18 million (12%)
over the year 2002, primarily due to an alliance in Indonesia and our new operations in Mexico. Our
base margin % remained flat as our customers remained sensitive to price changes, which had no
significant effect on 2003 revenues. Substantially all of the 2003 revenue growth was in the
maintenance, repair and operating supplies (“MRO”) products. Despite the revenue increase,
operating income in 2003 fell $11.6 million to a disappointing $6.5 million. This reduction was
primarily due to recording a $6.3 million pre-tax charge related to a clearing account problem
uncovered in our purchasing system that had accumulated over a three year period. This amount
relates to periods prior to 2003 and we have not restated prior periods as the impact is not
considered material. A key financial metric for this low-margin business is “% of operating
expenses to revenue,” which remained flat at 18% for 2003. In November 2003, we acquired Corlac
Equipment Ltd., a Canadian pump distributor, and their 2003 revenues and operating income were not
significant.

Corporate

Corporate charges represent the unallocated portion of centralized and executive management costs.
Costs for 2004 totaled $18.4 million, an increase of $5.8 million from the prior year. The majority
of this increase is due to expenses incurred in conjunction with our efforts to comply with the
Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 and consulting fees incurred with various tax initiatives.

Interest Expense

Interest expense incurred in 2004 of $34.4 million is slightly below expense level incurred in the
prior year. Our average borrowing cost for the year of 5.6 % was
essentially the same as 2003. The $150 million 6 7/8% unsecured Senior Notes will mature on July 1, 2005. In addition, our $175
million unsecured North American revolving credit facility expires July 31, 2005. We plan to
arrange financing at reasonable terms and conditions with our existing bank syndication, plus other
banks as needed, or utilize surplus cash and certain discretionary credit facilities to refinance
these expiring obligations. Interest expense should decline in 2005 due to this repayment.

Year 2003 interest expense of $35.5 million increased $11.4 million from the prior year. Annual
interest due on the November 2002 issuance of senior notes accounted for $9.9 million of the
increase. Borrowings in Norway attributable to the Hydralift operations incurred approximately $3
million in additional interest which was offset in part by lower borrowing rates on the U.S.
revolving credit facility. Our average borrowing cost during 2003 of 5.6% reflected a decrease of
0.8 percentage points from the prior year due to the lower interest rates on the credit facilities.

Interest expense in 2002 totaled $24.1 million, an increase of $1.3 million from the prior year.
All of this increase is a direct result of our mid-November 2002 sale of $200 million of 5.65%
unsecured senior notes. Our average borrowing cost during 2002 of 6.4% remained the same as 2001.

Other Income (Expense)

The U.S. dollar continued its decline in 2004 against most of the currencies in countries where we
operate, especially Canada, Norway and the United Kingdom. We recorded foreign exchange losses of
$9.3 million in 2004 and $7.2 million in 2003, primarily related to cash balances and intercompany
accounts held in U.S. dollars at these subsidiary locations. The remeasurement of these amounts
into the local currency results in an income statement gain or loss, which is offset when the
amount is translated back into U.S. currency for consolidation purposes by way of an increase or
decrease to Other Comprehensive Income in the equity



section of the balance sheet. During 2004 we recorded a $2.7 million gain on the sale of certain
non-strategic assets and a $10.7 million gain on the disposal of an equity investment.

Income Taxes

National Oilwell is subject to U.S. federal, state and foreign taxes and recorded a combined tax
rate of 15% in 2004, 29% in 2003 and 35% in 2002. The reduction in the 2004 effective tax rate is
primarily due to a non-recurring tax credit of $17 million resulting from the release of a
valuation allowance related to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. We anticipate our effective
tax rate for 2005 will approximate 32%.

The reduction in the 2003 effective tax rate was primarily due to the lower tax rate on increased
foreign income and the benefit associated with export sales.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

At December 31, 2004, our working capital totaled $737 million, a decrease of $57 million from
December 31, 2003. However, the general increase in market activity has increased our working
capital needs. An increase of $19 million in receivables and $111 million in inventories has been
offset by an increase in accounts payable of $187 million. Our capital equipment contracts have
generated a net asset position of $195 million, an increase of $136 million from December 2003. We
have recorded $150 million of our debt obligations to a current liability as the 6 7/8 unsecured
senior notes will mature on July 1, 2005. Cash has increased $69 million during the year and our
principal source of cash is from operations. Our ability to collect our customer receivables and
obtain prepayments from our customers to help fund major projects are critical to our cash
generation needs. Our primary cash uses include acquisitions, capital expenditures to enhance our
existing operations, and repayment of debt obligations.

Total capital expenditures were $39 million during 2004, $32 million in 2003 and $24 million in
2002. The majority of these capital expenditures represent additions and enhancements to the
downhole rental tool fleet and information management and inventory control systems. Capital
expenditures are expected to approximate $43 million in 2005, slightly below our anticipated
depreciation expense in that year, with continued emphasis on rental tools and information
technology. We believe we have sufficient existing manufacturing capacity to meet currently
anticipated demand through 2005 for our products and services.

At December 31, 2004, we had two committed credit facilities, a North American and a Norwegian
facility, totaling $279 million. Both facilities are available for general corporate purposes
and acquisitions, including letters of credit and performance bonds.

Our North American facility is a three-year unsecured $175 million revolving credit facility
with availability up to $50 million for issuance of letters of credit that expires July 31,
2005. At December 31, 2004, there were no borrowings against this facility and there were $53
million in outstanding letters of credit.

Our Norwegian facility, which expires in 2006, has revolving credit facilities totaling $104
million, with $41 million available for letter of credit purposes. At December 31, 2004, there
were no borrowings against this facility and there were $18 million in outstanding letters of
credit.

We also have additional uncommitted credit facilities totaling $147 million that are used
primarily for letters of credit, bid bonds and performance bonds. At December 31, 2004, there
were no borrowings against these additional credit facilities and there were $49 million in
outstanding letters of credit and performance bonds.



In November 2002, we sold $200 million of 5.65% unsecured senior notes due November 15, 2012.
Interest is payable on May 15 and November 15 of each year. In March 2001, we sold $150 million of
6.50% unsecured senior notes due March 15, 2011, with interest payable on March 15 and September 15
of each year. In June 1998, we sold $150 million of 6.875% unsecured senior notes due July 1, 2005,
with interest payments due annually on January 1 and July 1.

The $150 million 6 7/8% unsecured senior notes will mature on July 1, 2005. In addition, our $175
million unsecured North American revolving credit facility expires July 31, 2005. We plan to
arrange financing at reasonable terms and conditions with our existing bank syndication, plus other
banks as needed, or utilize surplus cash and certain discretionary credit facilities to refinance
these expiring obligations.

We believe cash generated from operations and amounts available under our existing credit
facilities and from other sources of debt will be sufficient to fund operations, working capital
needs, capital expenditure requirements and financing obligations. We also believe any significant
increase in capital expenditures caused by any need to increase manufacturing capacity can be
funded from operations or through debt financing.

The senior notes contain reporting covenants and the credit facilities contain financial covenants
and ratios regarding maximum debt to capital and minimum interest coverage. We were in compliance
with all covenants governing these facilities at December 31, 2004.

We have not entered into any transactions, arrangements, or relationships with unconsolidated
entities or other persons which would materially affect liquidity, or the availability of or
requirements for capital resources.

A summary of our outstanding contractual obligations and other commercial commitments at

December 31, 2004 is as follows (in millions):

Payments Due by Period

Less than 1

Contractual Obligations

Total

year

1-3 years

4-5 years

After 5 years

Long Term Debt

$

500.0

$

150.0

$

—

$

—

$

350.0

Operating Leases

76.4

21.3

40.9

6.5

7.7

Total contractual obligations

$

576.4

$

171.3

$

40.9

$

6.5

$

357.7

Amount of Commitment Expiration per Period

Less than 1

Commercial Commitments

Total

year

1-3 years

4-5 years

After 5 years

Line of Credit

$

279.1

$

—

$

279.1

$

—

$

—

Standby Letters of Credit

120.5

97.5

19.2

3.8

—

Total commercial commitments

$

399.6

$

97.5

$

298.3

$

3.8

$

—

We intend to pursue additional acquisition candidates, but the timing, size or success of any
acquisition effort and the related potential capital commitments cannot be predicted. We expect to
fund future cash acquisitions primarily with cash flow from operations and borrowings, including
the unborrowed portion of the credit



facility or new debt issuances, but may also issue additional equity either directly or in
connection with acquisitions. There can be no assurance that acquisition funds will be available
at terms acceptable to us.

Inflation has not had a significant impact on National Oilwell’s operating results or financial
condition in recent years.

Market Risk Disclosure

We are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. Additional
information concerning each of these matters follows:

Foreign Currency Exchange Rates

We have operations in foreign countries, including Canada, Norway and the United Kingdom, as well
as operations in Latin America, China and other European countries. The net assets and liabilities
of these operations are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, although such
fluctuations generally do not affect income since their functional currency is the local currency.
These operations also have net assets and liabilities not denominated in the local currency, which
exposes us to changes in foreign currency exchange rates that do impact income. We recorded foreign
exchange losses in our income statement of approximately $9.3 million in 2003 and $7.2 million in
the prior year, primarily related to cash balances and intercompany accounts held in U.S. dollars
at these subsidiary locations. The remeasurement of these amounts into the local currency results
in an income statement gain or loss, which is offset when the amount is translated back into U.S.
currency for consolidation purposes by way of an increase or decrease to Other Comprehensive Income
in the equity section of the balance sheet.. We do not believe that a hypothetical 10% movement in
these foreign currencies would have a material impact on our earnings.

Some of our revenues in foreign countries are denominated in US dollars, and therefore, changes in
foreign currency exchange rates impact our earnings to the extent that costs associated with those
US dollar revenues are denominated in the local currency. In order to mitigate that risk, we may
utilize foreign currency forward contracts to better match the currency of our revenues and
associated costs. We do not use foreign currency forward contracts for trading or speculative
purposes. The counterparties to these contracts are major financial institutions, which minimizes
counterparty credit risk.

Interest Rate Risk

Our long term borrowings consist of $150 million in 6.875% senior notes, $150 million in 6.5%
senior notes and $200 million in 5.65% senior notes. We had no borrowings under our other
facilities at December 31, 2004. Our revolving credit facilities may have borrowings during the
year denominated in multiple currencies which could expose us to market risk with exchange rate
movements. These instruments carry interest at a pre-agreed upon percentage point spread from
either the prime interest rate, LIBOR, NIBOR or EURIBOR. Under our credit facilities, we may, at
our option, fix the interest rate for certain borrowings based on a spread over LIBOR, NIBOR or
EURIBOR for 30 days to 6 months. Our objective in maintaining a portion of our debt in variable
rate borrowings is the flexibility obtained regarding early repayment without penalties and lower
overall cost as compared with fixed-rate borrowings.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make certain estimates and assumptions
that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Our estimation
process generally relates to potential bad debts, obsolete and slow moving inventory, revenue
recognition on long term contracts, value of intangible assets, and deferred income tax accounting.
Note 1 to the consolidated financial



statements contains the accounting policies governing each of these matters. Our estimates are
based on historical experience and on our future expectations that we believe to be reasonable
under the circumstances. The combination of these factors result in the amounts shown as carrying
values of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results
could differ from our current estimates and those differences may be material.

We believe the following accounting policies are the most critical in the preparation of our
consolidated financial statements:

We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for accounts receivables by providing for
specifically identified accounts where collectibility is doubtful and a general allowance based on
the aging of the receivables compared to past experience and current trends. A majority of our
revenues come from drilling contractors, independent oil companies, international oil companies and
government-owned or government-controlled oil companies, and we have receivables, some denominated
in local currency, in many foreign countries. If, due to changes in worldwide oil and gas drilling
activity or changes in economic conditions in certain foreign countries, our customers were unable
to repay these receivables, additional allowances would be required.

Allowances for inventory obsolescence are determined based on our historical usage of inventory
on-hand as well as our future expectations related to our substantial installed base and the
development of new products. Changes in worldwide oil and gas drilling activity and the development
of new technologies associated with the drilling industry could require additional allowances to
reduce the value of inventory to the lower of its cost or net realizable value.

We recognize revenue on long-term construction contracts using the percentage of completion method
and is an output based measure focused on engineering estimates and manufacturing progress. This
method is used because we believe this is the most meaningful measurement of the extent of progress
toward completion. This methodology requires us to make estimates regarding the total costs of the
project, our progress against the project schedule and the estimated completion date, all of which
impact the amount of revenue and gross margin we recognize in each reporting period. Changes in job
performance, job conditions, and estimated profitability, including those arising from contract
penalty provisions, and final contract settlements may result in revisions to costs and income and
are recognized in the period in which the revisions are determined. Profit incentives are included
in revenues when their realization is reasonably assured. Provisions for anticipated losses on
uncompleted contracts are recorded in full when such losses become evident.

We account for our defined benefit pension plans in accordance with Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 87, Employers’ Accounting for Pensions (FAS 87), which requires that
amounts recognized in the financial statements be determined on an actuarial basis. Significant
elements in determining our pension income or expense in accordance with FAS 87 are the discount
rate assumption and the expected return on plan assets. The discount rate used approximates the
weighted average rate of return on high-quality fixed income investments whose maturities match the
expected payouts. The expected return on plan assets is based upon the geometric mean of historical
returns of a number of different equities, including stocks, bonds and U.S. treasury bills. The
assumed long-term rate of return on assets is applied to a calculated value of plan assets, which
results in an estimated return on plan assets that is included in current year pension income or
expense. The difference between this expected return and the actual
return on plan assets
is deferred and amortized against future pension income or expense. A substantial portion of our
pension amounts relate to our defined benefit plans in the United States, Norway and the United
Kingdom. Between the years 2000-2003, we assumed that the expected long-term rate of return on plan
assets for these plans would be between 6.3% and 8.5%. Prior to 2001, our actual cumulative
long-term rate of return on the pension assets of these plans was in excess of these amounts;
however, these plans’ assets have recently earned substantially less than the assumed rates of
return. The impact of our pension plans on our 2004 results of operations, cash flow and



liquidity has been immaterial but recent actual returns of the plan assets may effect future
contributions to the plans and our earnings. The amount of unrecognized losses on pension assets is
$21.0 million.

Business acquisitions are accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. The cost of the
acquired company is allocated to identifiable tangible and intangible assets based on estimated
fair value, with the excess allocated to goodwill. On at least an annual basis, we assess whether
goodwill is impaired. Our annual impairment tests are performed at the beginning of the 4th quarter
of each year. If we determine that goodwill is impaired, we measure that impairment based on the
amount by which the book value of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. The implied fair value
of goodwill is determined by deducting the fair value of a reporting unit’s identifiable assets and
liabilities from the fair value of that reporting unit as a whole. Additional impairment
assessments may be performed on an interim basis if we encounter events or changes in circumstances
that would indicate that, more likely than not, the carrying amount of goodwill has been impaired.
The fair value of the reporting units is determined based on internal management estimates which
consider multiple valuation techniques.

In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 109,

Accounting for Income Taxes

, we account for
income taxes using the asset and liability method. In determining income (loss) for financial
statement purposes, we must make certain estimates and judgments. These estimates and judgments
affect the calculation of certain tax liabilities and the determination of the recoverability of
certain of the deferred tax assets, which arise from temporary differences between the tax and
financial statement recognition of revenue and expense. Deferred tax assets are also reduced by a
valuation allowance if, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that
some portion or all of the recorded deferred tax assets will not be realized in future periods.
In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets we consider all available
positive and negative evidence including our past operating results, the existence of cumulative
losses in the most recent years and our forecast of future taxable income. In estimating future
taxable income, we develop assumptions including the amount of future state, federal and
international pretax operating income, reversal of temporary differences and the implementation of
feasible and prudent tax planning strategies. These assumptions require significant judgment about
the forecasts of future taxable income and are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using
to manage the underlying businesses.

We currently have recorded significant valuation allowances that we intend to maintain until it is
more likely than not the deferred tax assets will be realized. Other
than valuation allowances associated with tax attributes acquired
through acquisitions, our income tax expense recorded in
the future will be reduced to the extent of decreases in our valuation allowances. The realization
of our remaining deferred tax assets is primarily dependent on future taxable income. Any reduction
in future taxable income including but not limited to any future restructuring activities may
require that we record an additional valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. An
increase in the valuation allowance would result in additional income tax expense in such period
and could have a significant impact on our future earnings. If a change in a valuation allowance
occurs, which was established in connection with an acquisition, such adjustment may impact
goodwill rather than the income tax provision. In addition, the calculation of our tax liabilities
involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of
jurisdictions across our global operations. We recognize potential liabilities and record tax
reserves for anticipated tax audit issues in the U.S. and other tax jurisdictions based on our
estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. These tax liabilities
are reflected net of related tax loss carryforwards. We adjust these reserves in light of changing
facts and circumstances; however, due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the
ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate
of the tax liabilities. If our estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate
assessment, an additional charge to expense would result. If payment of these amounts ultimately
proves to be less than the recorded amounts, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax
benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the reserves are no longer necessary.
If the tax liabilities relate to tax uncertainties existing at the date of the acquisition of a
business, the adjustment of such tax liabilities will result in an adjustment to the goodwill
recorded at the date of acquisition.



Recently Issued Accounting Standards

In May 2004, the FASB issued Staff Position No. 106-2, “Accounting and Disclosure Requirements
Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003” (“FSP
106-2”). FSP 106-2 provides guidance on accounting for the effects of the Medicare Prescription
Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (the “Act”) for employers that sponsor
postretirement health care plans that provide prescription drug benefits. FSP 106-2 is effective
for the first interim or annual period beginning after June 15, 2004. The adoption of FSP 106-2 did
not have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

In November 2004, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 151, “Inventory
Costs — an amendment of ARB 43, Chapter 4” (“SFAS 151”). SFAS 151 clarifies the accounting for
abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs and wasted material. Paragraph 5
of Accounting Research Bulletin (“ARB”) 43, Chapter 4 “Inventory Pricing,” previously stated that
“under certain circumstances, items such as idle facility expense, excessive spoilage, double
freight, and rehandling costs may be so abnormal as to require treatment as current-period
charges.” SFAS 151 requires that those items be recognized as current-period charges regardless of
whether they meet the criterion of “so abnormal.” In addition, SFAS 151 requires that the
allocation of fixed production overheads to the costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity
of the production facilities. SFAS 151 is effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005.
We do not believe the implementation of SFAS 151 will have a material impact on our financial
position, results of operations or cash flows.

In December 2004, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123-Revised 2004
(“Revised SFAS 123”), “Share-Based Payment.” This is a revision of SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation,” and supersedes APB No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.”
Currently, we do not record compensation expense for stock-based compensation. Under Revised SFAS
123, we will be required to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for stock
based on the grant-date fair value (with limited exceptions). That cost will be recognized over the
period during which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for the award (usually
the vesting period). The fair value will be estimated using an option-pricing model. Excess tax
benefits, as defined in Revised SFAS 123, will be recognized as an addition to paid-in capital.
This is effective as of the beginning of the first interim or annual reporting period that begins
after June 15, 2005. Revised SFAS 123 permits public
companies to adopt its requirements using one of two methods:
1) a

“modified prospective”

method in which
compensation cost is recognized beginning with the effective date
(a) based on the requirements of Revised SFAS 123 for all
share-based payments granted after the effective date and
(b) based on the requirements of Revised SFAS 123 for all
awards granted to employees prior to the effective date of Revised
SFAS 123 that remain unvested on the effective date, or
2) a

“modified retrospective”

method which
includes the requirements of the modified prospective method described
above, but also permits entities to restate based on the amounts
previously recognized under Statement 123 for purposes of pro
forma disclosures either (a) all prior periods presented or
(b) prior interim periods of the year of adoption. We are currently in the process of evaluating the impact of Revised SFAS 123
on our financial statements, including different option-pricing models. The pro forma table in Note
1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements illustrates the effect on net income and
earnings per share if the Company had applied the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS
123.

In December 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 109-1, “Application of FASB
Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, to the Tax Deduction on Qualified Production
Activities Provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004” (“FSP 109-1”) and FASB Staff
Position No. FAS 109-2, “Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings Repatriation
Provision within the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004” (“FSP 109-2”). FSP 109-1 clarifies the
guidance in FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes”
(“Statement 109”) that applies to the new deduction for qualified domestic production activities
under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the “Act”). FSP 109-1 clarifies that the deduction
should be accounted for as a special deduction under Statement 109, not as a tax-rate reduction,
because the deduction is contingent on performing activities identified in the Act. As a result,
companies qualifying for the special deduction will not have a one-time adjustment of deferred tax
assets and liabilities in the period the Act is enacted. FSP 109-2 addresses the effect of the
Act’s one-time deduction for qualifying repatriations of foreign earnings. FSP 109-2 allows
additional time for companies to determine whether any foreign earnings will be repatriated under
the Act’s one-time deduction for repatriated earnings and how the Act affects whether undistributed
earnings continue to qualify for Statement 109’s exception from recognizing deferred tax
liabilities. FSP 109-1 and FSP 109-2 were both effective upon issuance. We have implemented FSP
109-1 and FSP 109-2 in the quarter ended December 31, 2004 and have included the required disclosures
in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



Forward-Looking Statements

Some of the information in this document contains, or has incorporated by reference,
forward-looking statements. Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about
our beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements typically
are identified by use of terms such as “may,” “will,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” and
similar words, although some forward-looking statements are expressed differently. You should be
aware that our actual results could differ materially from results anticipated in the
forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including but not limited to changes in oil
and gas prices, customer demand for our products and worldwide economic activity. You should also
consider carefully the statements under “Risk Factors” which address additional factors that could
cause our actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Given
these uncertainties, current or prospective investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on
any such forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update any such factors or
forward-looking statements to reflect future events or developments.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Incorporated by reference to Item 7 above, “Market Risk Disclosure.”

Item 8. Financial Statement and Supplementary Data

Attached hereto and a part of this report are financial statements and supplementary data listed in Item 15.

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.



Item 9a. Controls and Procedures

(a)

Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures

Our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, based on their evaluation of
our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(c)) as
of a date within 90 days prior to the filing of this annual report on Form 10-K, have
concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are adequate and effective for
the information required to be disclosed by us in the reports we file or submit under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and that this
information is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods
specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms.

(b)

Changes in internal control

There were no changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting
that occurred during the Company’s last fiscal quarter that has materially affected,
or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting.



Part III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Incorporated by reference to the definitive Proxy Statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

Item 11. Executive Compensation

Incorporated by reference to the definitive Proxy Statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

Incorporated by reference to the definitive Proxy Statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans

The following table sets forth information as of our fiscal year ended December 31, 2004, with
respect to compensation plans under which our common stock may be issued:

Number of securities

remaining available for

future issuance under

Number of securities to be

Weighted-average

equity compensation

issued upon exercise of

exercise price of

plans (excluding

outstanding options,

outstanding options,

securities reflected in

warrants and rights

warrants and rights

column (a))

Plan Category

(a)

(b)

(c) (1)

Equity compensation

plans approved by

security holders

3,732,316

$

26.69

2,441,871

Equity compensation

plans not approved by

security holders




Total

3,732,316

$

26.69

2,441,871

(1)

Shares could be issued other than upon the exercise of stock options, warrants
or rights; however, none are anticipated during 2005. On February 7, 2005, we issued
1,145,000 stock options at an exercise price of $37.60.



Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

Incorporated by reference to the definitive Proxy Statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

Item 14

.

Principal Accountant Fees and Services

Incorporated by reference to the definitive Proxy Statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.



Part IV

Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

a) Financial Statements and Exhibits

1.

Financial Statements

The following financial statements are presented in response to Part II, Item 8:

Page(s) in

This Report

Consolidated Balance Sheets

A-34

Consolidated Statements of Operations

A-35

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

A-36

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity

A-37

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

A-38

2.

Financial Statement Schedule

Schedule II — Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

A-61

All schedules, other than Schedule II, are omitted because they are not applicable, not
required or the information is included in the financial statements or notes thereto.

3.

Exhibits



*

Compensatory plan or arrangement for management or others

(1)

Filed as an Exhibit to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on August 11, 2000.

(2)

Filed as an Exhibit to our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on March 28, 2002.

(3)

Filed as an Exhibit to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on November 12, 2002.

(4)

Filed as Annex A to our Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed on September 16, 2004.

(5)

Filed as an Exhibit to our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on March 7, 2003.

(6)

Filed as an Exhibit to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 10, 2005.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this Annual Report on Form 10-K to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant in the capacities and on the
dates indicated.

Each person whose signature appears below in so signing, constitutes and appoints Steven W.
Krablin and M. Gay Mather, and each of them acting alone, his true and lawful attorney-in-fact and
agent, with full power of substitution, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all
capacities, to execute and cause to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission any and
all amendments to this report, and in each case to file the same, with all exhibits thereto and
other documents in connection therewith, and hereby ratifies and confirms all that said
attorney-in-fact or his substitute or substitutes may do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

Signature

Title

Date

/s/ Merrill A. Miller,
Jr.

Merrill A. Miller, Jr.

Chairman, President and Chief Executive
Officer (Principal Executive Officer)

March 7, 2005

/s/ Steven W. Krablin

Steven W. Krablin

Sr. Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
(Principal Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer)

March 7, 2005

/s/ Hushang Ansary

Hushang Ansary

Director

March 7, 2005

/s/ Robert E.
Beauchamp

Robert E. Beauchamp

Director

March 7, 2005

/s/ Ben A. Guill

Ben A. Guill

Director

March 7, 2005

/s/ David D. Harrison

David D. Harrison

Director

March 7, 2005

/s/ Roger L. Jarvis

Roger L. Jarvis

Director

March 7, 2005

/s/ William E. Macaulay

William E. Macaulay

Director

March 7, 2005

/s/ Frederick W.
Pheasey

Frederick W. Pheasey

Director

March 7, 2005

/s/ Joel V. Staff

Joel V. Staff

Director

March 7, 2005



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

The Board of Directors and Shareholders

National-Oilwell, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of National-Oilwell, Inc. and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 2004 and 2003 and the related consolidated statements of operations,
stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2004. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the index at Item 15(a).
These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our
audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects, the consolidated financial position of National-Oilwell, Inc. at December 31,
2004 and 2003, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 2004, in conformity with U.S generally accepted
accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when
considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all
material respects the information set forth therein.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the effectiveness of National-Oilwell, Inc.’s internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, based on criteria established in Internal Control -
Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
and our report dated March 7, 2005 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Houston, Texas

March 7, 2005



MANAGEMENT’S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

National-Oilwell’s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal
control over financial reporting. National-Oilwell’s internal control system was designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles.

Internal control over financial reporting cannot provide absolute assurance of achieving financial
reporting objectives because of its inherent limitations. Internal control over financial reporting
is a process that involves human diligence and compliance and is subject to lapses in judgment and
breakdowns resulting from human failures. Internal control over financial reporting also can be
circumvented by collusion or improper management override. Because of such limitations, there is a
risk that material misstatements may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis by internal
control over financial reporting. However, these inherent limitations are known features of the
financial reporting process. Therefore, it is possible to design into the process safeguards to
reduce, though not eliminate, this risk.

Management has used the framework set forth in the report entitled “Internal Control—Integrated
Framework” published by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations (“COSO”) of the Treadway
Commission to evaluate the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting. Management has concluded that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting
was effective as of December 31, 2004. Ernst & Young LLP has issued an attestation report on
management’s assessment of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.

/s/ Merrill A. Miller, Jr

Merrill A. Miller, Jr.

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

/s/ Steven W. Krablin

Steven W. Krablin

Sr. Vice President and

Chief Financial Officer

Houston, Texas

March 7, 2005



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM ON

INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

The Board of Directors and Shareholders

National-Oilwell, Inc.

We have audited management’s assessment, included in the accompanying Management’s Report on
Internal Control over Financial Reporting, that National-Oilwell, Inc. maintained effective
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, based on criteria established in
Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). National-Oilwell, Inc.’s management is responsible for
maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on management’s assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal
control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, evaluating management’s assessment, testing and evaluating the
design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1)
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company;
and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, management’s assessment that National-Oilwell, Inc. maintained effective internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, is fairly stated, in all material
respects, based on the COSO criteria. Also, in our opinion, National-Oilwell, Inc. maintained, in
all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004,
based on the COSO criteria.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of National-Oilwell, Inc. as of December 31,
2004 and 2003, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders’ equity and cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2004 of National-Oilwell, Inc.
and our report dated March 7, 2005 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Houston, Texas

March 7, 2005



NATIONAL-OILWELL, INC.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(In millions, except share data)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.



NATIONAL-OILWELL, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

(In millions, except per share data)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.



NATIONAL-OILWELL, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(In millions)

Year Ended December 31,




Cash flow from operating activities:

Net income

$

110.2

$

76.8

$

73.1

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash
provided (used) by operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization

44.0

39.2

25.0

Provision for losses on receivables

4.0

5.7

3.6

Provision (benefit) for deferred income taxes

(6.7

)

6.9

11.5

Gain on sale of assets

(18.4

)

(5.8

)

(4.5

)

Foreign currency transaction losses, net

9.3

7.2

0.3

Tax benefit from exercise of nonqualified stock options

3.4

3.9

0.3

Changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions:

Receivables

(8.6

)

(6.2

)

59.0

Inventories

(98.4

)

(51.3

)

25.2

Costs in excess of billings

(106.4

)

(53.8

)

—

Prepaid and other current assets

27.4

(13.9

)

(3.0

)

Accounts payable

174.3

53.4

(32.0

)

Billings in excess of cost

(17.7

)

(12.5

)

—

Other assets/liabilities, net

49.8

(18.6

)

(54.1

)

Net cash provided by operating activities

166.2

31.0

104.4

Cash flow from investing activities:

Purchases of property, plant and equipment

(39.0

)

(32.4

)

(24.8

)

Proceeds from sale of assets

35.8

7.9

12.5

Businesses acquired and investments in joint ventures, net of cash

(2.8

)

(78.0

)

(213.0

)

Net cash used by investing activities

(6.0

)

(102.5

)

(225.3

)

Cash flow from financing activities:

Borrowings against lines of credit

521.6

454.6

303.2

Payments against lines of credit

(631.5

)

(439.1

)

(311.0

)

Net proceeds from issuance of long-term debt

—

—

199.1

Proceeds from stock options exercised

14.6

9.7

2.0

Other

—

—

1.3

Net cash provided by financing activities

(95.3

)

25.2

194.6

Effect of exchange rates on cash

3.6

2.2

1.4

Increase (decrease) in cash and equivalents

68.5

(44.1

)

75.1

Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year

74.2

118.3

43.2

Cash and cash equivalents, end of year

$

142.7

$

74.2

$

118.3

Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information:

Cash payments during the period for:

Interest

$

34.0

$

35.1

$

21.6

Income taxes

$

21.4

$

30.7

$

45.6

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.



NATIONAL-OILWELL, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

(In millions, except share data)

Accumulated

Additional

Other

Common

Paid-in

Comprehensive

Retained

Stock

Capital

Loss

Earnings

Total

Balance at December 31, 2001

$

0.8

$

592.5

$

(34.9

)

$

309.1

$

867.5

Net income

73.1

73.1

Other comprehensive income

Currency translation adjustments

2.5

2.5

Interest rate contract

0.9

0.9

Minimum liability of defined benefit plans

(12.9

)

(12.9

)

Comprehensive income

63.6

Stock options exercised

0.0

2.0

2.0

Tax benefit of options exercised

0.3

0.3

Balance at December 31, 2002

$

0.8

$

594.8

$

(44.4

)

$

382.2

$

933.4

Net income

76.8

76.8

Other comprehensive income

Currency translation adjustments

4.6

4.6

Interest rate contract

(0.1

)

(0.1

)

Minimum liability of defined benefit plans

(4.5

)

(4.5

)

Comprehensive income

76.8

Stock issued for acquisition

0.1

66.5

66.6

Stock options exercised

0.0

9.7

9.7

Tax benefit of options exercised

3.9

3.9

Balance at December 31, 2003

$

0.9

$

674.9

$

(44.4

)

$

459.0

$

1,090.4

Net income

110.2

110.2

Other comprehensive income

Currency translation adjustments

72.5

72.5

Interest rate contract

(0.1

)

(0.1

)

Minimum liability of defined benefit plans

5.4

5.4

Comprehensive income

188.0

Stock options exercised

—

14.6

14.6

Tax benefit of options exercised

3.4

3.4

Balance at December 31, 2004

$

0.9

$

692.9

$

33.4

$

569.2

$

1,296.4

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.



NATIONAL-OILWELL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. Organization and Basis of Presentation

Nature of Business

We design, construct, manufacture and sell comprehensive systems, components, and products
used in oil and gas drilling and production, as well as distribute products and provide supply
chain integration services to the upstream oil and gas industry. Our revenues and operating
results are directly related to the level of worldwide oil and gas drilling and production
activities and the profitability and cash flow of oil and gas companies and drilling contractors,
which in turn are affected by current and anticipated prices of oil and gas. Oil and gas prices
have been and are likely to continue to be volatile.

Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Basis of Consolidation

The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of National-Oilwell, Inc.
and its majority-owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany transactions and balances have
been eliminated in consolidation. Investments that are not wholly-owned, but where we exercise
control, are fully consolidated with the equity held by minority owners and their portion of net
income (loss) reflected as minority interest in the accompanying financial statements. Investments
in unconsolidated affiliates, over which we exercise significant influence, but not control, are
accounted for by the equity method. Investments in which we exercise no control or significant
influence would be accounted for under the cost method. Certain reclassifications have been made to
the 2003 and 2002 consolidated financial statements in order for them to conform with the 2004
presentation.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

The carrying amounts of financial instruments including cash and cash equivalents, receivables, and
payables approximated fair value because of the relatively short maturity of these instruments.
Cash equivalents include only those investments having a maturity date of three months or less at
the time of purchase. The carrying values of other financial instruments approximate their
respective fair values.

Derivative Financial Instruments

We record all derivative financial instruments at their fair value in our consolidated balance
sheet. All derivative financial instruments we hold are designated as cash flow hedges and are
highly effective in offsetting movements in the underlying risks. Accordingly, gains and losses
from changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments are deferred and recognized in
earnings as the underlying transactions occur. Because our derivative financial instruments are so
closely related to the underlying transactions, hedge ineffectiveness is insignificant.

We use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate our exposure to changes in foreign currency
exchange rates on firm sale commitments to better match the local currency cost components of our
fixed US dollar contracts. Such arrangements typically have terms between three months and one
year, depending upon the customer’s purchase order. We may also use interest rate contracts to
mitigate our exposure to changes in interest rates on anticipated long-term debt issuances. These
contracts are typically short term in nature. We do not use derivative financial instruments for
trading or speculative purposes.



Inventories

Inventories consist of oilfield products, manufactured equipment, specialized drilling products and
downhole motors and spare parts for manufactured equipment and drilling products. Inventories are
stated at the lower of cost or market using the first-in, first-out or average cost methods.
Allowances for excess and obsolete inventories are determined based on our historical usage of
inventory on-hand as well as our future expectations related to our substantial installed base and
the development of new products. The allowance, which totaled $41.2 million and $45.3 million at
December 31, 2004 and 2003, is the amount necessary to reduce the cost of the inventory to its
estimated realizable value.

Property, Plant and Equipment

Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost. Expenditures for major improvements that
extend the lives of property and equipment are capitalized while minor replacements, maintenance
and repairs are charged to operations as incurred. Disposals are removed at cost less accumulated
depreciation with any resulting gain or loss reflected in operations. Depreciation is provided
using the straight-line method or declining balance method over the estimated useful lives of
individual items. Depreciation expense was $41.6 million, $37.4 million and $25.0 million for the
years ending December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002.

Long-lived Assets

We record impairment losses on long-lived assets used in operations when events and circumstances
indicate that the assets might be impaired and the undiscounted cash flows estimated to be
generated by those assets are less than the carrying amount of those assets. The carrying value of
assets used in operations that is not recoverable is reduced to fair value if lower than carrying
value. In determining the fair market value of the assets, we consider market trends and recent
transactions involving sales of similar assets, or when not available, discounted cash flow
analysis.

Assets Held for Sale

In the course of integrating acquisitions and streamlining operations, we have closed certain
manufacturing facilities and non-strategic assets. Facilities that are available for immediate
sale, under a formal plan that is probable of completion within one year, are classified as held
for sale. When we designate an asset as held for sale, we adjust its carrying value to the lower of
its current carrying amount or the estimated fair value less costs to sell and stop recording
depreciation expense. Carrying values are adjusted to reflect any subsequent deterioration in fair
value.

Intangible Assets

Beginning in 2002, we adopted FAS 142 “Accounting for Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” and
accordingly stopped amortizing goodwill that arose from acquisitions
before June 30, 2001. On at least an annual basis, we assess whether goodwill is impaired. Our annual impairment tests
are performed at the beginning of the 4th quarter of each year and have indicated no impairment.
If we determine that goodwill is impaired, we measure that impairment based on the amount by which
the book value of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. The implied fair value of goodwill is
determined by deducting the fair value of a reporting unit’s identifiable assets and liabilities
from the fair value of that reporting unit as a whole. Additional impairment assessments may be
performed on an interim basis if we encounter events or changes in circumstances that would
indicate that, more likely than not, the carrying amount of goodwill has been impaired. Fair value
of the reporting units is determined based on internal management estimates.



Goodwill is identified by segment as follows (in millions):

Products and

Distribution

Corporate/

Technology

Service

Elimination

Total

Balance December 31, 2002

$

490.9

$

16.4

$

4.9

$

512.2

Additions to Goodwill

39.8

17.1

(0.3

)

56.6

Translation Adjustments

15.9

2.3

0.3

18.5

Balance December 31, 2003

546.6

35.8

4.9

587.3

Additions to Goodwill

31.1

(2.2

)

1.2

30.1

Translation Adjustments

20.0

1.5

0.1

21.6

Balance December 31, 2004

$

597.7

$

35.1

$

6.2

$

639.0

Identified intangible assets with determinable lives consist primarily of technical drawings
acquired in the acquisitions of Hydralift, Mono and Corlac and are being amortized on a
straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of 15-20 years. The balance at December 31,
2004 and 2003 was $36 million and $28 million (net of accumulated amortization of $4 million and $2
million, respectively). Amortization expense of identified intangibles is expected to be
approximately $2 million in each of the next five years.

Identified intangible assets with indefinite lives consist primarily of tradenames acquired in the
acquisitions of Hydralift, Mono and Corlac. The balance at December 31, 2004 and 2003 was $55
million and $50 million. Indefinite lived intangible assets are not amortized, but are subject to
an impairment test on at least an annual basis. An impairment charge would be recognized if the
fair value were determined to be less than the carrying amount. Our annual impairment tests have
indicated no impairment.

Deferred financing costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the life of the related
debt securities.

Foreign Currency

The functional currency for certain of our foreign operations is the local currency. The
cumulative effects of translating the balance sheet accounts from the functional currency into the
U.S. dollar at current exchange rates are included in accumulated other comprehensive income.
Revenues and expenses are translated at average exchange rates in effect during the period.
Certain other foreign operations use the U.S. dollar as the functional currency. Accordingly,
financial statements of these foreign subsidiaries are remeasured to U.S. dollars for consolidation
purposes using current rates of exchange for monetary assets and liabilities and historical rates
of exchange for nonmonetary assets and related elements of expense. Revenue and other expense
elements are remeasured at rates that approximate the rates in effect on the transaction dates. For
all operations, gains or losses from remeasuring foreign currency transactions into the functional
currency are included in income. Net foreign currency transaction losses were $9.3 million, $7.2
million and $0.3 million for the years ending December 31, 2004, December 31, 2003 and December 31,
2002, and are included in other income(expense) in the accompanying statement of operations. These
losses are primarily related to cash balances and intercompany accounts held in U.S. dollars at
these subsidiary locations. The remeasurement of these amounts into the local currency results in
an income statement gain or loss, which is offset when the amount is translated back into U.S.
currency for consolidation purposes by way of an increase or decrease to Other Comprehensive Income
in the equity section of the balance sheet.



Revenue Recognition

Product and service sales are recognized on purchase orders or contracts when product delivery has
occurred or services have been rendered, pricing is fixed or determinable, and collection is
reasonably assured. Our arrangements do not include right of return or other similar provisions or
other significant post delivery obligations. Customer advances or deposits are deferred and
recognized as revenue when we have completed all of our performance obligations related to the
sale. The amounts billed for shipping and handling costs are included in revenue and related costs
are included in costs of sales.

Contracts to design and construct complex rig packages to a customers’ specifications are
recorded on the percentage-of-completion method using an output based measure focused on
engineering estimates and manufacturing progress. This method is used because we believe this is
the most meaningful measurement of the extent of progress toward completion. This methodology
requires us to make estimates regarding the total costs of the project, our progress against the
project schedule and the estimated completion date, all of which impact the amount of revenue and
gross margin we recognize in each reporting period. Contract costs include all direct material,
labor and subcontract costs. Changes in job performance, job conditions, and estimated
profitability, including those arising from contract penalty provisions, and final contract
settlements may result in revisions to costs and income and are recognized in the period in which
the revisions are determined. Profit incentives are included in revenues when their realization is
reasonably assured. Provisions for anticipated losses on uncompleted contracts are recorded in full
when such losses become evident.

The asset, “Costs in excess of billings,” represents revenues recognized in excess of amounts
billed. The liability, “Billings in excess of costs,” represents billings in excess of revenues
recognized.

Income Taxes

The liability method is used to account for income taxes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are
determined based on differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities
and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when the differences
are expected to reverse. Valuation allowances are established when necessary to reduce deferred tax
assets to amounts which are more likely than not to be realized.

Concentration of Credit Risk

We grant credit to our customers, which operate primarily in the oil and gas industry.
Concentrations of credit risk are limited because we have a large number of geographically diverse
customers, thus spreading trade credit risk. We control credit risk thorough credit evaluations,
credit limits and monitoring procedures. We perform periodic credit evaluations of our customers’
financial condition and generally do not require collateral, but may require letters of credit for
certain international sales. Credit losses are provided for in the financial statements. We
maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for accounts receivables by providing for specifically
identified accounts where collectibility is doubtful and an additional allowance based on the aging
of the receivables compared to past experience and current trends. Accounts receivable are net of
allowances for doubtful accounts of approximately $12.8 million and $18.3 million at December 31,
2004 and December 31, 2003, respectively.

Stock-Based Compensation

We use the intrinsic value method in accounting for our stock-based employee compensation plans.

Assuming that we had accounted for our stock-based compensation using the alternative fair value
method of accounting under FAS No. 123 and amortized the fair value to expense over the option’s
vesting period, our net income and net income per share would have been (in millions, except per
share data):



Year Ended December 31,




Net income:

As reported

$

110.2

$

76.8

$

73.1

Less: compensation expense recorded

—

—

—

Plus: fair value of stock based compensation

(7.4

)

(8.5

)

(9.2

)

Pro forma

$

102.8

$

68.3

$

63.9

Basic net income per share:

As reported

$

1.28

$

0.91

$

0.90

Pro forma

1.20

0.81

0.79

Diluted net income per share:

As reported

$

1.27

$

0.90

$

0.89

Pro forma

1.19

0.80

0.78

These pro forma results may not be indicative of future effects.

Environmental Liabilities

When environmental assessments or remediations are probable and the costs can be reasonably
estimated, remediation liabilities are recorded on an undiscounted basis and are adjusted as
further information develops or circumstances change.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported and
contingent amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements and
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ
from those estimates.

Net Income Per Share

The following table sets forth the computation of weighted average basic and diluted shares
outstanding (in millions):

Year Ended December 31,




Denominator for basic earnings per
share — weighted average

85.8

84.5

81.0

Effect of dilutive securities:

Employee stock options

0.7

0.5

0.7

Denominator for diluted earnings per
share — adjusted weighted average
shares and assumed conversions

86.5

85.0

81.7

In addition, we had stock options outstanding that were anti-dilutive totaling 0.8 million at
December 31, 2004, 2.3 million at December 31, 2003, and 1.6 million at December 31, 2002.



Recently Issued Accounting Standards

In May 2004, the FASB issued Staff Position No. 106-2, “Accounting and Disclosure Requirements
Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003” (“FSP
106-2”). FSP 106-2 provides guidance on accounting for the effects of the Medicare Prescription
Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (the “Act”) for employers that sponsor
postretirement health care plans that provide prescription drug benefits. FSP 106-2 is effective
for the first interim or annual period beginning after June 15, 2004. The adoption of FSP 106-2 did
not have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

In November 2004, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 151, “Inventory
Costs — an amendment of ARB 43, Chapter 4” (“SFAS 151”). SFAS 151 clarifies the accounting for
abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs and wasted material. Paragraph 5
of Accounting Research Bulletin (“ARB”) 43, Chapter 4 “Inventory Pricing,” previously stated that
“under certain circumstances, items such as idle facility expense, excessive spoilage, double
freight, and rehandling costs may be so abnormal as to require treatment as current-period
charges.” SFAS 151 requires that those items be recognized as current-period charges regardless of
whether they meet the criterion of “so abnormal.” In addition, SFAS 151 requires that the
allocation of fixed production overheads to the costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity
of the production facilities. SFAS 151 is effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005.
We do not believe the implementation of SFAS 151 will have a material impact on our financial
position, results of operations or cash flows.

In December 2004, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123-Revised 2004
(“Revised SFAS 123”), “Share-Based Payment.” This is a revision of SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation,” and supersedes APB No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.”
Currently, we do not record compensation expense for stock-based compensation. Under Revised SFAS
123, we will be required to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for stock
based on the grant-date fair value (with limited exceptions). That cost will be recognized over the
period during which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for the award (usually
the vesting period). The fair value will be estimated using an option-pricing model. Excess tax
benefits, as defined in Revised SFAS 123, will be recognized as an addition to paid-in capital.
This is effective as of the beginning of the first interim or annual reporting period that begins
after June 15, 2005. Revised SFAS 123 permits public
companies to adopt its requirements using one of two methods:
1) a

“modified prospective”

method in which
compensation cost is recognized beginning with the effective date
(a) based on the requirements of Revised SFAS 123 for all
share-based payments granted after the effective date and
(b) based on the requirements of Revised SFAS 123 for all
awards granted to employees prior to the effective date of Revised
SFAS 123 that remain unvested on the effective date, or
2) a

“modified retrospective”

method which
includes the requirements of the modified prospective method described
above, but also permits entities to restate based on the amounts
previously recognized under Statement 123 for purposes of pro
forma disclosures either (a) all prior periods presented or
(b) prior interim periods of the year of adoption. We are currently in the process of evaluating the impact of Revised SFAS 123
on our financial statements, including different option-pricing models. The pro forma table in Note
1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements illustrates the effect on net income and
earnings per share if the Company had applied the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS
123.

In December 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 109-1, “Application of FASB
Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, to the Tax Deduction on Qualified Production
Activities Provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004” (“FSP 109-1”) and FASB Staff
Position No. FAS 109-2, “Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings Repatriation
Provision within the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004” (“FSP 109-2”). FSP 109-1 clarifies the
guidance in FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes”
(“Statement 109”) that applies to the new deduction for qualified domestic production activities
under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the “Act”). FSP 109-1 clarifies that the deduction
should be accounted for as a special deduction under Statement 109, not as a tax-rate reduction,
because the deduction is contingent on performing activities identified in the Act. As a result,
companies qualifying for the special deduction will not have a one-time adjustment of deferred tax
assets and liabilities in the period the Act is enacted. FSP 109-2 addresses the effect of the
Act’s one-time deduction for qualifying repatriations of foreign earnings. FSP 109-2 allows
additional time for companies to determine whether any foreign earnings will be repatriated under
the Act’s one-time deduction for repatriated earnings and how the Act affects whether undistributed
earnings continue to qualify for Statement 109’s exception from recognizing deferred tax
liabilities. FSP 109-1 and FSP 109-2 were both



effective upon issuance. We have implemented FSP 109-1 and FSP 109-2 in the quarter ended December
31, 2004 and have included the required disclosures in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.

2. Acquisitions

On August 11, 2004, we agreed to combine our businesses with Varco International, Inc. by
merging Varco with and into National Oilwell, with National Oilwell continuing as the surviving
corporation. Consummation of the merger requires approval by the stockholders of both companies and
also approval from various regulatory agencies. We anticipate completion of the merger during March
2005.

Year 2004

We spent $2.8 million during 2004 acquiring assets or companies, with the largest being a
distribution operation in Australia.

Year 2003

On January 16, 2003, we acquired the Mono pumping products business from Halliburton Energy
Services for approximately $91 million, consisting of $24 million in cash and 3.2 million shares of
our common stock valued at $67 million. During the remainder of 2003 we made eight other
acquisitions representing cash outlays totaling $54 million primarily expanding our Distribution
network.

Year 2002

On December 18, 2002, we completed a cash tender offer for 92% of the common shares of Hydralift
ASA, a Norwegian based company specializing in the offshore drilling equipment industry. By
December 31, 2002, we had substantially completed the acquisition of the remaining shares for a
total purchase price, including the assumption of debt and net of cash acquired, of approximately
$300 million. The results of Hydralift’s operations have been included in our income statement
since the acquisition date.

During 2002 we also acquired three other businesses, primarily within our Products and Technology
segment, for approximately $17 million in cash.

3. Inventories

Inventories consist of (in millions):

December 31,

December 31,



Raw materials and supplies

$

62.6

$

45.4

Work in process

104.2

107.7

Finished goods and purchased products

490.7

393.6

Total

$

657.5

$

546.7



4. Property, Plant and Equipment

Property, plant and equipment consists of (in millions):

Estimated

December 31,

December 31,

Useful Lives



Land and improvements

2-20 Years

$

20.8

$

23.7

Buildings and improvements

5-31 Years

117.8

99.9

Machinery and equipment

5-12 Years

196.9

154.7

Computer and office equipment

3-10 Years

79.1

95.6

Rental equipment

1-7 Years

91.8

75.7

506.4

449.6

Less accumulated depreciation

(251.3

)

(197.2

)

$

255.1

$

252.4

5. Long-Term Debt

Long-term debt consists of (in millions):

December 31,

December 31,



Credit facilities

$

—

$

108.9

6.875% senior notes

150.0

150.0

6.50% senior notes

150.0

150.0

5.65% senior notes

200.0

200.0

500.0

608.9

Less current portion

150.0

14.9

$

350.0

$

594.0

At December 31, 2004, we had two committed credit facilities, a North American and a Norwegian
facility, totaling $279 million. Both facilities are available for general corporate purposes
and acquisitions, including letters of credit and performance bonds.

Our North American facility is a three-year unsecured $175 million revolving credit facility
with availability up to $50 million for issuance of letters of credit that expires July 31,
2005. At December 31, 2004, there were no borrowings against this facility and there were $53
million in outstanding letters of credit.

Our Norwegian facility, which expires in 2006, has revolving credit facilities totaling $104
million, with $41 million available for letter of credit purposes. At December 31, 2004, there
were no borrowings against this facility and there were $18 million in outstanding letters of
credit.

We also have additional uncommitted credit facilities totaling $147 million that are used
primarily for letters of credit, bid bonds and performance bonds. At December 31, 2004, there
were no borrowings against these additional credit facilities and there were $49 million in
outstanding letters of credit and performance bonds.

In November 2002, we sold $200 million of 5.65% unsecured senior notes due November 15, 2012.
Interest is payable on May 15 and November 15 of each year. In March 2001, we sold $150 million of
6.50% unsecured senior notes due March 15, 2011, with interest payable on March 15 and September 15
of each year. In June
1998, we sold $150 million of 6.875% unsecured senior notes due July 1, 2005, with interest
payments due annually on January 1 and July 1.



The $150 million 6 7/8% unsecured senior notes will mature on July 1, 2005. In addition, our $175
million unsecured North American revolving credit facility expires July 31, 2005. We plan to
arrange financing at reasonable terms and conditions with our existing bank syndication, plus other
banks as needed, or utilize surplus cash and certain discretionary credit facilities to refinance
these expiring obligations.

The senior notes contain reporting covenants and the credit facilities contain financial covenants
and ratios regarding maximum debt to capital and minimum interest coverage. We were in compliance
with all covenants governing these facilities at December 31, 2004.

6. Employee Benefit Plans

We have benefit plans covering substantially all of our employees. Defined-contribution
benefit plans cover most of the U.S. and Canadian employees and benefits are based on years of
service, a percentage of current earnings and matching of employee contributions. Employees in our
Norwegian operations can elect to participate in a defined-contribution plan in lieu of a local
defined benefit plan. For the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, expenses for
defined-contribution plans were $14.2 million, $13.1 million and $9.1 million, and all funding is
current.

Certain retired or terminated employees of predecessor or acquired companies participate in a
defined benefit plan in the United States. None of the participants in this plan are eligible to
accrue benefits. In addition, approximately 175 U.S. retirees and spouses participate in defined
benefit health care plans of predecessor or acquired companies that provide postretirement medical
and life insurance benefits. Active employees are ineligible to participate in any of these defined
benefit plans. Our subsidiaries in the United Kingdom and Norway also have defined benefit pension
plans covering virtually all of their employees.



Net periodic benefit cost (credit) for our defined benefit pension plans in the United States, the United Kingdom
and Norway was as follows (in millions):

Pension benefits

Postretirement benefits

For the year







Service cost — benefits earned during the period

$

2.9

$

3.0

$

0.4

$

0.1

$

0.0

$

0.0

Interest cost on projected benefit obligation

8.6

7.5

3.3

0.5

0.5

0.5

Expected return on plan assets

(8.8

)

(7.5

)

(3.9

)

—

—

—

Net amortization and deferral

1.5

1.4

0.1

0.2

0.2

0.3

Net periodic benefit cost (credit)

$

4.2

$

4.4

$

(0.1

)

$

0.8

$

0.7

$

0.8

The change in benefit obligation, plan assets and the funded status of the defined benefit pension
plans in the United States, United Kingdom, and Norway and defined postretirement plans in the
United States, using a measurement date of September 30, 2004 or 2003, follows (in millions):

Pension benefits

Postretirement benefits

At year end





Benefit obligation at beginning of year

$

142.2

$

64.7

$

8.0

$

8.5

Service cost

2.9

3.0

0.1

—

Interest cost

8.6

7.5

0.5

0.5

Actuarial (gain) loss

(2.0

)

(9.5

)

0.2

(0.5

)

Benefits paid

(5.6

)

(4.8

)

(0.7

)

(0.6

)

Participant contributions

0.8

0.7

—

—

Acquisitions

—

69.4

—

—

Exchange rate gain

11.5

11.0

—

—

Curtailments

—

—

(0.9

)

—

Other

—

0.2

0.1

0.1

Benefit obligation at end of year

$

158.4

$

142.2

$

7.3

$

8.0

Accumulated benefit obligation at end of year

$

149.5

$

133.0

Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year

$

120.4

$

44.7

$

—

$

—

Actual return

7.2

8.8

—

—

Benefits paid

(5.6

)

(4.7

)

(0.7

)

(0.6

)

Contributions

3.7

3.8

0.7

0.6

Acquisitions

—

58.7

—

—

Exchange rate gain

9.6

9.3

—

—

Other

—

(0.2

)

—

—

Fair value of plan assets at end of year

$

135.3

$

120.4

$

—

$

—

Funded status

$

(21.5

)

$

(21.4

)

$

(7.2

)

$

(7.9

)

Unrecognized actuarial net loss

21.3

22.0

3.4

3.5

Prior service costs not yet recognized

0.2

0.3

0.1

0.2

Prepaid (accrued) benefit cost

$

—

$

0.9

$

(3.7

)

$

(4.2

)

Amounts recognized in the
consolidated balance sheets
consist of (in millions):

Pension benefits

Postretirement benefits





Prepaid benefit cost

$

(0.2

)

$

2.2

$

—

$

—

Accrued benefit cost

(31.9

)

(28.1

)

(3.7

)

(4.2

)

Intangible assets

0.2

0.3

—

—

Accumulated other comprehensive income

31.9

26.5

—

—

Net amount recognized

$

—

$

0.9

$

(3.7

)

$

(4.2

)



Defined Benefit Pension Plans

Assumed long-term rates of return on plan assets, discount rates and rates of
compensation increases vary for the different plans according to the local economic
conditions.

The assumption rates used for benefit obligations are as follows:

Year ending December 31,



Discount rate:

United States plan

6.00%

6.25%

International plans

6.00%

6.00%

Salary increase:

United States plan

n/a

n/a

International plans

2.50-2.75%

2.50%

The assumption rates used for net periodic benefit costs are as follows:

Year ending December 31,




Discount rate:

United States plan

6.25%

6.50%

6.87%

International plans

6.00%

5.75-6.00%

5.75%

Salary increase:

United States plan

n/a

n/a

n/a

International plans

2.50%

2.50-4.00%

4.00%

Expected return on assets:

United States plan

8.50%

8.50%

8.50%

International plans

6.50-7.75%

6.50-7.75%

6.25%

In determining the overall expected long-term rate of return for plan assets, the Company
takes into consideration the historical experience as well as future expectations of the
asset mix involved. As different investments yield different returns, each asset category
must be reviewed individually and then weighted for significance in relation to the total
portfolio.



The weighted-average asset allocations at December 31, 2004 and 2003, by asset category
are as follows:



United States

International

United States

International

Equity securities

59.4

%

56.5

%

60.5

%

56.9

%

Fixed income

39.7

%

—

38.0

%

—

Debt securities

—

28.7

%

—

29.7

%

Real estate

—

1.8

%

—

1.7

%

Other

0.9

%

13.0

%

1.5

%

11.7

%

Total

100.0

%

100.0

%

100.0

%

100.0

%

In the U.S., our investment strategy includes a balanced approach with target allocation
percentages of 55-65% equity investments and 35-45% fixed income investments. Our target
allocation percentages in the United Kingdom plans are 80% equity securities, 15% debt
securities and 5% real estate. The Norwegian target investment allocation percentage is 100%
insurance contracts. Our pension investment strategy worldwide prohibits a direct investment in
our own stock.

Information for Pension Plans with Projected and Accumulated Benefit Obligations in Excess of Plan Assets
(in millions):

FYE December 31, 2004

FYE December 31, 2003

United States

International

United States

International

Projected benefit obligation

$

18.6

$

60.4

$

17.5

$

51.4

Accumulated benefit obligation

18.6

58.8

17.5

50.4

Fair value of assets

12.8

45.8

12.3

39.5

Additional Information for Defined Benefit Plans (in millions):

FYE December 31, 2004

FYE December 31, 2003

United States

International

United States

International

Accumulated benefit obligation

$

18.6

$

58.8

$

17.5

$

50.4

Change in minimum liability included

0.9

4.5

(0.6

)

(6.2

)

in other comprehensive income

In 2005, the Company expects to contribute $1.0 million in the U.S. and $4.6 million
internationally to its pension plans and $0.6 million to its other postretirement benefit plans.



In addition, the following benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, as
appropriate, are expected to be paid (in millions):

United States plan

International plans


$1.4

$

4.3


1.4

4.6


1.4

4.4


1.4

4.6


1.4

4.7

subsequent five years

6.7

28.4



Defined Benefit Healthcare Plans

After

Before

Estimated future benefit payments during fiscal year ending in:

Medicare subsidy

Medicare subsidy


$          
     0.568

$          
     0.568


$          
     0.526

$          
     0.552


$          
     0.501

$          
     0.533


$          
     0.503

$          
     0.541


$          
     0.488

$          
     0.523

subsequent five years

$          
     2.541

$          
     2.727

The assumed weighted-average annual rate of increase in the per capita cost of covered
benefits is 10.5% for 2005 and is assumed to decrease gradually to 5.0% for 2009 and remain at that
level thereafter. The health care cost trend rate assumption has a significant effect on the
amounts reported.



7. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income / (Loss)

The components of other comprehensive income (loss) are as follows (in millions):

Cumulative

Change in

Currency

Minimum

Translation

Interest

Pension Liability

Adjustment

Rate Contract

Total

Balance at December 31, 2001

$

—

$

(34.9

)

$

—

$

(34.9

)

Current period activity

(19.7

)

2.5

1.4

(15.8

)

Tax effect

6.8

—

(0.5

)

6.3

Balance at December 31, 2002

(12.9

)

(32.4

)

0.9

(44.4

)

Current period activity

(6.8

)

4.6

(0.1

)

(2.3

)

Tax effect

2.3

—

—

2.3

Balance at December 31, 2003

(17.4

)

(27.8

)

0.8

(44.4

)

Current period activity

8.0

72.5

(0.1

)

80.4

Tax effect

(2.6

)

—

—

(2.6

)

Balance at December 31, 2004

$

(12.0

)

$

44.7

$

0.7

$

33.4

8. Commitments and Contingencies

We lease land, buildings, storage facilities, vehicles, data processing equipment and software
under operating leases expiring in various years through 2011. Rent expense for the years ended
December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 was $22.4 million, $24.6 million and $21.2 million. Our minimum
rental commitments for operating leases at December 31, 2004 were as follows: 2005 — $21.3 million;
2006 — $16.9 million; 2007 — $13.4 million; 2008 — $10.6 million; 2009 — $6.5 million and
subsequent to 2009 — $7.7 million.

We are involved in various claims, regulatory agency audits and pending or threatened legal actions
involving a variety of matters. The total liability on these matters at December 31, 2004 cannot be
determined; however, in our opinion, any ultimate liability, to the extent not otherwise provided
for, should not materially affect our financial position, liquidity or results of operations.

Our business is affected both directly and indirectly by governmental laws and regulations relating
to the oilfield service industry in general, as well as by environmental and safety regulations
that specifically apply to our business. Although we have not incurred material costs in connection
with our compliance with such laws, there can be no assurance that other developments, such as
stricter environmental laws, regulations and enforcement policies thereunder could not result in
additional, presently unquantifiable, costs or liabilities to us.



9. Common Stock

National Oilwell has authorized 150 million shares of $.01 par value common stock. We also
have authorized 10 million shares of $.01 par value preferred stock, none of which is issued or
outstanding.

Under the terms of National Oilwell’s Stock Award and Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended, 8.4
million shares of common stock are authorized for the grant of options to officers, key employees,
non-employee directors and other persons. Options granted under our stock option plan generally
vest over a three-year period starting one year from the date of grant and expire five or ten years
from the date of grant. The purchase price of options granted may not be less than the market
price of National Oilwell common stock on the date of grant. At December 31, 2004, approximately
2.4 million shares were available for future grants.

We also have inactive stock option plans that were acquired in connection with the acquisitions of
Dreco Energy Services, Ltd. in 1997 and IRI International Corporation in 2000. We converted the
outstanding stock options under these plans to options to acquire our common stock and no further
options are being issued under these plans. Stock option information summarized below includes
amounts for the National Oilwell Stock Award and Long-Term Incentive Plan and stock plans of
acquired companies.

Options outstanding at December 31, 2004 under the stock option plans have exercise prices between
$5.62 and $40.50 per share, and expire at various dates from January 19, 2005 to May 26, 2014.

The following summarizes options activity:



The following summarizes information about stock options outstanding as of December 31, 2004:

Options Outstanding

Options Exercisable

Weighted-Avg.

Range of

Remaining

Weighted-Avg.

Weighted-Avg.

Exercise Price

Contractual Life

Shares

Exercise Price

Shares

Exercise Price

$5.62 to $19.39

6.96

658,016

$

17.86

332,068

$

17.21

$20.14 to $28.22

8.13

2,277,098

24.57

527,892

21.84

$30.30 to $40.50

6.03

797,202

40.03

797,202

40.03

Totals

7.48

3,732,316

$

26.69

1,657,162

$

29.66

The weighted average fair value of options granted during 2004, 2003 and 2002 was approximately
$13.19, $8.88, and $8.95 per share, as determined using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.

The assumptions used in the Black-Scholes option-pricing model were:

Assumptions




Risk-free interest rate

2.7

%

2.6

%

2.4

%

Expected dividend

—

—

—

Expected option life (years)




Expected volatility


%


%


%

On February 7, 2005, we issued 1,145,000 stock options at an exercise price of $37.60.



10. Income Taxes

The domestic and foreign components of income before income taxes were as follows (in
millions):

December 31,

December 31,

December 31,




Domestic

$

44.1

$

19.1

45.7

Foreign

87.4

97.6

67.6

$

131.5

$

116.7

$

113.3

The components of the provision for income taxes consisted of (in millions):

December 31,

December 31,

December 31,




Current:

Federal

$

7.4

$

3.3

$

11.3

State

(3.3

)

0.9

0.9

Foreign

21.8

22.6

15.7

25.9

26.8

27.9

Deferred:

Federal

(12.8

)

1.7

4.9

State

2.2

0.7

1.2

Foreign

3.9

4.5

5.4

(6.7

)

6.9

11.5

$

19.2

$

33.7

$

39.4

The difference between the effective tax rate reflected in the provision for income taxes and the
U.S. federal statutory rate was as follows (in millions):

December 31,

December 31,

December 31,




Federal income tax at statutory rate

$

46.0

$

40.8

$

39.7

Foreign income tax rate differential

(2.3

)

(7.9

)

(3.3

)

State income tax, net of federal benefit

1.0

0.6

0.6

Tax benefit of foreign sales income

(3.1

)

(3.0

)

(1.6

)

Nondeductible expenses

1.3

1.7

1.0

Tax benefit of capital loss carryovers

—

(0.8

)

—

Foreign dividends net of FTCs

3.2

(2.7

)

1.2

Net operating loss carryforwards

—

(0.7

)

—

Change in deferred tax valuation allowance

(20.1

)

6.9

0.4

Prior year taxes

(7.0

)

(1.2

)

1.1

Other

0.2

—

0.3

$

19.2

$

33.7

$

39.4



Significant components of our deferred tax assets and liabilities were as follows (in millions):

December 31,

December 31,



Deferred tax assets:

Allowances and operating liabilities

$

19.6

$

30.3

Net operating loss carryforwards

18.6

29.4

Foreign tax credit carryforwards

21.1

21.9

Capital loss carryforward

3.8

4.9

Other

24.3

18.2

Total deferred tax assets

87.4

104.7

Valuation allowance for deferred tax assets

(16.8

)

(36.9

)

70.6

67.8

Deferred tax liabilities:

Tax over book depreciation

29.6

30.0

Operating and other assets

58.7

10.6

Other

14.5

11.8

Total deferred tax liabilities

102.8

52.4

Net deferred tax asset (liability)

$

(32.2

)

$

15.4

In the United States, the Company has $14.4 million of net operating loss carryforwards as of
December 31, 2004, which expire at various dates through 2018. The potential benefit of $5.2
million has been recorded with no valuation allowance. Future income tax payments will be reduced
when the Company ultimately realizes the benefit of these net operating losses.

Also in the United States, the Company has $9.8 million of capital loss carryforwards as of
December 31, 2004, which expire in 2005. The related potential benefit of $3.8 million has been
recorded with a full valuation allowance of $3.8 million. These capital losses are not available
to reduce future operating income but if realized will reduce future capital gains and will result
in a reduction of future tax expense. The Company has $21.1 million of excess foreign tax credits
as of December 31, 2004, which expire at various dates through 2014. These credits have not been
allotted a valuation allowance and would be realized as a reduction of future income tax payments.

Outside the United States, the company has $46.0 million of net operating loss carryforwards as of
December 31, 2004. Of this amount, $45.2 million will expire at various dates through 2014 and
$0.8 million is available indefinitely. The related potential benefit available of $13.3 million
has been recorded with a valuation allowance of $12.0 million. If the Company ultimately realizes
the benefit of these net operating losses, $11.0 million would reduce goodwill and other intangible
assets and $1.0 million would reduce income tax expense.

Also outside the United States, the company has $0.5 million of capital loss carryforwards as of
December 31, 2004, which can be carried forward indefinitely. The related potential benefit of
$0.2 million has been recorded with a full valuation allowance of $0.2 million. These capital
losses are not available to reduce future operating income but if realized will reduce future
capital gains and will result in a reduction of future income tax expense.

The deferred tax valuation allowance decreased $20.1 million for the period ending December 31,
2004 and increased $6.9 million for the period ending December 31, 2003. The decrease was reflected
as a reduction of tax expense in 2004 and resulted primarily from completion of certain acquisition
financing transactions and the enactment of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, which extended
the carryforward period of excess foreign tax credits in the United States. The increase in 2003
resulted primarily from the recognition of additional excess foreign tax credits and capital loss
carryforwards that may not be realized in the future. National-Oilwell’s deferred tax assets are
expected to be realized principally through future earnings.



Undistributed earnings of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries amounted to $299.9 million and
$238.6 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003. Those earnings are considered to be permanently
reinvested and no provision for U.S. federal and state income taxes has been made. Distribution of
these earnings in the form of dividends or otherwise could result in either U.S. federal taxes
(subject to an adjustment for foreign tax credits) and withholding taxes payable in various foreign
countries. Determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred U.S. income tax liability is not
practical; however, unrecognized foreign tax credit carryforwards would be available to reduce some
portion of the U.S. liability. Withholding taxes of approximately $30.5 million would be payable
upon remittance of all previously unremitted earnings at December 31, 2004 . The Company
has not reevaluated its position with respect to the indefinite reinvestment of foreign earnings to
take into account the possible election of the repatriation provisions contained in the American
Jobs Creation Act of 2004

Because of the number of tax jurisdictions in which the Company operates, its effective tax rate
can fluctuate as operations and the local country tax rates fluctuate. The Company is also subject
to audits by federal, state and foreign jurisdictions which may result in proposed assessments. The
Company’s future tax provision will reflect any favorable or unfavorable adjustments to its
estimated tax liabilities when resolved. The Company is unable to predict the outcome of these
matters, however, we believe that none of these matters will have a material adverse effect on the
results of operations or financial condition of the Company.

In October 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the “Jobs Act”) was signed into law which
introduced a special one-time dividends received deduction on the repatriation of foreign earnings
to a U.S. taxpayer (repatriation provision), provided certain criteria are met. The Act provides
for a special one-time deduction of 85 percent of certain foreign earnings that are repatriated in
either the Company’s last tax year that began before the enactment date, or the first tax year that
begins during the one-year period beginning on the date of enactment. The maximum amount of the
Company’s foreign earnings that qualify for temporary deduction is $286.4 million.

The Company is in the process of evaluating whether it will repatriate foreign earnings under the
repatriation provisions of the Jobs Act, and if so, the amount that will be repatriated. The range
of reasonably possible amounts that the Company is considering for repatriation, which would be
eligible for the temporary deduction, is zero to $286.4 million. The Company is awaiting the
issuance of further regulatory guidance and passage of statutory technical corrections with respect
to certain provisions in the Jobs Act prior to determining the amounts it will repatriate. The
Company expects to determine the amounts and sources of foreign earnings to be repatriated, if any,
in 2005.

The Company is not yet in a position to determine the impact of a qualifying repatriation, should
it choose to make one, on its income tax expense for 2005, the amount of its indefinitely
reinvested foreign earnings, the range of income tax effects or the amount of its deferred tax
liability with respect to foreign earnings.



11. Business Segments and Geographic Areas

National Oilwell’s operations consist of two segments: Products and Technology and
Distribution Services. The Products and Technology segment designs and manufactures a variety of
oilfield equipment for use in oil and gas drilling, completion and production activities. The
Distribution Services segment distributes an extensive line of oilfield supplies and equipment.
Intersegment sales and transfers are accounted for at commercial prices and are eliminated in
consolidation. The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as those described
in the summary of significant accounting policies of the Company. The Company evaluates performance
of each reportable segment based upon its operating income, excluding non-recurring items.

No single customer accounted for 10% or more of consolidated revenues during the three years ended
December 31, 2004.

Summarized financial information is as follows (in millions):

Geographic Areas:

United

United

States

Canada

Norway

Kingdom

Other

Eliminations

Total

December 31,2004

Revenues from:

Unaffiliated customers

$

1,303.6

$

403.1

$

274.1

$

99.7

$

237.6

$

—

$

2,318.1

Interarea sales

231.5

86.0

45.1

13.5

17.2

(393.3

)

—

Total revenues

1,535.1

489.1

319.2

113.2

254.8

(393.3

)

2,318.1

Long-lived assets

126.1

33.2

33.1

24.4

38.3

—

255.1

December 31,2003

Revenues from:

Unaffiliated customers

$

1,086.7

$

332.9

$

260.2

$

95.9

$

229.2

$

—

$

2,004.9

Interarea sales

138.5

55.6

41.1

5.4

5.5

(246.1

)

—

Total revenues

1,225.2

388.5

301.3

101.3

234.7

(246.1

)

2,004.9

Long-lived assets

133.9

32.4

29.5

22.8

33.8

—

252.4

December 31,2002

Revenues from:

Unaffiliated customers

$

1,055.0

$

254.3

$

86.2

$

44.7

$

81.7

$

—

$

1,521.9

Interarea sales

108.1

59.4

18.5

7.4

1.2

(194.6

)

—

Total revenues

1,163.1

313.7

104.7

52.1

82.9

(194.6

)

1,521.9

Long-lived assets

138.5

26.0

18.3

6.1

19.5

—

208.4



Business Segments

Products and

Distribution

Corporate/

Technology

Services

Eliminations

Total

December 31, 2004

Revenues from:

Unaffiliated customers

$

1,424.5

$

893.6

$

—

$

2,318.1

Intersegment sales

112.5

11.5

(124.0

)

—

Total revenues

1,537.0

905.1

(124.0

)

2,318.1

Operating income (loss)

157.4

29.6

(18.4

)

168.6

Capital expenditures

34.8

2.3

1.9

39.0

Depreciation and amortization

34.7

6.8

2.5

44.0

Goodwill

597.7

35.1

6.2

639.0

Total assets

2,072.1

386.5

140.1

2,598.7

December 31, 2003

Revenues from:

Unaffiliated customers

$

1,215.9

$

789.0

$

—

$

2,004.9

Intersegment sales

98.7

3.0

(101.7

)

—

Total revenues

1,314.6

792.0

(101.7

)

2,004.9

Operating income (loss)

165.1

6.5

(a)

(12.6

)

159.0

Capital expenditures

25.5

3.8

3.1

32.4

Depreciation and amortization

30.1

5.8

3.3

39.2

Goodwill

546.6

35.8

4.9

587.3

Total assets

1,792.7

363.7

86.3

2,242.7

December 31, 2002

Revenues from:

Unaffiliated customers

$

837.7

$

684.2

$

—

$

1,521.9

Intersegment sales

79.5

2.0

(81.5

)

—

Total revenues

917.2

686.2

(81.5

)

1,521.9

Operating income (loss)

127.0

18.1

(10.8

)

134.3

Capital expenditures

19.8

3.6

1.4

24.8

Depreciation and amortization

19.3

4.9

0.8

25.0

Goodwill

490.9

16.4

4.9

512.2

Total assets

1,640.2

266.7

70.3

1,977.2

(a)

Includes a $6.3 million pre-tax charge related to the accumulated clearing account
problem within the purchasing system.



12. Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)

Summarized quarterly results, were as follows (in millions, except per share data):

(a) Reflects an income tax benefit of $2.7 million related to a revision of the annual effective tax rate to 29%.

During the 4

th

quarter of 2003 we identified a clearing account problem within the
Distribution Group’s purchasing system that had accumulated over a three year period. As a result,
a $10.6 million pre-tax charge ($6.9 million after-tax) was recorded in the 4

th

quarter
of 2003 to correct the problem. We determined that approximately $6.3 million of this amount
relates to periods prior to 2003 and have not restated prior periods as the impact is not
considered material. This amount is included in the results of operations for the 4

th

quarter of 2003. Quarterly periods for 2003 have been restated to reflect the impact of the
clearing account problem in 2003 on previously reported quarterly results.



Schedule II

National-Oilwell, Inc.

Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

Years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002

Additions

(Deductions)

Balance

charged to

Charge

Balance

beginning

costs and

offs and

end of

of year

expenses

other

year

(in millions)

Allowance for doubtful accounts:


$

18.3

$

4.0

$

(9.5

)

$

12.8


12.6

5.7

0.0

18.3


9.1

3.6

(0.1

)

12.6

Valuation allowance for deferred tax assets:


$

36.9

$

(20.3

)

$

0.2

$

16.8


29.9

7.0

—

36.9


29.5

0.4

—

29.9



EXHIBIT INDEX

*

Compensatory plan or arrangement for management or others

(1)

Filed as an Exhibit to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on August 11, 2000.

(2)

Filed as an Exhibit to our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on March 28, 2002.

(3)

Filed as an Exhibit to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on November 12, 2002.

(4)

Filed as Annex A to our Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed on September 16, 2004.

(5)

Filed as an Exhibit to our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on March 7, 2003.

(6)

Filed as an Exhibit to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 10, 2005.