Item 1. Business

Overview

Cerner Corporation is a Delaware business corporation formed in 1980. Unless the context otherwise
requires, references in this report to “Cerner,” “the Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” mean Cerner
Corporation and its subsidiaries.

Our corporate headquarters are located at 2800 Rockcreek Parkway, North Kansas City, Missouri
64117. Our telephone number is 816.221.1024. Our Web site address, which we use to communicate
important business information, can be accessed at: www.cerner.com. We make our annual report on
Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those
reports available free of charge on or through this Web site as soon as reasonably practicable
after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange
Commission.

We are a leading supplier of healthcare information technology (HIT) solutions, healthcare devices
and related services, and are transforming healthcare by eliminating error, variance and waste for
healthcare providers and consumers.Cerner®solutions optimize processes for healthcare
organizations ranging in size from single-doctor practices, to health systems, to entire countries,
for the pharmaceutical and medical device industries, and for the healthcare commerce system. These
solutions are licensed by more than 8,500 facilities around the world, including approximately
2,300 hospitals; 3,400 physician practices covering more than 30,000 physicians; 600 ambulatory
facilities, such as laboratories, ambulatory centers, cardiac facilities, radiology clinics and
surgery centers; 700 home health facilities; and 1,500 retail pharmacies.

We design and develop most of our software solutions on the unifiedCerner Millennium®architecture, a person-centric computing framework, which combines clinical, financial and
management information systems. This architecture allows providers to securely access an
individual’s electronic health record (EHR) at the point of care, and it organizes and proactively
delivers information to meet the specific needs of physicians, nurses, laboratory technicians,
pharmacists or other care providers, front- and back-office professionals and consumers.

We also offer a broad range of services, including implementation and training, remote hosting,
operational management services, revenue cycle services, support and maintenance, healthcare data
analysis, clinical process optimization, transaction processing, employer health centers, employee
wellness programs and third party administrator (TPA) services for employer-based health plans.

The following table presents our consolidated revenues by major solutions and services and by
segment, as a percentage of total revenues:

For the Years Ended200920082007Revenues by Solutions & ServicesSystem sales30%31%33%Support and maintenance29%28%26%Services39%38%39%Reimbursed travel2%2%2%100%100%100%Revenues by SegmentDomestic84%78%81%Global16%22%19%100%100%100%





The Healthcare and Healthcare IT Industry

The lingering downturn in the worldwide economy has impacted almost all industries. While
healthcare is not immune to economic cycles, we believe it is more resilient than most segments of
the economy. The impact of the current economic conditions on our existing and prospective clients
has been mixed. Some organizations are doing well operationally, but others face challenges such as
higher levels of uninsured patients and Medicaid payments being impacted by the weakened financial
condition of state governments.

We believe the result of these challenges is that healthcare organizations are focusing on
strategic spending that generates a return on their investment. Because HIT solutions play an
important role in healthcare by improving safety, efficiency and reducing cost, they are often
viewed as more strategic than other potential purchases. Most healthcare providers also recognize
that they must invest in HIT to meet regulatory, compliance and government reimbursement
requirements.

Overall, while the economy has certainly impacted and could continue to impact our business, we
believe there are several macro trends that are favorable for the HIT industry. One example is the
need to curb the growth of United States healthcare spending, which analysts from the Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services estimate at $2.5 trillion or 17.3 percent of Gross Domestic Product
in 2009. In the United States, politicians and policymakers agree that the growing cost of our
healthcare system is unsustainable. Leaders of both parties say the intelligent use of information
systems will improve health outcomes and, correspondingly, drive down costs. They cite a 2005 study
by RAND Corp., which estimated that the widespread adoption of HIT in the United States could cut
healthcare costs by $162 billion annually.

In 2009, the broad recognition that HIT is essential to helping control healthcare costs
contributed to the inclusion of HIT incentives in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act
(ARRA). The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health (HITECH) provisions
within ARRA include more than $35 billion (in the form of incentives and penalties) to help
healthcare organizations modernize operations through the acquisition and wide-spread use of HIT.
We believe ARRA could represent the single biggest United States HIT opportunity in our 30 years as
a company. With our large footprint in United States hospitals and physician practices, together
with our proven ability to deliver value, we believe the Company is well-positioned to benefit from
these incentives over the next several years.

Another dynamic in the United States marketplace is broader federal healthcare reform and
uncertainty about how the legislation will impact the industry. While this creates some near-term
uncertainty for healthcare providers, we believe HIT continues to be viewed as a transformational
agent that is essential in all scenarios of reform.

Outside of the United States, the economy has impacted and could continue to impact our results in
almost all regions. However, we believe revenue growth opportunities outside the United States
remain significant because other countries are also grappling with increased healthcare spending,
safety concerns and inefficient care, and many of these countries recognize HIT as an important
part of the solution to these issues.

In summary, while the current economic environment has impacted our business, the fundamental value
proposition of HIT remains strong. The HIT industry will likely benefit as healthcare providers and
governments continue to recognize that these solutions and services contribute to safer, more
efficient healthcare.

Cerner Vision

Cerner’s vision has evolved from a fundamental thought: Healthcare should revolve around the
individual, not the encounter. This concept led to Cerner’s vision of the unifiedCerner Millenniumarchitecture and a Community Health Model, which encompasses four steps:

Automate the Care Process

We offer a longitudinal, person-centric EHR, which gives clinicians electronic access to the right
information at the right time and place to achieve optimal health outcomes.

Connect the Person

We are dedicated to building a personal health system. Medical information and care regimens
accessible from home empower consumers to effectively manage their conditions and adhere to
treatment plans, creating a new medium between physicians and individuals.





Structure the Knowledge

We are dedicated to building systems that help bring the best science to every medical decision by
structuring, storing and studying the content surrounding each care episode to achieve optimal
clinical and financial outcomes.

Close the Loop

Incorporating a medical discovery into daily practice can take as long as 10 years. We are
dedicated to building systems that implement evidence-based medicine, reducing the average time
between discovery of an improved method to a change in the standard of care.

As our vision evolves, we expect medicine will become increasingly personalized and technology more
accessible. We are creating new solutions and collaborative, information-sharing networks for large
user communities, including strategies to:

•Connect all stakeholders in the healthcare system, including payers (employers and
governments), providers and consumers•Remove clinical,
financial and administrative friction•Create a secure, transparent and open network for data sharing to improve disease
management and facilitate personalized medicine

To achieve this vision, we are leveraging theCerner Millenniumarchitecture and expanding our
solutions and services, as discussed below.

Cerner Growth Strategy

Our business strategies are anchored by our industry-leading solution and device architectures, the
breadth and depth of our solutions and services, our proven ability to deliver value, and, most
importantly, the success of our clients. A core strength that has led to this strong market
position is our proven ability to innovate, which has driven consistent expansion of solutions and
services, entry into new markets and strong long-term growth.

We believe our strengths position us well to gain market share in the United States during a period
of expected strong demand driven by the HITECH provisions of ARRA. We also have a strong global
brand and a presence in more than 25 countries and believe we have a good opportunity to gain
market share outside of the United States.

We also have a significant opportunity to grow revenues by expanding our solution footprint in
existing clients. In addition to the opportunity to expand penetration of core solutions, such as
EHR’s and computerized physician order entry, we have a broad range of solutions that can be offered into our
existing client base. Examples include solutions and services for women’s health, anesthesiology,
imaging, clinical process optimization, critical care, medical device connectivity, emergency
department, revenue cycle and surgery.

Additionally, we have recently introduced additional services targeted at capturing a larger
percent of our clients’ existing IT spending. These services leverage our proven operational
capabilities and the success of ourCernerWorksSMmanaged services business, where we have
demonstrated the ability to improve our
clients’ service levels at a cost that is at or below
levels they were previously spending. One of these new services isCerner
ITWorksSM, a suite of
services that improve the ability of hospital IT departments to meet their organization’s needs
while also creating a closer alignment between Cerner and our clients. A second example isCerner
RevWorksSM, which includes solutions and services to help healthcare organizations with their revenue
cycle functions.

We have made good progress over the past several years at reducing the total cost of ownership of
our solutions, which expands our end market opportunities by allowing us to offer lower-cost,
higher-value solutions and services to smaller community hospitals, critical access hospitals and
physician practices. Our ability to address these markets has been aided by ourBedrock®technology, which automates much of the implementation and management of theCerner Millenniumplatform. We have also streamlined implementations and made them more predictable through ourMethodM®implementation methodology, which draws upon practices proven to be effective during
thousands of past implementations. Additionally, we reduced up-front hardware costs and ongoing
technology obsolescence risks through our remote-hosted, managed services offering,CernerWorks.





We also expect to drive growth over the course of the next decade through initiatives outside the
core HIT market. For example, we offer clinic, pharmacy and wellness services directly to
employers. And as described below, we believe being able to connect employers, governments and
consumers directly with their healthcare providers through a “New Middle” presents a substantial
growth opportunity as we aim to help eliminate the friction that consumes more than 30 percent of
healthcare spending.

Creating the Cerner Network and The New Middle

Several years ago, we introduced a surveillance system called theLightsOn Network®, which
identifies performance problems in real time and has the ability to predict issues that could
create system vulnerability. With more than 300 participating clients, theLightsOnsolution has
become an evidence-based network that enhances performance and allows our clients to maximize the
value they gain from our systems. OurLightsOnsolution also shows our ability to create a
network—a common platform of learning and improvements from which all our clients can benefit.

Along these lines, we have created theuCern™ platform, a collaboration and social networking
platform which gives clients a place where they can collaborate with peers or Cerner associates
about topics ranging from healthcare reform to solution enhancements to project status updates.
Approximately 95 percent of our coreCerner Millenniumclients actively engage on this platform.
Additionally, we have created theuDevelop™ solution, a collaborative ecosystem that supports a
unique audience of engineers, including both our associates and external developers, who work to
improve our solutions; and theuCernStore, which offers quick access to innovations developed by
us, as well as other individuals and organizations.

Another example of how we are creating value out of the connectedness of our client base is the Flu
Pandemic Initiative. In partnership with the United States Department of Health and Human Services
and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), we created a secure, rapid-detection
network for the influenza virus in 2009. This network supplies public health departments, clients
and the CDC with real-time situational awareness information to help communities triage resources
during an influenza outbreak.

In addition, we are leading efforts to create interoperability in order to make the process of
electronically sharing clinical information faster and easier for healthcare providers. For
example, we have solutions like the Cerner Hub, which enables the secure electronic flow of
clinical data between hospitals and physician practices, regardless of the EHR system being used.

Through these connections and networks, we are creating the building blocks for an entirely new
healthcare system that will introduce much-needed competition for our current, insurance-based
infrastructure. In this new system, a “New Middle” would facilitate the sharing of relevant
clinical and financial information between payers, consumers and providers, enhancing care and
reducing friction.

Consumers would have a personal health record, giving them ready access to information on both the
price and quality of the care they receive. This record would have the consumer’s complete medical
history and a predictive model of future needs based on his or her genetic code. Armed with this
information, consumers would have financial incentives to focus on controlling chronic conditions
and reducing future maladies.

With more complete patient information, providers could focus on preventive rather than reactive
medicine. Through this New Middle, providers could communicate instantly with the rest of the
patient’s care team, and they would receive immediate point-of-service payments for the delivery of
appropriate care rather than waiting weeks or months while claims work through the reimbursement
process.

Finally, the segments of our society that pay for care—employers or governments—would receive a
rational health system, one that eliminates variance, cost and waste while maximizing the quality
of healthcare for all of us.

Software Development

We commit significant resources to developing new health information system solutions. As of the
end of 2009, approximately 2,000 associates were engaged in research and development activities.
Total expenditures for the development and enhancement of our software solutions were approximately
$285.2 million, $291.4 million and $283.1





million during the 2009, 2008 and 2007 fiscal years, respectively. These figures include both capitalized and non-capitalized portions and exclude
amounts amortized for financial reporting purposes.

As discussed above, continued investment in research and development remains a core element of our
strategy. This will include ongoing enhancement of our core solutions and development of new
solutions and services.

Sales and Marketing

The markets forCernerHIT solutions, healthcare devices and services include integrated delivery
networks, physician groups and networks, managed care organizations, hospitals, medical centers,
free-standing reference laboratories, home health agencies, blood banks, imaging centers,
pharmacies, pharmaceutical manufacturers, employers, governments and public health organizations.
The majority of our sales are sales of clinical solutions and services to hospital and health
systems, but theCerner Millenniumarchitecture is highly scalable and organizations ranging from
several-doctor physician practices, to community hospitals, to complex integrated delivery
networks, to local, regional and national government agencies use ourCerner Millenniumsolutions.

As previously discussed, we have focused on bringing down the total cost of ownership of our
systems, which allows us to be price competitive across the full size and organizational structure
range of healthcare providers. Sales to large health systems typically take approximately nine to
18 months, with the sale cycle often shorter when selling to smaller hospitals and physician practices. We have
seen some indications that the HITECH provisions of ARRA may shorten this process.

Our executive marketing management is located in our North Kansas City, Missouri headquarters,
while our client representatives are deployed across the United States and globally. In addition to
the United States, through our subsidiaries, we have sales associates and/or offices in Australia,
Canada, Chile, England, France, Germany, China (Hong Kong), India, Ireland, Malaysia, Saudi Arabia,
Singapore, Spain and the United Arab Emirates.

We support our sales force with technical personnel who perform demonstrations ofCernersolutions
and services and assist clients in determining the proper hardware and software configurations. Our
primary direct marketing strategy is to generate sales contacts from our existing client base and
through presentations at industry seminars and tradeshows. We market thePowerWorks®solutions,
offered on a subscription basis, directly to the physician practice market using telemarketing,
channel partners and through existing acute care clients that are looking to extendCernersolutions to affiliated physicians. We attend a number of major tradeshows each year and sponsor
executive user conferences, which feature industry experts who address the HIT needs of large
healthcare organizations.

Client Services

Substantially all ofCerner’sHIT software solutions clients enter into software maintenance
agreements with us for support of theirCernersystems. In addition to immediate software support
in the event of problems, these agreements allow clients the use of new releases of theCernersolutions covered by maintenance agreements. Each client has 24-hour access to the client support
team located at our world headquarters in North Kansas City, Missouri and our global support
organization in England and Ireland.

Most Cerner clients who buy hardware through us also enter into hardware maintenance agreements
with us. These arrangements normally provide for a fixed monthly fee for specified services. In the
majority of cases, we subcontract hardware maintenance to the hardware manufacturer. We also offer
a set of managed services that include remote hosting, operational management services and disaster
recovery.

Backlog

At the end of 2009, we had a contract backlog of approximately $3.6 billion as compared to
approximately $2.9 billion at the end of 2008. Such backlog represents system sales and services
from signed contracts that have not yet been recognized as revenue. At the end of 2009, we had
approximately $135.3 million of contracts receivable compared to $141.0 million at the end of 2008,
which represents revenues recognized but not yet billable under the terms of the contract. At the
end of 2009, we had a software support and maintenance backlog of approximately $620.6 million as
compared to approximately $580.9 million at January 3, 2009. Such backlog represents contracted
software support and





hardware maintenance services for a period of 12 months. We estimate that
approximately 33 percent of the aggregate backlog at the end of 2009 of $4.2 billion will be
recognized as revenue during 2010.

Competition

The market for HIT solutions, devices and services is intensely competitive, rapidly evolving and
subject to rapid technological change. Our principal existing competitors in the healthcare
solutions and services market include: Computer Programs and Systems, Inc., Eclipsys Corporation,
Epic Systems Corporation, GE Healthcare Technologies, iSoft Group Limited, McKesson Corporation,
Medical Information Technology, Inc. (Meditech), Misys Healthcare Systems and Siemens Medical
Solutions Health Services Corporation, each of which offers a suite of software solutions that
compete with many of our software solutions and services.

Other competitors focus on only a portion of the market that we address. For example, competitors
such as Accenture, Capgemini, Computer Sciences Corporation, Computer Task Group, Inc. (CTG), Dell,
Inc., Deloitte LLP, Hewlett-Packard Company and IBM Corporation offer HIT services that compete
directly with our consulting services. Allscripts-Misys Healthcare Solutions, Inc., athenahealth,
Inc., eClinicalWorks LLC, Emdeon Corporation, Greenway Medical Technologies, Quality Systems, Inc.
and Sage Software Healthcare LLC offer solutions to the physician practice market but do not
currently have a significant presence in the health systems and independent hospital market.

We view our principal competitors in the healthcare device market to include: CareFusion
Corporation, McKesson Corporation, Omnicell, Inc. and Royal Philips Electronics; and we view our
principal competitors in the healthcare transactions market to include: Emdeon Corporation,
McKesson Corporation and ProxyMed, Inc. (d/b/a MedAvant Healthcare Solutions), with almost all of
these competitors being substantially larger or having more experience and market share than us in
their respective market.

In addition, we expect that major software information systems companies, large information
technology consulting service providers and system integrators, start-up companies, managed care
companies and others specializing in the healthcare industry may offer competitive software
solutions, devices or services. The pace of change in the HIT market is rapid and there are
frequent new software solutions, devices or service introductions, enhancements and evolving
industry standards and requirements. We believe that the principal competitive factors in this
market include the breadth and quality of solution and service offerings, the stability of the
solution provider, the features and capabilities of the information systems and devices, the
ongoing support for the systems and devices and the potential for enhancements and future
compatible software solutions and devices.

Number of Employees (Associates)

At the end of 2009, we employed approximately 7,600 associates worldwide.

Operating Segments

Information about our operating segments, which are geographically based, may be found in Item 7
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” below and
in Note 18 to the financial statements.



