
10-K405
10-K405










1999 ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10-K







[LOGO]



U.S. BANCORP


CONTENTS

  2  Letter to Shareholders

  6  Customer Solutions

      6  Wholesale Banking

     10  Consumer Banking

     12  Payment Systems

     14  Wealth Management and Capital Markets

 16  Management's Discussion
     and Analysis

 39  Consolidated Financial Statements

 67  Five-Year Consolidated Financial Statements

 69  Quarterly Consolidated Financial Data

 72  Supplemental
     Financial Data

 74  Form 10-K

 78  Executive Officers

 80  Directors

 81  Corporate Data

ABOUT THE COMPANY

     U.S. Bancorp-Registered Trademark- is a multistate bank holding company
with headquarters in Minneapolis, Minnesota. We offer a comprehensive range
of financial solutions to meet the needs of businesses, institutions,
government entities and individuals. The nation's 11th largest bank holding
company, U.S. Bancorp assets totaled $82 billion at December 31, 1999.

     U.S. Bancorp ranks among the top-performing U.S. bank holding companies in
terms of profitability and efficiency. We reported 1999 return on average assets
of 2.01 percent, return on average common equity of 23.6 percent, and an
efficiency ratio of 50.5 percent, before merger-related charges and
available-for-sale securities transactions.

     U.S. Bancorp serves millions of banking customers principally in 16 states
from the Midwest to the Rocky Mountains to the West Coast. For larger businesses
and affluent clients with more complex needs, we provide relationship-driven,
customized solutions. For retail customers, including individuals and small
businesses, we focus on providing anytime, anywhere access to high-quality
products and services. We also offer specialized expertise and leadership
covering a broad financial spectrum including electronic payment systems,
corporate trust services, asset management, investment banking and securities
brokerage.

     U.S. Bancorp is committed to satisfying customers and creating shareholder
value. Our four business lines--Wholesale Banking, Consumer Banking, Payment
Systems, and Wealth Management and Capital Markets--focus on fulfilling these
commitments to customers and shareholders.

     U.S. Bancorp is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker
symbol USB. Our Internet home page is located at www.usbank.com.



FINANCIAL SUMMARY



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
*    Calculated by adding amortization of goodwill and other intangible assets
     to operating earnings (net income excluding merger-related charges and
     available-for-sale securities transactions) and net income, respectively.

**   Without investment banking and brokerage activity.

***  Defined as common equity less goodwill as a percentage of total assets less
     goodwill.

     FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
     This Annual Report and Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements.
     Statements that are not historical or current facts, including statements
     about beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements.
     Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties, and
     important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from
     those anticipated, including the following: (i) the Company's investments
     in its consumer banking, payment systems and wealth management businesses
     and in its Internet development could require additional incremental
     spending, and might not produce expected deposit and loan growth and
     anticipated contributions to Company earnings; (ii) general economic or
     industry conditions could be less favorable than expected, resulting in a
     deterioration in credit quality or a reduced demand for credit or fee-based
     products and services; (iii) changes in the domestic interest rate
     environment could reduce net interest income; (iv) the conditions of the
     securities markets could change, adversely affecting revenues from capital
     markets businesses or the availability and terms of funding necessary to
     meet the Company's liquidity needs; (v) changes in the extensive laws,
     regulations and policies governing financial services companies could alter
     the Company's business environment or affect operations; (vi) the potential
     need to adapt to industry changes in information technology systems, on
     which the Company is highly dependent, could present operational issues or
     require significant capital spending; (vii) competitive pressures could
     intensify and affect the Company's profitability, including as a result of
     continued industry consolidation, the increased availability of financial
     services from non-banks, technological developments such as the Internet,
     or bank regulatory reform; and (viii) acquisitions may not produce revenue
     enhancements or cost savings at levels or within time frames originally
     anticipated, or may result in unforeseen integration difficulties.
     Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the
     Company undertakes no obligation to update them in light of new information
     or future events.

     Graphs illustrate the following information:

     Return on average common equity* (percent)
     1995: 18.4
     1996: 20.0
     1997: 22.1
     1998: 24.1
     1999: 23.6

     Return on average assets* (percent)
     1995: 1.52
     1996: 1.71
     1997: 1.83
     1998: 2.03
     1999: 2.01

     Diluted earnings per share* (dollars)
     1995: 1.24
     1996: 1.49
     1997: 1.68
     1998: 1.96
     1999: 2.11

     Efficiency ratio* (percent)
     1995: 56.6
     1996: 52.8
     1997: 48.8
     1998: 49.1
     1999: 50.5

     Shareholders' equity to assets ratio (percent)
     1995: 8.1
     1996: 8.3
     1997: 8.3
     1998: 7.8
     1999: 9.4

     *Before merger-related charges and available-for-sale securities
      transactions.

U.S.BANCORP                                                                 1



TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS

DESPITE A YEAR OF RECORD EARNINGS IN 1999, OUR GROWTH RATE AND OUR STOCK'S
PERFORMANCE WERE, IN A WORD, DISAPPOINTING. BECAUSE MOST OF OUR BUSINESSES
PERFORMED WELL, U.S. BANCORP CONTINUES TO BE ONE OF THE NATION'S MOST PROFITABLE
MAJOR BANKS WITH A 1999 OPERATING RETURN ON ASSETS OF 2.01 PERCENT AND AN
OPERATING RETURN ON COMMON EQUITY OF 23.6 PERCENT. HOWEVER, WE EXPERIENCED LOW
GROWTH IN OUR CONSUMER BANKING BUSINESS, WHICH ACCOUNTS FOR NEARLY ONE-THIRD OF
OUR EARNINGS, AND, AS A RESULT, WE FELL SHORT OF OUR OWN EXPECTATIONS FOR
OVERALL GROWTH.

[Photo of John F. Grundhofer, chairman and chief executive officer]

JOHN F. GRUNDHOFER
CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

As employees and shareholders, the people of U.S. Bancorp share your
disappointment in the year's results and its effect on our stock price, but we
look to the future with confidence. In fact, in my 10 years as CEO, I have never
been more optimistic about U.S. Bancorp than I am today. We have a tremendous
company with leadership positions in some of the nation's most attractive growth
markets. We have highly competitive products, strong technology and superb
people.

     In many ways, U.S. Bancorp is at a new stage in its evolution as a leader
in the financial services industry. In the early 1990s, we standardized our
products, centralized our operations and automated our processes to achieve the
efficiencies that made us a leader in a rapidly consolidating industry. These
advantages are important core competencies that will help us succeed as we enter
a new era that is more dependent upon internal revenue growth than growth by
acquisition.

     Our highly integrated technology is a strategic advantage as we pursue the
enormous opportunities emerging from Internet commerce for businesses and
consumers. Over the past decade we have created a powerful technology platform
that supports all of our businesses, enabling us to deliver a quality customer
experience regardless of how customers choose to do business with us-by branch,
telephone, automated teller machine or the Internet.

     This platform, combined with our leadership position in payment processing,
will help us accelerate our growth as we build scalable e-commerce solutions to
meet our


2                                                                   U.S. BANCORP


customers' needs for more sophisticated and integrated solutions. We
will deliver on our promise to simplify their lives by offering anytime,
anywhere access to a comprehensive range of financial solutions.

These efforts, along with actions to improve our Consumer Banking business, will
help U.S. Bancorp achieve its previously stated long-term objective of 12 to 15
percent earnings per share growth in 2001 and beyond.

PLANNING FOR FUTURE GROWTH

This past year we created a new management structure, which included the
formation of the Senior Management Operating Committee. It is composed of
leaders representing all of our major business, operations and corporate units.
Each of our business segments now benefits from the direct leadership of a
dedicated executive manager.

In addition, Philip G. Heasley was named President and Chief Operating Officer,
responsible for the daily operations of the company. Phil's strategic vision,
understanding of technology and proven leadership made him an ideal choice. We
have built a focused management team that is facilitating cooperation and
communication across our business lines.

     - WHOLESALE BANKING We continue to enhance the level of service we provide
our business clients through customized solutions, including creative financing
and online tools that enable integrated account management.

     For example, clients can electronically access depository and treasury
management account information, initiate their own transactions (e.g., wire
transfer, stop payments), view check images, sign up for corporate, purchasing
and fleet cards and issue foreign drafts-all with the click of a mouse. Our
powerful technology-based solutions offer great convenience to our business
clients.

     - CONSUMER BANKING Over the last year, our consumer banking business
revenues have not grown at the pace we would have liked and as a result, we are
implementing several initiatives to rejuvenate this portion of our business.

     We are focusing on enhancing our customers' experience with us to increase
their satisfaction and loyalty. We are investing across the board in our people,
technology and processes. This includes hiring additional tellers, telephone
service representatives and small business bankers. We are investing in more and
better tools for serving customers, including additional branches and sales
offices, new lobby technology and enhanced online banking capabilities.

     For example, we are initiating Lobby 2000, a new teller platform that will
simplify our tellers' jobs, reduce errors, speed transactions and allow us to
more quickly identify customer needs. Lobby 2000 will be launched later this
year.

     We are also revising our incentive plans for managers, tellers and personal
bankers to place more emphasis on customer retention and satisfaction. These
initiatives, in conjunction with several others underway, will help us
strengthen our consumer banking business.

     - PAYMENT SYSTEMS Payment systems is perhaps the largest opportunity in
financial services, representing the process by which trillions of dollars of
transactions are completed each year. The explosive growth of the Internet is
creating a new marketplace of tremendous proportions that is redefining the
world of payment processing-and creating enormous opportunities for U.S.
Bancorp. Business-to-business e-commerce transactions alone are expected to grow
to $2.3 trillion by 2004 and to $12.2 trillion by 2010. The winners in
processing these complex transactions will be companies that can quickly
automate critical verification, financial and fulfillment capabilities on the
Web. Coupled with our core legacy capabilities, our new digital technology will
enable us to deliver wholly integrated customer solutions that outpace the
non-integrated products that are being introduced to the marketplace.

     At U.S. Bancorp, we are leveraging our position of strength. The nation's
largest provider of Visa Corporate cards in sales volume and a pioneer of
purchasing cards, we have already successfully launched new e-commerce


                  "The explosive growth of the Internet is...
        redefining the world of payment processing-and creating enormous
                        opportunities for U.S. Bancorp."


U.S. BANCORP                                                                   3



                                                                       [GRAPH]

Graph illustrates the following information: U.S. Bancorp cumulative total
shareholder return*

Index: 12/31/89=$100
USB=U.S. Bancorp Common Stock
KBW=Keefe, Bruyette & Woods 50 Bank Index
S&P=Standard & Poor's Index of 500 Stocks


*Capital appreciation plus dividends


$100 invested in U.S. Bancorp common stock on December 31, 1989 would have
been worth $591 at year-end 1999. That compares with $502 for the KBW 50 Bank
Index and $531 for the S&P 500 stock index.

As with any investment, past performance is no guarantee of future results.

solutions. The U.S. Department of Defense and several major corporations have
adopted U.S. Bank-Registered Trademark- PowerTrack-Registered Trademark-, our
proprietary Internet-based freight payment system. The multi-billion dollar
freight shipment industry represents a significant growth opportunity. No
competitor has anything like PowerTrack, which makes conventional freight
payment processing obsolete.

     We are developing additional payment systems solutions through key
alliances and acquisitions. Last year we began working with Ariba, Inc., the
leader in business-to-business e-commerce solutions. In 1999 we also acquired
Mellon Network Services' electronic funds transfer processing unit, which both
complements and extends our payment processing services, which include
point-of-sale and debit card processing, ATM terminal driving, card issuance and
gateways to networks, both regional and national. The acquisition of Voyager
Fleet Systems, Inc., made us one of the largest providers of fleet card services
for state and federal government agencies and extends our capabilities for the
wide array of corporate customers we serve.

     - WEALTH MANAGEMENT AND CAPITAL MARKETS The tremendous wealth being created
through e-commerce, the generational shift in wealth to baby boomers, and the
increasing public acceptance of investment products bodes well for the continued
strong growth of Wealth Management.

     Equity Capital Markets nearly doubled the number and value of its
investment banking transactions in 1999. U.S. Bancorp Piper
Jaffray-Registered Trademark- ended the year as the ninth ranked investment
bank in total number of initial public offerings (IPOs) and the seventh
ranked investment bank in technology IPOs nationally. We are focused on
growth industries including technology, health care, consumer, industrial
growth and financial institutions.

     We are integrating our U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray services with our U.S.
Bank Institutional Financial Services and Private Financial Services to deliver
seamless investment and banking services to our clients. We have implemented
processes for improving quality to ensure consistent competitive performance and
are maximizing the complementary cross-sell opportunities between U.S. Bank and
U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray.

     - CHANNELS Providing a wide range of customer-enabled channels is a
priority. We are investing to strengthen our channels, which are linked by
customer-centered technology. Our goal is to create a high-quality customer
experience based on how a customer chooses to do business with us.

     In addition to the investments in our approximately 1,000 banking offices,
in 1999 we accelerated our investment in our Internet banking capabilities.
Unlike some competitors, we do not view online banking as a separate business,
but rather another important means for delivering anytime, anywhere access to
our customers.

     - MARKETS U.S. Bancorp has excellent market positions and geographic reach.
Last year we expanded our presence in California. Through the acquisitions of
Bank of Commerce, Western Bancorp and Peninsula Bank in southern California, we
further leveraged our technology, products and services in attractive new
markets for U.S. Bank. With the acquisition of Bank of Commerce, U.S. Bank also
became one of the largest U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) lenders in
the nation.


4                                                                   U.S. BANCORP



     - CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Long-term investors in U.S. Bancorp know that we
strongly believe in actively managing our capital to maximize value for
shareholders. In addition to acquisitions and investing in our businesses, last
year we bought back 16.6 million shares of common stock under a $2.5 billion
share repurchase program authorized in June 1998. Under this program, we have
repurchased shares totaling $1.5 billion. On February 16, 2000, the Board of
Directors replaced the program with a new authorization to repurchase up to $2.5
billion of common stock through March 31, 2002.

     The Board of Directors also increased the quarterly dividend to 21.50 cents
from 19.50 cents, a 10.3 percent increase. It was our ninth consecutive annual
increase.

OUR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES

The future of U.S. Bancorp is its people-people who care about our customers,
their communities, shareholders and each other. We strive to deepen customer
relationships and improve the quality of life in the communities where we work
and live.

     Our employees are bullish on U.S. Bancorp. Our top 400 managers have a
significant portion of their personal wealth tied to the success of U.S. Bancorp
through stock ownership targets that range from 80 percent to 550 percent of
their base pay. Collectively, we increased our stake in U.S. Bancorp stock
during 1999.

     As a company, we strongly believe in investing our time, talent and
financial resources to improve our communities. We accomplish this objective by
supporting social, economic, educational and cultural programs. Our community
investment program is responsive and expansive. In 1999 we contributed more than
$45 million in cash grants, loan assistance, sponsorships, employee volunteer
time and in-kind donations to local organizations throughout our banking region.
In addition, we made more than $500 million in loans and investments in support
of affordable housing and economic revitalization initiatives. Our employees
also gave generously of their time, talents and dollars through volunteerism and
charitable contributions.

     Our Directors, like our employees, are dedicated individuals whose
interests are aligned with those of our shareholders. Their guidance has been
instrumental in positioning U.S. Bancorp for the future. Edward J. Phillips, a
12-year board member, will retire at our annual meeting on April 19, 2000. We
thank him for his service.

     I would also like to personally thank three of our Vice Chairmen for
their years of leadership at U.S. Bancorp. Robert D. Sznewajs, who oversaw
the consumer branch group during the First Bank System/U.S. Bancorp
integration, left to pursue other opportunities. Gary T. Duim, who also
played an instrumental role throughout the integration process, has announced
that he will retire this summer. And finally, Richard A. Zona, who helped
build the once-struggling First Bank System into a strong and growing
company, will retire in March 2000. His leadership has contributed greatly to
the success of U.S. Bancorp over the years.

     As we move into 2000, our mission is to create superior shareholder value
by fulfilling our customer promise to simplify our customers' lives. On the
following pages you will see, through our customer stories, we are working hard
to achieve exactly that. Thank you for your investment in U.S. Bancorp.


[Signature of John F. Grundhofer, chairman and chief executive officer]

John F. Grundhofer
CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

February 16, 2000


                       "Our mission is to create superior
             shareholder value by fulfilling our customer promise."


U.S. BANCORP                                                                   5



CUSTOMER SOLUTIONS

WHOLESALE

[Photo of Andersen Corporation executives: Mike Johnson, chief financial officer
and Don Garofalo, chief executive officer.]

ANDERSEN CORPORATION CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER MIKE JOHNSON (STANDING) AND
PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER DON GAROFALO APPRECIATE U.S. BANK'S
BREADTH OF FINANCIAL SOLUTIONS, WHICH HAVE OPENED WINDOWS OF OPPORTUNITY FOR
THEIR COMPANY.

FROM SMALL BEGINNINGS COME GREAT THINGS. THIS PROVERB APTLY DESCRIBES BOTH THE
GROWTH OF AMERICA'S LEADING WINDOW MANUFACTURER AND ITS RELATIONSHIP WITH U.S.
BANK. FOR NEARLY 80 YEARS, U.S. BANK HAS SERVED ANDERSEN CORPORATION AS IT HAS
GROWN FROM A SMALL FAMILY-OWNED BUSINESS TO AN INTERNATIONAL PROVIDER OF WINDOWS
AND PATIO DOORS OF ENDURING QUALITY.

Our long-term relationship with Andersen Corporation is one example of how U.S.
Bank creates practical financial solutions. We provide a high level of service
and easy access to a full range of products and services through a knowledgeable
and committed team.

     Based in Bayport, Minnesota, Andersen has undergone a series of changes in
recent years, including repurchasing stock, improving its manufacturing
facilities, increasing product variety, acquiring distribution and expanding
internationally. As a result, the company's financial needs soon extended beyond
the pension fund management and trust services that U.S. Bank had long provided.
At each step of the way, our dedicated relationship managers drew upon U.S.
Bank's broad resources to provide the right customized financial solution.

     Andersen needed financing to repurchase a significant portion of the
company's stock. After reviewing proposals from several financial institutions,
Andersen selected U.S. Bank to underwrite its financing requirements. We
understood its business and market conditions and created an optimal financial
solution.

     In 1998 Don Garofalo, who joined the company in 1964, was named President
and Chief Executive Officer and was charged with leading the company's efforts
toward achieving its strategic objectives. Additional financial flexibility was
needed to support Andersen's aggressive plans to improve the efficiency of its
manufacturing


6                                                                   U.S. BANCORP



capabilities, expand its product portfolio and fund potential acquisitions. The
U.S. Bank relationship management team consulted with Andersen and evaluated all
of the options for the best structure, terms and pricing to meet the company's
financing requirements.

     Early last year the company sought to acquire one of its largest
distributors, Morgan Products, Ltd., of Williamsburg, Virginia. Utilizing a
combination of company-owned and independent distribution created additional
flexibility to make Andersen's products and customer service more attractive to
retailers, which was part of Andersen's strategy to grow market share. U.S.
Bancorp Piper Jaffray, our full-service investment banking company, helped value
and negotiate the transaction.

     To finance the transaction and provide flexibility for the company's
strategic initiatives, U.S. Bank recommended that Andersen issue long-term
senior notes in the institutional private placement market and refinance the
company's existing debt. Through U.S. Bancorp Libra, which specializes in
underwriting and trading high-yield, mezzanine and private placement securities,
the successful offering was over-subscribed. Concurrently, we amended the
company's existing senior credit facility and resyndicated the credit.

     Another growth opportunity for Andersen products is the international
market. From Argentina to Korea to Portugal, the company has distributors or
suppliers in 12 countries. U.S. Bank provided letters of credit and counseled
the company on how to best manage payments as its international business
expands.

     To help Andersen achieve additional efficiencies, U.S. Bank recommended
several payment system solutions. U.S. Bank Corporate Visa Cards help Andersen
reduce the cost of processing travel and entertainment expenses for its
salespeople.

     Most recently, Andersen began to realize the benefits of e-commerce
solutions. It was one of the early adopters of PowerTrack, our proprietary
Internet freight payment service. U.S. Bank PowerTrack virtually eliminates
logistics paperwork, resulting in reduced processing costs and improved
logistics management for all modes of transportation.

     We strive to satisfy the complex and varied needs of our business clients.
By delivering consistent high-quality service, customized solutions and expert
financial advice, we are building relationships--enduring relationships that
help both our customers and U.S. Bank succeed.

               "By delivering consistent high-quality service...
                        we are building relationships."

HIGHLIGHTS

- -    COMPLETED 82 MERGER AND ACQUISITION TRANSACTIONS FOR OUR CLIENTS VALUED AT
     $7.7 BILLION, COMPARED WITH 67 TRANSACTIONS VALUED AT $4.9 BILLION IN 1998.

- -    RAISED $3.9 BILLION FOR COMPANIES THROUGH 63 IPOS AND $6.2 BILLION THROUGH
     33 FOLLOW-ON OFFERINGS.

- -    RANKED 1ST IN MUNICIPAL CORPORATE TRUST ISSUES WITH $14.1 BILLION IN
     PRINCIPAL AMOUNT IN 655 NEW BOND ISSUES. RANKED 4TH IN ASSET-BACKED ISSUES
     WITH $22.9 BILLION IN PROCEEDS IN 102 NEW BOND ISSUES.

[Small image of computer screen showing U.S. Bancorp Web site.]


U.S.BANCORP                                                                    7



CUSTOMER SOLUTIONS

WHOLESALE
BANKING
continued

RELATIONSHIPS MATTER. IN FACT, MOST OF OUR MORE THAN HALF A MILLION SMALL AND
MEDIUM-SIZED BUSINESS CLIENTS BANK WITH US BECAUSE OF OUR COMMITMENT TO
PROVIDING QUALITY SERVICE. WHILE STRONG RELATIONSHIPS WITH OUR CUSTOMERS HELP US
RETAIN VALUED BUSINESS, WE ALSO KNOW THAT IT HELPS US ATTRACT NEW CLIENTS.

     Our relationship managers represent the backbone of our business banking
group, and we win much of our new business on the strength of their efforts. For
example, in Sacramento a U.S. Bank relationship manager called on a potential
client. Eager to demonstrate U.S. Bank's capabilities, she invited the president
of the firm, Lowell Shields, to bank-sponsored events including business
breakfasts and seminars.

     However, the successful 50-year-old firm, Capital Engineering Consultants,
Inc., was content with its current bank. Confident that U.S. Bank could better
meet its needs, the relationship manager arranged a meeting with a U.S. Bank
investment specialist. What Mr. Shields learned during that meeting, thanks to
our detailed analysis of his firm's accounts, was that U.S. Bank could do
significantly more with the firm's money.

     As a result of U.S. Bank's solutions-oriented approach, Capital Engineering
Consultants established a relationship with the bank that includes checking and
payroll accounts, deposit courier service and a line of credit. U.S. Bank is
currently working with the client to provide customized solutions for its
remaining needs, including management of its 401(k) plan.

[Photo of Dr. Jeffrey Seabourn, partner at Intermountain Medical Imaging, LLC.]

BY UNDERSTANDING THIS CLIENT'S SPECIFIC NEEDS, U.S. BANK WAS ABLE TO PROVIDE THE
NECESSARY START-UP FINANCING FOR DR. JEFFREY SEABOURN AND HIS PARTNERS AT
INTERMOUNTAIN MEDICAL IMAGING.


8                                                                    U.S.BANCORP



DOING WHAT'S GOOD FOR BUSINESS

Our relationship managers strive to understand the very specific needs of the
businesses they serve. And often, it is the expertise of our relationship
managers that results in new business. Such was the case in Boise, Idaho, where
a group of 13 radiologists wanted to create a local, independent imaging
center--Intermountain Medical Imaging LLC. U.S. Bank was invited to submit a
proposal for this highly sought-after medical business.

     A true test of any lender is working with a start-up firm, which presents
risk, but also great opportunity. The digital revolution has made a major impact
in medical imaging, a growth industry within the medical profession. For
example, in partnership with Saint Alphonsus Regional Medical Center, also a
valued client of U.S. Bank, radiologists at Intermountain Medical Imaging
review, archive and electronically distribute medical images across a robust
digital network. This includes a Web-browser application so that physicians have
immediate access to medical images and reports, whether in the hospital, private
offices or even their own homes.

     A team of U.S. Bank financing specialists collaborated to create an
extensive proposal tailored to fit this client's immediate funding needs, but
one that would also provide a financial framework for their future growth. The
proposal from U.S. Bank was accepted because of the structure of the financing
we were able to offer. It was also accepted because the client wanted to
establish a long-term relationship with a bank that had invested the time and
expertise to understand the specifics of their business and associated financial
needs. Our relationship manager had previous experience serving clients in this
industry, which helped U.S. Bank attract this client.

     As Capital Engineering Consultants and Intermountain Medical Imaging grow,
U.S. Bank plans to be there to meet their financing and banking needs.

     We understand that no two businesses are alike. We also understand that
attracting new business customers, whether well-established or start-up, in turn
drives our growth.

     By effectively utilizing the extensive array of financial products at our
disposal, we will continue to provide unique solutions to meet the ever-changing
needs of our business clients.

HIGHLIGHTS

- -    INTRODUCED U.S. BANK CONNECTIONS-Registered Trademark- WINDOWS, A
     WINDOWS-BASED SOFTWARE PACKAGE THAT ENABLES BUSINESS CLIENTS TO ACCESS
     DEPOSITORY AND TREASURY MANAGEMENT ACCOUNT INFORMATION AND TO INITIATE
     THEIR OWN TRANSACTIONS ELECTRONICALLY. IN 2000, THIS PRODUCT WILL BECOME
     WEB-BASED.

- -    LAUNCHED IMAGE CHECK WEB FOR BUSINESS CUSTOMERS, WHICH IS AN ENHANCEMENT TO
     OUR IMAGE CHECK CD-ROM SERVICE. THIS SERVICE ALLOWS CUSTOMERS TO VIEW CHECK
     IMAGES--BOTH FRONT AND BACK--TO IMPROVE THEIR CUSTOMER SERVICE, PREVENT
     FRAUD AND PROVIDE LEGAL PROOF OF PAYMENT.

- -    INCREASED THE NUMBER OF U.S. BANK ADVANTAGE LINE-SM- ACCOUNTS IN 1999 BY
     ALMOST 140 PERCENT OVER THE PREVIOUS YEAR. PART OF OUR SIMPLY BUSINESS
     PRODUCT LINE, THE U.S. BANK ADVANTAGE LINE IS A CREDIT-SCORED, UNSECURED
     LINE OF CREDIT OF $10,000 TO $75,000.

[Small image of computer screen showing U.S. Bancorp Web site.]

                    "It is the expertise of our relationship
                    managers that results in new business."


U.S.BANCORP                                                                    9



CUSTOMER SOLUTIONS

CONSUMER BANKING

[Photo of Mark Landis, customer.]

MARK LANDIS, A U.S. BANK CUSTOMER FOR MORE THAN 15 YEARS, ENJOYS THE ANYTIME,
ANYWHERE CONVENIENCE AND PERSONAL SERVICE HE RECEIVES FROM U.S. BANK.

EVERY DAY MILLIONS OF CONSUMERS TURN TO U.S. BANK FOR SOLUTIONS TO MAKE THEIR
LIVES SIMPLER, WHETHER IT'S A LATE-NIGHT DEPOSIT AT AN ATM, A TELEPHONE FUNDS
TRANSFER ON A HOLIDAY, A HOME EQUITY LOAN APPLICATION IN ONE OF OUR BANKING
OFFICES OR AN ONLINE BANKING SESSION ON THEIR LUNCH HOUR. WE PROVIDE ACCESS TO A
COMPREHENSIVE RANGE OF FINANCIAL PRODUCTS AND SERVICES.

In Chico, California, Gail and Danny Chu visited several banks in town seeking a
home equity loan. Unsatisfied with the financing packages offered by other
banks, the Chus discovered a special promotion for home equity loans at U.S.
Bank. Attracted by the favorable terms, the Chus decided to give U.S. Bank a
try.

     The Chus explained to the U.S. Bank personal banker their difficulty thus
far trying to find the financing they wanted. The personal banker immediately
began to review the Chus' entire financial profile and was able to provide the
loan the Chus were seeking with terms that were attractive to them.

     The Chus were so pleased with U.S. Bank's ability to meet their financing
needs, they selected additional U.S. Bank products, including deposit accounts
and check cards. But that's not all. They also referred 10 new customers to U.S.
Bank, all of whom now have a combination of loan, deposit and related products
with our bank. Mrs. Chu's brother and father, several neighbors and some
employees of her small business eagerly followed her trusted advice.


10                                                                   U.S.BANCORP



                              "Enhancements to our
                     Web site will even further expand our
                             online capabilities."

     U.S. Bank continues to pursue higher levels of customer satisfaction. We
understand that extremely satisfied customers are the key to sustained growth,
through both new and deeper customer relationships. U.S. Bank already has highly
competitive products, powerful technology, convenient access and resourceful,
caring employees. We are now making the necessary investments that will allow us
to deliver a consistently high level of service.

     In short, we are redefining our customer experience to increase
satisfaction, loyalty and referrals. For customers like Mark Landis, who use a
broad range of U.S. Bank products, every transaction shapes their collective
experience with our organization.

     A Minnesota U.S. Bank customer since the early 1980s, Mr. Landis was
originally attracted to the bank on the recommendation of a friend. He accesses
his U.S. Bank accounts in a variety of ways, but he prefers conducting much of
his business in our branches.

     Over the next year, Mr. Landis and other customers may notice several
enhancements to their banking experience. Additional tellers, personal bankers
and telephone customer service representatives will speed transaction times;
additional branches will increase convenience; in-branch technology will
facilitate problem-solving and improve accuracy; and enhancements to our Web
site will even further expand our online capabilities.

     Mr. Landis and the Chus are a few of the more than six million customers
who turn to U.S. Bank for anytime, anywhere access to a comprehensive range of
financial solutions. We have a broad range of products and services that can be
delivered conveniently through our branches, ATMs, telephone banking, credit and
debit cards or online. We understand the importance of continually improving the
effectiveness of all of our channels to satisfy the individual preferences of
our clients.

     Regardless of how our customers choose to bank with us, we deliver
solutions that are convenient. And that helps us attract and retain valued
customers like the Chu family and Mr. Landis.

HIGHLIGHTS

- -    INCREASED U.S. BANK HOME EQUITY AND SECOND MORTGAGE LOANS BY $1.3 BILLION
     IN 1999, UP 17 PERCENT FROM 1998.

- -    INCREASED UBANK-Registered Trademark- ONLINE EXPRESS ACCOUNTS BY MORE
     THAN 397 PERCENT, AS NEW AND EXISTING CUSTOMERS EXPERIENCED THE
     CONVENIENCE OF INTERNET BANKING.

- -    ADDED A NEW FEATURE TO OUR WEB SITE THAT ALLOWS QUALIFIED CONSUMERS TO
     APPLY FOR AND OBTAIN IMMEDIATE LIFE INSURANCE COVERAGE ONLINE, UP TO
     $150,000 WORTH THROUGH U.S. BANCORP INSURANCE SERVICES.

- -    INITIATED A NEW BRANCH STRATEGY TO CREATE SUPERIOR CUSTOMER SERVICE BY: -
     OPENING ADDITIONAL BRANCHES IN HIGH- GROWTH AREAS

     -    HIRING ADDITIONAL TELLERS AND SMALL BUSINESS BANKERS

     -    ENHANCING LOBBY TECHNOLOGY

- -    RESTRUCTURED INCENTIVE PLANS FOR BRANCH EMPLOYEES TO INCREASE SALES
     EMPHASIS AND REINFORCE SERVICE INITIATIVES.


U.S.BANCORP                                                                   11



CUSTOMER SOLUTIONS

PAYMENT SYSTEMS

WITH MORE THAN $1 BILLION IN FREIGHT EXPENSES FOR WORLDWIDE SHIPMENTS EACH YEAR,
THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE (DOD) ILLUSTRATES THE POWER OF U.S. BANK'S
E-COMMERCE SOLUTIONS. THE DOD RECOGNIZED EARLY THE ENORMOUS EFFICIENCIES THAT
COULD RESULT FROM ELIMINATING PAPERWORK FROM THE FREIGHT PAYMENT PROCESS.

HIGHLIGHTS

- -    RANKED FIRST WITHIN THE VISA NETWORK IN SALES VOLUME AND CARDS FOR OUR
     BUSINESS AND PURCHASING CARDS.

- -    SELECTED AS THE EXCLUSIVE PURCHASING CARD PROVIDER FOR LOCKHEED MARTIN
     CORPORATION, BELIEVED TO BE THE WORLD'S LARGEST COMMERCIAL PURCHASING CARD
     PROGRAM, WITH NEARLY $4 BILLION IN CHARGES EXPECTED OVER THE FIVE-YEAR
     AGREEMENT.

- -    ACQUIRED VOYAGER FLEET SERVICES, INC., EXPANDING OUR FLEET SERVICE
     CAPABILITIES AND ADDING 145,000 FUELING AND MAINTENANCE LOCATIONS
     NATIONALLY.

- -    ACQUIRED MELLON NETWORK SERVICES' ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER PROCESSING
     UNIT, WHICH MORE THAN DOUBLED OUR CURRENT PROCESSING VOLUME AND MADE US ONE
     OF THE NATION'S LARGEST THIRD-PARTY TRANSACTION PROCESSORS.

- -    INCREASED SALES VOLUME ON OUR CO-BRANDED CREDIT CARDS BY 14.8 PERCENT AND
     ESTABLISHED NEW CO-BRANDED CARD PARTNERSHIPS WITH KROGER CO., STAPLES AND
     HARLEY-DAVIDSON, INC.

- -    INCREASED MERCHANT PROCESSING VOLUME 20 PERCENT TO MORE THAN $27 BILLION IN
     CHARGE VOLUME.

Aware of the DoD's freight payment processing needs, U.S. Bank set out to
revolutionize the way those payments were made. We began building on our
expertise as one of the nation's largest providers of corporate, purchasing
and fleet cards. Harnessing the Internet, we created U.S. Bank
PowerTrack-Registered Trademark-: the only Internet freight payment system
that seamlessly integrates into both shipper and carrier processes.

     PowerTrack makes conventional freight payment processing obsolete. Instead
of a series of separate exchanges of information between carriers and shippers,
all shipment information is maintained in one electronic document, which both
parties can view at anytime through the Internet.

     Using PowerTrack, the DoD expects to save more than $11 million annually.
The Department has cut the payment processing cycle from 45-60 days to less than
three days after approval, while preserving the cash float period that exists
under traditional payment systems. By the end of 2000, the DoD expects to have
nearly all of its approximately 600 carriers using PowerTrack.

     One of its carriers, Emery Worldwide, served as a prototype during the
development of PowerTrack. Emery, a subsidiary of CNF Inc., is a $2.4 billion
global heavyweight air cargo company, operating in 229 countries with a network
of more than 500 service centers and agent locations around the world.

     Emery has enthusiastically supported PowerTrack, and Emery's days sales
outstanding with DoD PowerTrack accounts have been reduced.

     Emery has also had a keen interest in PowerTrack's ability to strengthen
relationships between shippers and carriers. The program motivates both parties
to process shipments quickly and accurately and encourages communication.
Because both partners view real-time shipment information simultaneously,
discrepancies can be identified and resolved quickly.

     PowerTrack's unique capabilities and seamless integration with both
carriers and shippers give U.S. Bank a strong leadership position in the freight
processing business. It also leverages our strength in the larger world of
business-to-business Internet payment system solutions.


LEADING THE WAY IN PAYMENT PROCESSING

In addition to PowerTrack, U.S. Bank serves many of the DoD's other payment
system needs. At the end of its 1999 fiscal year, the DoD was using more than


12                                                                   U.S.BANCORP



                     "PowerTrack leverages our strength in
               the larger world of business-to-business Internet
                           payment system solutions."

206,000 purchasing cards with total charges in excess of $3.3 billion and more
than 69,000 fleet cards with total charges in excess of $21 million.

     Voyager Fleet Systems, Inc., which U.S. Bancorp acquired in September 1999,
has had a tremendous impact on the growth of the DoD fleet card program by
increasing the number of sites that accept the card, as well as the number of
government employees using it.

     In need of a viable way to make payments overseas at locations that were
not Visa-capable, the DoD recently turned to U.S. Bank for yet another unique
solution. We created a service that would allow its employees to use their
purchasing cards to issue drafts in foreign currency. Using U.S. Bank Global
Connections-SM- software--a product designed for our clients who conduct
business internationally--drafts can be created quickly and easily.

     The Global Connections software tracks each transaction and integrates the
information into the cardholder's U.S. Bank statement. To ensure a convenient,
seamless solution for the DoD, the software was adapted to debit the employee's
purchasing card account, rather than a checking account, which is the typical
procedure for this product.

     Another U.S. Bank product offers great flexibility for the DoD and its
global operations. Our Customer Automation and Reporting Environment (C.A.R.E.)
provides anytime, anywhere Web-based access to all of the DoD's U.S. Bank
account information. In addition, new purchasing card accounts can be created at
any time of the day or night.

     U.S. Bank's ability to provide technology-based payment processing
solutions will continue to attract clients in search of cost-saving and
convenient solutions.

[Photo of Gary Wegner, Emery Worldwide employee.]

PROVIDING A BETTER FREIGHT PAYMENT PROCESSING SYSTEM FOR THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF
DEFENSE AND ITS CARRIERS LIKE EMERY WORLDWIDE, U.S. BANK POWERTRACK IS A
VALUABLE TOOL FOR EMPLOYEES LIKE GARY WEGNER.


U.S.BANCORP                                                                   13



CUSTOMER SOLUTIONS

WEALTH MANAGEMENT AND CAPITAL MARKETS

FOR THE AFFLUENT CLIENT, FINDING AN INTEGRATED BANKING AND INVESTMENT FIRM CAN
BE A DREAM COME TRUE. FROM INVESTMENTS TO ESTATE PLANNING TO PRIVATE BANKING TO
ASSET MANAGEMENT--U.S. BANCORP DELIVERS THEM ALL, AND MORE.

HIGHLIGHTS

- -    ACHIEVED STRONG GROWTH IN U.S. BANCORP PIPER JAFFRAY'S RETAIL BROKERAGE.
     CLIENT ASSETS INCREASED IN 1999 TO $56.1 BILLION.

- -    INCREASED REVENUE PER INVESTMENT EXECUTIVE AT U.S. BANCORP PIPER JAFFRAY BY
     13.2 PERCENT.

- -    FIRST AMERICAN FUNDS(R) MANAGED BY FIRST AMERICAN ASSET MANAGEMENT,
     INCREASED ITS ASSETS TO $33.3 BILLION IN 1999.

- -    U.S. BANCORP PIPER JAFFRAY, IN 1999, BEGAN A NEW ADVISORY TRAINING PROGRAM
     FOR ITS FINANCIAL PROFESSIONALS THAT FOCUSES ON DELIVERING A CONSISTENT AND
     RIGOROUS PROCESS TO PROVIDE COMPREHENSIVE FINANCIAL SOLUTIONS TO THEIR BEST
     CLIENTS. THIS PROGRAM ALSO EDUCATES THE FINANCIAL PROFESSIONAL ON THE
     COMPLETE ARRAY OF FINANCIAL PRODUCTS AND SERVICES AVAILABLE THROUGH U.S.
     BANCORP.

- -    DEVELOPED INTEGRATED PRIVATE FINANCIAL SERVICES/ U.S. BANCORP PIPER JAFFRAY
     TEAMS TO FOCUS ON THE INVESTMENT NEEDS OF AFFLUENT CLIENTS.

[Small image of computer screen showing U.S. Bancorp Web site.]

Our approach to serving our clients' many financial needs is multifaceted.
Through a dedicated relationship manager, we review our clients' financial
objectives, develop a plan to meet them, then monitor the results. We offer our
clients--wealthy individuals and families, professionals and professional
service firms, and charitable and non-profit organizations--access to a variety
of experts with creative solutions and sound advice, giving them the peace of
mind that their financial needs are being well managed.

     It was precisely for this reason that Warren McCain came to U.S. Bank more
than 40 years ago. Mr. McCain was introduced to additional services of the bank
while serving as chairman and chief executive officer (now retired) of
Boise-based Albertson's, Inc., one of the largest retail food-drug chains in the
United States and a long-time business client of U.S. Bank.

     In the early 1990s, Mr. McCain enlisted the services of several portfolio
managers to determine which could best serve his needs. One of the financial
professionals, a member of our asset management group, was recommended to Mr.
McCain by his U.S. Bank relationship manager. Over time, Mr. McCain came to
appreciate the solid investment returns and the effective management of his
assets by U.S. Bank. As a result, he consolidated the majority of his
investments with us and significantly expanded his personal banking relationship
in our Private Financial Services Group.

     U.S. Bank continues to build upon its goal of offering complete financial
services, while also understanding and respecting the value of working with our
clients' existing team of financial and legal professionals. Our relationship
managers work closely with Mr. McCain's accountant and lawyer to make
recommendations that are in his best interest; our advice reflects a combination
of in-depth client knowledge and market expertise.

     Mr. McCain currently uses the services of our asset management group,
First American Asset Management-SM- (FAAM), for his investment needs. FAAM,
with more than $78 billion in assets under management, serves as the
investment advisor to First American Funds-Registered Trademark-, which
offers 38 mutual funds to investors.

     Over the years, Mr. McCain has received a range of financial solutions from

                       "Our advice reflects a combination
                        of in-depth client knowledge and
                               market expertise."


14                                                                  U.S. BANCORP



U.S. Bank including comprehensive estate planning services, personal trusts,
Private Select checking, savings accounts, credit cards, IRAs and credit lines.
Our ability to meet his varied financial needs by leveraging our vast banking
and investment resources has given Mr. McCain the one-stop access to financial
services he desires.


COMPREHENSIVE INVESTMENT AND EQUITY SOLUTIONS

Our clients have many options available to them when looking for investment
products and investment banking services. Through U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray,
U.S. Bancorp Investments, Inc., and U.S. Bancorp Libra, we are able to meet the
full needs of our individual and business clients.

     U.S. Bancorp Investments Direct offers self-directed investors the
opportunity to utilize its investment capabilities. Customers choose how they
want to place trades and access their investment account, utilizing any or all
of the alternatives available to them including Online Investing via our Web
site, touch-tone investing through any touch-tone telephone, or with an
Investment Specialist by telephone.

     For both our individual and business clients, U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray
offers a wide array of investment products and services, including annuities,
mutual funds, individual stocks and bonds, 401(k) plan services, employee stock
purchase plan services, managed accounts and much more.

     Our nationally recognized U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray investment banking
practice specializes in serving growth companies through a full range of
services including IPOs and follow-on offerings, corporate debt underwritings,
private placements and mergers and acquisitions advisory services.

     California-based Phone.com, Inc., a leading provider of software that
enables the delivery of Internet-based services to mass-market wireless
telephones, completed both its initial public offering and a follow-on offering
in 1999. U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray was a co-managing underwriter on each
transaction, which raised $73.6 million and $1.0 billion for the company
respectively. For Phone.com, Inc., going public has provided a huge boost to
their growth potential, access to additional capital and a powerful currency
that's allowing them to grow their business strategically and organically.

     As demand for wealth management and investment banking services has
increased, so too has our opportunity for growth in this area. We continue to
expand and integrate our banking and investment services for the benefit of our
clients like Warren McCain and Phone.com, Inc., who seek customized and
comprehensive financial solutions.

[Photo of Warren McCain, customer.]

U.S. BANK EFFECTIVELY MANAGES THE COMPLEX FINANCIAL NEEDS OF OUR CLIENTS, LIKE
WARREN MCCAIN, WHO VALUE THE FREEDOM CREATED BY OUR COMPREHENSIVE SERVICE.


U.S. BANCORP                                                                  15



MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

OVERVIEW

SUMMARY OF 1999 RESULTS U.S. Bancorp (the "Company") earned record operating
earnings (net income excluding merger-related charges and available-for-sale
securities transactions) of $1.55 billion in 1999, up 6.2 percent from 1998
operating earnings of $1.46 billion. On a diluted share basis, operating
earnings were $2.11 in 1999, compared with $1.96 in 1998. Operating earnings on
a cash basis were $2.34 per diluted share in 1999, compared with $2.15 per
diluted share in 1998. The year-over-year increase in earnings per diluted share
reflected a 13.2 percent growth in total revenue partially offset by higher
growth rates in noninterest expense and provision for credit losses. Return on
average assets and return on average common equity, excluding merger-related
charges and available-for-sale securities transactions, were 2.01 percent and
23.6 percent in 1999, compared with returns of 2.03 percent and 24.1 percent in
1998. Excluding merger-related charges and available-for-sale securities
transactions, the efficiency ratio (the ratio of expenses to revenues) was 50.5
percent in 1999, compared with 49.1 percent in 1998. The banking efficiency
ratio (the ratio of expenses to revenues without the impact of investment
banking and brokerage activity) before merger-related charges and
available-for-sale securities transactions, was 43.2 percent in 1999, compared
with 44.2 percent in 1998.

     Net income was $1.50 billion in 1999, or $2.06 per diluted share, compared
with $1.33 billion, or $1.78 per diluted share, in 1998. Return on average
assets and return on average common equity were 1.96 percent and 23.0 percent in
1999, compared with returns of 1.85 percent and 21.9 percent in 1998. Net income
reflects merger-related charges and available-for-sale securities transactions
of $40.0 million ($63.7 million on a pre-tax basis) in 1999 and $128.4 million
($203.9 million on a pre-tax basis) in 1998. See pages 22 through 24 for further
discussion on merger-related charges and available-for-sale securities
transactions.

ACQUISITION AND DIVESTITURE ACTIVITY Operating results for 1999 reflect purchase
and divestiture transactions from or to the date of completion. On November 15,
1999, the Company completed the acquisition of Western Bancorp. Western Bancorp
had $2.5 billion in total assets with 31 branches in southern California in Los
Angeles, Orange and San Diego counties. The purchase price of approximately $922
million was allocated to assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their
fair market values at the date of acquisition. On September 24, 1999, the
Company completed the sale of 28 branches in Kansas and Iowa with aggregate
deposits of $364 million. On September 23, 1999, the Company sold $1.8 billion
of indirect automobile loans and is in the process of exiting this business. On
September 17, 1999, the Company completed its acquisition of the investment
banking division of The John Nuveen Company, which became part of the U.S.
Bancorp Piper Jaffray Fixed Income Capital Markets division. On September 13,
1999, the Company completed its acquisition of Voyager Fleet Systems, Inc.,
which is now part of the Payment Systems business unit. On July 15, 1999, the
Company completed its acquisition of the San Diego-based Bank of Commerce, one
of the nation's largest U.S. Small Business Administration ("SBA") lenders. On
June 30, 1999, the Company completed its acquisition of Mellon Network Services'
electronic funds transfer processing unit. On March 16, 1999, the Company
completed its acquisition of Reliance Trust Company's corporate trust business,
which operates offices in Georgia, Florida and Tennessee. On January 4, 1999,
the Company acquired Libra Investments, Inc., an investment banking business
that specializes in underwriting and trading high yield and mezzanine securities
for middle market companies. On December 15, 1998, the Company completed its
acquisition of Northwest Bancshares, Inc. On May 1, 1998, the Company completed
its acquisition of Piper Jaffray Companies Inc. ("Piper Jaffray"), a
full-service investment banking and securities brokerage firm.

     On September 2, 1999, the Company announced an agreement to acquire
Peninsula Bank of San Diego. With $456 million in assets, Peninsula Bank
operated 11 branches in San Diego County, California. The acquisition closed
January 14, 2000.

     These transactions were all accounted for as purchase acquisitions. Refer
to Note C and Note M of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional information regarding acquisitions and divestitures.

16                                                                  U.S. BANCORP





*DIVIDENDS PER SHARE HAVE NOT BEEN RESTATED FOR THE U.S. BANCORP ("USBC")
MERGER. USBC PAID COMMON DIVIDENDS OF $139.1 MILLION THROUGH JULY OF 1997 ($.62
PER SHARE), $168.7 MILLION IN 1996 ($1.18 PER SHARE) AND $133.1 MILLION IN 1995
($1.06 PER SHARE).
**WITHOUT INVESTMENT BANKING AND BROKERAGE ACTIVITY.

U.S. BANCORP                                                                  17



TABLE 2  LINE OF BUSINESS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE



*MERGER-RELATED CHARGES AND AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE SECURITIES TRANSACTIONS ARE
NOT ALLOCATED TO THE BUSINESS LINES. ALL RATIOS ARE CALCULATED WITHOUT THE
EFFECT OF MERGER-RELATED CHARGES AND AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE SECURITIES TRANSACTIONS.
**CALCULATED BY EXCLUDING GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLES AND THE RELATED
AMORTIZATION.
***NOT MEANINGFUL.

LINE OF BUSINESS FINANCIAL REVIEW

Operating segments are components of the Company about which financial
information is available and is evaluated regularly in deciding how to allocate
resources and assess performance. The Company's operating segments are Wholesale
Banking, Consumer Banking, Payment Systems, and Wealth Management and Capital
Markets. Units providing central support and other corporate activities are
reported as part of Corporate Support and allocated as appropriate.

BASIS OF FINANCIAL PRESENTATION Business line results are derived from the
Company's business unit profitability reporting system by specifically
attributing managed balance sheet assets, deposits and other liabilities and
their related interest income or expense. Funds transfer pricing methodologies
are utilized to allocate a cost for funds used or credit for funds provided to
all business line assets and liabilities using a matched funding concept. The
provision for credit losses is primarily based on the net charge-offs of each
line of business. The provision may be adjusted to consider expected losses for
certain products that have a longer business cycle and for economic conditions.
Noninterest income and expenses directly related to each business line,
including fees, service charges, salaries and benefits, and other direct
expenses are accounted for within each segment's financial results in a manner
similar to the consolidated financial statements. Also, the business unit is
allocated the tax equivalent benefit of tax exempt products. Noninterest
expenses incurred by centrally managed operations units that directly support
business lines' operations are directly charged to the business lines based on
standard unit costs and volume measurements. Income taxes are assessed to each
line of business at a standard tax rate with the residual tax expense or benefit
to arrive at the consolidated effective tax rate included in Corporate Support.
Merger-related charges and available-for-sale securities transactions are not
identified by or allocated to

18                                                                  U.S. BANCORP



lines of business. Because the Company's decision-making process emphasizes the
creation of shareholder value, capital is allocated to each line of business
based on its inherent risks, including credit, operational and other business
risks. On and off-balance sheet assets subject to credit risk are assigned risk
factors based upon expected loss experience and volatility taking into
consideration changes in business practices that may introduce more or less risk
into the portfolio. Certain lines of business, such as Wealth Management and
Capital Markets, have no significant balance sheet components. For these
business lines, capital is allocated taking into consideration fiduciary and
operational risk, capital levels of independent organizations operating similar
businesses, and regulatory minimum requirements. Designations, assignments and
allocations may change from time to time as management accounting systems are
enhanced or product lines change. During 1999, certain organization and
methodology changes were made and 1998 and 1997 results are presented on a
comparable basis.

WHOLESALE BANKING Wholesale Banking includes lending, treasury management,
corporate trust and other financial services to middle market, large corporate
and public sector clients. Operating earnings increased to $596.6 million in
1999, compared with $556.6 million in 1998 and $508.1 million in 1997. Return on
average assets was 1.52 percent in 1999, compared with 1.58 percent in 1998 and
1.50 percent in 1997, and return on average common equity was 16.2 percent in
1999, compared with 17.8 and 16.6 percent in 1998 and 1997, respectively.

     Net interest income increased each year, reflecting core growth in average
loan and deposit balances partially offset by margin compression in the
commercial loan and deposit portfolios. The provision for credit losses
increased to $106.2 million in 1999 compared to $94.9 million in 1998 and $88.2
million in 1997. The increase reflects a

U.S. BANCORP                                                                  19



slight increase in net chargeoffs and growth in the loan portfolio.
Noninterest income increased $55.7 million in 1999 to $420.5 million,
compared with $364.8 million in 1998 and $316.3 million in 1997. The increase
reflects higher deposit charges and fee income from underwriting activities
of U.S. Bancorp Libra since its acquisition in January 1999. Total
noninterest expense increased $73.8 million in 1999 to $816.3 million as
compared with $742.5 million in 1998 and $743.0 million in 1997 primarily
reflecting the acquisition of U.S. Bancorp Libra and related growth in
Wholesale Banking's business activities. The efficiency ratio for Wholesale
Banking, on a cash basis, was 41.7 percent in 1999 and 41.4 percent in 1998
as compared to 43.6 percent in 1997.

CONSUMER BANKING Consumer Banking delivers products and services to the broad
consumer market and small business through branch offices, telemarketing, online
services, direct mail and automated teller machines ("ATMs"). Operating earnings
were $446.5 million in 1999, compared with $430.1 million in 1998 and $402.7
million in 1997. Return on average assets decreased to 3.30 percent from 3.46
percent in 1998 and 3.73 percent in 1997. Return on average common equity was
40.9 percent in 1999, compared to 42.8 percent in 1998 and 37.2 percent in 1997.

     Net interest income increased $61.9 million in 1999 as compared to 1998 due
primarily to growth in home equity loans partially offset by the sale of the
indirect automobile portfolio and related balance runoff. The provision for
credit losses increased $65.7 million in 1999 to $285.0 million, compared to
$219.3 million in 1998 and $187.9 million in 1997. The increase reflects growth
in the consumer loan portfolios and an increase in credit-related fraud losses.
Noninterest income increased slightly in 1999 to $537.9 million, compared to
$529.6 million in 1998 and $528.9 million in 1997 primarily reflecting growth in
deposit charges. Total noninterest expense decreased slightly to $877.1 million
in 1999, compared to $887.5 million in 1998 and $981.8 million in 1997
reflecting further integration of acquired banking entities. The efficiency
ratio, on a cash basis, improved to 45.5 percent in 1999, compared to 48.0
percent in 1998 and 52.7 percent in 1997.

     The Company has announced a number of initiatives to improve the growth of
its consumer banking business. These initiatives include incremental investment
in technology and processes, and the hiring of additional sales and customer
service employees. As with any investment, the successful achievement of the
anticipated deposit and loan growth and related contribution to earnings is
subject to a number of uncertainties.

PAYMENT SYSTEMS Payment Systems includes consumer and business credit cards,
corporate and purchasing card services, card-accessed secured and unsecured
lines of credit, ATM processing, and merchant processing. Operating earnings
increased to $261.0 million in 1999, compared with $210.6 million in 1998 and
$151.7 million in 1997. Return on average assets was 3.20 percent in 1999,
compared with 2.69 percent in 1998 and 2.26 percent in 1997. Return on average
common equity was 36.6 percent in 1999, compared with 33.5 percent in 1998 and
24.8 percent in 1997.

     Net interest income increased $76.6 million in 1999 to $334.6 million,
compared with $258.0 million in 1998 and $257.3 million in 1997. The increase is
primarily due to a decline in noninterest-bearing assets and an increase in
loans fees. Fee-based noninterest income increased $16.1 million in 1999 to
$614.1 million, compared with $598.0 million in 1998 and $460.9 million in 1997.
The increase reflects growth in credit card fees and the acquisition of Mellon
Network Services' electronic funds transfer processing unit in June 1999 offset
by the loss of approximately one-half of the U.S. Government purchasing card
business in late 1998. Total noninterest expense increased $18.1 million in 1999
as compared to 1998 due to increased technology spending, costs related to
increased sales volume and the acquired electronic funds transfer processing
business. The efficiency ratio, on a cash basis, improved to 37.1 percent in
1999, compared to 39.1 percent in 1998 and 44.9 percent in 1997.

WEALTH MANAGEMENT AND CAPITAL MARKETS Wealth Management and Capital Markets
includes institutional trust, investment management services and private banking
and personal trust services. It also engages in equity and fixed income trading
activities, offers investment banking and underwriting services for corporate
and public sector customers and provides securities, mutual funds, annuities and
insurance products to consumers and regionally based businesses through a
network of banking centers and brokerage offices. Operating earnings increased
to $199.2 million in 1999, compared with $158.2 million in 1998 and $109.4
million in 1997. Return on average common equity was 17.2 percent in 1999,
compared with 16.7 percent and 33.2 percent in 1998 and 1997, respectively.

     Noninterest income increased to $1.2 billion in 1999 from $784.9 million in
1998 and $336.9 million in 1997. The increases primarily reflect the full year
impact and continued growth in fee income generated by Piper Jaffray as part of
its investment banking and brokerage activities. Total noninterest expense was
$1.0 billion in 1999 compared to

20                                                                  U.S. BANCORP



TABLE 3 NET INTEREST INCOME - CHANGES DUE TO RATE AND VOLUME



THIS TABLE SHOWS THE COMPONENTS OF THE CHANGE IN NET INTEREST INCOME BY VOLUME
AND RATE ON A TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT BASIS. THE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN RATES ON VOLUME
CHANGES IS ALLOCATED BASED ON THE PERCENTAGE RELATIONSHIP OF CHANGES IN VOLUME
AND CHANGES IN RATE. THIS TABLE DOES NOT TAKE INTO ACCOUNT THE LEVEL OF
NONINTEREST-BEARING FUNDING, NOR DOES IT FULLY REFLECT CHANGES IN THE MIX OF
ASSETS AND LIABILITIES.

$683.4 million in 1998 and $295.6 in 1997. The increase in expenses also
reflects the acquisition of Piper Jaffray and its continued growth. The
efficiency ratio, on a cash basis, was 75.3 percent in 1999, compared to 71.2
percent in 1998 and 61.5 percent in 1997 reflecting higher growth in Piper
Jaffray, which has a higher efficiency ratio than most traditional banking
businesses.

     The Company expects continued growth from its Wealth Management and Capital
Markets businesses, but recognizes that these businesses are significantly
dependent on prevailing market conditions.

CORPORATE SUPPORT Corporate Support includes the net effect of support units
after internal revenue and expense allocations, treasury management, and other
corporate activities. Net interest income primarily relates to the Company's
investment and residential mortgage portfolios, and the net effect of transfer
pricing loan and deposit balances. Provision for credit losses represents the
residual aggregate of the credit provision allocated to the reportable business
units and the Company's recorded provision. Refer to "Corporate Risk Profile"
section on pages 28 to 33 for further discussion on the allowance for credit
losses and changes in the provision for credit losses. Noninterest income and
noninterest expenses primarily reflect certain business activities managed on a
corporate basis and the elimination of intersegment revenue and expense.
Provisions for income taxes primarily reflect the difference between the income
tax expense or benefit allocated to the other business units (37 percent of
pretax earnings in 1999 and 38 percent of pretax earnings in 1998 and 1997) and
the effective tax rate on a consolidated basis. Refer to "Income Tax Expense"
section on page 24 for discussion of the effective tax rate on a consolidated
basis.

STATEMENT OF INCOME ANALYSIS

NET INTEREST INCOME Net interest income on a taxable-equivalent basis was $3.30
billion in 1999 and $3.11 billion in 1998 and 1997. The 6 percent increase in
1999 as compared to 1998 was primarily due to growth in earning assets, driven
by core loan growth and several consumer loan portfolio purchases. Net interest
margin on a taxable-equivalent basis remained relatively flat at 4.83 percent in
1999, as compared to 4.87 percent in 1998. Average earning assets increased $4.5
billion (7 percent) in 1999, primarily due to strong core loan growth and
several late 1998 consumer loan portfolio purchases, partially offset by
reductions in securities, the sale of indirect automobile loans and continued
runoff of residential mortgages.

U.S. BANCORP                                                                  21



TABLE 4 ANALYSIS OF NET INTEREST INCOME



Average loans were up $4.6 billion (8 percent) from 1998. Excluding indirect
automobile and residential mortgage loans, average loans for 1999 were higher by
approximately $6.1 billion (12 percent) than 1998, reflecting growth in
commercial loans, home equity and second mortgages (see Consolidated Daily
Average Balance Sheet and Related Yields and Rates on pages 70 to 71).

     Average available-for-sale securities were $742 million (13 percent) lower
in 1999 compared with 1998, primarily reflecting maturities and prepayments of
securities.

     Net interest income on a taxable-equivalent basis remained virtually
unchanged from 1997 to 1998, despite growth in earning assets, due to a decline
in net interest margin during 1998. The decline in net interest margin from 5.04
percent in 1997 to 4.87 percent in 1998 was primarily due to growth in Payment
Systems' noninterest-bearing assets including corporate and purchasing card loan
balances, the funding required by the Piper Jaffray acquisition and the share
repurchase program, and margin compression in the commercial loan portfolio.
Average loans were up $2.5 billion (5 percent) from 1997 to 1998 reflecting
growth in commercial loans, home equity and second mortgages and credit card
loans.

PROVISION FOR CREDIT LOSSES The provision for credit losses was $531.0 million
in 1999, compared to $379.0 million in 1998 and $460.3 million in 1997. The
provision for 1997 included a $95.0 million merger-related charge related to the
U.S. Bancorp ("USBC") acquisition. Net charge-offs totaled $567.7 million in
1999, $434.2 million in 1998 and $449.7 million in 1997. Net charge-offs for
1997 included $62.3 million of merger-related charge-offs. The $95.0 million
merger-related provision and $62.3 million of merger-related charge-offs were
taken as a result of an alignment of the classification and charge-off practices
of former USBC with those of the Company. The $152.0 million increase in
provision from 1998 to 1999 is primarily due to growth in the loan portfolio and
higher net charge-offs. Net charge-offs increased by $133.5 million in 1999,
reflecting an expected increase in losses on consumer portfolios purchased in
1998, higher consumer fraud losses and expected losses on a growing portfolio of
small business products. The increase also reflects a lower recovery rate
associated with commercial loans and growth in corporate card portfolios. The
higher provision and net charge-offs in 1998 as compared with 1997, excluding
the merger-related items, resulted from increased loan growth and higher

TABLE 5  NONINTEREST INCOME



22                                                                  U.S. BANCORP


TABLE 6  NONINTEREST EXPENSE



*COMPUTED AS NONINTEREST EXPENSE DIVIDED BY THE SUM OF NET INTEREST INCOME ON A
TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT BASIS AND NONINTEREST INCOME NET OF AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE
SECURITIES GAINS AND LOSSES.
**WITHOUT INVESTMENT BANKING AND BROKERAGE ACTIVITY.

credit card-related fraud losses. Refer to "Corporate Risk Profile" for further
information on credit quality.

NONINTEREST INCOME Excluding available-for-sale securities transactions,
noninterest income in 1999 was $2.76 billion, compared with $2.24 billion in
1998 and $1.61 billion in 1997. Excluding available-for-sale transactions,
noninterest income increased $516.0 million (23 percent) in 1999. The increase
was driven primarily by the full year impact and continued growth in fee income
generated by Piper Jaffray in its investment banking and brokerage activities.
Revenue growth related to investment banking and brokerage activities for 1999
approximated $414.0 million. Trust and investment management fees, acquisitions
and service charges on deposit accounts also contributed to the year-over-year
growth in noninterest income. Credit card fee revenue increased by 5 percent
from 1998 despite the loss of approximately one-half of the U.S. Government
purchasing card business in late 1998.

     Excluding available-for-sale securities transactions, noninterest income
increased $632.4 million (39 percent) in 1998 compared to 1997. The increase
resulted from growth in credit card revenue of $156.0 million (37 percent)
and trust and investment management fee revenue of $65.0 million (19
percent). Credit card revenue increased primarily due to higher volumes for
purchasing and corporate cards, and the Northwest Airlines
WorldPerks-REGISTERED TRADEMARK- program. In addition, the Company's credit
card revenue growth was affected by the renewal of the WorldPerks program in
late 1997 and the buyout of a third party interest in a merchant processing
alliance in early 1998. Without these items, credit card fees would have
increased 27 percent. In addition, large increases in investment products
fees and commissions, investment banking revenue and trading account profits
and commissions were due to the May 1, 1998, acquisition of Piper Jaffray.

NONINTEREST EXPENSE Excluding merger-related charges, noninterest expense was
$3.06 billion in 1999, compared with $2.63 billion in 1998 and $2.30 billion in
1997. Year-over-year expense growth is primarily related to the acquisition of
Piper Jaffray in 1998 and continued growth of investment banking and brokerage
activity.

     Noninterest expense included merger-related charges of $62.4 million in
1999, compared to $216.5 million in 1998 and $511.6 million in 1997. During
1999, the Company incurred $62.4 million of merger-related charges related to
the integration of the Company's various acquisitions. These merger-related
charges are primarily system conversion and integration costs associated with
consolidating redundant operations. During 1998, the Company incurred $203.8
million of merger-related charges to integrate USBC and $11.7 million related to
the acquisition of Piper Jaffray. These merger-related charges were primarily
system conversion costs. Merger-related charges in 1997 consisted of $511.6
million incurred in connection with the USBC transaction. Refer to Note M of the
Notes to

U.S. BANCORP                                                                  23



Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on merger-related
charges.

     Without the effect of investment banking and brokerage activities,
noninterest expense on an operating basis increased by $79.8 million from 1998
to 1999. The increase in core banking expenses in 1999 is primarily related to
acquisitions of Mellon Network Services' electronic funds transfer processing
unit and traditional banking entities accounted for as purchases. The banking
efficiency ratio before merger-related charges was 43.2 percent for 1999,
compared to 44.2 percent in 1998 and 47.8 percent in 1997. The improving ratio
reflects the results of integrating acquired banking businesses. The overall
efficiency ratio is expected to increase slightly due to investments in Internet
technology and other customer-related initiatives. The Company has accelerated
the development of its capabilities to deliver its products and services over
the Internet. The expenditures associated with these initiatives are expected to
result in a higher rate of expense growth in 2000, and as with any such
investment, the anticipated benefits are subject to a number of uncertainties.

     Without the effect of Piper Jaffray in 1998, noninterest expense, before
merger-related charges, decreased by $87.8 million in 1998 as compared to 1997,
primarily reflecting the expense savings from the integration of USBC.

     The Company has completed its efforts to address the "Year 2000" computer
problem, and experienced no significant operational problems upon the century
rollover. The Company incurred approximately $9.2 million of costs associated
with its Year 2000 project during 1999. The aggregate cost of the Company's Year
2000 project was $33.2 million over the three-year period ending December 31,
1999. The Company did not defer any material information technology projects as
a consequence of its Year 2000 efforts.

INCOME TAX EXPENSE The provision for income taxes was $855.0 million in 1999,
compared with $766.5 million in 1998 and $552.2 million in 1997. The increase in
income taxes provided in 1999 from 1998 was primarily the result of higher
levels of taxable income, as discussed above. The Company's effective tax rate
was 36.2 percent in 1999, compared to 36.6 percent in 1998 and 39.7 percent in
1997. The effective rate declined in 1999 and 1998 as compared to 1997 primarily
due to $39.1 million of non-deductible merger-related costs included in 1997
associated with the acquisition of USBC.

     At December 31, 1999, the Company's net deferred tax asset was $158.4
million, compared with $261.3 million at December 31, 1998. In determining that
realization of the deferred tax asset was more likely than not, the Company

TABLE 7 LOAN PORTFOLIO DISTRIBUTION


*ALL OR PART OF THE STUDENT LOAN PORTFOLIO MAY BE SOLD WHEN THE REPAYMENT PERIOD
BEGINS.

24                                                                  U.S. BANCORP



TABLE 8 COMMERCIAL LOAN EXPOSURE BY INDUSTRY GROUP AND GEOGRAPHY



gave consideration to a number of factors, including its taxable income during
carryback periods, its recent earnings history, its expectations for earnings in
the future and, where applicable, the expiration dates associated with tax
carrybacks and carryforwards. For further information on income taxes, refer to
Note N of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS

LOANS The Company's loan portfolio increased $3.8 billion to $62.9 billion at
December 31, 1999, from $59.1 billion at December 31, 1998. Excluding indirect
automobile and residential mortgages, average loans for 1999 were $6.1 billion
(12 percent) higher than 1998, reflecting strong core growth in commercial loans
and home equity and second mortgages, in addition to several consumer loan
portfolio purchases and bank acquisitions. The Company's loan portfolio
inherently has credit risk which may ultimately result in loan charge-offs. The
Company manages this risk through stringent, centralized credit policies and
review procedures, as well as diversification along geographic and customer
lines. See "Corporate Risk Profile" for a more detailed discussion of the
management of credit risk including the allowance for credit losses.

COMMERCIAL Commercial loans totaled $28.9 billion at year-end 1999, up $2.9
billion (11 percent) from year-end 1998. Year-end 1998 commercial loans were
$26.0 billion, up $2.6 billion (11 percent) from year-end 1997.

     The Company offers a broad array of traditional commercial lending products
and specialized products such as asset-based lending, agricultural credit,
correspondent banking and energy lending. The Company monitors and manages the
portfolio diversification by industry, customer and geography. The commercial
portfolio reflects the Company's focus of serving small business customers,
middle market and larger corporate businesses throughout its 16 state banking
region and national customers within certain niche industry groups.

     The Company also provides financing to enable customers to grow their
businesses through acquisitions of existing businesses, buyouts or other
recapitalizations. Such leveraged financings approximated $2.4 billion at
December 31, 1999, compared with $1.9 billion at December 31, 1998.
Approximately 94 percent of such loans outstanding at December 31, 1999, were
made to existing customers or businesses within the Company's banking region.
These leveraged financings are diversified among industry groups with no
significant industry concentrations as a percentage of these loans. Underwriting

U.S. BANCORP                                                                  25



TABLE 9 COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE EXPOSURE BY PROPERTY TYPE AND GEOGRAPHY



standards require businesses to maintain acceptable capital levels and have
demonstrated sufficient cash flows to support debt service of the loans.

     Table 8 shows the significant industry groups and geographic locations of
commercial loans outstanding at December 31, 1999, and 1998. This diverse mix of
industries and geographic locations is similar to 1997. Certain industry
segments, including agriculture and mortgage banking, continue to experience
economic stress. At December 31, 1999, the Company's agricultural portfolio is
diversified with 34 percent of agricultural loans to livestock producers, 32
percent to crop producers, 22 percent to food processors and 12 percent to
wholesalers of agricultural products. Although crop prices remain at lower
levels, the overall industry segment has stabilized during 1999 due to improved
livestock commodity markets. Food processors and wholesalers have been less
negatively affected by commodity pricing. The mortgage banking sector represents
approximately 3.5 percent of commercial loans at December 31, 1999, compared to
5.7 percent at December 31, 1998. Loans to mortgage banking customers are
primarily warehouse lines which are collateralized with the underlying
mortgages. The Company regularly monitors its collateral position to manage its
risk exposure.

COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE The Company's portfolio of commercial real estate
mortgages and construction loans grew to $14.1 billion at December 31, 1999,
compared with $11.3 billion at December 31, 1998, primarily due to acquisitions
and growth in the commercial real estate sector.

     Commercial mortgages outstanding increased to $9.8 billion at December 31,
1999, compared with $8.2 billion at December 31, 1998. Real estate construction
loans at December 31, 1999, totaled $4.3 billion compared with $3.1 billion from
year-end 1998. Table 9 shows the detail of real estate exposures by property
type and geographic location. The Company maintains the real estate construction
designation until the project is producing sufficient cash flow to service
traditional mortgage financing, at which time, if retained, the loan is
transferred to the commercial mortgage portfolio. Approximately $271.1 million
of construction loans were transferred to the commercial mortgage portfolio in
1999.

     At year-end 1999, real estate secured $161 million of tax-exempt industrial
development loans and $920 million of standby letters of credit. At year-end
1998, these exposures totaled $160 million and $1.15 billion, respectively. The
Company's commercial real estate mortgages and construction loans had combined
unfunded commitments of $3.61 billion at December 31, 1999, and $2.68 billion at
December 31, 1998.

     The Company also finances the operations of real estate developers and
other entities with operations related to real estate. These loans are not
secured directly by real

26                                                                  U.S. BANCORP



TABLE 10  AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE SECURITIES PORTFOLIO AVERAGE MATURITY



*EXCLUDES EQUITY SECURITIES THAT HAVE NO STATED MATURITY.
THE AVERAGE EFFECTIVE LIFE OF THE HOLDINGS IS EXPECTED TO BE LESS THAN THE
AVERAGE CONTRACTUAL MATURITIES SHOWN IN THE TABLE BECAUSE BORROWERS MAY HAVE THE
RIGHT TO CALL OR PREPAY OBLIGATIONS WITH OR WITHOUT CALL OR PREPAYMENT
PENALTIES. THE TABLE ABOVE DOES NOT INCLUDE MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES AND
ASSET-BACKED SECURITIES.

estate and are subject to terms and conditions similar to commercial loans.
These loans are included in the commercial loan category and totaled $1.85
billion at December 31, 1999, and $1.78 billion at December 31, 1998.

CONSUMER Total consumer loan outstandings decreased $2.0 billion to $19.9
billion at December 31, 1999, from $21.9 billion at December 31, 1998. The
decline reflects the sale of $1.8 billion of indirect automobile loans completed
in September 1999 and continued runoff of residential mortgages. Excluding
indirect automobile loans and residential mortgage loans, consumer loans
increased $885 million (6 percent). This increase reflects growth in home equity
and second mortgage loans of $1.3 billion (17 percent), credit card loans of $92
million (2 percent) and revolving credit loans of $129 million (8 percent) from
December 31, 1998, offset by a decrease in installment loans and student loans
from December 31, 1998. The decline in residential mortgages and indirect
automobile loans reflects the Company's objective of exiting these businesses
due to their lower returns.

     Of total consumer balances outstanding, approximately 82 percent are to
customers located in the Company's banking region. See "Corporate Risk Profile"
for a discussion of the general economic conditions within the Company's banking
region.

SECURITIES At December 31, 1999, available-for-sale securities totaled $4.9
billion, compared with $5.6 billion at December 31, 1998, primarily reflecting
maturities and prepayments of securities. The relative mix of the type of
available-for-sale securities did not change significantly from the prior year.
The primary objectives of the Company's investment portfolio are to meet
business line collateral needs and reduce overall interest rate risk.

DEPOSITS Noninterest-bearing deposits were $16.1 billion at December 31, 1999,
compared with $16.4 billion at December 31, 1998. Interest-bearing deposits
totaled $35.5 billion at December 31, 1999, compared with $33.7 billion at
December 31, 1998. The increase in interest-bearing deposit balances is
primarily due to an increase in time certificates greater than $100,000
reflecting an increased


TABLE 11 - AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE SECURITIES PORTFOLIO AMORTIZED COST, FAIR VALUE
AND YIELD BY MATURITY DATE



*VARIABLE RATE MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES REPRESENTED 8% OF THE BALANCE OF
MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES.
**YIELDS ON STATE AND POLITICAL OBLIGATIONS THAT ARE NOT SUBJECT TO FEDERAL
INCOME TAX HAVE BEEN ADJUSTED TO TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT USING A 35% TAX RATE.
***AVERAGE YIELD CALCULATIONS EXCLUDE EQUITY SECURITIES THAT HAVE NO STATED
YIELD.

U.S. BANCORP                                                                  27



emphasis of issuing deposits through the Company's broker-dealer affiliates.

BORROWINGS Short-term borrowings, which include federal funds purchased,
securities sold under agreements to repurchase and other short-term borrowings,
were $2.3 billion at December 31, 1999, down from $3.4 billion at year-end 1998.
The decrease was primarily due to a $1.2 billion decrease in federal funds
purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase which reflected the
Company's Year 2000 liquidity strategy.

     Long-term debt was $16.6 billion at December 31, 1999, up from $13.8
billion at December 31, 1998. To fund core asset growth, the Company issued $5.4
billion of debt with an average original maturity of 2.3 years under its medium
term and bank note programs during 1999. The Company also issued $400 million of
variable-rate Euro medium-term notes due April 13, 2004. These issuances were
partially offset by maturities of $2.5 billion of medium-term and bank notes,
$203 million of Federal Home Loan Bank advances and $200 million of portable
asset trust securities. Also, the Company called its $107 million subordinated
floating-rate notes due November 2010.

CORPORATE RISK PROFILE

OVERALL RISK PROFILE Managing risk is an essential part of successfully
operating a financial services company. The most prominent risk exposures are
credit quality, interest rate sensitivity, market and liquidity. Credit quality
risk is the risk of not collecting interest and/or the principal balance of a
loan or investment when it is due. Interest rate risk is the potential reduction
of net interest income as the result of changes in interest rates. Rate
movements can affect the repricing of assets and liabilities differently, as
well as their market value. Market risk is the risk that arises from
fluctuations in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, and equity prices that
may result in changes in the values of financial instruments. Liquidity risk is
the possible inability to fund obligations to depositors, investors and
borrowers.

CREDIT MANAGEMENT The Company's strategy for credit risk management includes
stringent, centralized credit policies, and uniform underwriting criteria for
all loans including specialized lending categories such as mortgage banking,
real estate construction and consumer credit. The strategy emphasizes
diversification on both a geographic and customer level, regular credit
examinations, and quarterly management reviews of large loans and loans
experiencing deterioration of credit quality. The Company strives to identify
potential problem loans early, take any necessary charge-offs promptly, and
maintain strong reserve levels. Commercial banking operations rely on a strong
credit culture that combines prudent credit policies and individual lender
accountability. In addition, the commercial lenders generally focus on middle
market companies within their regions. In the Company's retail banking
operations, standard credit scoring systems are used to assess consumer credit
risks and to price consumer products accordingly.


TABLE 12 NET CHARGE-OFFS AS A PERCENTAGE OF AVERAGE LOANS OUTSTANDING



28                                                                  U.S. BANCORP


TABLE 13 NONPERFORMING ASSETS*



*THROUGHOUT THIS DOCUMENT, NONPERFORMING ASSETS AND RELATED RATIOS DO NOT
INCLUDE ACCRUING LOANS 90 DAYS OR MORE PAST DUE.
**THESE LOANS ARE NOT INCLUDED IN NONPERFORMING ASSETS AND CONTINUE TO ACCRUE
INTEREST BECAUSE THEY ARE SECURED BY COLLATERAL AND/OR ARE IN THE PROCESS OF
COLLECTION AND ARE REASONABLY EXPECTED TO RESULT IN REPAYMENT OR RESTORATION TO
CURRENT STATUS.

     In evaluating its credit risk, the Company considers changes, if any, in
underwriting activities, the loan portfolio composition (including product mix
and geographic, industry or customer-specific concentrations), trends in loan
performance, the level of allowance coverage, and macroeconomic factors.
Generally, the domestic economy of the nation is considered strong even though
financial markets have been more volatile in 1999 and 1998 than in prior years.
Approximately 56 percent of the Company's loan portfolio consists of credit to
businesses and consumers in Minnesota, Oregon, Washington and California. Most
economic indicators in the Company's operating regions are similar to or compare
favorably with national trends. According to federal and state government
agencies, unemployment rates in Minnesota, Oregon, Washington and California
were 2.4 percent, 5.0 percent, 4.2 percent and 4.9 percent, respectively, for
the month of December 1999, compared with the national unemployment rate of 4.1
percent. At September 30, 1999, the national residential foreclosure rate was
 .98 percent, compared with .43 percent in Minnesota, .45 percent in Oregon, .57
percent in Washington and 1.15 percent in California.

     The Company also engages in non-lending activities that may give rise to
credit risk, including interest rate swap contracts for balance sheet hedging
purposes, foreign exchange transactions and interest rate swap contracts for
customers, and the processing of credit card transactions for merchants. These
activities are subject to the same credit review, analysis and approval
processes as those applied to commercial loans. For additional information on
interest rate swaps, see "Interest Rate Risk Management."

ANALYSIS OF NET LOAN CHARGE-OFFS Net loan charge-offs increased $133.5 million
to $567.7 million in 1999, compared with $434.2 million in 1998, and $449.7
million in 1997. Included in the 1997 net charge-offs was $62.3 million of
merger-related charge-offs, taken to align the classification and charge-off
practices of the former USBC with those of the Company. The ratio of total net
charge-offs to average loans was .94 percent in 1999, compared with .78 percent
in 1998 and .84 percent in 1997.

     Commercial loan net charge-offs for 1999 were $133.5 million, compared with
$65.2 million in 1998 and $132.9 million, including merger-related charge-offs
of $55.3 million in 1997. The increase in commercial loan net charge-offs in
1999 included expected higher losses on a growing portfolio of small business
products, growth in the corporate card portfolio and lower levels of recoveries
compared with 1998.

U.S. BANCORP                                                                  29



TABLE 14 SUMMARY OF ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES



30                                                                  U.S. BANCORP



     Consumer loan net charge-offs in 1999 were $434.2 million, compared with
$369.0 million in 1998 and $316.8 million, including merger-related charge-offs
of $7.0 million, in 1997. The ratio of consumer net charge-offs to average loans
in 1999 was 2.07 percent, up from 1.79 percent in 1998 and 1.53 percent in 1997.
The increase in consumer loan net charge-offs in 1999 reflects higher overdraft
fraud losses in addition to expected losses associated with consumer portfolio
purchases. During 1999, the Company modified its charge-off policy to conform
with recently issued regulatory guidelines for consumer loans. Without the
change in policy, total consumer net charge-offs as a percent of average loans
outstanding would have been 2.09 percent. The increase in consumer loan net
charge-offs in 1998 reflects growth in the consumer loan portfolio and an
increase in credit card-related fraud losses.

ANALYSIS OF NONPERFORMING ASSETS Nonperforming assets include nonaccrual loans,
restructured loans, other real estate and other nonperforming assets owned by
the Company. At December 31, 1999, nonperforming assets totaled $347.5 million,
compared with $304.3 million at year-end 1998 and $339.5 million at year-end
1997. Approximately $13.2 million of the increase in nonperforming loans was
related to the acquisition of Western Bancorp. The ratio of nonperforming assets
to loans plus other real estate was .55 percent at December 31, 1999, compared
with .51 percent at year-end 1998 and .62 percent at year-end 1997.

     In 1999, nonperforming commercial loans increased $47.0 million primarily
the result of continued stress in timber secured loans. Nonperforming consumer
loans declined approximately $16 million primarily due to the continued decline
in residential mortgages outstanding. Interest payments (currently received on
approximately 28 percent of the Company's nonperforming loans) are typically
applied against the principal balance and not recorded as income.

     Accruing loans 90 days or more past due totaled $125.8 million, compared
with $106.8 million at December 31, 1998, and $93.8 million at December 31,
1997. These loans are not included in nonperforming assets and continue to
accrue interest because they are secured by collateral and/or are in the process
of collection and are reasonably expected to result in repayment or restoration
to current status. Consumer loans 30 days or more past due were 2.65 percent of
the total consumer portfolio at December 31, 1999, compared with 2.39 percent of
the total consumer portfolio at December 31, 1998. Consumer loans 90 days or
more past due totaled .79 percent of the total consumer loan portfolio at
December 31, 1999, compared with .75 percent of the total consumer loan
portfolio at December 31, 1998.

ANALYSIS AND ALLOCATION OF ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES The allowance for credit
losses provides coverage for losses inherent in the Company's loan portfolio.
Management evaluates the allowance each quarter to determine that it

TABLE 15  DELINQUENT LOAN RATIOS*



*RATIOS INCLUDE NONPERFORMING LOANS AND ARE EXPRESSED AS A PERCENT OF ENDING
LOAN BALANCES.

U.S. BANCORP                                                                  31


TABLE 16 ALLOCATION OF ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES



is adequate to cover inherent losses. The evaluation of each element and the
overall allowance is based on continuing assessment of problem loans and
related off-balance sheet items, recent loss experience, and other factors,
including regulatory guidance and economic conditions. Management has
determined that the allowance for credit losses is adequate.

     At December 31, 1999, the allowance was $995.4 million, or 1.58 percent
of loans. This compares with an allowance of $1.00 billion, or 1.69 percent
of loans, at year-end 1998 and $1.01 billion, or 1.84 percent of loans, at
December 31, 1997. The ratio of the allowance for credit losses to
nonperforming loans was 321 percent at December 31, 1999, compared to 359
percent at year-end 1998 and 340 percent at year-end 1997.

     Although the recent trend of steady economic growth may contribute to
the continued improvement in the credit portfolio, financial market
volatility, economic stagnation or reversals and trends of corporate earnings
could change the required level of the allowance for credit losses.

     Management allocates part of the allowance to certain sectors based on
relative risk characteristics of the loan portfolio. Table 16 shows the
allocation of the allowance for credit losses by loan category. Commercial
allocations are based on a quarterly review of individual loans outstanding
and binding commitments to lend, including standby letters of credit. An
analysis of the migration of commercial loans and actual loss experience
throughout the business cycle is also conducted to assess reserves allocated
to credits with similar risk characteristics. The allowance allocated to
commercial loan portfolios increased $108.2 million to $350.8 million in 1999
reflecting growth in the commercial loan portfolio during 1999, increased
risk in the paper and forestry products sector due to excess capacity and
decline in demand from Asian markets, and a change in the allocation
methodology related to the corporate card portfolio. Consumer allocations are
based on an analysis of product mix, credit scoring and risk composition of
the portfolio, fraud loss and bankruptcy experiences, and historical and
expected delinquency and charge-off statistics for each homogenous category
or group of loans. The allowance allocated to consumer loans declined $23.0
million to $447.0 million in 1999 reflecting a decline in nonperforming
consumer assets, improvements in credit card and residential mortgage net
charge-offs during the second half of 1999 and the $1.8 billion sale of
indirect automobile loans.

     Regardless of the extent of the Company's analysis of customer
performance, portfolio evaluations, trends or the risk management processes
established, certain inherent but undetected losses are probable within the
loan portfolio. This is due to several factors including inherent delays in
obtaining information regarding a customer's financial condition or changes
in their unique business conditions; the judgmental nature of individual loan
evaluations, collateral assessments and the interpretation of economic trends;

32                                                                  U.S. BANCORP



TABLE 17 INTEREST RATE SENSITIVITY GAP ANALYSIS



THIS TABLE ESTIMATES THE REPRICING MATURITIES OF THE COMPANY'S ASSETS,
LIABILITIES, AND HEDGING INSTRUMENTS BASED UPON THE COMPANY'S ASSESSMENT OF
THE REPRICING CHARACTERISTICS OF CONTRACTUAL AND NON-CONTRACTUAL INSTRUMENTS.
NON-CONTRACTUAL DEPOSIT LIABILITIES ARE ALLOCATED AMONG THE VARIOUS MATURITY
CATEGORIES AS FOLLOWS: APPROXIMATELY 30 PERCENT OF REGULAR SAVINGS, 20
PERCENT OF INTEREST-BEARING CHECKING, 40 PERCENT OF NON-INDEXED MONEY MARKET
CHECKING AND 50 PERCENT OF MONEY MARKET SAVINGS BALANCES ARE REFLECTED IN THE
LESS THAN 3 MONTHS CATEGORY, WITH 67 PERCENT OF THE REMAINDER PLACED IN THE
1-5 YEARS CATEGORY AND 33 PERCENT IN THE MORE THAN 5 YEARS CATEGORY.
APPROXIMATELY 55 PERCENT OF DEMAND DEPOSITS AND RELATED NONEARNING ASSET
ACCOUNTS IS ALLOCATED IN THE MORE THAN 5 YEARS CATEGORY, 33 PERCENT IS
ALLOCATED IN THE 1-5 YEARS CATEGORY WITH THE REMAINING ALLOCATED IN THE LESS
THAN 3 MONTHS CATEGORY.

volatility of economic or customer-specific conditions affecting the
identification and estimation of losses for larger non-homogeneous credits;
and the sensitivity of assumptions utilized to establish allocated allowances
for homogenous groups of loans among other factors. The Company maintains an
unallocated allowance to recognize the existence of these exposures and for
the risk in concentrations to specific borrowers, financings of highly
leveraged transactions, products or industries. The unallocated portion of
the allowance decreased to $197.6 million at year-end 1999 from $288.3
million and $383.9 million at December 31, 1998, and 1997, respectively. The
decrease of $90.7 million in 1999 is primarily due to a change in the
allocation methodology for corporate card portfolios, reduced uncertainty as
to credit exposures in agricultural sectors due to stabilizing livestock
prices, a further decline in the volatility of commercial losses for credits
with similar risk classifications and reduced uncertainty in credit exposure
to Asian and Indonesian markets. Although the allocation of the allowance is
an important credit management tool, the entire allowance for credit losses
is available for the entire loan portfolio. Refer to Note A of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the allowance
for credit losses.

INTEREST RATE RISK MANAGEMENT The Company's policy is to maintain a low
interest rate risk position. The Company limits the exposure of net interest
income associated with interest rate movements through asset/liability
management strategies. The Company's Asset and Liability Management Committee
("ALCO") uses three methods for measuring and managing consolidated interest
rate risk: Net Interest Income Simulation Modeling, Market Value Simulation
Modeling, and Repricing Mismatch Analysis.

U.S. BANCORP                                                                  33


TABLE 18 INTEREST RATE SWAP HEDGING PORTFOLIO NOTIONAL BALANCES AND
YIELDS BY MATURITY DATE

At December 31, 1999 (Dollars in Millions)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------


*AT DECEMBER 31, 1999, THE COMPANY HAD NO SWAPS IN ITS HEDGING PORTFOLIO THAT
REQUIRED IT TO PAY FIXED-RATE INTEREST.

NET INTEREST INCOME SIMULATION MODELING: The Company uses a net interest
income simulation model to estimate near-term (next 24 months) risk due to
changes in interest rates. The model, which is updated monthly, incorporates
substantially all of the Company's assets and liabilities and off-balance
sheet instruments, together with forecasted changes in the balance sheet and
assumptions that reflect the current interest rate environment. ALCO uses the
model to simulate the effect of immediate and sustained parallel shifts in
the yield curve of 1 percent, 2 percent and 3 percent as well as the effect
of immediate and sustained flattening or steepening of the yield curve. ALCO
also calculates the sensitivity of the simulation results to changes in key
assumptions, such as the Prime/LIBOR spread or core deposit repricing. The
results from the simulation are reviewed by ALCO monthly and are used to
guide ALCO's hedging strategies. ALCO guidelines, approved by the Company's
Board of Directors, limit the estimated change in net interest income to 1.5
percent of forecasted net interest income over the succeeding 12 months and 3
percent of forecasted net interest income over the second 12 months given a 1
percent change in interest rates. At December 31, 1999, forecasted net
interest income for the next 12 months would decrease $31 million from an
immediate 100 basis point upward parallel shift in rates and increase $31
million from a downward shift of similar magnitude. Forecasted net interest
income for the second 12 months would decrease $27 million from an immediate
100 basis point upward parallel shift in rates and increase $21 million from
a downward shift of similar magnitude.

MARKET VALUE SIMULATION MODELING: The net interest income simulation model is
somewhat limited by its dependence upon accurate forecasts of future business
activity and the resulting effect on balance sheet assets and liabilities. As
a result, its usefulness is greatly diminished for periods beyond one or two
years. To better measure all interest rate risk, both short-term and
long-term, the Company uses a market value simulation model. This model
estimates the effect of 1 percent, 2 percent and 3 percent rate shocks on the
present value of substantially all future cash flows of the Company's
outstanding assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet instruments. The amount
of market value risk is subject to a limit, approved by the Company's Board
of Directors, of .5 percent of assets for an immediate 100 basis point rate
shock. Historically, the Company's market value risk position has been
substantially lower than its limits.

REPRICING MISMATCH ANALYSIS: A traditional gap analysis provides a static
measurement of the relationship between the amounts of interest rate
sensitive assets and liabilities repricing in a given time period. While the
analysis provides a useful snapshot of interest rate risk, it does not
capture all aspects of interest rate risk. As a result, ALCO uses the
repricing mismatch analysis primarily for managing intermediate-term interest
rate risk and has established limits, approved by the Company's Board of
Directors, for the two-to three-year gap position of 5 percent of assets.

USE OF DERIVATIVES TO MANAGE INTEREST RATE RISK: While each of the interest
rate risk measurements has limitations, taken together they represent a
comprehensive view of the magnitude of the Company's interest rate risk over
various time intervals. The Company manages its interest rate risk by
entering into off-balance sheet transactions, primarily

34                                                                  U.S. BANCORP



interest rate swaps and, to a lesser degree, interest rate caps and floors.

     In 1999, the Company added $4.4 billion of interest rate swaps to reduce
its interest rate risk. This was largely offset by $2.1 billion of interest
rate swap maturities and $1.6 billion in swap terminations. Interest rate
swap agreements involve the exchange of fixed- and floating-rate payments
without the exchange of the underlying notional amount on which the interest
payments are calculated. As of December 31, 1999, the Company received
payments on $7.7 billion notional amount of interest rate swap agreements
based on fixed interest rates, and made payments based on variable interest
rates. These swaps had a weighted average fixed-rate received of 6.22 percent
and a weighted average variable-rate paid of 6.45 percent. The remaining
maturity of these agreements ranges from 3 months to 14.7 years with an
average remaining maturity of 4.7 years. Swaps increased net interest income
for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997 by $60.7 million, $37.9
million and $25.1 million, respectively.

     The Company also purchases interest rate caps and floors to minimize the
impact of fluctuating interest rates on earnings. To hedge against rising
interest rates, the Company uses interest rate caps. Counterparties to these
interest rate cap agreements pay the Company based on the notional amount and
the difference between current rates and strike rates. There were no caps
outstanding at December 31, 1999. To hedge against falling interest rates,
the Company uses interest rate floors. Like caps, counterparties to interest
rate floor agreements pay the Company based on the notional amount and the
difference between current rates and strike rates. The total notional amount
of floor agreements purchased as of December 31, 1999, all of which were
LIBOR-indexed, was $500 million. The impact of caps and floors on net
interest income was not significant for the years ended December 31, 1999,
1998 and 1997. See Notes A and O of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements for the Company's accounting policy related to these types of
transactions.

MARKET RISK MANAGEMENT Market valuation risk is subject to regular monitoring
by management. The Company uses a value-at-risk ("VaR") model to measure and
manage market risk especially in its broker/dealer activities. The VaR model
uses an estimate of volatility appropriate to each instrument and a
ninety-ninth percentile adverse move in the underlying markets. Market
valuation risk limits are established subject to approval by the Company's
Board of Directors. The Company's VaR limit was $40 million at December 31,
1999. The estimate of market valuation risk inherent in its broker/dealer
activities, including equities, fixed income, high yield securities and
foreign exchange as estimated by the VaR analysis, was $13.9 million at
December 31, 1999.

LIQUIDITY MANAGEMENT The objective of liquidity management is to ensure the
continuous availability of funds to meet the demands of depositors, investors
and borrowers. ALCO is responsible for structuring the balance sheet to meet
these needs. It regularly reviews current and forecasted funding needs as
well as market conditions for issuing debt to wholesale investors. Based on
this information, ALCO supervises wholesale funding activity as well as the
maintenance of contingent funding sources.

     A majority of the Company's funding comes from customer deposits within
its operating region. While the Company has funded incremental balance sheet
growth with negotiated funds, its short-term purchased funds index remained
relatively low at 8.2 percent at December 31, 1999, compared with a peer
group median of 23.4 percent at September 30, 1999. The index is calculated
as negotiated funding under one year (which includes Federal Home Loan Bank
borrowings, foreign branch time deposits, federal funds purchased, bank
notes, medium-term notes and repurchase agreements), net of federal funds
sold and resale agreements, divided by loans and securities.

     The Company's ability to raise negotiated funding at competitive prices
is influenced by rating agencies' views of the Company's credit quality,
liquidity, capital and earnings. As of December 31, 1999, Moody's Investors
Services, Standard & Poors, Thomson BankWatch, and Fitch IBCA rated the
Company's senior debt as "A1," "A," "A+," and "A+," respectively. The debt
ratings reflect the agencies' recognition of the strong, consistent financial
performance of the Company and quality of the balance sheet.

     At the parent company, funding primarily consists of long-term debt and
equity. At December 31, 1999, parent company long-term debt outstanding was
$3.8 billion, compared with $3.5 billion at December 31, 1998. The parent
company issued $1.1 billion of medium-term notes during 1999, which was
partially offset by $738 million of debt maturities and other repayments.

     Total parent company debt maturing in 2000 is $525 million. These debt
obligations are expected to be

U.S. BANCORP                                                                  35



TABLE 19 CAPITAL RATIOS



*DEFINED AS COMMON EQUITY LESS GOODWILL.


met through medium-term note issuances, as well as from the approximately
$469 million of parent company cash and cash equivalents at December 31,
1999. It is the Company's practice to maintain liquid assets at the parent
company sufficient to fund its operating cash needs and prefund debt
maturities.

CAPITAL MANAGEMENT

The Company is committed to managing capital for maximum shareholder benefit
and maintaining strong protection for depositors and creditors. At December
31, 1999, tangible common equity (common equity less goodwill) was $5.1
billion, or 6.5 percent of assets, compared with 6.0 percent at year-end 1998
and 7.0 percent at year-end 1997. The tier 1 capital ratio was 6.8 percent at
December 31, 1999, compared with 6.4 percent at December 31, 1998, and 7.4
percent at December 31, 1997. The total risk-based capital ratio was 11.1
percent at December 31, 1999, compared with 10.9 percent at December 31,
1998, and 11.6 percent at December 31, 1997. The leverage ratio was 7.4
percent at December 31, 1999, compared with 6.8 percent and 7.3 percent at
December 31, 1998, and December 31, 1997, respectively.

     The measures used to assess capital include the capital ratios
established by the bank regulatory agencies, including the specific ratios
for the "well capitalized" designation. The Company manages various capital
ratios to maintain appropriate capital levels in accordance with
Board-approved capital guidelines, ascribing the most significance to the
tangible common equity ratio. The Company intends to maintain sufficient
capital in each of its bank subsidiaries to be "well capitalized" as defined
by the regulatory agencies.

     On June 8, 1998, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the
repurchase of up to $2.5 billion of the Company's common stock through March
31, 2000. On February 16, 2000, the Company's Board of Directors replaced the
authorization with a new authorization to repurchase up to $2.5 billion of
the Company's stock through March 31, 2002. The shares will be repurchased in
the open market or through negotiated transactions. The Company repurchased
16.6 million shares for $560.8 million in 1999 and 24.7 million shares for
$964.0 million in 1998.

TABLE 20 SUBSIDIARY CAPITAL RATIOS



NOTE: THESE BALANCES AND RATIOS WERE PREPARED IN ACCORDANCE WITH REGULATORY
ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AS DISCLOSED IN THE SUBSIDIARIES' REGULATORY REPORTS.


36                                                                  U.S. BANCORP


     On April 22, 1998, the Company's shareholders authorized an increase in
the Company's capital stock necessary to implement the three-for-one split of
the Company's common stock announced February 18, 1998. The number of common
and preferred shares that the Company has authority to issue was increased
from 500 million shares and 10 million shares, respectively, to 1.5 billion
shares and 50 million shares, respectively. The stock split was in the form
of a 200 percent dividend payable May 18, 1998, to shareholders of record on
May 4, 1998. The impact of the stock split has been reflected in the
financial statements for all periods presented and all share and per share
data included herein.

     On August 1, 1997, the Company issued 329.7 million shares to acquire
USBC. The Company exchanged 2.265 shares of its common stock for each share
of USBC common stock. USBC's outstanding stock options were also converted
into stock options for the Company's common stock. In addition, each
outstanding share of USBC cumulative preferred stock was converted into one
share of preferred stock of the combined company, having substantially
identical terms.

     Approximately 93.0 million common shares were repurchased under 1996
Board authorizations, including 14.7 million during 1997. These
authorizations were either completed or rescinded prior to the USBC
acquisition.

     On November 14, 1997, the Company redeemed all outstanding shares of its
preferred stock at a redemption price of $25 per share, together with accrued
and unpaid dividends.

DIVIDENDS During 1999, total dividends on common stock were $573.1 million
compared with $516.4 million in 1998 and $445.7 million in 1997. The Company
has raised its quarterly dividend rate in each of the past five years. On a
per share basis, dividends paid to common shareholders totaled $.78 in 1999,
$.70 in 1998 and $.62 in 1997. On February 16, 2000, the Board of Directors
increased the quarterly common dividend rate to $.215 from $.195.

     The Company's primary funding sources for common stock dividends are
dividends received from its bank and nonbank subsidiaries. Payment of
dividends to the Company by its depository subsidiaries is subject to ongoing
review by banking regulators and to various statutory limitations. For
further information, see Note S of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.

ACCOUNTING CHANGES

ACCOUNTING FOR DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. ("SFAS") 133, "Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities," establishes accounting and reporting
standards for derivative instruments, including certain derivative
instruments embedded in other contracts, and for hedging activities. It
requires that an entity recognize all derivatives as either assets or
liabilities in the statement of financial position and measure those
instruments at fair value. In certain defined conditions, a derivative may be
specifically designated as a hedge for a particular exposure. The accounting
for changes in the fair value of the derivative depends on the intended use
of the derivative and the resulting designation. The effective date has been
deferred for one year with the issuance of SFAS 137, "Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities-Deferral of the Effective Date
of FASB Statement No. 133," which amended SFAS 133. SFAS 133, as amended, is
effective for all fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2000, with earlier
application permitted. The adoption of SFAS 133 is not expected to have a
material impact on the Company.

IMPACT OF INFLATION

The assets and liabilities of a financial institution are primarily monetary
in nature. Therefore, future changes in prices do not affect the obligations
to pay or receive fixed and determinable amounts of money. During periods of
inflation, monetary assets lose value in terms of purchasing power while
monetary liabilities have corresponding purchasing power gains. Since banks
generally have an excess of monetary assets over monetary liabilities,
inflation will, in theory, cause a loss of purchasing power in the value of
shareholders' equity. However, the concept of purchasing power is not an
adequate indicator of the effect of inflation on banks because it does not
take into account changes in interest rates, which are a more important
determinant of bank earnings.

     Other sections of the Management's Discussion and Analysis provide the
information necessary for an understanding of the Company's ability to react
to changing interest rates.


U.S. BANCORP                                                                  37


TABLE 21 FOURTH QUARTER SUMMARY



*WITHOUT INVESTMENT BANKING AND BROKERAGE ACTIVITY.

FOURTH QUARTER SUMMARY

In the fourth quarter of 1999, the Company reported operating earnings of
$385.1 million ($.52 per diluted share), compared with $377.3 million ($.52
per diluted share) in the fourth quarter of 1998. Including merger-related
charges and available-for-sale securities transactions, the Company had net
income for the fourth quarter of 1999 of $369.0 million ($.50 per diluted
share), compared with net income of $349.2 million ($.48 per diluted share)
in the fourth quarter of 1998.

     Fourth quarter net interest income on a taxable-equivalent basis
increased $53.9 million to $841.0 million, compared with fourth quarter of
1998, primarily reflecting strong core loan growth, acquisitions and a stable
net interest margin. The net interest margin on a taxable-equivalent basis
was 4.80 percent compared with 4.78 percent a year ago.

     The provision for credit losses increased to $146.0 million in the
fourth quarter of 1999, compared with $101.0 million in the fourth quarter of
1998.

     Noninterest income, before available-for-sale securities transactions,
increased $141.7 million from the same quarter a year ago, to $761.8 million.
Credit card fee revenue was higher year over year, reflecting continued
growth in the business, partially offset by the loss of a portion of the U.S.
government purchasing card business on December 1, 1998. Trust and investment
management fees were higher than the fourth quarter of 1998 by $11.2 million.
Investment products fees and commissions, investment banking revenue and
trading account profits and commissions were significantly higher, due to
growth in U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray and U.S. Bancorp Libra.

     Fourth quarter noninterest expense, before merger-related charges,
totaled $843.4 million, an increase of $142.2 million from the fourth quarter
of 1998. Approximately 55 percent of the increase in expense from fourth
quarter of 1998 was due to the growth in investment banking and brokerage
activities. The remaining variance was primarily the result of acquisitions
and higher investments in sales, service and technology.


38                                                                  U.S. BANCORP



                                CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET



SEE NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.


U.S. BANCORP                                                                  39


                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME



SEE NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.


40                                                                  U.S. BANCORP


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY



*DEFINED AS TOTAL COMMON SHARES LESS COMMON STOCK HELD IN TREASURY.
**ENDING TREASURY SHARES WERE 1,038,456 AT DECEMBER 31, 1999, AND 19,036,139 AT
DECEMBER 31, 1998.
SEE NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.


U.S. BANCORP                                                                  41


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS



SEE NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.


42                                                                  U.S. BANCORP


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE A  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

U.S. Bancorp (the "Company") is a bank holding company offering a full range of
financial services through banking offices in 16 states including Minnesota,
Oregon, Washington, Colorado, California, Idaho, Nebraska, North Dakota, Nevada,
South Dakota, Montana, Iowa, Illinois, Utah, Wisconsin, and Wyoming. The Company
also engages in credit card and merchant processing, insurance, trust and
investment management, brokerage, leasing and investment banking activities
principally in domestic markets.

BASIS OF PRESENTATION The consolidated financial statements include the accounts
of the Company and its subsidiaries. The consolidation eliminates all
significant intercompany accounts and transactions. Certain items in prior
periods have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation.

USES OF ESTIMATES The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and
accompanying notes. Actual experience could differ from those estimates.

BUSINESS SEGMENTS

Within the Company, financial performance is measured by major lines of business
based on the products and services provided to customers through its
distribution channels. The Company has four reportable operating segments:
     Wholesale Banking includes lending, treasury management, corporate trust,
and other financial services to middle market, large corporate and public sector
clients.
     Consumer Banking delivers products and services to the broad consumer
market and small businesses through branch offices, telemarketing, online
services, direct mail, and automated teller machines ("ATMs").
     Payment Systems includes consumer and business credit cards, corporate and
purchasing card services, card-accessed secured and unsecured lines of credit,
ATM processing, and merchant processing.
     Wealth Management and Capital Markets provides institutional, trust and
investment management services and private banking and personal trust services.
Wealth Management and Capital Markets also engages in equity and fixed income
trading activities, offers investment banking and underwriting services for
corporate and public sector customers, provides securities, mutual funds,
annuities and insurance products to consumers and regionally based businesses
through a network of banking centers and brokerage offices.

SEGMENT RESULTS Accounting policies for the lines of business are the same as
those used in preparation of the consolidated financial statements with respect
to activities specifically attributable to each business line. However, the
preparation of business line results requires management to establish
methodologies to allocate funding costs and benefits, expenses and other
financial elements to each line of business. For detail of these methodologies
see "Basis for Financial Presentation" on page 18. Table 2 "Line of Business
Financial Performance" on pages 18 through 21 provides details of segment
results. This information is incorporated by reference into these Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

SECURITIES

TRADING ACCOUNT SECURITIES Debt and equity securities held for resale are
classified as trading account securities and reported at fair value. Realized
and unrealized gains or losses are recorded in noninterest income.

AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE SECURITIES These securities are not trading account
securities but may be sold before maturity in response to changes in the
Company's interest rate risk profile or demand for collateralized deposits by
public entities. They are carried at fair value with unrealized net gains or
losses reported within comprehensive income in shareholders' equity. When sold,
the amortized cost of the specific securities is used to compute the gain or
loss.

LOANS

Loans are reported net of unearned income. Interest income is accrued on the
unpaid principal balances as earned. Loan and commitment fees are deferred and
recognized over the life of the loan and/or commitment period as yield
adjustments.

ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES Management determines the adequacy of the allowance
based on evaluations of the loan portfolio and related off-balance sheet
commitments, recent loss experience, and other pertinent factors, including
economic conditions. This evaluation is inherently subjective as it requires
estimates, including amounts of future cash collections expected on nonaccrual
loans that may be susceptible to significant change. The allowance for credit
losses relating to impaired loans is based on the loans' observable market
price, the collateral for certain

U.S. BANCORP                                                                  43


collateral-dependent loans, or the discounted cash flows using the loans'
effective interest rate.

     The Company allocates the allowance to certain sectors based on relative
risk characteristics of the loan portfolio and other financial instruments with
credit exposure. Commercial allocations are based on quarterly reviews of
individual loans outstanding and binding commitments to lend and an analysis of
the migration of commercial loans and actual loss experience. Consumer
allocations are based on an analysis of product mix, risk characteristics of the
portfolio, fraud loss and bankruptcy experiences, and historical losses,
adjusted for current trends, for each homogenous category or group of loans. The
allowance is increased through provisions charged to operating earnings and
reduced by net charge-offs.

NONACCRUAL LOANS Generally commercial loans (including impaired loans) are
placed on nonaccrual status when the collection of interest or principal has
become 90 days past due or is otherwise considered doubtful. When a loan is
placed on nonaccrual status, unpaid interest is reversed. Future interest
payments are generally applied against principal. Revolving consumer lines and
credit cards are charged-off by 180 days and closed-end consumer loans other
than residential mortgages are charged-off at 120 days past due and are,
therefore, not placed on nonaccrual status.

LEASES The Company engages in both direct and leveraged lease financing. The net
investment in direct financing leases is the sum of all minimum lease payments
and estimated residual values less unearned income. Unearned income is added to
interest income over the terms of the leases to produce a level yield.
The investment in leveraged leases is the sum of all lease payments (less
nonrecourse debt payments) plus estimated residual values, less unearned income.
Income from leveraged leases is recognized over the term of the leases based on
the unrecovered equity investment.

LOANS HELD FOR SALE These loans are carried at the lower of cost or market value
as determined on an aggregate basis by type of loan.

OTHER REAL ESTATE Other real estate ("ORE"), which is included in other assets,
is property acquired through foreclosure or other proceedings. ORE is initially
recorded at fair value and carried at the lower of cost or fair value, less
estimated selling costs. The property is evaluated regularly and any decreases
in the carrying amount are included in noninterest expense.

DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

INTEREST RATE SWAPS AND CONTRACTS The Company uses interest rate swaps and
contracts (forwards, options, caps and floors) to manage its interest rate risk
and as a financial intermediary. The Company does not enter into these contracts
for speculative purposes. The Company utilizes simulation modeling and analysis
of repricing mismatches to identify exposure to changes in interest rates and
assess the effectiveness of interest rate swaps and contracts in reducing that
risk. Interest rate swaps and contracts are designated as hedges of assets or
liabilities and the Company evaluates correlation of the derivative instruments
relative to the underlying hedged item on a regular basis. Income or expense on
swaps and contracts designated as hedges of assets or liabilities is recorded as
an adjustment to interest income or expense. If the swap or contract is
terminated, the gain or loss is deferred and amortized over the shorter of the
remaining life of the swap or the underlying asset or liability. If the hedged
instrument is disposed of, the swap or contract agreement is marked to market
with any resulting gain or loss included with the gain or loss from the
disposition.
     The initial bid/offer spread on intermediated swaps is deferred and
recognized in trading account profits and commissions over the life of the
agreement. Intermediated swaps and all other interest rate contracts are marked
to market and resulting gains or losses are recorded in trading account profits
and commissions. The Company's derivative trading activities are not material to
the consolidated financial statements; the cash flows from these activities are
included in operating activities.

OTHER SIGNIFICANT POLICIES

PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT Premises and equipment are stated at cost less
accumulated depreciation and amortized primarily on a straight-line method
basis.
     Capital leases, less accumulated amortization, are included in premises and
equipment. The lease obligations are included in long-term debt. Capitalized
leases are amortized on a straight-line basis over the lease term and the
amortization is included in depreciation expense.

CAPITALIZED SOFTWARE Certain costs incurred in connection with developing or
obtaining software for internal use are capitalized and amortized on a
straight-line basis over the estimated life of the software.

INTANGIBLE ASSETS Goodwill, the price paid over the net fair value of acquired
businesses, is included in other assets and is amortized over periods ranging up
to 25 years. Other intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful
lives, which range from seven to fifteen years, using straight-line and
accelerated methods. The recoverability of goodwill and other intangible assets
is evaluated if events or circumstances indicate a possible inability to realize
the carrying amount. Such evaluation is based on various analyses, including
undiscounted cash flow projections.

44                                                                  U.S. BANCORP


INCOME TAXES Deferred taxes are recorded to reflect the tax consequences on
future years of differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and
the financial reporting amounts at each year-end.

STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS For the purposes of reporting cash flows, cash
equivalents include cash and due from banks and federal funds sold.

STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION The Company grants stock options for a fixed number of
shares to employees with an exercise price equal to the fair value of the shares
at the date of grant. The Company accounts for stock option grants in accordance
with APB Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," and
accordingly recognizes no compensation expense for the stock option grants.

PER SHARE CALCULATIONS Earnings per share is calculated by dividing net income
(less preferred stock dividends) by the weighted average number of common shares
outstanding during the year. Diluted earnings per share is calculated by
adjusting income and outstanding shares, assuming conversion of all potentially
dilutive securities, using the treasury stock method.

NOTE B ACCOUNTING CHANGES

ACCOUNTING FOR DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES SFAS 133,
"Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," establishes
accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, including certain
derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, and for hedging activities.
It requires that an entity recognize all derivatives as either assets or
liabilities in the statement of financial position and measure those instruments
at fair value. In certain defined conditions, a derivative may be specifically
designated as a hedge for a particular exposure. The accounting for changes in
the fair value of the derivative depends on the intended use of the derivative
and the resulting designation. The effective date has been deferred for one year
with the issuance of SFAS 137, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities-Deferral of the Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 133,"
which amended SFAS 133. SFAS 133, as amended, is effective for all fiscal years
beginning after June 15, 2000, with earlier adoption permitted. The adoption of
SFAS 133 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company.

NOTE C BUSINESS COMBINATIONS
       AND DIVESTITURES

PENINSULA BANK OF SAN DIEGO On January 14, 2000, the Company completed its
acquisition of Peninsula Bank of San Diego. With $456 million in assets,
Peninsula Bank operated 11 branches in San Diego County, California. The
transaction was accounted for as a purchase acquisition.

WESTERN BANCORP On November 15, 1999, the Company completed its acquisition of
Western Bancorp. With $2.5 billion in assets, Western Bancorp had 31 branches in
southern California in Los Angeles, Orange and San Diego counties. The
transaction was accounted for as a purchase acquisition, and accordingly, the
purchase price of approximately $922 million was allocated to assets acquired
and liabilities assumed based on their fair market values at the date of
acquisition.

BANK OF COMMERCE On July 15, 1999, the Company completed its acquisition of San
Diego-based Bank of Commerce, one of the nation's largest SBA lenders. The
transaction was accounted for as a purchase acquisition.

OTHER ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES On September 24, 1999, the Company completed
the sale of 28 branches in Kansas and Iowa representing $364 million of
deposits. On September 23, 1999, the Company sold $1.8 billion of indirect
automobile loans and is in the process of exiting this business.
     On September 17, 1999, the Company completed its acquisition of the
investment banking division of The John Nuveen Company, based in Chicago. The
division, which focuses on fixed income investment banking, became part of the
U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray Fixed Income Capital Markets division.
     On September 13, 1999, the Company completed its acquisition of Voyager
Fleet Systems, Inc. On June 30, 1999, the Company completed its acquisition of
Mellon Network Services' electronic funds transfer processing unit. The
businesses are now part of the Payment Systems business unit.
     On March 16, 1999, the Company completed its acquisition of Reliance Trust
Company's corporate trust business, which operates offices in Georgia, Florida,
and Tennessee. On January 4, 1999, the Company completed its acquisition of
Libra Investments, Inc., an investment bank that specializes in underwriting and
trading high yield and mezzanine securities for middle market companies.
Effective December 15, 1998, the Company completed its acquisition of Northwest
Bancshares, Inc., a privately-held bank holding company headquartered in
Vancouver, Washington, with 10 banking locations and $344 million in deposits.
On May 1, 1998, the Company completed its acquisition of Piper Jaffray, a
full-service investment banking and securities brokerage firm. These
transactions were accounted for as purchase acquisitions.

U.S. BANCORP                                                                  45



NOTE D AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE SECURITIES

The detail of the amortized cost, gross unrealized holding gains and losses, and
fair value of available-for-sale securities at December 31 was as follows:



     Securities carried at $4.1 billion at December 31, 1999, and $4.6 billion
at December 31, 1998, were pledged to secure public, private and trust deposits
and for other purposes required by law. Securities sold under agreements to
repurchase, with an amortized cost of $1.2 billion and $1.4 billion at December
31, 1999, and 1998, respectively, were collateralized by securities and
securities purchased under agreements to resell.

Gross realized gains and losses on securities were as follows:



     For amortized cost, fair value and yield by maturity date of
available-for-sale securities outstanding as of December 31, 1999, see Table
11 on page 27 from which such information is incorporated by reference into
these Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

NOTE E  RESTRICTIONS ON CASH
        AND DUE FROM BANKS

Bank subsidiaries are required to maintain minimum average reserve balances
with the Federal Reserve Bank. The amount of those reserve balances was
approximately $161 million at December 31, 1999, with an average balance of
$201 million during the year ended December 31, 1999.

NOTE F LOANS AND ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES

The composition of the loan portfolio at December 31 was as follows:



*ALL OR PART OF THE STUDENT LOAN PORTFOLIO MAY BE SOLD WHEN THE REPAYMENT PERIOD
BEGINS. LOANS HELD FOR SALE WERE $608 AT DECEMBER 31, 1999, AND $865 AT DECEMBER
31, 1998.


46                                                                  U.S. BANCORP


     Loans of $5.3 billion at December 31, 1999, and $1.2 billion at December
31, 1998, were pledged at the Federal Home Loan Bank and the Federal Reserve.
Nonaccrual and renegotiated loans totaled $310 million, $279 million and $297
million at December 31, 1999, 1998, and 1997, respectively. At December 31,
1999, and 1998, the Company had $265 million and $218 million, respectively,
of loans considered impaired under SFAS 114 included in its nonaccrual loans.
The carrying value of the impaired loans was less than or equal to the
appraised collateral value or the present value of expected future cash flows
and, accordingly, no allowance for credit losses was specifically allocated
to impaired loans. For the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998, and 1997, the
average recorded investment in impaired loans was approximately $255 million,
$214 million and $249 million, respectively. The effect of nonaccrual and
renegotiated loans on interest income was as follows:



     Commitments to lend additional funds to customers whose loans were
classified as nonaccrual at December 31, 1999, totaled $29.2 million. During
1999, there were no loans that were restructured at market interest rates and
returned to a fully performing status.

     Activity in the allowance for credit losses was as follows:



NOTE G PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT

Premises and equipment at December 31 consisted of the following:




U.S. BANCORP                                                                  47


NOTE H LONG-TERM DEBT

Long-term debt (debt with original maturities of more than one year) at December
31 consisted of the following:



     In May 1999, the Company called $107 million of its floating-rate
subordinated notes due November 30, 2010, in accordance with its call
provisions.

     Step-up subordinated notes due August 15, 2005, are issued by the
Company's subsidiary bank, U.S. Bank National Association (the "Bank"). The
interest rate on these notes is 6.25 percent through August 14, 2000, and
7.30 percent thereafter. The notes have a one-time call feature at the option
of the Bank on August 15, 2000.

     Floating-rate notes due February 27, 2000, are issued by the Bank and
are the only assets of the U.S. Oregon Pass-Through Asset Trust 1997-1 (the
"1997-1 Trust"). The 1997-1 Trust entered into a call option, pursuant to
which the call holder has the right to purchase the notes from the 1997-1
Trust at par on February 27, 2000. If the call is exercised, the notes would
become fixed-rate obligations due in 2007. If the call holder does not
exercise the call option, the Bank is required to redeem the notes
immediately thereafter. The interest rate adjusts quarterly at .10 percent
over LIBOR for three-month United States dollar deposits. At December 31,
1999, the interest rate was 6.21 percent.

     Medium-term notes outstanding at December 31, 1999, mature from February
2000 through December 2004. The notes bear fixed or floating interest rates
ranging from 6.00 percent to 6.93 percent. The weighted average interest rate


48                                                                  U.S. BANCORP


at December 31, 1999, was 6.53 percent. Federal Home Loan Bank advances
outstanding at December 31, 1999, mature from May 2000 through October 2026.
The advances bear fixed or floating interest rates ranging from 5.54 percent
to 9.11 percent. The weighted average interest rate at December 31, 1999, was
6.40 percent. Bank notes outstanding at December 31, 1999, mature from March
2000 through November 2005. The notes bear fixed or floating interest rates
ranging from 5.25 percent to 6.76 percent. The weighted average interest rate
at December 31, 1999, was 6.48 percent.

     In April 1999, the Company issued $400 million variable-rate Euro medium
term notes due April 13, 2004. The interest rate for each quarterly period is
three-month LIBOR plus .15 percent. The interest rate at December 31, 1999,
was 6.32 percent.

Maturities of long-term debt outstanding at December 31, 1999, were:



NOTE I COMPANY-OBLIGATED MANDATORILY REDEEMABLE PREFERRED SECURITIES OF
       SUBSIDIARY TRUSTS HOLDING SOLELY THE JUNIOR SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES OF
       THE PARENT COMPANY

The Company issued $950 million of preferred securities (the "Preferred
Securities") through three separate issuances by three wholly-owned
subsidiary grantor trusts, FBS Capital I, U.S. Bancorp Capital I and USB
Capital II (the "Trusts"). The Preferred Securities accrue and pay
distributions periodically at specified annual rates as provided in the
indentures. The Trusts used the net proceeds from the offerings to purchase a
like amount of Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures (the
"Debentures") of the Company. The Debentures are the sole assets of the
Trusts and are eliminated, along with the related income statement effects,
in the consolidated financial statements. The Company's obligations under the
Debentures and related documents, taken together, constitute a full and
unconditional guarantee by the Company of the obligations of the Trusts. The
guarantee covers the distributions and payments on liquidation or redemption
of the Preferred Securities, but only to the extent of funds held by the
Trusts. The Preferred Securities are mandatorily redeemable upon the maturity
of the Debentures, or upon earlier redemption as provided in the indentures.
The Company has the right to redeem the Debentures in whole, (but not in
part), on or after specific dates, at a redemption price specified in the
indentures plus any accrued but unpaid interest to the redemption date. The
Company used the proceeds from the sales of the Debentures for general
corporate purposes.

     USB Capital II completed the sale of $350 million Preferred Securities
in March 1998. The sole asset of USB Capital II is $361 million principal
amount 7.20 percent Debentures that mature in April 2028, and are redeemable
prior to maturity at the option of the Company on or after April 1, 2003.

     U.S. Bancorp Capital I completed the sale of $300 million Preferred
Securities in December 1996. The sole asset of U.S. Bancorp Capital I is $309
million principal amount 8.27 percent Debentures which mature in December
2026, and are redeemable prior to maturity at the option of the Company on or
after December 15, 2006.

     FBS Capital I completed the sale of $300 million Preferred Securities in
November 1996. The sole asset of FBS Capital I is $309 million principal
amount 8.09 percent Debentures which mature in November 2026, and are
redeemable prior to maturity at the option of the Company on or after
November 15, 2006.


U.S. BANCORP                                                                  49

NOTE J SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

COMMON STOCK At December 31, 1999, the Company had 101.6 million shares of
common stock reserved for future issuances (see Note L).

     The Company issued 37.8 million and 2.8 million shares of common stock
with an aggregate value of $1.3 billion and $87.4 million in connection with
purchase acquisitions during 1999 and 1997, respectively (see Note C).

     On April 22, 1998, the Company's shareholders authorized an increase in
the Company's capital stock necessary to implement the three-for-one split of
the Company's common stock announced on February 18, 1998. The number of
common and preferred shares which the Company has authority to issue was
increased from 500 million shares and 10 million shares, respectively, to 1.5
billion shares and 50 million shares, respectively. The stock split was in
the form of a 200 percent dividend payable May 18, 1998, to shareholders of
record on May 4, 1998. The impact of the stock split has been reflected in
the financial statements for all periods presented and all share and per
share data included herein.

     On June 8, 1998, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the
repurchase of up to $2.5 billion of the Company's common stock through March
31, 2000. The shares will be repurchased in the open market or through
negotiated transactions. The Company repurchased 16.6 million shares for
$560.8 million in 1999 and 24.7 million shares for $964.0 million in 1998.
Under 1996 Board authorizations, the Company repurchased 93.0 million shares,
including 14.7 million during 1997. These 1996 authorizations were either
completed or rescinded prior to the USBC acquisition.

     The Company's Dividend Reinvestment Plan provides for automatic
reinvestment of dividends and optional cash purchases of up to $60,000 worth
of additional shares per calendar year at market price.

PREFERRED STOCK The Company has authorization to issue up to 50 million
shares of preferred stock.

     On November 14, 1997, the Company redeemed all outstanding shares of its
8 1/8 percent Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A at a redemption price of
$25 per share, together with accrued and unpaid dividends.

     The preferred dividend requirement used in the calculation of earnings
per common share was $10.6 million for 1997.

NOTE K EARNINGS PER SHARE

The components of earnings per share were:




50                                                                  U.S. BANCORP


NOTE L EMPLOYEE BENEFITS

RETIREMENT PLANS Pension benefits are provided to substantially all employees
based on years of service and employees' compensation while employed with the
Company. Employees are fully vested after five years of service. The
Company's funding policy is to contribute amounts to its plans sufficient to
meet the minimum funding requirements of the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act of 1974, plus such additional amounts as the Company determines
to be appropriate. The actuarial cost method used to compute the pension
liabilities and expense is the projected unit credit method. Prior to their
acquisition dates, employees of certain acquired companies were covered by
separate, noncontributory pension plans that provided benefits based on years
of service and compensation. During 1998, the Company merged all the acquired
companies' plans into its own plan with the exception of the FirsTier plan,
which was merged in 1999. Prior to their merger into the Company's plan, the
former USBC and West One Bancorp pension plans determined retirement benefits
of participants based on their years of service and final average
compensation. Under the new plan, a participant's retirement benefits are
based on a participant's average annual compensation over his or her career
with the Company. These changes resulted in a reduction of the benefit
obligation during 1998. The Company also maintains several unfunded,
nonqualified, supplemental executive retirement programs that provide
additional defined pension benefits for certain employees. The assumptions
used in computing the present value of the accumulated benefit obligation,
the projected benefit obligation and net pension expense are substantially
consistent with those assumptions used for the funded qualified plans.

OTHER POSTRETIREMENT PLANS In addition to providing pension benefits, the
Company provides certain health care and death benefits to retired employees.
Nearly all employees may become eligible for health care benefits at or after
age 55 if they have completed at least five years of service and their age
plus years of service is equal to or exceeds 65 while working for the
Company. The Company subsidizes the cost of coverage for employees who retire
before age 65 with at least 10 years of service. The amount of the subsidy is
based on the employee's age and service at the time of retirement and remains
fixed until the retiree reaches age 65. After age 65 the retiree assumes
responsibility for the full cost of the coverage. The plan also contains
other cost-sharing features such as deductibles and coinsurance. The Company
continues to subsidize the coverage for employees over age 65 who retired
before a plan change eliminated the subsidy. The estimated cost of these
retiree benefit payments is accrued during the employees' active service.

     During 1998, the Company adopted a change in the measurement date of its
employee benefit plan from December 31 to September 30. Information presented
in the tables below reflects a measurement date of September 30, for both
1998 and 1999. 1997 has not been restated as the impact of the change is not
material.

The following table sets forth the components of net periodic benefit cost
for the retirement plans.




U.S. BANCORP                                                                  51


The following tables summarize benefit obligation and plan asset activity for
the retirement plans.



The following table sets forth the weighted average plan assumptions:



(1) Both rates are assumed to decrease gradually to 5.0% by 2004 and remain at
that level thereafter.


52                                                                  U.S. BANCORP


The following table provides information for pension plans with accumulated
benefit obligations in excess of plan assets:



EMPLOYEE INVESTMENT PLAN The Company provides a 401(k) Savings Plan formerly
known as the Capital Accumulation Plan which allows qualified employees, at
their option, to make contributions up to certain percentages of pre-tax base
salary through salary deductions under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue
Code. A portion of these contributions is matched by the Company. All of the
Company's matching contributions are invested in USB common stock. Employee
contributions are invested, at the employees' direction, among a variety of
investment alternatives. Total expense was $34.7 million, $16.6 million and
$22.5 million in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

STOCK INCENTIVE AND PURCHASE PLANS The Company has elected to follow
Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees" ("APB 25") in accounting for its employee stock incentive and
purchase plans. Under APB 25, because the exercise price of the Company's
employee stock options equals the market price of the underlying stock on the
date of grant, no compensation expense is recognized. On the date exercised,
if new shares are issued, the option proceeds equal to the par value of the
shares are credited to common stock and additional proceeds are credited to
capital surplus. If treasury shares are issued, the option proceeds equal to
the average treasury share price are credited to treasury stock and
additional proceeds are credited to capital surplus.

     The Employee Stock Purchase Plan ("ESPP") permits all eligible employees
with at least one year of service and directors to purchase common stock.
Plan participants can purchase stock for 85 percent to 100 percent of the
fair market value, which is based on the price at the beginning or the end of
the purchase period, whichever is lower. Any discount is determined by a
committee of the Board of Directors. In 1999 and 1998, the purchase price was
85 percent of fair market value. The plan results in no compensation expense
to the Company.

     In April 1999, the shareholders approved the 1999 Stock Incentive Plan
("1999 Plan") whereby all former stock incentive plans of U.S. Bancorp and
Piper Jaffray ("Prior Plans") were incorporated into the 1999 plan. All
outstanding options, restricted stock and other awards subject to the terms
of the Prior Plans will remain outstanding and subject to the terms and
conditions of those plans, but are counted as part of the total number of
common shares awarded under the 1999 Plan. An additional 45 million shares
were approved for issuance by the shareholders under the 1999 Plan. The 1999
Plan allows for the granting of nonqualified stock options, incentive stock
options, stock appreciation rights ("SARs"), restricted stock or stock units
("RSUs"), performance awards, and other stock-based awards at or above 100
percent of the market price at the date of grant. The 1999 Plan also provides
automatic grants of stock options to nonemployee directors. The rights of
restricted stock and RSU holders to transfer shares are generally limited
during the restriction period. At December 31, 1999, there were 17.8 million
shares (subject to adjustment for forfeitures) available for grant under the
1999 Plan.

     Options granted are generally exercisable up to 10 years from the date
of grant and vest over three to five years. Restricted shares vest over three
to seven years. The vesting of certain options and restricted shares
accelerate based on growth in diluted operating earnings per share and on the
performance of the Company in comparison to the performance of a
predetermined group of regional banks. Compensation expense for restricted
stock is based on the market price of the Company stock at the time of the
grant and amortized on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. For the
performance-based restricted shares, compensation expense is amortized using
the estimated vesting period. Compensation expense related to the restricted
stock was $36.6 million, $27.8 million and $8.4 million in 1999, 1998 and
1997, respectively.

     Stock incentive plans of acquired companies are terminated at the merger
closing dates. Option holders under such plans receive the Company's common
stock, or options to buy the Company's stock, based on the conversion terms
of the various merger agreements.


U.S. BANCORP                                                                  53


The historical option information presented below has been restated to
reflect the options originally granted under acquired companies' plans.



Additional information regarding options outstanding as of December 31, 1999, is
as follows:



     Pro forma information regarding net income and earnings per share is
required by SFAS 123, "Accounting and Disclosure of Stock-Based Compensation"
and has been determined as if the Company had accounted for its employee
stock option and stock purchase plans (options) under the fair value method
of that Statement. The fair value of the options was estimated at the grant
date using a Black-Scholes option pricing model. Option valuation models
require the use of highly subjective assumptions. Because the Company's
employee stock options have characteristics significantly different from
those of traded options, and because changes in the subjective input
assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, in management's
opinion, the existing models do not necessarily provide a reliable single
measure of the fair value of its employee stock options.

     The pro forma disclosures include options granted in 1999, 1998 and 1997
and are not likely to be representative of the pro forma disclosures for
future years. The estimated fair value of the options is amortized to expense
over the options' vesting period.




54                                                                  U.S. BANCORP


NOTE M MERGER-RELATED CHARGES

The Company recorded merger-related charges of $62.4 million, $216.5 million and
$511.6 million in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. Merger-related charges in
1999 related to the Company's various acquisitions including system conversion
and integration costs associated with consolidating redundant operations (see
Note C). Merger-related charges in 1998 were primarily due to conversion costs
related to the USBC acquisition and the acquisitions of Piper Jaffray and
Northwest Bancshares. Merger-related charges of $511.6 million recorded in 1997
were associated with the acquisition of USBC. The components of the charges are
shown below:



*OTHER MERGER-RELATED CHARGES IN 1997 INCLUDED $43.4 MILLION OF CAPITALIZED
SOFTWARE AND OTHER ASSET WRITEDOWNS, $35.0 MILLION OF INVESTMENT BANKING AND
OTHER TRANSACTION COSTS AND $51.0 MILLION OF OTHER MERGER-RELATED EXPENSES.

     The Company determines merger-related charges based on its integration
strategy and formulated plans. These plans are established as of the
acquisition date and regularly evaluated during the integration process.
Severance charges include the cost of severance, other benefits, and
outplacement costs associated with the termination of employees primarily in
branch offices and centralized corporate support and data processing
functions. The severance amounts are determined based on the Company's
existing severance pay programs and are paid out over a benefit period of up
to two years from the time of termination. Premise and equipment writedowns
represent lease termination costs and impairment of assets for redundant
office space, equipment and branches that will be vacated and disposed of as
part of the integration plan. Systems conversions and other merger-related
expenses are recorded as incurred and are associated with the preparation and
mailing of numerous customer communications for the acquisitions and
conversion of customer accounts, printing and distribution of training
materials and policy and procedure manuals, outside consulting fees, and
similar expenses relating to the conversions and integration of acquired
branches and operations. The following table presents a summary of activity
with respect to the Company's merger-related accrual:



*The liability relates to certain severance related items.

The components of the merger-related accrual were as follows:



*Other employee related costs in 1999 included $9.3 million for non-compete
arrangements.

The Company expects to incur approximately $55.0 million, pretax, of
merger-related expenses in 2000.


U.S. BANCORP                                                                  55


NOTE N INCOME TAXES

The components of income tax expense were:



The reconciliation between income tax expense and the amount computed by
applying the statutory federal income tax rate was as follows:



     At December 31, 1999, for income tax purposes, the Company had federal
net operating loss carryforwards of $25.0 million available, which expire in
years 2000 through 2012. In addition, the Company had aggregate state net
operating loss carryforwards of $17.2 million available, which expire in
years 2004 through 2009.

     Deferred income tax assets and liabilities reflect the tax effect of
temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities
for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for the same items for
income tax reporting purposes.


56                                                                  U.S. BANCORP


Significant components of the Company's deferred tax assets and liabilities
as of December 31 were as follows:



     Realization of the deferred tax asset over time is dependent upon the
existence of taxable income in carryback periods or the Company generating
sufficient taxable earnings in future periods. In determining that realization
of the deferred tax asset was more likely than not, the Company gave
consideration to a number of factors, including its taxable income during
carryback periods, its recent earnings history, its expectations for earnings in
the future and, where applicable, the expiration dates associated with tax
carrybacks and carryforwards.

NOTE O FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS WITH OFF-BALANCE SHEET RISK AND CREDIT
CONCENTRATIONS

In the normal course of business, the Company uses various off-balance sheet
financial instruments to manage its interest rate and market risk and to meet
the needs of its customers. These instruments carry varying degrees of credit,
interest rate or liquidity risk. The contract or notional amounts of these
financial instruments at December 31 were as follows:




U.S. BANCORP                                                                  57


COMMITMENTS TO EXTEND CREDIT Commitments to extend credit are legally binding
and generally have fixed expiration dates or other termination clauses. The
contractual amount represents the Company's exposure to credit loss, in the
event of default by the borrower. The Company manages this credit risk by
using the same credit policies it applies to loans. Collateral is obtained to
secure commitments based on management's credit assessment of the borrower.
The collateral may include marketable securities, receivables, inventory,
equipment and real estate. Since the Company expects many of the commitments
to expire without being drawn, total commitment amounts do not necessarily
represent the Company's future liquidity requirements. In addition, the
commitments include consumer credit lines that are cancelable upon
notification to the consumer.

LETTERS OF CREDIT Standby letters of credit are conditional commitments the
Company issues to guarantee the performance of a customer to a third party.
The guarantees frequently support public and private borrowing arrangements,
including commercial paper issuances, bond financings and other similar
transactions. The Company issues commercial letters of credit on behalf of
customers to ensure payment or collection in connection with trade
transactions. In the event of a customer's nonperformance, the Company's
credit loss exposure is the same as in any extension of credit, up to the
letter's contractual amount. Management assesses the borrower's credit to
determine the necessary collateral, which may include marketable securities,
real estate, accounts receivable and inventory. Since the conditions
requiring the Company to fund letters of credit may not occur, the Company
expects its liquidity requirements to be less than the total outstanding
commitments.

INTEREST RATE SWAPS AND OPTIONS Interest rate swaps are contracts to exchange
fixed- and floating-rate interest payment obligations based on a notional
principal amount. The Company enters into swaps to hedge its balance sheet
against fluctuations in interest rates and as an intermediary for customers.
At December 31, 1999, and 1998, interest rate swaps totaling $7.7 billion and
$7.2 billion, respectively, hedged loans, deposits and long-term debt.

     The Company received fixed-rate interest and paid floating-rate interest
on all hedges as of December 31, 1999. Activity with respect to interest rate
swap hedges was as follows:



     For the hedging portfolio's notional balances and yields by maturity
date as of year-end 1999, see Table 18 on page 34. For a description of the
Company's objectives for using derivative financial instruments, refer to Use
of Derivatives to Manage Interest Rate Risk on pages 34 and 35. Such
information is incorporated by reference into these Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.

     At December 31, 1999, and 1998, owned LIBOR-based interest rate floors
totaling $500 million with an average remaining maturity of 1.7 years and
$500 million with an average remaining maturity of 2.7 years, respectively,
hedged floating rate commercial loans. The strike rate on these LIBOR-based
floors was 4.63 percent at December 31, 1999, and December 31, 1998. The
premium on floors is amortized over the life of the contract. The impact of
the floors on net interest income was not significant for the years ended
December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997.


58                                                                  U.S. BANCORP


     For swaps and options used as hedges, the Company recognizes interest
income or expense as it is accrued over the terms of the hedge. The gain or
loss on a terminated hedge is amortized over the remaining life of the
original swap or remaining life of the hedged item, whichever is shorter. The
impact of the amortization of deferred gains and losses on hedges on net
interest income was not significant for the years ended December 31, 1999,
1998 and 1997. Net unamortized deferred gains were $9.7 million at December
31, 1999.

     In addition to utilizing swaps and options as part of its
asset/liability management strategy, the Company acts as an intermediary for
swap and option agreements on behalf of its customers. To reduce its market
risk exposure, the Company generally enters into offsetting positions. The
total notional amount of customer swap agreements, including the offsetting
positions, was $556 million and $740 million at December 31, 1999, and 1998,
respectively. The total notional amount of customer option agreements,
including the offsetting positions, was $906 million and $720 million at
December 31, 1999, and 1998, respectively. Market value changes on
intermediated swaps, options and futures contracts are recognized in income
in the period of change. Realized gains or losses on intermediated
transactions were not significant for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998
and 1997.

     The credit risk related to interest rate swap and option agreements is
that counterparties may be unable to meet the contractual terms. The Company
estimates this risk by calculating the present value of the cost to replace
all outstanding contracts in a gain position at current market rates,
reported on a net basis by each counterparty. At December 31, 1999, and 1998,
the gain position of these contracts, in the aggregate, was approximately $19
million and $217 million, respectively.

     The Company manages the credit risk of its interest rate swap and option
contracts through bilateral collateral agreements, credit approvals, limits
and monitoring procedures. Commercial lending officers perform credit
analyses and establish counterparty limits. Senior Credit Administration
periodically reviews positions to monitor compliance with the limits. In
addition, the Company reduces the assumed counterparty credit risk through
master netting agreements that permit the Company to settle multiple interest
rate contracts with a given counterparty on a net basis.

     FUTURES AND FORWARD CONTRACTS Futures and forward contracts are
agreements for the delayed delivery of securities or cash settlement money
market instruments. The Company enters into futures contracts to hedge the
market risk on its fixed income inventory positions. The Company enters into
forward contracts to hedge the interest rate risk of its mortgage loans held
for sale. At December 31, 1999, and 1998, futures contracts outstanding were
$15 million and $10 million, respectively. Forward contracts outstanding at
December 31, 1999 were $19 million. There were no forward contracts
outstanding at December 31, 1998. At December 31, 1999, net unamortized
deferred gains on the forward agreements were not significant. The Company
manages its credit risk on forward contracts, which arises from
nonperformance by counterparties, through credit approval and limit
procedures.

     RECOURSE ON ASSETS SOLD The Company is obligated under recourse
provisions related to the sale of certain loans. The contract amount of these
loans was $2.0 billion at December 31, 1999, and $472 million at December 31,
1998. The maximum contractual amount of recourse on these loans was $117
million at December 31, 1999, and $37 million at December 31, 1998.

     FOREIGN CURRENCY COMMITMENTS The Company uses foreign currency
commitments to help customers reduce the risks associated with changes in
foreign currency exchange rates. Through these contracts, the Company
exchanges currencies at specified rates on specified dates with various
counterparties. The Company minimizes the market and liquidity risks by
taking offsetting positions. In addition, the Company controls the market
risks by limiting the net exposure through policies, procedures and
monitoring. The Company manages its credit risk, or potential risk of loss
from default by a counterparty, through credit limit approval and monitoring
procedures. The aggregate replacement cost of contracts in a gain position at
December 31, 1999, was not significant.


U.S. BANCORP                                                                  59


     COMMITMENTS FROM SECURITIES LENDING The Company participates in
securities lending activities by acting as a customer's agent involving the
loan or sale of securities. The Company indemnifies customers for the
difference between the market value of the securities lent and the market
value of the collateral received. These transactions are collateralized by
cash.

     CREDIT CONCENTRATIONS The Company primarily lends to borrowers in the 16
states where it has banking offices. Approximately 88 percent of the
Company's commercial loans were made to borrowers, representing a diverse
range of industries, in this operating region. Collateral may include
marketable securities, accounts receivable, inventory and equipment. For
detail of the Company's commercial portfolio by industry type and geography
as of December 31, 1999, and 1998, see Table 8 on page 25.

     For detail of the Company's real estate portfolio by property type and
geography as of December 31, 1999, and 1998, see Table 9 on page 26. This
information is incorporated by reference into these Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements. Such loans are collateralized by the related property.

     Approximately 82 percent of the total consumer portfolio consists of
loans to customers in the Company's operating region. Residential mortgages,
home equity, and auto loans are secured, but other consumer loans are
generally not secured. For detail of the Company's consumer loan portfolio
referenced here, see Table 7 on page 24 under the category "Consumer" as of
December 31, 1999, and 1998, which is incorporated by reference into these
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

NOTE P FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

Financial instruments, both on and off balance sheet, are generally defined
as cash, equity instruments or investments and contractual obligations to pay
or receive cash or another financial instrument.

     Due to the nature of its business and its customers' needs, the Company
offers a large number of financial instruments, most of which are not
actively traded. When market quotes are unavailable, valuation techniques
including discounted cash flow calculations and pricing models or services
are used. The Company also uses various aggregation methods and assumptions,
such as the discount rate and cash flow timing and amounts. As a result, the
fair value estimates can neither be substantiated by independent market
comparisons, nor realized by the immediate sale or settlement of the
financial instrument. Also, the estimates reflect a point in time and could
change significantly based on changes in economic factors, such as interest
rates. Furthermore, the disclosure of certain financial and nonfinancial
assets and liabilities are not required. Finally, the fair value disclosure
is not intended to estimate a market value of the Company as a whole. A
summary of the Company's valuation techniques and assumptions follows.

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS The carrying value of cash, federal funds sold and
securities under resale agreements was assumed to approximate fair value.

SECURITIES Generally, trading securities and available-for-sale securities
were valued using available market quotes. In some instances, for securities
that are not widely traded, market quotes for comparable securities were used.

LOANS The loan portfolio consists of both floating and fixed-rate loans, the
fair value of which was estimated using discounted cash flow analyses and
other valuation techniques. To calculate discounted cash flows, the loans
were aggregated into pools of similar types and expected repayment terms. The
expected cash flows were reduced for estimated historical prepayment
experience. Projected cash flows on nonaccrual loans were further reduced by
the amount of the estimated losses on the portfolio and discounted over an
assumed average remaining life of one to two years.

COMMERCIAL The fixed-rate loans in the commercial portfolio (excluding
nonaccrual loans) had a weighted average interest rate of 7.6 percent in 1999
and 7.4 percent in 1998. The duration was 2.3 years in 1999 and 1998. The
floating-rate loans had a weighted average interest rate of 8.4 percent in
1999 and 7.6 percent in 1998. The high-grade corporate bond yield curve was
used to arrive at the discount rates applied to these loans.


60                                                                  U.S. BANCORP


COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE AND CONSTRUCTION The fixed-rate portion of this
portfolio (excluding nonaccrual loans) had a weighted average interest rate
of 8.2 percent, with a duration of 3.5 years in 1999; and a weighted average
interest rate of 8.4 percent, with a duration of 3.4 years in 1998. The
floating-rate loans (excluding nonaccrual loans) had a weighted average
interest rate of 8.6 percent in 1999 and 8.2 percent in 1998. The high-grade
corporate bond yield curve was used to arrive at the discount rates applied
to these loans.

RESIDENTIAL FIRST MORTGAGES These loans were segregated into pools of similar
coupons and maturities. The pools were matched to similar mortgage-backed
securities, and market quotes were obtained. The fixed-rate portion of this
portfolio had a weighted average interest rate of 7.4 percent in 1999 and 7.5
percent in 1998. The duration was 3.1 years in 1999 and 1.8 years in 1998.

CONSUMER INSTALLMENT Prepayment assumptions ranging from 15 to 23 percent
were applied to scheduled cash flows, based on the Company's experience. On
the fixed-rate portion, the weighted average rate was 9.4 percent in 1999 and
8.8 percent in 1998. The duration was 1.4 years in 1999 and 1.5 years in
1998. The floating-rate portion of the consumer installment portfolio had a
weighted average interest rate of 7.5 percent in 1999 and 1998.

HOME EQUITY LINES AND LOANS, SECOND MORTGAGES AND CONSUMER LINES In 1999,
estimated cash flows net of funding and operational costs were discounted
using an estimated cost of capital of 11.6 percent for secured lines and
loans and 12.9 percent for unsecured. In 1998, the estimated cost of capital
was 11.0 percent for secured and 13.3 percent for unsecured. The home equity
lines had a weighted average interest rate of 9.3 percent in 1999 and 8.8
percent in 1998. Fixed-rate home equity loans and second mortgages had a
weighted average interest rate of 10 percent in 1999 and 1998. The duration
was 1.4 years in 1999 and 1.8 years in 1998. Retail credit cards had a
weighted average interest rate of 12.6 percent in 1999 and 11.6 percent in
1998, with a duration of 1.5 years in 1999 and 1.8 years in 1998. Other
revolving lines had a weighted average interest rate of 11.9 percent in 1999
and 11.8 percent in 1998.

CORE DEPOSIT INTANGIBLE Core deposits provide a stable, low-cost source of
funds that can be invested to earn a return that exceeds their cost. The fair
value of the Company's core deposit intangible was calculated using a
discounted cash flow model that estimates the present value of net cash flows
including the difference between the ongoing funding cost of the core
deposits and alternative funds at current market rates.

DEPOSIT LIABILITIES The fair value of demand deposits, savings accounts and
certain money market deposits is equal to the amount payable on demand at
year-end. Fair values for fixed-rate certificates of deposit were estimated
using a discounted cash flow analysis based on the discount rates implied by
the high-grade corporate bond yield curve.

SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS Federal funds purchased, borrowings under repurchase
agreements and other short-term borrowings are at floating rates or have
short-term maturities. Their carrying value is assumed to approximate their
fair value.

LONG-TERM DEBT AND COMPANY-OBLIGATED MANDATORILY REDEEMABLE PREFERRED
SECURITIES OF SUBSIDIARY TRUSTS HOLDING SOLELY THE JUNIOR SUBORDINATED
DEBENTURES OF THE PARENT COMPANY Medium-term notes, Euro medium-term notes,
bank notes, Federal Home Loan Bank Advances, capital lease obligations and
mortgage note obligations totaled $13,237 million in 1999 and $10,138 million
in 1998. Their estimated fair value was determined using a discounted cash
flow analysis based on current market rates of similar maturity debt
securities to discount cash flows. Other long-term debt instruments and
company-obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of subsidiary
trusts holding solely the junior subordinated debentures of the parent
company were valued using available market quotes.

INTEREST RATE SWAPS, OPTIONS, FLOORS AND CAPS The interest rate options and
swap cash flows were estimated using a third party pricing model and
discounted based on appropriate LIBOR, Eurodollar future, swap and Treasury
Note yield curves.

LOAN COMMITMENTS, LETTERS OF CREDIT AND GUARANTEES The Company's commitments
have floating rates and do not expose the Company to interest rate risk. No
premium or discount was ascribed to the loan commitments because virtually
all funding would be at current market rates.


U.S. BANCORP                                                                  61


The estimated fair values of the Company's financial instruments are shown in
the table below.




62                                                                  U.S. BANCORP

NOTE Q  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES

Rental expense for operating leases amounted to $111.2 million in 1999, $121.0
million in 1998, and $114.6 million in 1997. Future minimum payments, net of
sublease rentals, under capitalized leases and noncancelable operating leases
with initial or remaining terms of one year or more, consisted of the following
at December 31, 1999:



Various legal proceedings are currently pending against the Company. Due to
their complex nature, it may be years before some matters are resolved. In
the opinion of management, the aggregate liability, if any, will not have a
material adverse effect on the Company's financial position, liquidity or
results of operations.

NOTE R SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET Time certificates of deposit in denominations of
$100,000 or more totaled $5,809 million and $2,823 million at December 31, 1999,
and 1998, respectively.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS Listed below are supplemental disclosures
to the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.



REGULATORY CAPITAL The measures used to assess capital include the capital
ratios established by bank regulatory agencies, including the specific ratios
for the "well capitalized" designation. For a description of the regulatory
capital requirements and the actual ratios as of December 31, 1999, for the
Company and its significant bank subsidiaries, see Tables 19 and 20 from
which such information is incorporated by reference into these Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

U.S. BANCORP                                                                  63


NOTE S  U.S. BANCORP (PARENT COMPANY)

CONDENSED BALANCE SHEET



CONDENSED STATEMENT OF INCOME



64                                                                  U.S. BANCORP


CONDENSED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS



     Transfer of funds (dividends, loans or advances) from bank subsidiaries
to the Company is restricted. Federal law prohibits loans unless they are
secured and generally limits any loan to the Company or individual affiliate
to 10 percent of the bank's equity. In aggregate, loans to the Company and
all affiliates cannot exceed 20 percent of the bank's equity.

     Dividend payments to the Company by its subsidiary banks are subject to
regulatory review and statutory limitations and, in some instances,
regulatory approval. The approval of the Comptroller of the Currency is
required if total dividends by a national bank in any calendar year exceed
the bank's net income for that year combined with its retained net income for
the preceding two calendar years or if the bank's retained earnings are less
than zero. Furthermore, dividends are restricted by the Comptroller of the
Currency's minimum capital constraints for all national banks. Within these
guidelines, all bank subsidiaries have the ability to pay dividends without
prior regulatory approval.


U.S. BANCORP                                                                  65


REPORT OF MANAGEMENT

     The financial statements of U.S. Bancorp were prepared by management,
which is responsible for their integrity and objectivity. The statements have
been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in
the United States appropriate in the circumstances and include amounts that
are based on management's best estimates and judgment. All financial
information throughout the annual report is consistent with that in the
financial statements.

     The Company maintains accounting and internal control systems that are
believed to provide reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded and
transactions are properly authorized and recorded. To test compliance, the
Company carries out an extensive audit program. This program includes a
review for compliance with written policies and procedures and a
comprehensive review of the adequacy and effectiveness of internal control
systems. However, there are limits inherent in all systems of internal
accounting control and management recognizes that errors or irregularities
may occur. Based on the recognition that the costs of such systems should not
exceed the benefits to be derived, management believes the Company's system
provides an appropriate cost/benefit balance.

     The Company's independent auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, have been engaged
to render an opinion on the financial statements and to assist in carrying
out the audit program described above. Their opinion on the financial
statements is based on procedures performed in accordance with auditing
standards generally accepted in the United States, including tests of the
accounting records to the extent necessary to allow them to report on the
fairness of the financial statements. Ernst & Young LLP has full access to
the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors.

     The management of the Company is committed to and has always maintained
and enforced a philosophy of high ethical standards in the conduct of its
business. Written policies covering conflicts of interest and other subjects
are formulated in a Code of Ethics which is uniformly applicable to all
officers and employees of the Company.

/s/ John. F. Grundhofer

JOHN F. GRUNDHOFER
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

/s/ Susan E. Lester

SUSAN E. LESTER
Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

The Board of Directors and Shareholders
U.S. Bancorp

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of U.S. Bancorp
and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the related
consolidated statements of income, shareholders' equity and cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1999. These
financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based
on our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on
a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of U.S.
Bancorp and subsidiaries at December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the consolidated
results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years
in the period ended December 31, 1999, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Minneapolis, Minnesota
January 18, 2000


66                                                                  U.S. BANCORP


CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET - FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY




U.S. BANCORP                                                                  67


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME-- FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY



*Not meaningful


68                                                                  U.S. BANCORP


QUARTERLY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA



U.S. BANCORP                                                                  69


                      CONSOLIDATED DAILY AVERAGE BALANCE



Interest and rates are presented on a fully taxable-equivalent basis under a
tax rate of 35 percent.

Interest income and rates on loans include loan fees. Nonaccrual loans are
included in average loan balances.

* Before deducting the allowance for credit losses and excluding the
unrealized gain (loss) on available-for-sale securities.

** Not meaningful

*** Detail not available

70                                                                  U.S. BANCORP








                      SHEET AND RELATED YIELDS AND RATES



U.S. BANCORP                                                                  71


SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL DATA

EARNINGS PER SHARE SUMMARY



RATIOS



OTHER STATISTICS



*Defined as total common shares less common stock held in treasury.
**Based on number of common stock shareholders of record.

STOCK PRICE RANGE AND DIVIDENDS



THE COMMON STOCK OF U.S. BANCORP IS TRADED ON THE NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE, UNDER
THE TICKER SYMBOL, "USB."


72                                                                  U.S. BANCORP


COMMERCIAL LOAN MATURITIES AND SENSITIVITY TO CHANGES IN INTEREST RATES





TIME CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT AND OTHER TIME DEPOSITS IN DENOMINATIONS OF
$100,000 OR MORE AT DECEMBER 31



SHORT-TERM FUNDS BORROWED




U.S. BANCORP                                                                  73


ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

Securities and Exchange Commission
Washington, D.C. 20549

Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999.

Commission File Number 1-6880

U.S. BANCORP
Incorporated in the State of Delaware
IRS Employer Identification #41-0255900
Address: 601 Second Avenue South
Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402-4302
Telephone: (612) 973-1111

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act (and listed on the
New York Stock Exchange): Common Stock, Par Value $1.25.

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None.

As of January 31, 2000, U.S. Bancorp had 754,253,512 shares of common stock
outstanding. The aggregate market value of common stock held by
non-affiliates as of January 31, 2000, was approximately $16,130,000,000.

U.S. Bancorp (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months
and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

This Annual Report and Form 10-K incorporates into a single document the
requirements of the accounting profession and the Securities and Exchange
Commission. Only those sections of the Annual Report referenced in the
following cross-reference index and the information under the caption
"Forward-Looking Statements" are incorporated in the Form 10-K.



*U.S. BANCORP'S DEFINITIVE PROXY STATEMENT FOR THE 2000 ANNUAL MEETING OF
SHAREHOLDERS IS INCORPORATED HEREIN BY REFERENCE, OTHER THAN THE SECTIONS
ENTITLED "REPORT OF THE COMPENSATION AND HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE ON EXECUTIVE
COMPENSATION" AND "COMPARATIVE STOCK PERFORMANCE."


74                                                                  U.S. BANCORP


GENERAL U.S. Bancorp (the "Company") is a multi-state bank holding company
headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota. The Company was incorporated in
Delaware in 1929 and owns 100 percent of the capital stock of each of four banks
and eleven trust companies having approximately 1,000 banking offices in 16
Midwestern and Western states. The Company offers full-service brokerage
services at approximately 100 offices through a wholly owned subsidiary. The
Company also has various nonbank subsidiaries engaged in financial services.

     The banks are engaged in general commercial banking business, principally
in domestic markets. They range in size from less than $1.0 million to $51.1
billion in deposits and provide a wide variety of services to individuals,
businesses, industry, institutional organizations, governmental entities, and
other financial institutions. Depository services include checking accounts,
savings accounts, and time certificate contracts. Ancillary services such as
treasury management and receivable lockbox collection are provided for corporate
customers. The Company's bank and trust subsidiaries provide a full range of
fiduciary activities for individuals, estates, foundations, business
corporations, and charitable organizations.

     The Company provides banking services through its subsidiary banks to both
domestic and foreign customers and correspondent banks. These services include
consumer banking, commercial lending, financing of import/export trade, foreign
exchange, and investment services.

     The Company, through its subsidiaries, also provides services in trust,
commercial and agricultural finance, data processing, leasing, and brokerage
services.

     On a full-time equivalent basis, employment during 1999 averaged a total of
26,891 employees.

COMPETITION The commercial banking business is highly competitive. Subsidiary
banks compete with other commercial banks and with other financial institutions,
including savings and loan associations, mutual savings banks, finance
companies, mortgage banking companies, credit unions, and investment companies.
In recent years, competition has increased from institutions not subject to the
same regulatory restrictions as domestic banks and bank holding companies.

GOVERNMENT POLICIES The operations of the Company's various operating units are
affected by state and federal legislative changes and by policies of various
regulatory authorities, including those of the several states in which they
operate, the United States and foreign governments. These policies include, for
example, statutory maximum legal lending rates, domestic monetary policies of
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, United States fiscal
policy, international currency regulations and monetary policies, and capital
adequacy and liquidity constraints imposed by bank regulatory agencies.

SUPERVISION AND REGULATION The Company is a registered bank holding company
under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (the "Act") and is subject to the
supervision of, and regulation by, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System (the "Board").

     Under the Act, a bank holding company may engage in banking, managing or
controlling banks, furnishing or performing services for banks it controls, and
conducting activities that the Board has determined to be closely related to
banking. The Company must obtain the prior approval of the Board before
acquiring more than 5 percent of the outstanding shares of another bank or bank
holding company, and must provide notice to, and in some situations obtain the
prior approval of, the Board in connection with the acquisition of more than 5
percent of the outstanding shares of a company engaged in a "bank-related"
business.

     Under the Act, as amended by the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and
Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 (the "Interstate Act"), the Company may acquire
banks throughout the United States, subject only to state or federal deposit
caps and state minimum-age requirements. The Interstate Act authorized
interstate branching by acquisition and consolidation in those states that had
not opted out of interstate branching.

     The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 eliminates many of the restrictions
placed on the activities of certain qualified bank holding companies. Effective
March 11, 2000, a bank holding company can qualify as a "financial holding
company" and expand into a wide variety of financial services, including
securities activities, insurance and merchant banking without the prior approval
of the Board. The Company expects to qualify as a financial holding company as
soon as possible after the effective date.

     National banks are subject to the supervision of, and are examined by, the
Comptroller of the Currency. All subsidiary banks of the Company are members of
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") and are subject to
examination by the FDIC. In practice, the primary federal regulator makes
regular examinations of each subsidiary bank subject to its regulatory review or
participates in joint examinations with other federal regulators. Areas subject
to regulation by federal authorities include the allowance for credit losses,
investments, loans, mergers, issuance of securities, payment of dividends,
establishment of branches and other aspects of operations.

PROPERTIES The Company and its significant subsidiaries occupy their headquarter
offices under long-term leases. The Company also leases three freestanding
operations centers in St. Paul and Denver, and owns operations centers in Fargo
and Portland. At December 31, 1999, the Company's subsidiaries owned and
operated a total of 646 facilities and leased an additional 807 facilities, all
of which are well maintained. Additional information with respect to premises
and equipment is presented in Notes G and Q to Consolidated Financial
Statements.

U.S. BANCORP                                                                  75


EXHIBITS



Schedules to the consolidated financial statements required by Article 9 of
Regulation S-X are omitted since the required information is included in the
footnotes or is not applicable.

     During the three months ended December 31, 1999, the Company filed the
following Current Report on Form 8-K:

     Form 8-K filed December 6, 1999 relating to the anticipated fourth quarter
1999 and full year 2000 earnings.

     The following Exhibit Index lists the Exhibits to the Annual Report on Form
10-K.

         (1)3.1   Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended. Filed as
                  Exhibit 3.1 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1998.

         (1)3.2   Bylaws, as amended. Filed as Exhibit 3.1 to report on Form
                  10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1998.

            4.1   [Pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A) of Regulation S-K, copies
                  of instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term
                  debt are not filed. U.S. Bancorp agrees to furnish a copy
                  thereof to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon
                  request.]

         (1)4.2   Warrant Agreement, dated as of October 2, 1995, between U.S.
                  Bancorp and First Chicago Trust Company of New York, as
                  Warrant Agent and Form of Warrant. Filed as Exhibits 4.18 and
                  4.19 to Registration Statement on Form S-3, File No. 33-61667.

         (1)4.3   Warrant Agreement, dated as of November 20, 1990, between
                  Metropolitan Financial Corporation and American Stock Transfer
                  and Trust Company, as Warrant Agent; Supplemental Warrant
                  Agreement, dated as of January 24, 1995, between U.S. Bancorp
                  and American Stock Transfer and Trust Company, as Warrant
                  Agent; and Form of Warrant. Filed as Exhibit 4E to report on
                  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996.

         (1)4.4   Certificate of Designation and Terms of Term Participating
                  Preferred Stock of U.S. Bancorp. Filed as Exhibit 4.1 to
                  Registration Statement on Form S-4, File No. 333-75603.

            4.5   Forms of Warrant Agreements, dated as of November 5, 1996,
                  between Monarch Bancorp (predecessor of Western Bancorp)
                  and certain Warrantholders, and accompanying Forms of
                  Warrants, assumed by U.S. Bancorp upon its acquisition of
                  Western Bancorp on November 15, 1999.

        (1)10.1   Stock Purchase Agreements dated as of May 30, 1990, among
                  Corporate Partners, L.P.; Corporate Offshore Partners, L.P.;
                  The State Board of Administration of Florida and U.S. Bancorp
                  and related documents. Filed as Exhibits 4.8-4.15 to
                  Registration Statement on Form S-3, File No. 33-42650.

        (2)10.2   U.S. Bancorp 1999 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended.

     (1)(2)10.3   Description of U.S. Bancorp Stock Option Loan Policy. Filed
                  as Exhibit 10M to report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                  December 31, 1996.

     (1)(2)10.4   U.S. Bancorp Restated Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as
                  amended. Filed as Exhibit 10.4 to report on Form 10-K for the
                  year ended December 31, 1997.

     (1)(2)10.5   U.S. Bancorp 1995 Executive Incentive Plan, as amended.
                  Filed as Exhibit 10A to report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
                  ended March 31, 1997.

     (1)(2)10.6   U.S. Bancorp Annual Incentive Plan, as amended. Filed as
                  Exhibit 10E to report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
                  31, 1996.

        (2)10.7   U.S. Bancorp Executive Deferral Plan, as amended.

        (2)10.8   U.S. Bancorp Nonqualified Supplemental Executive Retirement
                  Plan, as amended.

        (2)10.9   U.S. Bancorp Special Executive Deferral Plan, as amended.

    (1)(2)10.10   Amended and Restated Supplemental Benefits Plan of the
                  former U.S. Bancorp. Filed as Exhibit 10.10 to report on Form
                  10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997.

    (1)(2)10.11   1991 Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended, of
                  the former U.S. Bancorp. Filed as Exhibit 10.11 to report on
                  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997.

    (1)(2)10.12   Deferred Compensation Trust Agreement of the former U.S.
                  Bancorp. Filed as Exhibit 10.12 to report on Form 10-K for the
                  year ended December 31, 1997.

    (1)(2)10.13   1991 Performance and Equity Incentive Plan of the former
                  U.S. Bancorp. Filed as Exhibit 10.13 to report on Form 10-K
                  for the year ended December 31, 1997.

    (1)(2)10.14   Description of Retirement Benefits of Joshua Green III.
                  Filed as Exhibit 10.14 to report on Form 10-K for the year
                  ended December 31, 1997.

    (1)(2)10.15   Form of Director Indemnification Agreement entered into
                  with former Directors of the former U.S. Bancorp. Filed as
                  Exhibit 10.15 to report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                  December 31, 1997.

    (1)(2)10.16   Description of health insurance premium reimbursement plan
                  for former Directors of West One Bancorp. Filed as Exhibit
                  10.16 to report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                  1997.

       (2)10.17   U.S. Bancorp Independent Director Retirement and Death Benefit
                  Plan, as amended.

       (2)10.18   U.S. Bancorp Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors, as
                  amended.

       (2)10.19   Form of Change-in-Control Agreement between U.S. Bancorp and
                  certain officers of the Company.

76                                                                  U.S. BANCORP


    (1)(2)10.20   Employment Agreement with John F. Grundhofer, as amended.
                  Filed as Exhibit 10.1 to report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
                  ended June 30, 1998.

    (1)(2)10.21   Employment Agreement with Gary T. Duim, as amended. Filed
                  as Exhibit 10.22 to Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                  December 31, 1998.

    (1)(2)10.22   Employment Agreement with Philip G. Heasley. Filed as
                  Exhibit 10(b) to report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
                  September 30, 1997.

    (1)(2)10.23   Employment Agreement with Richard A. Zona. Filed as Exhibit
                  10(c) to report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September
                  30, 1997.

       (2)10.24   Employment Agreement with Andrew S. Duff.

             12   Statement re: Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed
                  Charges.

             13   Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31,
                  1999.

             21   Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

             23   Consent of Ernst & Young LLP.

             27   Financial Data Schedule.

(1)EXHIBIT HAS HERETOFORE BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
   COMMISSION AND IS INCORPORATED HEREIN AS AN EXHIBIT BY REFERENCE.

(2)ITEMS THAT ARE MANAGEMENT CONTRACTS OR COMPENSATORY PLANS OR ARRANGEMENTS
   REQUIRED TO BE FILED AS AN EXHIBIT PURSUANT TO ITEM 14(c) OF THIS FORM
   10-K.

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on February
16, 2000, on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

U.S. Bancorp
By: John F. Grundhofer
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below on February 16, 2000, by the following persons on behalf
of the registrant and in the capacities indicated.

JOHN F. GRUNDHOFER
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director
(principal executive officer)

SUSAN E. LESTER
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
(principal financial officer)

TERRANCE R. DOLAN
Senior Vice President and Controller
(principal accounting officer)

LINDA L. AHLERS
Director

HARRY L. BETTIS
Director

ARTHUR D. COLLINS, JR.
Director

PETER H. COORS
Director

ROBERT L. DRYDEN
Director

JOSHUA GREEN III
Director

DELBERT W. JOHNSON
Director

JOEL W. JOHNSON
Director

JERRY W. LEVIN
Director

EDWARD J. PHILLIPS
Director

PAUL A. REDMOND
Director

RICHARD G. REITEN
Director

S. WALTER RICHEY
Director

WARREN R. STALEY
Director


U.S. BANCORP                                                                  77


EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

JOHN F. GRUNDHOFER
Mr. Grundhofer, 61, has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since July
1999. Prior to that he was Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer and
held that same title from 1990 through July 1997. From August 1997 through 1998
he served as President and Chief Executive Officer.

PHILIP G. HEASLEY
Mr. Heasley, 50, has served as President and Chief Operating Officer since July
1999. From 1993 through July 1999, he served as Vice Chairman of U.S. Bancorp.

ANDREW CECERE
Mr. Cecere, 39, Vice Chairman of U.S. Bank, assumed responsibility for
Commercial Services (Corporate Trust, Treasury Management, Leasing,
International Banking and Government Banking) in August 1999. He was named
Senior Vice President of Operations and Administration for Wholesale Banking
earlier in 1999. From 1996 to 1999 he was Senior Vice President of Acquisition
Integration and Process Management. Prior to 1996 he served as Senior Vice
President of Management Accounting.

ANDREW S. DUFF
Mr. Duff, 42, Vice Chairman of U.S. Bank, assumed responsibility for Wealth
Management and Capital Markets in August 1999, adding to his duties as President
and Chief Operating Officer of U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray Inc. From January 1996
through July 1999 he served as President of Piper Jaffray Inc., the
broker-dealer subsidiary of Piper Jaffray Companies, and assumed the additional
title of Chief Executive Officer in January 2000. From 1994 to 1996 he was
Director of Fixed Income Capital Markets.

DANIEL J. FRATE
Mr. Frate, 39, Vice Chairman of U.S. Bank, has served as President of Payment
Systems since 1996 and also leads retail credit functions for the enterprise.
From 1989 to 1996, he led credit, servicing and technology strategies for retail
products and corporate payment systems.

J. ROBERT HOFFMANN
Mr. Hoffmann, 54, has been Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Officer
since 1990.

SUSAN E. LESTER
Ms. Lester, 43, has been Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
since 1996. She had served as Executive Vice President, Finance, since December
1995. From May 1994 to November 1995, Ms. Lester was Executive Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer of Shawmut National Corporation.

PETER G. MICHIELUTTI
Mr. Michielutti, 43, has been Executive Vice President of Information Systems
since August 1999. He was previously Senior Vice President of the Business
Operations Center. He joined U.S. Bancorp in 1998 as Senior Vice President of
the Group Management Office. Prior to that he was Executive Vice President and
Chief Operating Officer of Fingerhut Companies, Inc., since 1997 and Chief
Financial Officer from 1995 to 1997.

LEE R. MITAU
Mr. Mitau, 51, assumed responsibility for Corporate Development in January 2000,
adding to his duties as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary,
in which capacity he has served since 1995. Prior to 1995 he was a partner at
Dorsey & Whitney LLP.


78                                                                  U.S. BANCORP



DANIEL M. QUINN
Mr. Quinn, 43, Vice Chairman of U.S. Bank, assumed responsibility for Commercial
Banking in April 1999 and for Regional Commercial Real Estate in August 1999.
Previously he had been President of U.S. Bank in Colorado (formerly Colorado
National Bank) since 1996. From 1993 to 1996 he managed Business Banking in
Colorado, Montana and Wyoming.

PETER E. RASKIND
Mr. Raskind, 43, Vice Chairman of U.S. Bank, assumed leadership of the branch
channel, U.S. Bank's network of approximately 1,000 branches, in August 1999. He
had served as Executive Vice President and Manager of Corporate Trust Services
since 1996. He joined U.S. Bancorp in 1983 and has held a variety of positions
in operations, commercial product development and treasury management.

CHRISTIAN R. RASMUSSEN
Mr. Rasmussen, 50, Vice Chairman of U.S. Bank, assumed responsibility for
Business Banking in April 1999. Previously he served as Executive Vice President
and Manager of the Northwest Business Banking Group. From January 1996 to August
1997 he served as Executive Vice President and Manager of the National Markets
Division for U.S. Bancorp. Prior to 1996 he was Executive Vice President in
charge of all commercial banking markets at West One Bank in Washington.

DANIEL C. ROHR
Mr. Rohr, 53, Vice Chairman of U.S. Bank, has been head of Corporate Banking
since August 1999. From 1997 to 1999 he was Executive Vice President of
Commercial & Business Banking. He served as Executive Vice President of
Commercial Banking from 1990 to 1997.

ROBERT H. SAYRE
Mr. Sayre, 60, has served as Executive Vice President of Human Resources since
1990.

DANIEL W. YOHANNES
Mr. Yohannes, 47, Vice Chairman of U.S. Bank, assumed leadership of Consumer
Banking in August 1999. Previously he had served as Chief Executive Officer of
U.S. Bank in Colorado (formerly Colorado National Bank) since 1996. From 1992 to
1996 he was Executive Vice President of Retail Banking in multiple states.


U.S. BANCORP                                                                  79



DIRECTORS

JOHN F. GRUNDHOFER
CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
U.S. Bancorp

LINDA L. AHLERS
PRESIDENT
Dayton's, Marshall Field's, Hudson's
Minneapolis, Minnesota

HARRY L. BETTIS
RANCHER
Payette, Idaho

ARTHUR D. COLLINS, JR.
PRESIDENT AND  CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER
Medtronic, Inc.
Minneapolis, Minnesota

PETER H. COORS
VICE CHAIRMAN AND  CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Coors Brewing Company
Golden, Colorado

ROBERT L. DRYDEN
PRESIDENT AND  CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
ConneXt, Inc.
Seattle, Washington

JOSHUA GREEN III
CHAIRMAN AND  CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Joshua Green Corporation
Seattle, Washington

DELBERT W. JOHNSON
VICE PRESIDENT
Safeguard Scientifics, Inc.
Wayne, Pennsylvania

JOEL W. JOHNSON
CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Hormel Foods Corporation
Austin, Minnesota

JERRY W. LEVIN
CHAIRMAN AND  CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Sunbeam Corporation
Boca Raton, Florida

EDWARD J. PHILLIPS*
CHAIRMAN AND  CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Phillips Beverage Company
Minneapolis, Minnesota

PAUL A. REDMOND
RETIRED CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Avista Corp.
Spokane, Washington

RICHARD G. REITEN
PRESIDENT AND  CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Northwest Natural  Gas Company
Portland, Oregon

S. WALTER RICHEY
FORMER CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Meritex, Inc.
Roseville, Minnesota

WARREN R. STALEY
PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Cargill, Inc.
Minneapolis, Minnesota


*RETIRING FROM U.S. BANCORP BOARD OF DIRECTORS ON APRIL 19, 2000.


80                                                                  U.S. BANCORP



CORPORATE DATA


EXECUTIVE OFFICES
U.S. Bancorp
601 Second Avenue South
Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402-4302

ANNUAL MEETING
The annual meeting of shareholders will be held at 2 p.m. on Wednesday, April
19, 2000, at the Minneapolis Convention Center, 1301 Second Avenue South,
Minneapolis, Minnesota 55403.

COMMON STOCK TRANSFER AGENT AND REGISTRAR
First Chicago Trust Company of New York, a division of EquiServe, acts as
transfer agent and registrar, dividend paying agent and dividend reinvestment
plan agent for U.S. Bancorp and maintains all shareholder records for the
corporation. For information about U.S. Bancorp stock, or if you have questions
regarding your stock certificates (including transfers), address or name
changes, lost dividend checks, lost stock certificates or Form 1099s, please
call First Chicago Trust's Shareholder Services Center at (800) 446-2617.
Representatives are available weekdays 8:30 a.m. to 7 p.m. Eastern time, and the
interactive voice response system is available 24 hours a day, seven days a
week. The TDD telephone number for the hearing impaired is (201) 222-4955.

First Chicago Trust Company of New York
c/o EquiServe
Mailing address: P.O. Box 2500, Jersey City,
New Jersey  07303-2500
Telephone: (201) 324-0498
Fax: (201) 222-4892
Internet address: www.equiserve.com
E-mail address: fctc@em.fcnbd.com

If you own shares in a book-entry or plan account maintained by First Chicago,
you can access your account information on the Internet through First Chicago
Trust's Web site. To obtain a password that provides you secured access to your
account, please call First Chicago Trust toll-free at (877) THE-WEB7 (outside
North America call (201) 536-8071).

COMMON STOCK LISTING AND TRADING
U.S. Bancorp Common Stock is listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange
under the ticker symbol USB.

DIVIDENDS
U.S. Bancorp currently pays quarterly dividends on its Common Stock on or about
the 15th of March, June, September, and December, subject to prior Board
approval. Shareholders may choose to have dividends electronically deposited
directly into their bank accounts. For enrollment information, please call First
Chicago Trust at (800) 446-2617.

DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT PLAN
U.S. Bancorp shareholders can take advantage of a plan that provides automatic
reinvestment of dividends and/or optional cash purchases of additional shares of
U.S. Bancorp Common Stock up to $60,000 per calendar year. For more information,
please contact First Chicago Trust Company of New York, c/o EquiServe, P.O. Box
2598, Jersey City, New Jersey 07303-2598, (800) 446-2617.

INVESTMENT COMMUNITY CONTACTS
John R. Danielson
Senior Vice President, Investor Relations
(612) 973-2261
john.danielson@usbank.com

Judith T. Murphy
Vice President, Investor Relations
(612) 973-2264
judith.murphy@usbank.com

FINANCIAL INFORMATION
U.S. Bancorp news and financial results are available through the Company's Web
site, fax and mail.

WEB SITE. For information about U.S. Bancorp, including news and financial
results, online annual report, product information and service locations, access
our home page on the Internet at www.usbank.com.

FAX. To access our fax-on-demand service, call (800) 758-5804. When asked, enter
the U.S. Bancorp extension number, "312402." Enter "1" for the most current news
release or "2" for a menu of news releases. Enter your fax and telephone numbers
as directed. The information will be faxed to you promptly.

MAIL. At your request, we will mail to you our quarterly earnings news releases,
quarterly financial data on Form 10-Q and additional annual reports. To be added
to U.S. Bancorp's mailing list for quarterly earnings news releases, or to
request other information, please contact:

Investor Relations
U.S. Bancorp
601 Second Avenue South
Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402-4302
(612) 973-2263
corprelations@usbank.com

COMMUNITY ANNUAL REPORT
To request copies of the U.S. Bancorp Community Annual Report, published
separately from our U.S. Bancorp Annual Report and Form 10-K, please call U.S.
Bancorp Community Development at (612) 973-4996.

U.S. Bancorp, including each of its subsidiaries, is an Equal Opportunity
Employer and a Drug-Free Workplace.




U.S. BANCORP                                                                  81









[LOGO]

U.S. Bank Place
601 Second Avenue South
Minneapolis, Minnesota
55402-4302


www.usbank.com

