
10-K
FORM 10-K









FORM 10-K COVER PAGE - SEE PAGE 79










                                FIRST BANK SYSTEM

                     1993 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT / FORM 10-K







                                   -COVER-



ABOUT THE COMPANY

First Bank System, Inc. is a regional bank holding company primarily serving
Minnesota, Colorado, Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, and Wisconsin through
181 banking locations and 24 offices of additional nonbank subsidiaries.
Headquartered in Minneapolis with $26.4 billion in assets, First Bank System has
three core businesses: Retail and Community Banking, Commercial Banking, and the
Trust and Investment Group.


 1   Financial Summary

 2   Letter to Shareholders

 4   FBS Priorities

 6   Retail & Community Banking

 8   Commercial Banking

10   Trust & Investment Group

12   Management's Discussion & Analysis

19   Statement of Income Analysis

25   Corporate Risk Profile

39   Fourth Quarter Results

40   Consolidated Financial Statements

44   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

70   Report of Management & Report of Independent Auditors

71   Five-Year Consolidated Financial Statements

73   Quarterly Consolidated Financial Data

74   Five-Year Consolidated Daily Average Balance Sheet & Related Yields & Rates

79   Form 10-K

83   Executive Officers & Directors

84   FBS Locations

85   Corporate Data


Graphs illustrate the following information:



(Inside Front Cover)





Graphs illustrate the following information:







LETTER TO SHAREHOLDERS

"THE WINNERS WILL BE BANKS THAT CAN CREATE SHAREHOLDER VALUE BY FULLY
INTEGRATING ACQUISITIONS AND CONTINUOUSLY IMPROVING PRODUCTIVITY AND CUSTOMER
SATISFACTION."

A year ago First Bank System set three goals: realize the value of acquisitions
through integration, grow core businesses, and maintain a fortress balance
sheet. We've done exactly that. And in the process, we've achieved strong
earnings, announced significant stock repurchase plans, and raised our common
stock dividend.

   Our financial performance is approaching the highest levels of the banking
industry. Our goal remains to become one of the nation's best banks, in terms of
market share and long-term profitability. We'll accomplish this by building
high-performing banking franchises where we can create and sustain market
leadership -- a mission we believe will lead to greater shareholder value.

   As the banking industry continues its rapid consolidation, the winners will
be banks that can create shareholder value by fully integrating acquisitions and
by continuously improving productivity and customer satisfaction.

ACQUISITION INTEGRATION - Our strong performance reflects significant changes in
our operations. Last year we integrated virtually all of our existing operations
and five acquisitions -- totaling nearly one-third of our $26.4 billion in
assets -- into one organization designed around markets and individual
customers. All of this was accomplished on time with minimal disruption in
customer service and while achieving our financial objectives.

   We now have more complete and easily accessible customer data. Our customers
can walk into any of our nearly 200 locations and our bankers can instantly view
the entire customer banking relationship on a computer screen. This allows for
more effective cross-selling and better positions FBS for interstate branching.

   Centralizing our operations has helped make us a low-cost producer, which we
believe is absolutely essential for future success. Our efficiency ratio, the
measure of expenses to revenues, improved to 59.8 percent from 64.7 percent a
year ago. FBS now ranks among the nation's most efficient banking organizations.

   Our ability to increase productivity and our proven integration model are
valuable assets. FBS has integrated its last three major acquisitions at a
progressively faster pace -- the integration of Colorado National Bankshares was
completed in just two months -- enabling each transaction to contribute to
earnings in its first full year.

CORE BUSINESS GROWTH - Leading market shares in attractive, healthy communities
and a pervasive sales and service culture also bode well for growth. We
continued to strengthen our regional banking franchise, which is our engine for
earnings, through both internal growth and acquisitions. All three of our core
businesses -- Retail and Community Banking,

Table entitled "Managing Capital for Shareholder Value"

16 percent common dividend increase, announced 2/94.

$159 million preferred stock redemption, announced 1/94.

$200 million common stock repurchase in conjunction with Boulevard Bancorp
acquisition, announced 9/93.

$125 million preferred stock repurchase, announced 9/93.

11 percent common dividend increase, announced 2/93

$75 million common stock repurchase in conjunction with Bank Shares Inc.
acquisition, announced 1/93.




Commercial Banking, and the Trust and Investment Group -- has solid earnings
gains in 1993.

   Despite a sluggish economy last year, both net interest income and fee
income grew.  Total loans were up substantially as the result of a strong home
equity loan promotion, aggressive small and middle-market business lending,
and loans to mortgage bankers, a commercial banking niche. We also are
encouraged by the performance of several products with great growth
potential, such as our mutual funds and Visa Corporate and Procurement Cards.

   We completed or announced eight acquisitions. The completion of the
previously announced acquisition of Colorado National Bankshares, Inc. made us
the largest banking organization in Colorado. We announced plans to acquire
J.P. Morgan's domestic corporate trust business, and announced deals that will
strengthen our retail banking market shares in Duluth and Mankato, Minnesota,
and Bismarck, North Dakota. In January the Federal Reserve Board approved our
acquisition of Boulevard Bancorp, which will mark our entry into the
attractive Chicago market.

FORTRESS BALANCE SHEET - Meanwhile, we maintained a fortress balance sheet.
Credit quality continued to improve last year while our reserve coverage for
nonperforming loans far exceeded the industry average. Our capital ratios
remain strong, giving us flexibility in pursuing an aggressive acquisition
strategy and in repurchasing common and preferred stock. During 1993 we
announced plans to repurchase $275 million of common stock and $125 million of
preferred stock. In January we announced our intention to call an additional
$159 million of preferred stock. As a result of our successful acquisition
integration and strengthened capital position, our debt and preferred stock
ratings were upgraded by Standard & Poor's Corp. in August and by Moody's
Investors Services in January 1994.

FBS'S GOALS - While our 1993 accomplishments are gratifying, much work lies
ahead. We will continue to grow our core businesses, be ever vigilant on cost
control and asset quality, and approach acquisitions conservatively as to
location and price.

   All of these efforts will continue to be guided by a disciplined commitment
to shareholder value. We further sharpened our shareholder focus this past
year by more closely tying the personal fortunes of our top 180 managers to
the success of FBS. We are strongly encouraging these senior managers to own
approximately one to five times their salaries in FBS stock within five years.
This target for management stock ownership is among the most aggressive in the
banking industry.

   Achieving our performance objectives will help us realize our vision of
becoming one of the nation's best banks. Our strategy for getting there isn't
flashy -- we're simply focusing on the basics of our business. Superior
management of the fundamentals is what distinguishes the truly great banks
from the rest of the industry. We believe it also is the surest way to reward
our shareholders.


/s/ John F. Grundhofer

JOHN F. GRUNDHOFER
Chairman, President and
Chief Executive Officer
February 16, 1994

"WE FURTHER SHARPENED OUR SHAREHOLDER FOCUS THIS PAST YEAR BY MORE CLOSELY
TYING THE PERSONAL FORTUNES OF OUR TOP 180 MANAGERS TO THE SUCCESS OF FIRST
BANK SYSTEM."



FIRST BANK SYSTEM
PRIORITIES

"WE BELIEVE STICKING TO THE BASICS OF OUR BUSINESS IS THE RIGHT COURSE FOR
CREATING SHAREHOLDER VALUE"

What distinguishes the nation's best banks from the pack? Superb management of
banking fundamentals: core business focus, cost control, asset quality, and
disciplined acquisitions. At First Bank System, we believe sticking to the
basics of our business is the right course for creating shareholder value. These
fundamentals are FBS's priorities for the years ahead.

CORE BUSINESS STRENGTH --> FBS focuses on three core businesses that are the
company's traditional strengths: Retail and Community Banking, Commercial
Banking, and the Trust and Investment Group. In each of these businesses, our
goal is to attain the leading share in the markets we serve.
        We already have strong market positions in five of the six states in
which we do business. As measured by deposits, we have the lead market shares
in the Twin Cities and Denver. This gives us the critical mass to be an
efficient, highly profitable retailer of financial services.
        Our markets are attractive and healthy. They exceed the U.S. averages
for employment growth, housing starts, household growth, and median income. In
fact, 12 FBS markets, including Minneapolis/St. Paul and Denver, recently
ranked in the top quartile of MONEY magazine's "Best Places to Live." All but
one of our locations ranked in the top half.

EFFICIENCY --> One of our long-term goals is to reduce noninterest expenses to
just over half of every dollar of revenue. We believe we can improve our
efficiency ratio of 59.8 percent -- down from nearly 80 percent four years ago -
- - to the mid 50s within two years, and ultimately to the low 50s. Most of the
improvement to date has resulted from centralizing our back office,
standardizing products, and investing in technology.
        While we see further benefits from technology, most of our future
improvement will come from constantly reengineering our operations to improve
productivity, customer service, and our cross-sell ratio.
        Another big part of our efficiency efforts is the culture at FBS.
Everyone understands the importance of controlling costs. Individual incentives
have helped create a new culture in which the pursuit of cost reductions is
relentless.

Table entitled, "Recent Acquisitions"

J. P. Morgan Corporate Trust, New York/National, closing in the second quarter
of 1994.
Assets:  N/A

First Financial Investors, Inc., Minnesota, closing in the second quarter of
1994.
Assets:  $200 million.

United Bank of Bismarck, North Dakota, closing the second quarter of 1994.
Assets: $123 million.

Boulevard Bancorp, Illinois, closing in the first quarter of 1994.  Assets:
$1,600 million.

American Bankshares of Mankato, Minnesota, closing in the first quarter of 1994.

Assets:  $116 million.

Republic Acceptance Corporation, Minnesota, closed in the second quarter of
1993.
Assets:  $39 million.

Colorado National Bankshares, Inc., Colorado, closed in the second quarter of
1993.
Assets:  $3,000 million.

U.S. Bancorp Bond Indenture, Washington/Oregon, closed in the first quarter of
1993.
Assets:  N/A

Bank Shares Inc., Minnesota, closed in the fourth quarter of 1992.  Assets:
$2,100 million.

Western Capital Investment Corp., Colorado, closed in the fourth quarter of
1992.
Assets:  $2,500 million.





Table entitled, "FBS Leading Market Shares," based on June 30, 1993 data.

Minnesota, 23 percent deposit share, rank: first.

Twin Cities, 30 percent deposit share, rank: first.

Colorado, 19 percent deposit share, rank:  first.

Denver, 21 percent deposit share, rank:  first.

Montana, 14 percent deposit share, rank: first.

South Dakota, 5 percent deposit share excluding credit card banks, rank:
second.

North Dakota, 9 percent deposit share, rank:  third.


ACQUISITION & INTEGRATION --> Our acquisition strategy is to build shareholder
value by leveraging existing strengths and further improving our productivity.
All seven FBS acquisitions in the past two years have increased shareholder
value. All are integrally related to our three core businesses and all
strengthened existing market shares.
        We've achieved substantial cost reductions quickly. We've realized
annualized savings of more than $100 million from integrating the acquisitions
of Bank Shares Inc., Western Capital Investment Corp., and Colorado National
Bankshares.
        Part of our integration strategy is to create a highly efficient
branching system that is convenient for our customers. Our 181 branches have an
average of more than $100 million in deposits. FBS has the third highest
deposits per branch among 27 regional banks. Our automated teller machines
outnumber our branches by more than four to one, compared to a median of 1.3
times for our peers.
        We'll continue to pursue a disciplined acquisition strategy to create
shareholder value.

ASSET QUALITY --> FBS has grown its loan portfolio over the past three years
while significantly improving asset quality. Our 1.20 percent ratio of
nonperforming assets to loans plus other real estate owned is well below the
industry average. We also have one of the strongest reserve coverage ratios, at
269 percent of nonperforming loans. Equally important, net charge-offs declined
26 percent last year.
        The improvement is the result of a stronger economy and better credit
management throughout FBS. In our commercial bank, a disciplined credit culture
characterized by individual lender accountability and prudent credit policies
and processes has significantly reduced problem loans. Consumer credit quality
has been strengthened through more powerful statistical credit evaluation models
and aggressive credit line management. Consumer credit control and efficiency
improvements include an automated decision-making system and a sophisticated
delinquent loan collection system.

CAPITAL STRENGTH --> FBS has one of the highest shareholders' equity-to-assets
ratios of the 27 regional banks in our peer group. Our strong capital base
enables us to pursue acquisitions while maintaining solid protection for
depositors and creditors.
        To effectively manage our capital, last year FBS announced $400 million
in common and preferred stock repurchases, including 6.5 million shares related
to the acquisition of Boulevard Bancorp. In January FBS announced its intention
to call an additional $159 million of preferred stock.
        A more detailed explanation of these priorities and our financial
performance is found in Management's Discussion and Analysis starting on page
12.

"WE'VE REALIZED ANNUALIZED SAVINGS OF MORE THAN $100 MILLION FROM INTEGRATING
RECENT ACQUISITIONS."



RETAIL & COMMUNITY
        BANKING


- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
COMMUNITY BANKING

BUSINESS DESCRIPTION

FBS serves more than 1.3 million consumers and small and middle-market
businesses in six states through 181 banking locations, 1,021 automated teller
machines, and 24-hour FastLine telephone service. Our core customers -- those
with checking accounts -- have an average of 3.2 accounts with FBS.

1993 HIGHLIGHTS

- - Integrated operations of all existing and acquired banks. - Created a $7
billion bank in Colorado, the state's largest. - Strengthened Minnesota and
North Dakota presence through acquisitions and announced Illinois entry. - Grew
consumer loans 10 percent and business loans 13 percent. - Implemented market
segmentation strategy. - Sold $313 million in mutual funds through our retail
bank, including $103 million in our First American mutual funds.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
MORTGAGE BANKING

BUSINESS DESCRIPTION

FBS Mortgage is one of the largest residential mortgage lender in our six-state
region. Home loan origination totaled $6.8 billion in 1993. At year end, our
mortgage servicing portfolio was $11.3 billion.

1993 HIGHLIGHTS

- - Increased home loan origination volume 51 percent over 1992. - Expanded
affordable lending activities: FBS provided $594 million in loans to 8,800 low-
and moderate-income families. - Exited the correspondent mortgage loan business.
- - Reduced our servicing delinquency performance to nearly half the national
average. - Cut loan servicing costs to 12 percent below the average for our peer
banks. - Developed and tested a new laptop computer loan origination program and
continued to develop artificial intelligence underwriting software.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAYMENT SYSTEMS

BUSINESS DESCRIPTION

FBS is the largest issuer of Visa Corporate and Procurement Cards, as well as a
leading issuer of Visa Business Cards. These products help companies and
governments of all sizes manage their purchasing. We also have 1.8 million Visa
consumer credit cards outstanding. FBS is the nation's fifth largest processor
of Visa and MasterCard transactions, serving approximately 60,000 merchants. Our
card products are distributed through more than 2,700 agent banking locations
and other outlets. FBS also processes transactions for 1,500 agent and Fastbank
automated teller machines (ATMs).

1993  HIGHLIGHTS

- - Increased Visa sales to $6 billion and became the ninth largest Visa card
issuer nationally. - Signed more than 100 Corporate Payment Systems accounts,
increasing FBS's Fortune 100 relationships to 42 and Fortune 500 relationships
to more than 100. - Increased Visa Procurement Card sales volume 91 percent,
giving FBS the largest share of this emerging national market. - Increased ATM
processing volume 10 percent to 61 million transactions and grew merchant
processing volume 36 percent to $10.2 billion. - In January 1994 we were awarded
the WorldPerks Visa Card program from Northwest Airlines.

Graphs illustrate the following information:

Pie chart shows that the Retail and Community Banking Group accounts for 61
percent of FBS's net income.







LOOKING AHEAD
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

FOCUS ON CONSUMERS: MARKET SEGMENTATION --> FBS is sharpening its focus on
customers through market segmentation. Segmentation is based on the concept that
consumers can be grouped by similar behaviors -- in our case, the way they
acquire and use financial products and services. We have identified seven
categories into which FBS customers are grouped: Affluent, Emerging Affluent,
Savings/Planners, Empty Nesters, Basic Banking, Growing Needs, and Mass Market.
Every branch strives to meet the needs of the market segments most prevalent in
its trade area.
        We believe this strategy will make FBS a more powerful marketer. Based
on the needs of these segments, branches are designing promotions, determining
staffing, identifying merchandising opportunities, and even fine-tuning the
layout of our banking offices.
        We measure our progress in each branch by its efficiency ratio, revenue
per full-time employee, and revenue per square foot.  Next year we'll compare
the performance of branches targeting the same market segments. The "best
practices" of the top branches will be implemented across FBS.

BUSINESS BANKING: GROWING MARKET SHARE --> We grew our small and middle-market
business loan portfolio 13 percent last year, largely by outselling the
competition. We expanded our business banking hubs, which service larger
companies, to put more of our bankers closer to the customer. In addition, our
Mainstreet Loan Centers now serve every FBS market, providing standardized
commercial bank products and 48-hour loan request turnaround for businesses with
annual sales under $1 million. Expanding our capabilities geographically
leveraged our main competitive advantages: size, a wide range of business
products, and lending expertise.

INTEGRATION: UNIFYING FBS --> Low-cost producers will be the banking industry's
winners. Last year FBS completed five major systems conversions. FBS now has one
set of systems supporting virtually all of its products in every location, a
unified communications network, and centralized processing for every bank
customer transaction.
        Standard products and seamless technology are an excellent foundation
for cost control and superior account relationship management. We now have more
complete and easily accessible customer data and can more quickly deliver new or
enhanced products at attractive prices. We also can more effectively cross-sell
our products and services.
        In the year ahead, we will continue the integration of Rocky Mountain
BankCard System into our credit card operations. Integration has made FBS more
productive. That's good for our customers, employees and, ultimately, our
shareholders.

CORPORATE PAYMENT SYSTEMS: A RAPID GROWTH MARKET --> FBS is the nation's largest
issuer of Visa Corporate and Procurement Cards, and a leading issuer of Visa
Business Cards. We're a dominant force in business travel planning through
marketing agreements with 15 of the nation's 25 largest travel agencies. These
agreements have made FBS the payment system of choice for more than 100 Fortune
500 companies.
        We see tremendous opportunity for growth. For example, only a fifth of
U.S. companies currently use corporate cards. And card issuers have barely
scratched the $300 billion annual market for procurement cards, which are used
by select employees to purchase goods and services. FBS is committed to
remaining a leader in corporate charge cards. Our goal is to have two million
corporate cards and 400,000 procurement cards in circulation by the year 2000.


Graphs illustrate the following information:







COMMERCIAL BANKING
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
COMMERCIAL LENDING

BUSINESS DESCRIPTION

FBS's Commercial Banking Group takes and manages credit risk and markets
competitively priced products to businesses in our markets with annual revenues
greater than $25 million.

1993 HIGHLIGHTS

- - Strengthened our position as the leading commercial lender in the Twin Cities,
despite reduced demand for larger corporate commercial credit industry-wide. -
Reduced nonperforming assets 44 percent to $87 million.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
MORTGAGE BANKING SERVICES

BUSINESS DESCRIPTION

FBS is among the nation's largest providers of credit and other financial
services to mortgage bankers.

1993 HIGHLIGHTS

- - Achieved a 60 percent increase in loan commitments. - Grew our customer base
14 percent. - Strengthened client relationships by providing cash management and
custodial services tailored for the industry; two-thirds of Mortgage Banking
Services' customers also use FBS for other financial services.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
REAL ESTATE LENDING

BUSINESS DESCRIPTION

FBS provides credit and other financial products and services to select real
estate developers for the development, renovation, expansion, acquisition or
refinance of their real estate projects.

1993 HIGHLIGHTS

- - Assembled a strong team of real estate professionals to provide expertise to
our clients. - Established major relationships with premier developers of
regional malls, community centers, and industrial and residential projects.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CASH MANAGEMENT

BUSINESS DESCRIPTION

FBS, one of the region's largest cash management services providers, helps
companies achieve effective treasury operations by offering a full range of
depository, disbursement, collection, and information services.

1993 HIGHLIGHTS

- - Implemented product enhancements that were "firsts" in our markets, including
a PC-based batch wire transfer system and image technology in wholesale lockbox
processing. - Became the first bank in our markets to provide on-line
availability of ACH Notifications of Change and Return Items. - Delivered
identical products across all FBS markets through centralization of product
management and operations.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CORPORATE PRODUCTS

BUSINESS DESCRIPTION

FBS provides value-added services to businesses, including foreign exchange,
trade finance, corporate finance, and loan syndication.

1993 HIGHLIGHTS

- - Achieved record year in foreign exchange revenue and profitability. - Expanded
correspondent banking relationships in emerging international markets to
facilitate our clients' trade flows. - Successfully underwrote and syndicated
several large financings for regional middle-market companies.

Graphs illustrate the following information:

Pie chart shows that the Commercial Banking Group accounts for 28 percent of
FBS's net income.






LOOKING AHEAD
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

COMMERCIAL LENDING: BUILDING RELATIONSHIPS --> More and more corporations today
choose banks for their intellectual as well as their financial capital. Clients
expect their bankers to be knowledgeable, creative financial advisors. FBS is
committed to becoming the "bank of choice" for middle-market and large
corporations in the markets we serve. Our goal is to deliver the highest quality
products and services at competitive prices.
        We're attracting and retaining the best people, and dedicating ourselves
to learning our clients' businesses. We take a proactive approach to meeting
customer needs through a broad range of credit and noncredit products and
services. These efforts are resulting in more satisfied clients and stronger
account relationships.

TRAINING & TECHNOLOGY: GIVING BANKERS THE RIGHT TOOLS --> To be the best
financial resource for our clients, FBS is investing in its people and in
technology. The goal is to enable Relationship Managers to provide the best
financial advice by understanding the client's business and the financial
markets. We continue to invest in our people through development programs
focusing on meeting client needs through innovative credit, corporate finance,
and product expertise. Technology also enables us to be more productive. We have
a computer network that provides immediate access to client information and
quick access to outside information sources. Giving our bankers the right tools
has led to better customer service and improved credit quality.

CASH MANAGEMENT: TECHNOLOGICALLY ADVANCED, SUPERIOR PRODUCTS --> FBS is one of
the region's largest cash management service providers. We have special
expertise in retailing. In the Twin Cities, for example, two-thirds of major
retailers use our automated central cash vault for deposit processing and cash
ordering. Standard product offerings and processes across FBS position us to
leverage and expand this customer base throughout our region.
        Our Minnesota, Colorado and Montana controlled disbursement points have
emerged as among the most effective in the country. We will emphasize
enhancements to our electronic products to anticipate changes in niche markets
and key industry segments, such as health care. We also will continue to
exercise influence at the national level in such organizations as the National
Automated Clearing House Association (NACHA) and the Bankers' Electronic Data
Interchange (EDI) Council to help shape the future of our nation's payment
systems.
        Quality products and economies of scale, along with highly skilled
people, have made cash management a strong source of fee income and an
effective tool for broadening customer relationships.

Graphs illustrate the following information:






TRUST & INVESTMENT
       GROUP

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CORPORATE TRUST

BUSINESS DESCRIPTION

FBS is one of the nation's 10 largest providers of trusteeship, paying agency,
and custody services to debt issuers. We have 13 offices nationwide and $115
billion in administered assets.

1993 HIGHLIGHTS

- - Announced acquisition of J.P. Morgan & Co.'s domestic corporate trust
business. - Completed acquisition of U.S. Bancorp trust offices in Washington
and Oregon. - Created a new arbitrage rebate product, a mortgage assignment
services product, and a government securities mutual fund. - Expanded Los
Angeles office and opened an office in Frederick, Maryland.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT

BUSINESS DESCRIPTION

FBS provides asset management services to individuals and institutions through
common, collective and mutual funds and individual portfolios. Assets under
management: $22 billion.

1993 HIGHLIGHTS

- - Tripled mutual fund assets to $2.9 billion through new sales and collective
fund conversions. - Achieved superior investment performance; most of our common
and mutual funds outperformed their market indices. - Introduced three special
equity common funds focusing on emerging growth, technology, and health care.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
INVESTMENT SERVICES

BUSINESS DESCRIPTION

FBS's retail brokerage company distributes municipal and government bonds,
equities, mutual funds, and annuities to correspondent banks, corporations,
public agencies, and individuals.

1993 HIGHLIGHTS

- - Launched retail bank sales of proprietary mutual funds, attracting more than
$100 million in assets. - Introduced new variable-rate  annuity product. -
Continued our position as one of Minnesota's largest underwriters and
distributors of municipal bonds. - Increased our investment sales force from 12
to 130 people in bank branches across FBS.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PERSONAL TRUST

BUSINESS DESCRIPTION

FBS provides a wide range of investment advisory, administrative, and fiduciary
services for individuals, families and charitable institutions.

1993 HIGHLIGHTS

- - Completed the integration of CNB and BSI acquisitions. - Redesigned account
statements to provide customers with easier-to-read information.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
INSTITUTIONAL TRUST

BUSINESS DESCRIPTION

FBS provides trustee, investment management, and custodial services,primarily
for employee benefit plans.

1993 HIGHLIGHTS

- - Successfully initiated alliance with The Wyatt Co. to provide recordkeeping
for large defined contribution plans. - Launched our Diamond Retirement Program,
a full-service 401(k) plan product for businesses with 25 to 250 employees. -
Converted 100 defined contribution plans representing nearly $100 million in
assets, to the Diamond Retirement Program.

Graphs illustrate the following information:

Pie chart shows that the Trust & Investment Group accounts for 11 percent of
FBS's net income.







LOOKING AHEAD

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MANAGED ASSETS: A PLAN FOR GROWTH --> Critical to our success is the ability to
grow managed assets. At the core of our business, managed assets provide not
only a continuing source of fee income but also the opportunity to expand
existing long-term relationships. Our goal is to become the preeminent asset
manager in our region. We already have solid personal trust relationships that
span generations and institutional trust relationships with small to large
corporate retirement plan sponsors and major endowments and foundations. And our
retail brokerage company is a leading municipal bond dealer and a key part of
the mutual fund distribution system in our retail banks.
        Our strategy for growing assets is twofold: focus on existing customers
and offer high quality, competitive products. We have an excellent opportunity
to better penetrate our base of approximately 1.3 million retail and commercial
banking customers. We're also focusing our distribution efforts on deepening our
relationships with existing trust customers. To achieve these objectives, we've
created referral incentives across FBS and substantially increased our sales
force.
        Another critical element is offering the right products. Last year we
introduced new products and tailored existing products for retail distribution,
including our First American mutual funds, a variable-rate annuity, and our
Diamond Retirement Program. These and other financial products are purchased on
the expectation of superior investment performance and quality service. At FBS,
we have a compelling story to tell. Last year, most of our 34 mutual funds and
common funds outperformed their benchmark indices, some by significant margins.
With $22 billion in assets under management, we have the size and diversity to
provide a range of investment styles to meet the financial objectives of our
customers.
        In 1994 we will continue to expand our investment products and services
through the introduction of six new mutual funds, including an international
fund, a technology fund, and two tax-free municipal funds. We also plan to offer
a new asset allocation product, as well as to broaden our 401(k) plan product
line and seek to expand our distribution channels through acquisitions and
alliances.

CORPORATE TRUST: AN INDUSTRY LEADER --> FBS will be one of the nation's five
largest providers of bond indenture services following the completion in the
second quarter of our previously announced acquisition of J.P. Morgan & Co.'s
domestic corporate trust business. The acquisition will increase our corporate
trust business by more than 40 percent, adding 650 clients with 3,800 bond
issues, and establish a significant New York presence for FBS.
        Excluding acquisitions, we grew trust fees 16 percent last year as the
result of aggressive marketing and new product introductions. In southern
California, for example, we've hired top talent and taken market share from
competitors. We also expanded our geographic presence through the acquisition of
U.S. Bancorp corporate trust units in Seattle and Portland, Oregon, the
expansion of our Los Angeles office, and the opening of a new office in
Frederick, Maryland.
        The market for corporate trust services is consolidating and FBS is
committed to growing its already large market share. We have the economies of
scale required for strong profitability, and we have invested in the technology
needed for continued delivery of superior products. In 1994 we will introduce a
new bondholder recordkeeping system. We will continue to expand our sales force
and to develop derivative products for targeted market niches.


Graphs illustrate the following information:






OVERVIEW DISCUSSION

     EARNINGS SUMMARY --> First Bank System, Inc. (the "Company") reported net
     earnings in 1993 of $298.0 million ($2.39 per share). Net income in 1993
     included merger-related charges of $50.0 million ($0.44 per share), on an
     after-tax basis, recorded in connection with the acquisition of Colorado
     National Bankshares, Inc. ("CNB"). Net income for 1992 of $311.8 million
     ($2.67 per share) included merger-related charges of $81.8 million ($0.78
     per share), on an after-tax basis, related to the acquisition of Western
     Capital Investment Corporation ("WCIC") and Bank Shares Incorporated
     ("BSI"), in addition to $157.3 million of income related to the cumulative
     effect of changes in accounting principles. Net income of $207.1 million
     was reported in 1991.
          Excluding merger-related charges, 1993 income totaled $348.0 million
     ($2.83 per share), an increase of $111.7 million, or 47.3 percent, compared
     with 1992 income of $236.3 million ($1.96 per share), before merger-related
     charges and cumulative effect of accounting changes.
          Net interest income on a taxable-equivalent basis for 1993 increased
     $132.8 million, or 13.0 percent, from the prior year. Net interest margin
     on a taxable-equivalent basis increased to 5.07 percent, up from 4.85
     percent in the prior year. Net interest income improved during the past
     year as a result of increases in average earning assets of $1.7 billion, or
     8.2 percent, and average noninterest-bearing deposits of $1.6 billion, or
     33.4 percent.
          The provision for credit losses was $125.2 million in 1993 compared
     with provisions of $183.4 million in 1992 and $202.2 million in 1991. The
     reduction in the provision was due to improved credit quality during 1993
     and a merger-related provision for credit losses of $13.6 million included
     in the 1992 amount.
          Noninterest income was $569.6 million in 1993, compared with $535.7
     million in 1992, an increase of $33.9 million, or 6.3 percent. Noninterest
     income was $497.7 million in 1991. Trust fees, credit card fees, and
     service charges increased $45.4 million, or 12.9 percent, from 1992. From
     1991 to 1992, these fees increased by $46.0 million, or 15.0 percent.
          Total noninterest expense in 1993 was $1,100.5 million compared to
     $1,114.3 in 1992. Merger-related charges of $72.2 million relating to the
     CNB acquisition were recorded in the second quarter of 1993. The charges
     relate to reorganization and restructuring costs, system conversions,
     customer communications, closing of redundant facilities, and other
     consolidation costs. Included in noninterest expense for 1992 were similar
     merger-related charges of $110.4 million associated with the acquisitions
     of WCIC and BSI. Excluding merger-related charges, noninterest expense for
     1993 was $1,028.3 million, an increase of $24.4 million, or 2.4 percent,
     over 1992.
          The efficiency ratio, the measure of operating expenses to net
     revenue, improved to 59.8 percent in 1993 from 64.7 percent in 1992,
     excluding merger-related charges.
          Return on average common equity decreased from 16.4 percent in 1992 to
     13.8 percent in 1993 and return on average assets decreased from 1.32
     percent to 1.17 percent over the same period. Excluding merger-related
     charges and the cumulative effect of accounting changes, return on average
     common equity increased from 12.0 percent in 1992 to 16.4 percent in 1993
     and return on average assets increased from 1.00 percent to 1.36 percent
     for the same periods.
          Nonperforming assets at December 31, 1993, totaled $226.0 million,
     down $186.1 million, or 45.2 percent, from the total at December 31, 1992.
     Of this decrease, $90.8 million related to a decrease in other real estate,
     principally due to sales of properties. The ratio of the allowance for
     credit losses to nonperforming loans was 268.5 percent at December 31,
     1993, compared with 179.1 percent at December 31, 1992.
          Results for 1993 and 1992 have been restated to reflect the
     acquisition of CNB, a $3.0 billion bank holding company, on May 28, 1993,
     which was accounted for using the pooling-of-interests method. The
     Company's results for 1992 also were restated to give effect to the
     December 18, 1992, acquisition of WCIC, a $2.5 billion bank holding
     company, which was accounted for using the pooling-of-interests method.
     Results for 1993 include the results of BSI, a $2.1 billion bank holding
     company, which was acquired on December 31, 1992. The BSI acquisition was
     accounted for using the purchase method, and, accordingly, had no effect on
     1992 earnings.






TABLE 1 --> SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA








          In 1992, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting
     Standards No. ("SFAS") 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes." The cumulative
     effect of this accounting change as of January 1, 1992, was $188.9 million.
     The Company also adopted SFAS 106, "Employer's Accounting for
     Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions," which resulted in a
     cumulative effect of accounting change of $31.6 million as of January 1,
     1992. For further information on accounting changes, see Note B of Notes to
     Consolidated Financial Statements on page 46.

DEVELOPMENTS DURING 1993

     The Company's goals for 1993 were to complete the integration of recent
     acquisitions in order to maximize their earnings potential, to grow the
     Company's three core businesses, and to maintain a fortress balance sheet.
     As discussed below, significant progress was made in 1993 to accomplish
     these objectives.
          On May 28, 1993, the Company completed the acquisition of CNB,
     formerly the largest independent commercial bank holding company in
     Colorado, with $3.0 billion in assets, $2.5 billion in deposits and $271
     million in common equity, resulting in the issuance of approximately 20.6
     million shares. As a result, the Company now has the leading market share
     in Colorado. The transaction was accounted for using the pooling-of-
     interests method. At closing, the Company recorded merger and restructuring
     charges totaling $72.2 million ($50.0 million on an after-tax basis).
          The integrations of CNB, WCIC and BSI were substantially completed in
     1993. Annualized cost savings due to system conversions, centralization and
     consolidation of operations, and related personnel reductions aggregated
     more than $100 million in the fourth quarter of 1993. Pro forma for the BSI
     acquisition, average full-time equivalent employees were reduced by 9
     percent.
          Reflecting the success of the Company's integration efforts,
     consistent increases in quarterly earnings, excluding merger-related
     charges, were achieved in 1993, with net income growing 48 percent from
     $64.7 million in the fourth quarter of 1992 to $95.9 million in the fourth
     quarter of 1993.
          During 1993, the Company announced agreements to purchase three
     institutions in markets in which the Company has an existing presence,
     serving to strengthen the Company's retail banking market shares in these
     communities. American Bancshares of Mankato, with approximately $116
     million in assets, is the holding company for American National Bank,
     located in Mankato, Minnesota. First Financial Investors, Inc., with
     approximately $200 million in assets, is the holding company for St. Louis
     Bank for Savings, FSB, located in Duluth, Minnesota. United Bank of
     Bismarck, with approximately $123 million in assets is located in Bismarck,
     North Dakota. The American Bancshares of Mankato acquisition is expected to
     close in the first quarter of 1994, while the First Financial Investors,
     Inc. and United Bank of Bismarck acquisitions are expected to close in the
     second quarter of 1994.
          Also in 1993, the Company announced its intention to enter the
     attractive Chicago market through the acquisition of Boulevard Bancorp,
     Inc., a commercial bank holding company with $1.6 billion in assets, $1.2
     billion in deposits, and $114 million in shareholders' equity. The Company
     expects to issue approximately 6.5 million common shares for Boulevard's
     outstanding common stock and existing stock options and warrants. The
     acquisition will be accounted for under the purchase method of accounting
     and is expected to close in the first quarter of 1994.
          Finally, in January 1994, the Company announced that it had signed an
     agreement to acquire the domestic corporate trust business of J. P. Morgan
     & Co., Incorporated. This business unit provides trust services for
     approximately 650 clients with 3,800 bond issues in the areas of municipal,
     revenue, housing, and corporate bond indenture trusteeships.
          Critical to future profitability and growth, the Company continued to
     improve asset quality and coverage ratios while maintaining a strong ratio
     of common equity to total assets.
          The ratio of nonperforming assets to total loans plus other real
     estate improved to 1.20 percent at December 31, 1993, compared with 2.39
     percent at December 31, 1992, and 3.31 percent at December 31, 1991. The
     allowance for credit losses increased to 268.5 percent of nonperforming
     loans at December 31, 1993, compared with 179.1 percent at December 31,
     1992, and 141.6 percent at December 31, 1991.
          The ratio of common equity to total assets increased slightly at
     December 31, 1993, to 7.5 percent from 7.3 percent at December 31, 1992.
     The Company's strong capital position has enabled it to announce several
     stock repurchase programs during 1993. In connection with the Boulevard
     acquisition, the Company plans to buy back common shares approximately
     equal to the number of common shares to be issued to effect the
     transaction. The repurchase of these shares began in October 1993. As of
     December 31, 1993, approximately 3.9 million shares with a cost of $121.4
     million have been repurchased.






          In January 1993, the Company announced a $75 million common stock
     repurchase program. Repurchased shares were to replace a portion of the
     shares issued in connection with the BSI acquisition, to provide for
     issuances under the Employee Stock Purchase and the Dividend Reinvestment
     Plans, and to be used for other corporate purposes. As of December 31,
     1993, 2.3 million shares, with a cost of $65.7 million, had been
     repurchased.
          In September 1993, the Company announced plans to repurchase $125
     million of its preferred stock. As part of this program, the $100 million
     Series 1983A Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock was redeemed. An
     additional $15.2 million of Preferred Stock Series 1991A and 1989B has been
     repurchased through December 31, 1993. The remaining $9.8 million of
     authorized repurchases may be effected from time to time.
          On January 19, 1994, the Board of Directors authorized the redemption
     of $159.3 million of the Company's preferred stock, consisting of $89
     million of Preferred Stock Series 1989A and $70.3 million of Preferred
     Stock Series 1989B.

LINE OF BUSINESS FINANCIAL REVIEW

          Each of the Company's three business lines - Retail and Community
     Banking, Commercial Banking, and the Trust and Investment Group -
     contributed to the strong financial performance in 1993. Compared to 1992
     results, all achieved earnings increases of more than 25 percent and
     significant productivity improvements, before merger-related expenses, as
     measured by their efficiency ratios.

TABLE 2 --> LINE OF BUSINESS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE








          Business line results are derived from the Company's business unit
     profitability reporting system which specifically attributes most assets,
     deposits and income statement items to a business line. The Company's
     internal Funds Transfer Pricing system allocates a standard cost of funds
     used or credit for funds provided to all assets and liabilities using a
     matched funding concept. Expenses which directly support business line
     operations are allocated based on a standard unit cost and actual volume
     measurements. Expenses which indirectly support the business line
     operations as well as those which primarily support the holding company are
     allocated based on the ratio of the business line's noninterest expense to
     total noninterest expense. Income taxes have been calculated based upon the
     Company's consolidated effective tax rate.
          Capital is allocated within the business unit profitability system
     based upon credit, operational and business risks. The asset and liability
     components of the balance sheet are assigned risk factors ranging from .50
     percent for deposits to 100 percent for goodwill. Asset components subject
     to credit risk are assigned risk factors based upon historic loss
     experience after taking into consideration changes in business practice
     which may introduce more or less risk into the portfolio. Certain lines of
     business, such as the Trust and Investment Group, which have no significant
     balance sheet components, are assigned capital after taking into
     consideration operational risk, capital levels of independent organizations
     operating similar businesses and regulatory minimums.

     RETAIL AND COMMUNITY BANKING --> Retail and Community Banking, which
     includes consumer, small and middle market business banking services,
     residential mortgage lending, and consumer and corporate credit card and
     payment systems processing, achieved strong revenue growth while containing
     costs. Net income increased 58.0 percent to $210.6 million in 1993. Return
     on assets increased to 1.13 percent from .78 percent in 1992. Return on
     equity increased to 15.2 percent from 11.1 percent for the previous year.
          Net interest income increased $91.0 million, or 11.2 percent, from
     1992 while fee-based noninterest income increased $6.4 million, or 2.0
     percent. The increases are attributable to strong home equity loan
     promotions, aggressive small and middle market business lending, and growth
     in the mutual funds and Corporate Payment System products, partially offset
     by net charges of $28 million related to loan servicing assets at FBS
     Mortgage Corporation. Compared to 1992, the provision for credit losses
     decreased $31.2 million, or 22.7 percent to $106.4 million in 1993,
     reflecting improved credit quality.
          Noninterest expense was $785.9 million in 1993 compared with $786.1
     million in 1992. The efficiency ratio improved to 63.6 percent in 1993 from
     69.1 percent in 1992.

     COMMERCIAL BANKING --> Commercial Banking, which provides lending, cash
     management, and other financial services to middle market, large corporate
     and mortgage banking companies, contributed net earnings of $97.9 million
     in 1993, a 29.7 percent increase over 1992. Return on assets rose to 1.58
     percent from 1.25 percent in 1992. Similarly, return on equity increased to
     22.5 percent in 1993 from 17.8 percent in the previous year.
          Net interest income increased to $212.3 million in 1993 from $183.3
     million in 1992 while noninterest income increased 6.9 percent to $60.2
     million in 1993, reflecting increased secured credit financings to mortgage
     banking firms accompanied by increases in noninterest-bearing deposits. The
     provision for credit losses declined 34.3 percent to $18.8 million from
     $28.6 million in 1992, reflecting improved credit quality.
          Noninterest expense increased to $94.3 million in 1993 from $89.6
     million in 1992 due to increased personnel expense associated with the BSI
     acquisition. The efficiency ratio improved to 34.6 percent in 1993 from
     37.4 percent in 1992.






          TRUST AND INVESTMENT GROUP --> The Trust and Investment Group, which
     includes personal, institutional and corporate trust services, investment
     management services, and a full-service brokerage company, reported net
     income of $39.5 million in 1993, a 43.6 percent increase over 1992. The
     return on average equity improved to 29.5 percent in 1993 from 27.8 percent
     in 1992. Much of the gain resulted from stronger noninterest income, which
     was $180.9 million for the year, up 15.0 percent over 1992. Trust fees for
     1993 reflect income from BSI and the corporate trust business units
     purchased from U.S. Bancorp in March 1993 and Bankers Trust Company of
     California in July 1992. Assets under management totaled $21.6 billion at
     year-end 1993, up from $19.1 billion at the previous year-end. Net interest
     income increased 68.1 percent to $31.6 million for the year reflecting an
     increase in average deposits.
          Noninterest expense increased to $148.1 million in 1993 from $128.2
     million in 1992 reflecting costs associated with the BSI, U.S. Bancorp and
     Bankers Trust Company of California acquisitions; however, the efficiency
     ratio improved to 69.7 percent in 1993 from 72.8 percent in 1992.

BALANCE SHEET SUMMARY

     Total assets at December 31, 1993, were $26.4 billion, essentially
     unchanged from the $26.6 billion at the end of 1992.
          Total loans increased $1.7 billion, or 10.0 percent, to $18.8 billion
     at December 31, 1993. The largest increase was in the financial
     institutions portfolio which increased $872 million, or 77.0 percent, to
     $2.0 billion at year-end 1993 from $1.1 billion at December 31, 1992. The
     increase resulted from the cyclical activity in the Company's secured loans
     to mortgage banking firms, including a $700 million low margin extension of
     credit which is fully secured by short-term U.S. Treasury securities and
     which is expected to be outstanding through the third quarter of 1994.
          Total deposits at December 31, 1993, remained relatively constant at
     $21.0 billion compared with $21.2 billion at December 31, 1992. However,
     noninterest-bearing deposits at December 31, 1993, increased $1.5 billion,
     or 24.6 percent, primarily due to increased escrow balances related to the
     secured lending to mortgage banking firms discussed above. Offsetting this
     increase, total interest-bearing deposits decreased $1.6 billion, or 10.8
     percent, from the previous year-end primarily due to a $1.3 billion, or
     22.7 percent, decline in savings certificates.
          The level of other sources of short-term funds, including federal
     funds purchased, securities sold under agreements to repurchase and other
     short-term funds borrowed, decreased $116 million, or 8.0 percent, to $1.3
     billion, from the end of 1992 to the end of 1993. Long-term debt increased
     23.5 percent to $1.0 billion over the same time period due to three $100
     million subordinated debt issuances. The Company's funding requirements are
     met with customer deposits, short-term funds, and long-term debt. Since
     1991 funding from the Company's operating region has represented over 90
     percent of the Company's total funding. The relative stability and lower
     cost of regional funding versus national wholesale funding have contributed
     to the Company's strengthened balance sheet and improved profitability. For
     further information regarding the Company's funding, see the Liquidity
     Management and Balance Sheet Analysis sections on pages 36 and 37.

CAPITAL MANAGEMENT

     The Company's capital position has remained strong over the past three
     years, as indicated by Table 3 on page 18. The capital levels reflect
     earnings retention partially reduced by the repurchases of $115.2 million
     of preferred stock and $187.1 million of common stock. See the Developments
     During 1993 section starting on page 14 for further information on the
     stock repurchases.
          At December 31, 1993, total shareholders' equity was $2.245 billion,
     or 8.5 percent of assets, compared with 8.7 percent at year-end 1992 and
     7.8 percent at year-end 1991.






     TABLE 3 --> CAPITAL RATIOS



     Common shareholders' equity at December 31, 1993, was $1.979 billion, or
     $18.09 per share, compared with $1.939 billion, or $17.09 per share, at
     year-end 1992 and $1.474 billion, or $14.41 per share, at year-end 1991.
     The common equity-to-assets ratio increased 20 basis points from year-end
     1992 to 7.5 percent at December 31, 1993. The common equity-to-assets ratio
     increased 110 basis points to 7.3 percent at year-end 1992 from 6.2 percent
     at year-end 1991.
          The Company's risk-based capital ratios, which take into account the
     different credit risks of its various assets, reflect the Company's capital
     strength. Tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios were 9.2 percent and
     13.3 percent, respectively, on December 31, 1993, compared with 9.5 percent
     and 12.6 percent at December 31, 1992, and 8.3 percent and 11.3 percent at
     December 31, 1991. The decrease in the Tier 1 ratio from 1992 to 1993 was
     due to the recent preferred stock and common stock repurchases discussed in
     the Developments During 1993 section starting on page 14. The increase in
     the total risk-based capital ratio was the result of $300 million of
     subordinated note issuances in 1993 partially offset by the stock
     repurchases. The improvement from 1991 occurred as a result of earnings
     retention, including the equity capital created by the adoption of SFAS
     109, the issuance of $125 million of 12-year subordinated notes in 1992 and
     the issuance in late 1991, net of subsequent repurchases, of $104 million
     of Convertible Preferred Stock. As required by the regulatory agencies,
     equity capital of $34 million created by the adoption of SFAS 115 was
     deducted from the risk-based capital calculations at December 31, 1993, and
     equity capital created by the adoption of SFAS 109 was subject to
     limitations for inclusion in risk-based capital at December 31, 1992. For
     further information on accounting changes, see Note B of Notes to
     Consolidated Financial Statements on page 46.
          At December 31, 1993, the Company's leverage ratio, the ratio of
     Tier 1 capital to total quarterly average assets, was 7.6 percent compared
     with 7.8 percent and 7.3 percent at December 31, 1992, and 1991,
     respectively. BSI quarterly average assets were included in the computation
     of the December 31, 1992, ratio for comparative purposes.
          Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act, a
     bank is typically defined as "well capitalized" if it maintains a Tier 1
     capital ratio of at least 6.0 percent, a total risk-based capital ratio of
     at least 10.0 percent and a leverage ratio of at least 5.0 percent.
     Generally, it is the Company's intention to maintain sufficient capital in
     each of its bank subsidiaries to permit them to maintain a "well
     capitalized" designation. As shown by Table 4 on page 19, all of the
     Company's bank subsidiaries met the "well capitalized" designation at
     December 31, 1993.






     TABLE 4 --> BANK SUBSIDIARY CAPITAL RATIOS


          During 1993, total dividends on common stock were $109.7 million
     compared with $73.1 million in 1992 and $65.6 million in 1991. On a per
     share basis, dividends paid to common shareholders totaled $1.00 in 1993,
     $.88 in 1992, and $.82 in 1991. The quarterly dividend paid to common
     shareholders was increased in the second quarter of 1992 from the previous
     level of $.205 per share to $.225 per share. In the first quarter of 1993,
     the quarterly dividend on common shares was increased to $.25 per share.
          The primary sources of funds for the dividends paid by the Company to
     its shareholders are dividends received from its bank and nonbank
     subsidiaries. Payment of dividends to the Company by its subsidiary banks
     is subject to ongoing review by banking regulators and to various statutory
     limitations. For further information, see Note Q of Notes to Consolidated
     Financial Statements on page 67.

STATEMENT OF INCOME ANALYSIS

     NET INTEREST INCOME - Net interest income on a taxable-equivalent basis was
     $1,150.6 million in 1993 compared with $1,017.8 million in 1992 and $941.2
     million in 1991. The improvement in net interest income from 1992 reflects
     increases in average earning assets of $1.7 billion, or 8.2 percent, and
     average noninterest-bearing deposits of $1.6 billion, or 33.4 percent. The
     increases in earning assets and noninterest bearing deposits were largely a
     result of the BSI acquisition, higher production in residential mortgage
     banking and increases in secured loans to mortgage banking firms. The
     improvement in net interest income from 1991 to 1992 reflects a change in
     the mix of the Company's loan portfolio towards higher-yielding consumer
     loans and an increase in average core deposits, including an increase in
     average noninterest-bearing deposits of $.9 billion, or 24.0 percent. The
     decline in nonperforming assets also contributed to the growth in net
     interest income in both years.






      TABLE 5 --> ANALYSIS OF NET INTEREST INCOME



          The net interest margin, on a taxable-equivalent basis, was 5.07
     percent in 1993, an increase of 22 basis points from 4.85 percent in 1992
     and 57 basis points from 4.50 percent in 1991. The improvement in net
     interest margin over the last two years can be attributed to two factors
     having approximately equal effects on the Company's ratios. The Company's
     balance sheet mix has changed, including a decrease in lower yielding
     short-term investments and a shift in the loan portfolio mix toward
     consumer loans, as a result of the BSI acquisition and promotional
     campaigns for the Company's home equity product. In addition, cyclical
     factors have resulted in lower interest rates, increasing the level of
     noninterest-bearing deposits and allowing for wider spreads between prime
     rates and short-term funding costs. If spreads between prime rates and
     funding costs were to decline, the Company's net interest margin would
     contract. For example, if the prime rate were to drop by 50 basis points
     without a corresponding decrease in funding costs, the Company's net
     interest income would be expected to decline by approximately $35 million,
     or 3.0 percent, on an annual basis, assuming no change in earning asset
     levels.

     TABLE 6 --> CHANGES IN RATE AND VOLUME







     PROVISION FOR CREDIT LOSSES --> The provision for credit losses was $125.2
     million in 1993, down $58.2 million from the provision of $183.4 million in
     1992 and down $77.0 million from the provision of $202.2 million in 1991.
     The decrease in the provision is directly related to improved credit
     quality. Nonperforming assets declined from $412.1 million at December 31,
     1992, to $226.0 million at December 31, 1993. Net charge-offs were $150.0
     million in 1993, down from $203.1 million in 1992 and $242.3 million in
     1991. Included in the 1992 provision for credit losses is a merger-related
     provision of $13.6 million related principally to the Company's valuation
     of WCIC's $70 million mobile home loan portfolio.
          The allowance for credit losses was $423.2 million at December 31,
     1993, compared with $448.0 million at December 31, 1992, and $426.9 million
     at December 31, 1991. Reserve coverage remained strong as the ratio of the
     allowance for credit losses to nonperforming loans increased to 268.5
     percent at year-end 1993, compared with 179.1 percent and 141.6 percent at
     year-end 1992 and 1991, respectively. Refer to "Credit Management" on page
     25 for additional information on the Company's credit quality.

     NONINTEREST INCOME --> Noninterest income was $569.6 million in 1993,
     compared with $535.7 million in 1992, an increase of $33.9 million, or 6.3
     percent. Noninterest income was $497.7 million in 1991. Trust fees, credit
     card fees, and service charges increased $45.4 million, or 12.9 percent,
     from 1992. From 1991 to 1992, these fees increased by $46.0 million, or
     15.0 percent.
          Trust fees in 1993 were $146.1 million, up $18.3 million, or 14.3
     percent, from $127.8 million in 1992. Trust fees for 1993 reflect income
     from BSI and the corporate trust business units purchased from U.S. Bancorp
     in March of 1993, and Bankers Trust Company of California in July of 1992.
     Trust fees in 1992 increased $12.3 million, or 10.6 percent, from $115.5
     million in 1991. The increase in trust fees from 1991 reflects the Bankers
     Trust Company of California acquisition as well as a new pricing structure
     that was introduced in the third quarter of 1991. Trust assets under
     management were $21.6 billion at December 31, 1993, compared with $19.1
     billion in 1992 and $16.7 billion in 1991.
          Credit card fees were up $20.2 million, or 17.3 percent, from $116.9
     million in 1992. Credit card fees totaled $94.4 million in 1991. Most of
     the 1993 increase in credit card fees is attributable to increased volumes
     for the Company's Corporate Card product. In 1992, the increase was due to
     increased volume including fees from portfolios acquired in the second half
     of 1991.
          Service charges on deposit accounts increased to $115.3 million in
     1993 from $108.4 million in 1992 and $97.2 million in 1991. The increase
     during 1993 reflects further product standardization and full integration
     of acquisitions while 1992's increase reflects a reduction in fee waivers,
     changes in deposit mix, product standardization, and rate increases.
          Insurance commissions were $20.9 million in 1993 compared with $27.3
     million in 1992 and $27.2 million in 1991. In December 1992, the Company
     sold its Montana insurance agencies, and during the first quarter of 1993,
     the Company sold its Twin Cities insurance agency. Gains on sales of the
     insurance agencies were not significant. As part of its ongoing analysis of
     its business lines, the Company concluded that it would be more successful
     in creating value for its shareholders by focusing its retail and community
     banking efforts on other opportunities.
          Trading account profits were $10.1 million in 1993, down slightly from
     $10.5 million in 1992 and $10.2 million in 1991. Sales of investment
     securities resulted in net gains of $.3 million in 1993, $1.9 million in
     1992 and $8.9 million in 1991.

     TABLE 7 --> NONINTEREST INCOME








          Other noninterest income decreased from $142.9 million in 1992 to
     $139.8 million in 1993, or 2.2 percent. The decline reflects approximately
     $28 million in net charges related to the accelerated amortization of
     mortgage loan servicing rights due to prepayments in the Company's mortgage
     servicing portfolio, partially offset by $11 million in one-time gains from
     the sale of assets. The Company reviews the valuation of its mortgage
     servicing rights assets quarterly. The valuation incorporates current
     dealer expectations of mortgage prepayment speeds. At December 31, 1993,
     the Company's mortgage servicing related assets consisted of $52.7 million
     of purchased mortgage servicing rights and $17.2 million of excess service
     fee receivables. Other noninterest income totaled $144.3 million in 1991.
     Nonrecurring items totaling $10.0 million were recorded by WCIC in 1991,
     including a $2.5 million IRS recovery and a $7.5 million reversal of a
     legal judgment.

     NONINTEREST EXPENSE --> Noninterest expense was $1,100.5 million, a
     decrease of $13.8 million, or 1.2 percent, from 1992. Included in 1993
     noninterest expense are merger, integration and restructuring charges
     totaling $72.2 million relating to the CNB acquisition. Noninterest
     expense in 1992 included merger-related charges of $110.4 million
     associated with the acquisition of WCIC and BSI. These accruals were made
     to reflect the Company's intent to dispose of problem assets and to provide
     for anticipated reorganization and restructuring costs.
          Excluding the effects of the merger-related provisions, noninterest
     expense for the year increased $24.4 million, or 2.4 percent, from $1,003.9
     million to $1,028.3 million. Noninterest expense totaled $969.3 million in
     1991. Excluding merger-related charges, the efficiency ratio, as shown in
     Table 8 below, improved to 59.8 percent in 1993 from 64.7 percent in 1992
     and 67.8 percent in 1991.

     TABLE 8 --> NONINTEREST EXPENSE








          Noninterest expense in 1993 increased due to the December 31, 1992,
     acquisition of BSI, which was accounted for under the purchase method of
     accounting. Compared with noninterest expense for 1992, including the
     operations of BSI on a pro forma basis and excluding merger-related
     charges, noninterest expense for 1993 declined $76.7 million, or 6.9
     percent. This decline reflects the successful integration of recent
     acquisitions. The systems of CNB were converted in July of 1993; the WCIC
     and BSI conversions were completed in March and May of 1993, respectively.
     The Company now has one set of systems supporting virtually all of its
     products in every location, a unified communications network, and
     centralized processing for every customer transaction. The increase in
     expenses in 1992 from 1991 levels reflects additional operating costs due
     to the acquisition of Siouxland Bank Holding Company in June 1992, First
     Trust California in July 1992 and several acquisitions completed in the
     last half of 1991, as well as expenses related to a new headquarters
     building.
          Salaries and employee benefits expenses in 1993 were $475.4 million,
     up only slightly from 1992's expense of $474.2 million. Including BSI on a
     pro forma basis in 1992, salaries and benefits expense in 1993 decreased
     $36.3 million, or 7.1 percent. In 1991, salaries and employee benefits
     expenses were $451.0 million. The increase in salaries and employee
     benefits expenses of $23.2 million from 1991 to 1992 was due in large part
     to the mid-year 1992 acquisitions and to higher personnel costs at CNB,
     including $3.6 million of severance.
          Net occupancy and furniture and equipment expenses totaling $166.1
     million in 1993 increased $11.0 million, or 7.1 percent, from 1992. This
     increase included costs associated with acquisitions and recent investments
     in technology. In 1992, net occupancy and furniture and equipment expenses
     increased $6.3 million, or 4.2 percent, from $148.8 million in 1991
     primarily due to costs related to the Company's move to a new headquarters
     building.
          FDIC insurance premiums totaled $46.4 million for the year ended
     December 31, 1993, compared with $42.2 million and $38.5 million for the
     years ended December 31, 1992, and 1991, respectively. The increase in
     premiums of $4.2 million, or 10.0 percent, during 1993 resulted from
     generally higher deposit levels, including the BSI acquisition. FDIC
     insurance premiums increased $3.7 million during 1992 primarily due to the
     1991 increase in the rate charged on deposits and higher deposit levels. In
     1993, the FDIC adopted a risk-based assessment system to replace the
     previous flat-rate system. Under this system, substantially all of the
     Company's deposits were subject to the lowest rate, $.23 per $100 of
     domestic deposits, at year-end 1993.
          Professional services expenses in 1993 were $36.7 million, down
     slightly from $38.7 million in 1992 and $37.8 million in 1991. Included in
     professional services expense is the cost of examinations by the Office of
     the Comptroller of the Currency which increased during 1993.
          The 1993 increase in amortization of goodwill and other intangible
     assets of $5.4 million was primarily attributable to the additional
     goodwill and intangible assets resulting from the BSI and the corporate
     trust unit acquisitions. Other personnel costs increased $7.3 million, or
     36.1 percent, primarily due to the increased use of temporary labor during
     the integration of various acquisitions. During 1992, other personnel costs
     increased $2.4 million as a result of mid-year 1992 acquisitions.
          Other real estate ("ORE") expense totaled $2.2 million in 1993 down
     significantly from $41.2 million in 1992 and $29.9 million in 1991,
     primarily due to lower levels of ORE and the absence of one-time charges
     related to acquisitions. Included in the 1992 ORE expense was a
     merger-related charge of $26.4 million resulting from the Company's change
     in estimate in the value of ORE owned by WCIC, based on the Company's
     intention to dispose of the assets in an accelerated manner relative to
     WCIC's previous actions.
          Merger-related charges of $72.2 million relating to the CNB
     acquisition were recorded in 1993. The charges, including $29.7 million in
     conversion and customer communications costs, $22.8 million in severance,
     $14.3 million in premises and equipment write-downs, and $5.4 million in
     other restructuring costs, relate to the closing of redundant facilities
     and consolidation of operations. Merger-related charges of $84.0 million
     relating primarily to the acquisition of WCIC were recorded in 1992. The
     charges included $31.2 million in premises and equipment write-downs, $12.6
     million in securities and interest rate swap write-downs, and $40.2 million
     in severance, system conversions, and customer communications costs.






     INCOME TAX EXPENSE --> The provision for income taxes was $178.8 million in
     1993 compared with $78.6 million in 1992 and $25.9 million in 1991. The
     increase in 1993 compared to 1992 was primarily a result of the higher
     level of taxable income along with a continued decline in tax-exempt
     interest income. The Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 was signed
     into law during the year and, among other changes, required a one percent
     increase in the corporate income tax rate effective January 1, 1993. The
     provision for 1993 reflects this increase, offset by the favorable effect
     of recording the related increase in deferred tax assets. The net effect on
     the annual provision for income taxes was not significant. The increase in
     the 1992 income tax provision compared to 1991 was attributable to the
     Company's adoption of SFAS 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes," in 1992. As
     required by the Statement, the Company recorded deferred tax assets related
     to the unrecognized benefit of income tax carryforwards. Years prior to
     1992 were not restated, and the 1991 provision included the recognition of
     tax benefits of $36.7 million, resulting from the use of operating loss
     carryforwards.
          At December 31, 1993, the Company's net deferred tax asset was $160.0
     million, net of valuation allowances of $19.6 million, compared with a net
     deferred tax asset of $224.0 million, net of valuation allowances of $20.1
     million, at December 31, 1992. Realization of this asset over time is
     dependent upon the Company generating earnings in future periods. In
     determining that realization of the asset was more likely than not, the
     Company gave consideration to a number of factors, including its recent
     earnings history, its expectations for earnings in the future and, where
     applicable, the expiration dates associated with tax carryforwards. For
     further information on income taxes, refer to Note L on page 58.

ACCOUNTING CHANGES

     The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS 115, "Accounting for Certain
     Investments in Debt and Equity Securities," as of December 31, 1993. SFAS
     115 requires that investments in debt securities and equity securities with
     readily determinable fair values be classified into three categories which
     then establishes the appropriate accounting treatment. The accounting for
     two of the categories, trading securities and held-to-maturity securities,
     is essentially the same as prior practice. The new category, available-for-
     sale securities, is accounted for at fair value with unrealized holding
     gains or losses reported in shareholders' equity. At December 31, 1993, the
     Company's entire $3.3 billion investment portfolio has been classified as
     available for sale. As a result, the net unrealized gain associated with
     these securities of $34.0 million, net of tax, has been included in
     shareholders' equity.
          The Company adopted SFAS 112, "Employers' Accounting for
     Postemployment Benefits," in 1993. This Statement requires accrual of costs
     associated with postemployment benefits (principally disability-related
     benefits) provided to former or inactive employees after employment but
     before retirement if certain conditions are met. The effect of adopting
     SFAS 112 was insignificant to the Company's financial statements.
          In 1992, in addition to the adoption of SFAS 109 as discussed above,
     the Company adopted SFAS 106, "Employer's Accounting for Postretirement
     Benefits Other than Pensions." This Statement requires the accrual of costs
     associated with postretirement benefits, and permits either immediate
     recognition of the accumulated obligation or amortization of the obligation
     over a 20-year period. The Company elected the immediate recognition method
     and the accrual of the accumulated obligation as of January 1, 1992, of
     $31.6 million, net of related tax benefits of $20.5 million, is reported as
     a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle.
          The Company has not yet adopted SFAS 114, "Accounting by Creditors for
     Impairment of a Loan." This Statement requires creditors to establish a
     valuation allowance when it is probable that all the principal and interest
     due under the contractual terms of a loan will not be collected. The
     impairment is measured based on the present value of expected future cash
     flows based on the effective interest rate of the loan, observable market
     price or fair value of a collateral dependent loan. This differs from the
     Company's current policy in that it requires establishing a valuation
     allowance for uncollectible interest in addition to the uncollectible
     principal amounts of impaired loans. The adoption of the Statement is
     required for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1994. The adoption
     of SFAS 114 is not expected to have a material effect on the Company. For
     further information on accounting changes, see Note B on page 46.






CORPORATE RISK PROFILE

     OVERALL RISK PROFILE --> Managing risk is an essential part of the
     operation of a financial services institution. The most prominent risk
     exposures are credit quality, interest rate sensitivity, and liquidity
     risk. Credit quality risk involves the risk of either not collecting
     interest when it is due or not receiving the principal balance of the loan
     or investment when it matures or otherwise is due. Interest rate
     sensitivity risk is the risk of reduced net interest income because of
     differences in the repricing characteristics of assets and liabilities, as
     well as the change in the market value of assets and liabilities as
     interest rates fluctuate. Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will
     not be able to fund its obligations and is largely a function of how
     effectively the Company manages its other risks.

     CREDIT MANAGEMENT --> Continued progress has been made during 1993 in
     achieving the Company's credit quality objectives. Nonperforming assets
     declined during 1993, reflecting many factors including the Company's
     efforts to promptly resolve problem assets, the reduced risk profile of the
     loan portfolio, and improved economic conditions in the Company's lending
     area. The ratio of nonperforming assets to loans plus Other Real Estate
     declined from 2.39 percent at year-end 1992 to 1.20 percent at year-end
     1993. The risk reduction in the portfolio reflects the Company's focus on
     middle market lending in its region and a shift toward more consumer
     lending. Consistent with the Company's strategy, middle market and consumer
     loan portfolios were enhanced by the acquisitions made during 1993 and
     1992. The ratio of the allowance for credit losses to nonperforming loans
     increased to 268.5 percent, providing strong reserve coverage. This
     coverage ratio was 179.1 percent at year-end 1992 and 141.6 percent at
     year-end 1991.
          In evaluating credit risk, the Company takes into consideration the
     composition of its loan portfolio, its level of allowance coverage,
     macroeconomic concerns such as the level of debt outstanding in the public
     and private sectors, the effects of domestic and international economic
     conditions, regional economic conditions, and other issues.
          The Company operates principally in Minnesota, Colorado, Montana,
     Wisconsin, North Dakota and South Dakota. Most economic indicators in the
     Company's operating regions compare favorably with national indicators.
     Approximately 60 percent of the Company's loan portfolio consists of
     extensions of credit to companies and consumers in Minnesota and Colorado.
     According to federal and state government agencies, unemployment rates in
     Minnesota and Colorado were 4.4 percent and 4.1 percent, respectively,
     compared to the national unemployment rate of 6.4 percent at December 31,
     1993. Nationally, retail sales improved by 6.1 percent during 1993 while
     Minnesota and Colorado experienced retail sales increases of 11.4 percent
     and 11.5 percent, respectively. At September 30, 1993, the national
     foreclosure rate was 1.01 percent compared with .70 percent in Minnesota
     and .47 percent in Colorado.
          The Company's credit management process includes centralized credit
     policy and administration functions and standardized underwriting criteria
     for specialized lending categories, such as mortgage banking, real estate
     construction, and consumer credit. The Company's credit management process
     is supported by regular examinations conducted by the credit administration
     function. Large loans and all loans experiencing deterioration of credit
     quality are reviewed quarterly by management. A standardized credit scoring
     system is used to assess consumer credit risks and to price consumer
     products relative to their assigned risk rating.
          The Company engages in various non-lending activities which may give
     rise to credit risk, including interest rate swap contracts, foreign
     exchange transactions for the benefit of customers, and the processing of
     credit card transactions for merchants' activities. These activities are
     subject to the same credit review, analysis and approval processes as those
     applied to commercial loans. For additional information on the Company's
     interest rate swap positions see "Interest Rate Risk Management" on page
     33.






     LOAN PORTFOLIO REVIEW --> One of the ways the Company manages its credit
     risk is by ensuring that its loan portfolio is diversified by industry
     classification, size and type of loan. Table 9 below shows the Company's
     loan distribution at the end of each of the last five years.
          The increase in the Company's loan portfolio of $1.7 billion, or 10.0
     percent, from year-end 1992 to year-end 1993 can be attributed to the
     commercial, financial institutions and home equity and second mortgage
     portfolios. The loan portfolio increased 4.3 percent from 1991 to 1992 due
     to the acquisition of BSI.

     COMMERCIAL --> Commercial loans account for 31.2 percent of total loans at
     December 31, 1993, compared with 31.0 percent and 33.5 percent at year-end
     1992 and 1991, respectively. Commercial loans totaled $5.9 billion at
     year-end 1993, up from $5.3 billion and $5.5 billion at year-end 1992 and
     1991, respectively. The increase in commercial loans includes growth in the
     Corporate Payment System program which issues Visa Corporate, Business and
     Procurement cards to businesses, and in small and middle market business
     lending.
          Within the commercial category, several industry groups are
     represented. Service industries, including both business and consumer
     services, totaled 32 percent of the portfolio. Consumer product
     manufacturers totaled 27 percent and wholesalers totaled 20 percent of
     amounts outstanding at December 31, 1993.
          The geographical distribution of the commercial portfolio is
     concentrated in the Company's operating region, with approximately 80
     percent of amounts outstanding to borrowers located in Minnesota, Colorado,
     Wisconsin, Montana, North Dakota, and South Dakota.

TABLE 9 --> LOAN PORTFOLIO DISTRIBUTION








         At December 31, 1993, commercial loans totaling $35.1 million were
     included in nonperforming assets, down $42.4 million, or 54.7 percent, from
     a year ago. Net charge-offs of commercial loans were $10.6 million in 1993,
     or .29 percent of the average outstanding balance, declining from $22.2
     million, or .84 percent of the average outstanding balance, in 1992.

     FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS --> The portfolio of loans to financial institutions
     totaled $2.0 billion at December 31, 1993, compared with $1.1 billion at
     December 31, 1992, and $1.0 billion at December 31, 1991. The increases are
     primarily attributable to a $700 million low margin extension of credit to
     one mortgage banking customer, which is fully secured by short-term U.S.
     Treasury securities, and which is expected to be outstanding through the
     third quarter of 1994. In addition, other cyclical activity in the
     Company's secured loans to mortgage banking firms has increased.
          The financial institutions group provides financing to customer
     institutions headquartered throughout the United States. Many of these
     institutions originate residential mortgages on a national basis. The
     Company primarily secures these loans with first liens on single family
     residences.
          At December 31, 1993, loans to financial institutions totaling $.9
     million were included in nonperforming assets, down $2.4 million, or 72.7
     percent, from a year ago. In 1993 net recoveries on loans to financial
     institutions were $.5 million. In 1992, there were no charge-offs or
     recoveries while in 1991, there were $2.0 million in net charge-offs.

     COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE LENDING --> The Company's portfolio of commercial
     real estate mortgages and construction loans totaled $1.7 billion at
     December 31, 1993, compared with $1.8 billion at December 31, 1992.
          Commercial mortgages outstanding were $1.5 billion at December 31,
     1993, and 1992. Real estate construction loans outstanding at December 31,
     1993, totaled $231 million compared with $234 million from year-end 1992.
     The Company maintains the real estate construction loan designation until
     the project is producing sufficient cash flow to service traditional
     mortgage financing, at which time the loan is transferred to the commercial
     mortgage portfolio. Approximately $21 million of construction loans were
     transferred to the commercial mortgage portfolio in 1993.
          The Company's commercial real estate mortgages and construction loans
     had combined unfunded commitments of $206 million at December 31, 1993, and
     $145 million at December 31, 1992. At year-end 1993, tax-exempt industrial
     development loans and commitments totaling $218 million and standby letters
     of credit totaling $301 million were secured by real estate interests. At
     year-end 1992, these exposures totaled $320 million and $279 million,
     respectively. Table 10 on page 28 shows the breakdown of commercial real
     estate exposures by property type and geographic location.
          Approximately 70 percent of Company's real estate exposures either are
     not dependent upon real estate for debt service (i.e., owner-occupied
     properties) or are secured by properties with positive cash flows.
          Commercial real estate loans of $39.1 million are included in
     nonperforming assets at December 31, 1993, compared with $67.8 million at
     December 31, 1992. Total real estate loans (including other real
     estate-owned) on nonperforming status declined to $106.5 million at
     year-end 1993 from $226.0 million a year ago.
          During 1993, net charge-offs of commercial real estate loans totaled
     $44.3 million, or 2.58 percent of the average balance outstanding, which
     was comparable to the $43.9 million of net charge-offs, or 2.49 percent of
     the average balance outstanding, in 1992.






     TABLE 10 --> COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE EXPOSURE BY PROPERTY TYPE AND GEOGRAPHY



          Other real estate-owned totaled $67.4 million at December 31, 1993.
     These properties are valued at estimated market value, and year-end 1993
     book value represents approximately 40 percent of the aggregate original
     investment. Of total real estate-owned at December 31, 1993, 28 percent was
     located in Colorado, 21 percent was located in Minnesota, and 14 percent
     was located in Wisconsin. At December 31, 1993, other real estate-owned was
     comprised of various property types including office building (29 percent),
     other commercial real estate (28 percent), and single-family residential
     (18 percent). In-substance foreclosures make up approximately 50 percent of
     the other real estate-owned balance at year-end 1993. In-substance
     foreclosures are properties held as collateral over which the Company
     possesses economic control, due to the borrower's inability to repay the
     related loan or rebuild equity in the property. The Company does not
     possess legal title to these properties.
          The Company also finances the operations of real estate developers and
     other entities with operations related to real estate. These loans are not
     secured directly by real estate and are subject to terms and conditions
     similar to commercial loans. These loans are included in the commercial
     category and totaled $286 million at December 31, 1993, and $289 million at
     December 31, 1992.

     HIGHLY LEVERAGED TRANSACTIONS --> The Company's exposure to commercial
     loans involving the buyout, recapitalization or acquisition of an existing
     business, called highly leveraged transactions ("HLTs"), continues to
     diminish. At December 31, 1993, the Company had HLT outstandings totaling
     $183 million and was committed under definitive agreements to lend an
     additional amount of approximately $50 million. This exposure has decreased
     approximately 37.9 percent from a year ago and 58.0 percent from two years
     ago. Total exposure was $375 million at December 31, 1992, and $555 million
     at December 31, 1991.
          At December 31, 1993, HLT outstandings totaling $20.1 million were
     included in nonperforming assets, down significantly from $64.4 million at
     December 31, 1992. The decrease consisted primarily of one credit totaling
     $37.5 million which was paid in full in 1993. Net charge-offs of HLTs
     totaled $5.6 million during 1993, down from $24.0 million in 1992.






     CONSUMER LENDING --> Consistent with the Company's strategy, growth in
     retail lending is of continuing importance to the Company. Consumer loan
     outstandings were $8.7 billion at December 31, 1993, up from $8.2 billion
     at year-end 1992 and $7.4 billion at year-end 1991. This increase occurred
     primarily in residential mortgages held for sale and home equity loans,
     offset partially by declines in residential mortgages and auto loans.
     Credit card loans remained relatively constant at $1.8 billion.
          Consumer lending is based primarily in the Company's operating region
     of Minnesota, Colorado, Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, and Wisconsin.
     Of total consumer balances outstanding, approximately 70 percent are to
     customers located in the Company's operating region. See page 25 for a
     discussion of the general economic conditions within the Company's
     operating region.
          The relatively low interest rate environment in 1993 resulted in
     increased activity in the Company's residential mortgage loan portfolio.
     Residential mortgage outstandings decreased $146 million, or 5.7 percent,
     to $2.4 billion, reflecting prepayments related to refinancings at lower
     interest rates. Residential mortgages held for sale increased $383 million,
     or 54.3 percent, due to increased loan production. Loan production was
     approximately $6.8 billion in 1993, a 51 percent increase over 1992.
     Included in 1993 loan production was $3.1 billion related to purchases of
     loans from correspondents. The Company recently announced its decision to
     exit this market, and as a result, 1994 loan production is expected to
     decline. The effect of this decision on net income is not expected to be
     material. The $393 million increase in home equity and second mortgage
     outstandings during 1993 reflects growth due to successful promotional
     campaigns.
          The credit card portfolio remained relatively constant at $1.8 billion
     at year-end 1993 and 1992. Revolving credit loans increased 15 percent to
     $690 million at December 31, 1993, primarily due to the growth achieved
     through direct mail marketing. During 1993, automobile loans decreased $177
     million, or 34.1 percent, to $342 million and installment loans decreased
     $54 million, or 12.6 percent, to $376 million. The decreases reflect a
     shift in the loan mix to home equity and second mortgages which have
     certain tax advantages for consumers. At December 31, 1993, student loans
     totaled $260 million, up slightly from the prior year. Table 9 on page 26
     shows the breakdown of the Company's consumer loan portfolio by type of
     loan.
          Consumer loans 30 days or more past due were 2.3 percent of the total
     consumer portfolio at December 31, 1993, compared with 2.1 percent at
     December 31, 1992. Consumer loans 90 days or more past due at December 31,
     1993, totaled 1.0 percent of the total consumer loan portfolio, compared to
     .7 percent at December 31, 1992. The increases were due to the purchase of
     $24.0 million, or .3 percent of the total consumer portfolio, of delinquent
     residential mortgages in connection with a sale of mortgage loan servicing
     rights. These loans are supported by government-sponsored mortgage
     insurance.
          Net charge-offs of consumer loans decreased $27.4 million to $86.1
     million during 1993. The decrease is due primarily to a decrease of credit
     card net charge-offs of $15.6 million for the year ended 1993. Credit card
     net charge-offs as a percent of average outstandings decreased during 1993
     to 3.57 percent from 4.53 percent in 1992 and 4.17 percent in 1991. The
     Company acquired portfolios totaling $395 million in 1991 which generally
     had higher credit loss experience than the Company's pre-existing
     portfolio. As these portfolios have been integrated into the Company's
     credit processes, their performance has improved.

     ANALYSIS AND ALLOCATION OF ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES --> The allowance
     for credit losses is maintained to provide for credit losses inherent in
     the Company's loan portfolio and related off-balance sheet commitments. The
     allowance is increased by the provision for credit losses and decreased by
     net charge-offs. Management has determined that the allowance for credit
     losses is adequate based on a continuing evaluation of the loan portfolio
     and off-balance sheet commitments, economic conditions and expectations,
     historical experience, and the risk evaluation of individual credits.
     Although the recent trend of slow steady economic growth may contribute to
     the continued improvement in the credit portfolio, prolonged stagnation or
     reversals in the economy could cause an increase in the required level of
     the allowance for credit losses.




TABLE 11 --> SUMMARY OF ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES








          At December 31, 1993, the allowance for credit losses was $423.2
     million, or 2.25 percent of loans. This compares with an allowance of
     $448.0 million, or 2.62 percent of loans, at year-end 1992 and $426.9
     million, or 2.61 percent of loans, at December 31, 1991. The allowance
     increased to 268.5 percent of nonperforming loans at December 31, 1993,
     compared with 179.1 percent at December 31, 1992, and 141.6 percent at
     December 31, 1991.
          Components of the allowance have been allocated to certain industry
     sectors based on management's assessment of the relative risk
     characteristics of the loan portfolio. Table 12 below shows the allocation
     of the allowance for credit losses by loan category. Commercial allocations
     are based on a quarterly review of individual loans outstanding and binding
     commitments to lend, including standby letters of credit, that have been
     identified by management as having higher than normal risk of collection.
     Consumer allocations are based on an analysis of historical and expected
     delinquency and charge-off statistics. The increase in the allocation for
     other consumer loans in 1992 was related to the mobile home portfolio
     acquired as part of the WCIC acquisition.
          Management reviews the adequacy of the allowance each quarter based on
     the status of problem loans and related off-balance sheet commitments,
     recent loss experience and other pertinent factors, including current and
     anticipated economic conditions. As a result of these assessments,
     management determines whether an additional allowance above specified
     allocations should be provided for the inherent loss in loans concentrated
     in certain industries.
          The unallocated allowance increased to $254.9 million at year-end 1993
     from $202.7 million and $150.1 million at December 31, 1992, and 1991,
     respectively. Generally, the increase in the unallocated allowance over the
     past two years reflects the trend of improving credit quality in the
     portfolio. Although the allocation of the allowance is an important tool in
     credit management, the entire allowance for credit losses is available for
     the entire loan portfolio.

TABLE 12 --> ALLOCATION OF ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES








     ANALYSIS OF NET LOAN CHARGE-OFFS --> As shown in Table 11 on page 30, net
     loan charge-offs decreased $53.1 million to $150.0 million from the $203.1
     million reported in 1992 primarily due to decreases in commercial, HLT, and
     consumer net charge-offs. Net charge-offs were $242.3 million in 1991. Net
     charge-offs as a percentage of average loans outstanding by industry are
     shown in Table 13 below.
          The 1993 net charge-offs reflect gross charge-offs of $225.0 million
     offset by $75.0 million of recoveries of previously charged-off loans.

     TABLE 13 --> NET CHARGE-OFFS AS A PERCENTAGE OF AVERAGE LOANS OUTSTANDING
     BY INDUSTRY



     ANALYSIS OF NONPERFORMING ASSETS --> Nonperforming assets include all
     nonaccrual loans, restructured loans, other real estate and other
     nonperforming assets owned by the Company. At December 31, 1993,
     nonperforming assets totaled $226.0 million, a decrease of $186.1 million,
     or 45.2 percent, from year-end 1992. The most significant reduction
     occurred in other real estate, which declined $90.8 million, or 57.4
     percent, primarily due to sales of properties. Commercial nonperforming
     loans declined $42.4 million, or 54.7 percent, during the year. The
     decrease in HLT nonperforming loans was related to one credit totaling
     $37.5 million which was repaid in 1993. Residential mortgage nonperforming
     loans increased to $44.8 million at December 31, 1993, from $20.5 million
     at December 31, 1992, due to the purchase of $24.0 million of delinquent
     residential mortgages in connection with a sale of mortgage loan servicing
     rights. These loans are supported by government-sponsored mortgage
     insurance, and the Company does not anticipate any significant losses
     related to these loans. At December 31, 1992, nonperforming assets were
     $412.1 million, down $137.6 million, or 25.0 percent, from year-end 1991.
     The decrease during 1992 was due to sales of properties and merger-related
     and other market valuation write-downs, net of $27.4 million added with the
     BSI acquisition.







     TABLE 14 --> NONPERFORMING ASSETS



          The ratio of nonperforming assets to loans plus other real estate
     improved to 1.20 percent at December 31, 1993, compared with 2.39 percent
     at year-end 1992 and 3.31 percent at year-end 1991.
          Interest payments are currently being received on approximately 40
     percent of the Company's nonperforming assets. The payments are typically
     applied against principal and not recorded as income.
          Accruing loans 90 days or more past due at December 31, 1993, totaled
     $31.2 million, compared with $30.2 million at December 31, 1992, and $43.4
     million at December 31, 1991.

     TABLE 15 --> NONPERFORMING ASSETS BY INDUSTRY



     INTEREST RATE RISK MANAGEMENT --> The Company's principle objective for
     interest rate risk management is to control exposure of net interest income
     to risks associated with interest rate movements. Interest rate risk is
     measured and reported to the Company's Asset and Liability Management
     Committee ("ALCO") through the use of traditional gap analysis, which
     measures the difference between assets and liabilities that reprice in a
     given time period, and simulation modeling, which produces projections of
     net interest income under various interest rate scenarios and balance sheet
     strategies.






TABLE 16 --> INTEREST RATE SENSITIVITY GAP ANALYSIS



     Table 16 above shows the Company's interest rate repricing gap position at
     several repricing maturities. As of December 31, 1993, the Company had a
     cumulative positive repricing gap position at one year of $1.9 billion,
     indicating that more assets than liabilities reprice within that period.
     This analysis is useful as a point-in-time measurement of interest rate
     risk. However, the gap analysis is unable to capture prepayment risk, the
     changing relationships between asset rates and liability rates of similar
     maturity (basis risk), option risk represented by interest rate caps and
     floors, and timing lags in adjusting certain assets and liabilities that
     have varying sensitivities to market interest rates. As a result,
     management places a greater reliance on simulation modeling to measure and
     manage interest rate risk.
          It is the Company's policy to maintain a low interest rate risk
     position by limiting the amount of forecasted net interest income at risk
     under a steady 200 basis point fluctuation in interest rates over a
     12-month period. Forecasted results are sensitive to many assumptions,
     including estimates of the timing of changes in rates which are determined
     by reference to market indices, such as prime or LIBOR, relative to each
     other and relative to rates which are determined by the Company subject to
     competitive factors. The Company assumes that the timing of these changes
     in rates will follow historic patterns, adjusted as necessary for current
     competitive factors and market conditions. The Company's current business
     mix results in more assets than liabilities repricing in a one year time
     frame. The Company invests in fixed rate assets or will receive fixed rates
     on interest rate swaps as a hedge to maintain acceptable interest rate risk
     levels.






          Interest rate swap agreements involve the exchange of fixed and
     floating rate interest payments without the exchange of the underlying
     notional amount on which the interest payments are calculated. The Company
     has entered into interest rate swap agreements that hedge specific assets
     and liabilities to manage the impact of fluctuating interest rates on
     earnings.
          As of December 31, 1993, the Company receives payments on $2.8 billion
     notional amount of interest rate swap agreements, based on fixed interest
     rates, and makes payments based on variable interest rates. These swaps
     have an average fixed rate of 6.98 percent and an average variable rate,
     which is tied to various LIBOR rates, of 3.32 percent. The maturity of
     these agreements ranges from one month to 11 years with an average
     remaining maturity of 3.5 years.
          Swaps contributed to the Company's net interest margin by reducing
     interest expense as interest income on floating rate assets declined. For
     the years ended December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991, swaps decreased pre-tax
     interest expense by $88.8 million, $80.6 million, and $42.0 million,
     respectively.

     TABLE 17 --> INTEREST RATE SWAP HEDGING PORTFOLIO NOTIONAL BALANCES AND
     YIELDS BY MATURITY DATE



          Interest rate caps and floors are similarly used by the Company to
     minimize the impact of fluctuating interest rates on earnings. By
     purchasing floors, the Company will be paid by its interest rate floor
     counterparties the difference between a certain short-term rate and the
     strike level of the agreement should the short-term rate fall below the
     strike level. The total notional amount of floor agreements purchased as of
     December 31, 1993, was $950 million with an average strike level of 3-month
     LIBOR at 3.5 percent and an average remaining maturity of 4.0 years. Floors
     increased interest income by $.6 million for the year ended December 31,
     1993. Further information on interest rate swaps and options can be found
     in Note M on page 60.
          Another objective of the interest rate risk measurement and management
     process is to quantify the sensitivity of the market value of the Company's
     balance sheet components and off-balance sheet commitments to changes in
     interest rates.
          In December 1991, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued
     Statement No. 107, "Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments."
     This Statement requires the disclosure of the fair value of all financial
     instruments for which it is practicable to estimate that value. Financial
     instruments are generally defined as cash, equity instruments or
     investments and contractual obligations to pay or receive cash or other
     financial instruments. In defining fair value, the Statement indicates
     quoted market prices are the preferred means of estimating the value of a
     specific instrument but in the cases where market quotes are not available,
     fair values should be determined using various valuation techniques such as
     discounted cash flow calculations or by using pricing models or services.






     Due to the nature of its business and the financing needs of its customers,
     the Company is involved with a large number of financial instruments, the
     majority of which are not actively traded. Accordingly, the Company has
     used various valuation techniques to estimate the fair value of its
     financial instruments. For further information on fair values of financial
     instruments refer to Note N on page 63.

     LIQUIDITY MANAGEMENT --> The objective of liquidity management is to ensure
     the continuous availability of funds to meet the demands of depositors,
     investors and borrowers. ALCO is responsible for managing these needs while
     achieving the Company's financial objectives. ALCO meets regularly to
     review funding capacity, current and forecasted loan demand and investment
     opportunities. With this information, ALCO supervises the funding needs and
     excess funding positions, as well as the maintenance of contingent funding
     sources, to achieve a balance sheet structure that provides sufficient
     liquidity.
          The Company relies on four major sources of funding: regional
     deposits, intermediate- and long-term debt, capital funds and, to a much
     lesser extent, money market borrowings.
          As a result of the Company's strategic focus on traditional retail and
     commercial banking services, the Company has reduced its reliance on
     higher-cost negotiated funding and has continued to pursue more stable
     retail funding opportunities. Negotiated funding, which includes term
     certificates of deposit, foreign branch time deposits, national federal
     funds purchased and medium-term notes, totaled $.7 billion at year-end
     1993, down from $.8 billion at year-end 1992 and $1.1 billion at year-end
     1991. Since 1991 funding from the Company's operating region has
     consistently represented over 90 percent of the Company's total funding.
          Holding company assets totaled $3.1 billion at December 31, 1993,
     compared with $3.2 billion at December 31, 1992, and $2.6 billion at
     December 31, 1991. The increase in holding company assets during 1992
     relates primarily to the acquisitions which were made during the year.
          The funding for the holding company consists primarily of long-term
     debt and equity, while funding for the Company's bank subsidiaries consists
     primarily of customer deposits. During 1993, holding company long-term
     debt, including medium-term notes, decreased slightly to $745 million from
     $749 million at year-end 1992. The Company issued $100 million in
     subordinated debt in the form of 10-year noncallable notes. The notes were
     priced at 6.625 percent to yield 75 basis points over the 10-year Treasury
     note. First Bank National Association (FBNA), the Company's lead bank,
     completed two $100 million subordinated debt issuances in 1993. The first
     was in the form of 12-year subordinated notes which carry a rate of 6.25
     percent until the call date, August 15, 2000, and thereafter, have a rate
     of 7.30 percent, if not called. The second issuance was in the form of
     10-year noncallable notes, priced at 6.00 percent. The Company also issued
     $125 million in subordinated debt in 1992 in the form of 12-year
     noncallable notes which were priced at 8.0 percent to yield 85 basis points
     over the 10-year Treasury note. It is the Company's operating practice to
     maintain liquid assets at the holding company sufficient to fund its
     operating cash needs including debt repayment.
          Long-term debt maturing in 1994 is approximately $146 million. These
     debt obligations will be met through medium-term note or subordinated debt
     issuance, as well as with the approximately $140 million of holding company
     cash and cash equivalents on hand at December 31, 1993.
          During 1993, the Company redeemed at par all of the $93 million of
     outstanding floating rate subordinated capital notes due in 1997.
          The sustained improvement in the Company's credit quality, liquidity,
     capital, and earnings has been recognized by several rating agencies which
     have upgraded the debt of First Bank System during the past several months.
     In January 1994, Moody's Investors Service raised the Company's senior debt
     rating to "A2" from "A3." Other Moody's ratings were raised as well. In
     August 1993, Standard & Poors upgraded the Company's senior debt to "A"
     from "A-". At December 31, 1993, Thomson BankWatch rated the Company's
     senior debt "A+".






BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS

     Average loans totaled $17.8 billion in 1993, up $1.5 billion, or 9.2
     percent, from the prior year. The increases occurred primarily in the
     financial institutions and consumer loan portfolios. The increase in the
     financial institutions portfolio was due primarily to a $700 million low
     margin extension of credit which is fully secured by short-term U.S.
     Treasury securities, and which is expected to be outstanding through the
     third quarter of 1994. The increase in consumer loans was primarily due to
     an increase in residential mortgages held for sale and home equity loans
     and the BSI acquisition, offset partially by declines in residential
     mortgages and auto loans. For a discussion of credit quality and the
     composition of the loan portfolio, see the Credit Management section
     beginning on page 25.
          Average securities increased to $4.0 billion in 1993 from $3.0 billion
     in 1992 as a result of the BSI acquisition. An increase in average U.S.
     agencies and other securities was partially offset by a decrease in average
     U.S. Treasury securities.
          The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS 115, "Accounting for
     Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities," as of December 31,
     1993. Under this Statement, securities are classified as held-to-maturity
     if the Company has the intent and ability to hold the securities to
     maturity. Securities that the Company may sell as part of its
     asset/liability strategy or which may be sold in response to changes in
     interest rates, resultant prepayment risk and other factors are classified
     as available-for-sale. As a result of adopting this Statement, the entire
     $3.3 billion investment portfolio has been classified as available for sale
     with $34.0 million, net of tax, being recorded as an unrealized gain in
     shareholders' equity at December 31, 1993. Investment securities totaling
     $3.9 billion were held as long-term investments and $284 million were held
     for sale at December 31, 1992.
          During 1993, the Company sold $223 million in investment securities
     which had been designated as held for sale at year-end 1992. Also during
     1993, $112 million of securities which had been designated as held for sale
     at the time of the CNB acquisition were sold. During 1992, the Company sold
     approximately $325 million of U.S. government agency mortgage-backed
     securities and $51 million of fixed rate, senior-support, pass-through
     certificates in response to increased prepayments experienced during the
     year. Net gains associated with these sales totaled $1.8 million. During
     1991, WCIC sold or designated as held for sale, all of its portfolio of
     Federal National Mortgage Association and Federal Home Loan Mortgage
     Corporation fixed-rate mortgage-backed securities. Gains on the sale of
     this portfolio totaled $6.1 million in 1991. Also in 1991, CNB sold $43.2
     million of state and political securities and $15.2 million of U.S.
     Treasury securities for a net gain of $1.9 million.
          Trading account assets are purchased for resale to customers. Trading
     account assets consist primarily of securities of the U.S. Treasury and its
     agencies, state and political subdivisions, and short-term obligations of
     banks. Other short-term earning assets consist of federal funds sold,
     reverse repurchase agreements and deposits with banks. Trading account and
     other short-term earning assets averaged $1.0 billion in 1993 compared with
     $1.8 billion in 1992.

     TABLE 18 --> AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE SECURITIES PORTFOLIO AVERAGE MATURITY








TABLE 19 --> AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE SECURITIES PORTFOLIO AMORTIZED COST, FAIR VALUE
AND YIELD BY MATURITY DATE



          Noninterest-bearing deposits averaged $6.4 billion in 1993, up $1.6
     billion from the 1992 average of $4.8 billion. The increase in
     noninterest-bearing deposits resulted from the higher levels of loans to
     mortgage banking firms which generate higher noninterest-bearing deposits,
     the BSI acquisition and generally higher levels of core deposits.
          Average interest-bearing deposits include certificates of deposit,
     savings certificates, money market checking, and savings products. These
     deposits averaged $13.9 billion in 1993 compared with $14.0 billion in
     1992.
          Short-term borrowings, which include federal funds purchased,
     securities sold under agreements to repurchase and other short-term
     borrowings, averaged $1.3 billion in 1993, or $164 million more than in the
     prior year.
          Intermediate- and long-term debt averaged $913 million in 1993
     essentially unchanged from $927 million in 1992. During 1993, the Company
     placed three $100 million subordinated debt issuances.
          Medium-term notes outstanding totaled $248 million at December 31,
     1993, compared with $258 million at December 31, 1992. During 1993, the
     Company issued $140 million of medium-term notes with maturities of nine
     months to two years of which $50 million had maturities of less than one
     year. Maturities and retirement of medium-term notes during 1993 totaled
     $150 million. Federal Home Loan Bank advances of $165 million at December
     31, 1991, relating to WCIC, were retired during 1992.

IMPACT OF INFLATION

     The assets and liabilities of a financial institution are primarily
     monetary in nature. As such, they represent obligations to pay or receive
     fixed and determinable amounts of money which are not affected by future
     changes in prices. During periods of inflation, monetary assets lose value
     in terms of purchasing power while monetary liabilities have corresponding
     purchasing power gains. Since banks generally have an excess of monetary
     assets over monetary liabilities, inflation will, in theory, cause a loss
     of purchasing power in the value of shareholders' equity. However, the
     concept of purchasing power is not an adequate indicator of the effect of
     inflation on banks because it does not take into account changes in
     interest rates, which are a more important determinant of bank earnings.
          Other sections of the Management's Discussion and Analysis provide the
     information necessary for an understanding of the Company's ability to
     react to changing interest rates.






     TABLE 20 --> FOURTH QUARTER SUMMARY



FOURTH QUARTER SUMMARY
     In the fourth quarter of 1993, the Company reported net income of $95.9
     million, or $.81 per share, compared to a net loss of $17.1 million, or
     $.23 per share in the fourth quarter of 1992. The fourth quarter loss in
     1992 was due to the $81.8 million, or $.77 per share, of after-tax
     merger-related charges associated with the WCIC and BSI acquisitions.
     Excluding merger-related charges, fourth quarter net income would have been
     $64.7 million, or $.54 per share.
          Net interest income on a taxable-equivalent basis was $293.3 million
     in the fourth quarter of 1993, an increase of $30.0 million, or 11.4
     percent, from the fourth quarter of 1992. The net interest margin on a
     taxable-equivalent basis was 5.00 percent compared with 4.91 percent a year
     ago. Total average earning assets were $23.3 billion during the fourth
     quarter of 1993, up $2.0 billion from the level of $21.3 billion in the
     same period of 1992.
          The provision for credit losses was $27.0 million in the fourth
     quarter of 1993 compared with $52.9 million in the fourth quarter of 1992.
     Included in the 1992 fourth quarter provision for credit losses was a
     merger-related provision of $13.6 million related to the WCIC acquisition.
     See the Provision for Credit Losses section on page 21 and the Credit
     Management section on page 25 for further information regarding the
     provision, net charge-offs and the allowance for credit losses.
          Noninterest income was $145.9 million in the fourth quarter of 1993,
     an increase of $8.8 million, or 6.4 percent, from the same quarter a year
     ago. The increase reflects higher trust fees, service charges, and credit
     card fees.
          Fourth quarter noninterest expense in 1993 was $255.3 million, a
     decrease of $113.7 million, from the fourth quarter of 1992. Included in
     noninterest expense in the fourth quarter of 1992 were merger-related
     charges of $110.4 million associated with the acquisition of WCIC and BSI.
     These merger-related charges were comprised of a $26.4 million loss on
     other real estate and $84.0 million in merger, integration and
     restructuring expenses. Compared with noninterest expense for the fourth
     quarter of 1992, including the operations of BSI on a pro forma basis and
     excluding merger-related charges, noninterest expense for the quarter
     declined by $28.3 million, or 10.0 percent. Excluding merger-related
     charges, the efficiency ratio improved to 58.1 percent from 64.6 percent in
     the fourth quarter of 1992.






CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET



SEE NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.






CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME



SEE NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.






CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY





SEE NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.






CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS



SEE NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.






NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


NOTE A - SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     First Bank System, Inc. ("The Company") is a regional, multi-bank holding
     company which provides bank and bank-related services principally to
     domestic markets, through its subsidiaries.

     BASIS OF PRESENTATION - The consolidated financial statements include the
     accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries. All significant intercompany
     accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. Certain
     amounts in prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current
     presentation.

     TRADING ACCOUNT SECURITIES - Debt and equity securities that are bought and
     held principally for the purpose of selling them in the near term are
     classified as trading account securities and are reported at fair value.
     Gains or losses on sales of trading account securities, adjustments to fair
     values, and other noninterest income are included in trading account
     profits and commissions.

     AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE SECURITIES - Securities that are not trading account
     securities and which may be sold before maturity in response to changes in
     interest rates or prepayment risk, or due to liquidity needs or changes in
     funding sources or terms, are classified as available-for-sale. These
     securities are carried at fair value, with unrealized holding gains or
     losses, net of tax, reported in shareholders' equity. When securities are
     sold, the amortized cost of the specific securities sold is used to compute
     the gain or loss on sale.

     INVESTMENT SECURITIES - Included in held-to-maturity securities are those
     securities which management has the positive intent and ability to hold to
     maturity. These securities are stated at cost, as adjusted for accretion of
     discounts or amortization of premiums, computed by the interest method. The
     adjusted cost of the specific security sold is used to compute the gains or
     losses on the sale.

     LOANS - Loans are reported net of any unearned discount. Interest income is
     accrued on loan balances outstanding. Loan and commitment fees are deferred
     and recognized over the loan and/or commitment period as yield adjustments.
         Loans are reviewed regularly by management and are generally placed on
     nonaccrual status when the collection of interest or principal has become
     90 days past due or collection is otherwise considered doubtful. When a
     loan is placed on nonaccrual status, previously recorded accrued but
     uncollected interest is reversed against current period interest income.
     Interest payments received on nonaccrual loans are generally applied
     against principal.
         Certain subsidiaries engage in both direct and leveraged lease
     financing. The net investment in direct financing leases consists of the
     sum of all minimum lease payments and estimated residual values, less
     unearned income and investment tax credit. Unearned income is earned and
     included in loan interest income over the terms of the leases to produce a
     constant rate of return on the net investment.
         The investment in leveraged leases consists of the sum of all lease
     payments (less the portion applicable to principal and interest on
     nonrecourse debt) plus estimated residual values, less unearned income.
     Unearned income is earned and included in loan interest income over the
     positive years of the net investment.
         Loans and mortgages held for sale are carried at the lower of cost or
     market value as determined on an aggregate basis by type of loan.

     ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES - Management determines the adequacy of the
     allowance based on a continuous evaluation of the loan portfolio and
     related off-balance sheet commitments, recent loss experience, and other
     pertinent factors, including current and anticipated economic conditions.
     The allowance is increased by provisions charged to operating expense and
     reduced by net charge-offs.





     MORTGAGE BANKING - Acquisition costs of purchased mortgage servicing rights
     and excess mortgage servicing fee receivables are capitalized and amortized
     on an accelerated basis over the estimated period of net servicing revenue.
     On a quarterly basis the Company reviews the carrying value of its mortgage
     servicing rights and fees based on historical prepayment experience and
     expectations of future prepayment activity, and if appropriate, reduces the
     carrying value to estimated realizable value, calculated on a discounted
     basis.

     INTEREST RATE SWAPS - The Company engages in interest rate swap
     transactions to manage its interest rate risk and as a financial
     intermediary. Income or expense on swaps designated as hedges of assets,
     liabilities or commitments is recorded as an adjustment to interest income
     or expense. If the instrument being hedged is disposed of, the swap
     agreement is marked to market with any resulting gain or loss being
     included with the gain or loss from the disposition. If the interest rate
     swap is terminated, the gain or loss is deferred and amortized over the
     remaining life of the specific asset or liability it was hedging. The
     initial bid/offer spread on intermediated swaps is deferred and recognized
     in trading account profits and commissions over the life of the agreements.
     Intermediated swaps are marked to market and the resultant gain or loss is
     recorded currently in trading account profits and commissions.

     INTEREST RATE CONTRACTS - The Company uses interest rate futures, forwards,
     options, caps, and floors for managing its interest rate risk, as a
     financial intermediary and in its trading operations. For interest rate
     contracts which meet the criteria for hedge accounting treatment, gains or
     losses due to changes in the market value of the contracts are deferred
     initially and amortized over the period of interest rate risk exposure as
     adjustments to interest income or expense. Gains or losses related to the
     termination of these financial instruments or disposal of the asset or
     liability being hedged are treated in the same manner as interest rate
     swaps. Gains or losses on all other interest rate contracts are included in
     income as part of trading account profits and commissions.

     BANK PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT - Bank premises and equipment are stated at
     cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization computed primarily on
     the straight line method based on estimated useful lives.
         Capitalized leases, less accumulated amortization, are included in bank
     premises and equipment, and the lease obligations are included in long-term
     debt. Capitalized leases are amortized on the straight line method over the
     lease term and the amortization is included in depreciation expense.

     OTHER REAL ESTATE - Other real estate (ORE), which is included in other
     assets, represents properties acquired through foreclosure, in substance
     foreclosure or other proceedings. Upon classification as ORE, any excess of
     the loan receivable over the fair value of the collateral is charged to the
     allowance for credit losses. Property is evaluated regularly to ensure that
     the recorded amount is supported by the current fair value. In addition,
     annual appraisals are conducted. Subsequent to classification as ORE, the
     asset is carried at the lower of cost or fair value, less estimated selling
     costs. Changes in the carrying amount of the asset are either recorded in a
     valuation allowance or charged directly to expense.

     INTANGIBLE ASSETS - The excess of cost over net assets of businesses
     acquired is included in other assets and is amortized over periods ranging
     up to 25 years. At December 31, 1993, goodwill totaled $168.0 million, net
     of accumulated amortization of $48.4 million. Other intangible assets, net
     of accumulated amortization, include purchased mortgage servicing rights of
     $52.7 million, cardholder relationships of $35.7 million, core deposits of
     $41.3 million and other intangibles of $26.5 million at December 31, 1993.
     These assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives ranging from
     seven to ten years using straight line and accelerated methods, as
     appropriate.

     INCOME TAXES - Deferred taxes are recorded to reflect the tax consequences
     on future years of differences between the tax bases of assets and
     liabilities and the financial reporting amounts at each year end.

     STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS - For purposes of reporting cash flows, cash
     equivalents are those amounts included in cash and due from banks and
     federal funds sold.




     PER SHARE CALCULATIONS - Primary earnings per share are computed by
     dividing income applicable to common stock (net income less preferred stock
     dividends and the pro rata effect of the assumed exercise of risk event
     warrants) by the weighted average number of shares of common stock and
     dilutive common stock equivalents outstanding during the period. To compute
     the dilutive effect of restricted common shares issued under the 1991 Stock
     Incentive Plan, the treasury stock method is applied to the unvested
     portion of the shares granted and the related unamortized expense. Fully
     diluted earnings per share computations assume the conversion of the Series
     1991A preferred stock during the period that the stock was outstanding,
     unless the effect is anti-dilutive.


NOTE B - ACCOUNTING CHANGES

     ACCOUNTING FOR CERTAIN INVESTMENTS IN DEBT AND EQUITY SECURITIES -
     Effective December 31, 1993, the Company adopted the provisions of
     Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") 115, "Accounting for
     Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities." Generally, SFAS 115
     requires that investments in debt securities and equity securities with
     readily determinable fair values be classified into three categories which
     then establishes the accounting requirements. The accounting for two of the
     categories, trading securities and held-to-maturity securities, is
     essentially the same as prior practice. The new category,
     available-for-sale securities, is accounted for at fair value with
     unrealized holding gains or losses being reported in shareholders' equity.
     As a result of adopting this statement, $3.3 billion of investment
     securities have been classified as available for sale with $34.0 million,
     net of tax, being recorded as an unrealized gain in shareholders' equity.

     ACCOUNTING FOR POSTEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS - The Company adopted the provisions
     of SFAS 112, "Employers' Accounting for Postemployment Benefits," as of
     December 31, 1993. This Statement requires accrual of costs associated with
     postemployment benefits (principally disability-related benefits) provided
     to former or inactive employees after employment but before retirement if
     certain conditions are met. The effect of adopting SFAS 112 was not
     material.

     ACCOUNTING FOR INCOME TAXES - In 1992, the Company adopted the provisions
     of SFAS 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes," which superseded SFAS 96, the
     basis of the Company's accounting for income taxes prior to the change. The
     Company elected not to restate prior years' financial statements. The
     effect of adopting SFAS 109 as of January 1, 1992, has been reflected in
     the income statement as a cumulative effect of an accounting change.
         SFAS 109 requires companies to record a deferred tax asset related to
     the unrecognized benefit of income tax carryforwards. SFAS 96 precluded
     such accounting and required the benefits to be recorded in income as the
     carryforwards were utilized. In connection with the adoption of SFAS 109,
     the Company evaluated the available evidence supporting the realization of
     the deferred tax assets and determined that it was more likely than not
     that the assets will be realized. Accordingly, the Company recorded
     deferred tax assets related to the unrecognized benefit of income tax
     carryforwards. The cumulative effect of this accounting change on years
     prior to 1992 was an increase of $213.9 million in the Company's deferred
     tax assets and $188.9 million in net income. SFAS 109 was adopted
     retroactive to the beginning of 1992, and results for the first three
     quarters of that year were restated to reflect increased tax expense.

     ACCOUNTING FOR POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS - The Company adopted SFAS 106,
     "Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions," in
     the fourth quarter of 1992. This Statement requires the accrual of costs
     associated with such benefits (principally postretirement health care
     benefits) during the years that the employee renders the required services.
     The Company elected to recognize the entire amount of the accumulated
     postretirement benefit obligation related to prior years as a one-time
     charge reflected as a cumulative effect of an accounting change. At the
     time of adoption on January 1, 1992, this obligation was $52.1 million,
     before tax benefits of $20.5 million. Similar to SFAS 109, the first three
     quarters of 1992 have been restated to reflect the adoption of SFAS 106.




     ACCOUNTING BY CREDITORS FOR IMPAIRMENT OF A LOAN - The Financial Accounting
     Standards Board recently issued SFAS 114, "Accounting by Creditors for
     Impairment of a Loan," which requires creditors to establish a valuation
     allowance when it is probable that all the principal and interest due under
     the contractual terms of a loan will not be collected. The impairment is
     measured based on the present value of expected future cash flows based on
     the loans' effective interest rate, observable market price or fair value
     of a collateral dependent loan. This differs from the Company's current
     policy in that it requires establishing a valuation allowance for
     uncollectible interest in addition to the principal amounts of impaired
     loans. The adoption of this Statement is required for fiscal years
     beginning after December 15, 1994. The adoption of SFAS 114 is not expected
     to have a material effect on the Company.


Note C - BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND PENDING ACQUISITIONS

     Effective May 28, 1993, the Company completed the acquisition of Colorado
     National Bankshares, Inc. ("CNB"), formerly the largest independent
     commercial bank holding company in Colorado with $3.0 billion in assets,
     $2.5 billion in deposits and $271 million in common equity, resulting in
     approximately 20.6 million shares of the Company's common stock being
     issued for all the outstanding common stock of CNB.
         Effective December 18, 1992, Western Capital Investment Corporation
     ("WCIC"), a $2.5 billion financial institution headquartered in Denver,
     Colorado, merged with a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, resulting
     in 5.3 million shares of the Company's common stock being issued for all
     the outstanding common shares of WCIC.
         Both the CNB and WCIC acquisitions were accounted for using the
     pooling-of-interests method of accounting. Accordingly, the Company's
     financial statements have been restated for all periods prior to the
     acquisitions to include the accounts and operations of CNB and WCIC.
         Operating results of the Company and CNB for the three months ended
     March 31, 1993, and the years ended December 31, 1992, and 1991 prior to
     restatement were:



         On December 31, 1992, the Company acquired Bank Shares Incorporated
     ("BSI"), a bank holding company headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota, in
     a stock-for-stock exchange in which the Company issued 8.2 million shares
     of common stock for all outstanding shares of BSI common stock.
         The acquisition of BSI was accounted for under the purchase method of
     accounting, and accordingly, the purchase price of $211.2 million was
     allocated to assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their fair
     market values at the date of acquisition. The excess of the purchase price
     over the fair market values of net assets acquired was recorded as
     goodwill. Core deposit intangibles of $34 million are being amortized over
     the estimated lives of the deposits of approximately 10 years, and goodwill
     of $68.7 million is being amortized over 25 years. The total assets
     acquired and liabilities assumed at the time of acquisition were $2.1
     billion and $1.9 billion, respectively. The results of operations of BSI
     have been included in the Company's Consolidated Statement of Income only
     for the year ended December 31, 1993.




         The following pro forma operating results of the Company assume that
     the BSI acquisition had occurred at the beginning of each period presented.
     In addition to combining the historical results of operations of the two
     companies, the pro forma results include adjustments for the estimated
     effect of purchase accounting on the Company's results. The pro forma
     information may not be indicative of the results that actually would have
     occurred if the combination had been in effect on the dates indicated.



          On September 29, 1993, the Company announced that it had signed a
     purchase agreement to acquire Boulevard Bancorp Inc., a Chicago commercial
     bank holding company with $1.6 billion in assets, $1.2 billion in deposits,
     and $114 million in shareholders' equity. The value of the Company's common
     stock to be issued in connection with the merger including the fair value
     of Boulevard's stock options and warrants  is approximately $202.3 million.
     This acquisition will be accounted for under the purchase method of
     accounting, and accordingly, the purchase price will be allocated to the
     assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their fair market values
     at the date of acquisition. The excess of the purchase price over the fair
     market values of net assets acquired will be recorded as goodwill. The
     transaction is subject to shareholder and regulatory approval and is
     expected to close in the first quarter of 1994.
          In connection with the Boulevard acquisition, the Company announced it
     would buy back existing shares of its common stock approximately equal to
     the number of shares to be issued at the time of closing of the Boulevard
     acquisition (approximately 6.5 million). The repurchase of these shares
     began in October 1993 and may continue up to 90 days following the closing
     of the Boulevard acquisition. As of December 31, 1993, approximately 3.9
     million shares with a cost of $121.4 million have been repurchased.
          As of December 31, 1993, the Company has signed agreements with
     respect to four pending acquisitions which are not material to the
     Company's financial position or operating results, including American
     Bancshares of Mankato, a commercial bank holding company headquartered in
     Mankato, Minnesota, with approximately $116 million in assets; First
     Financial Investors, Inc., a savings bank holding company headquartered in
     Duluth, Minnesota, with approximately $200 million in assets; and United
     Bank of Bismarck, a commercial bank headquartered in Bismarck, North
     Dakota, with approximately $123 million in assets. The Company has agreed
     to purchase the domestic corporate trust business of J.P. Morgan & Co.,
     Incorporated. This business unit provides trust services for approximately
     650 clients with 3,800 bond issues. These transactions are expected to
     close during the first half of 1994.
          During 1992 and 1993, three additional transactions were completed to
     support the strategic direction of the Company. These included Siouxland
     Bank Holding Company, a $174 million institution headquartered in Fargo,
     North Dakota, acquired in June 1992; the corporate trust business of
     Bankers Trust Company of California, acquired in July 1992; and the
     corporate trust business of two U.S. Bancorp subsidiaries in Washington and
     Oregon, acquired in March 1993.




NOTE D - RESTRICTIONS ON CASH AND DUE FROM BANKS

     Bank subsidiaries are required to maintain average reserve balances with
     the Federal Reserve Bank. The amount of those reserve balances averaged
     $519 million for the quarter ended December 31, 1993.


NOTE E - SECURITIES

     The detail of the amortized cost, gross unrealized holding gains and
     losses, and fair value of securities at December 31 was as follows:



          As described in Note B of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
     Statements, the Company adopted SFAS 115 at December 31, 1993, and at that
     date, all of the Company's investment securities were classified as
     available for sale. At December 31, 1992, investment securities with
     amortized cost totaling $3,912 million were held as long-term investments,
     and securities held for sale totaling $284 million were carried at lower of
     cost or market.
          Securities carried at $.8 billion at December 31, 1993, and $1.3
     billion at December 31, 1992, were pledged to secure public and trust
     deposits and for other purposes required by law. Securities sold under
     agreements to repurchase were collateralized by securities with an
     amortized cost of $.4 billion and $.5 billion at December 31, 1993, and
     1992, respectively.
          Gross realized gains and losses on investment securities were as
     follows:



          For amortized cost, fair value and yield by maturity date of
     securities outstanding as of December 31, 1993, see Table 19 on page 38
     from which such information is incorporated by reference into these Notes
     to Consolidated Financial Statements.




NOTE F - LOANS AND ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES

     The composition of the loan portfolio at December 31 was as follows:



          Certain directors and executive officers of the Company, including
     their immediate families, companies in which they are principal owners, and
     trusts in which they are involved, are loan customers of the Company and
     its subsidiaries. These loans were made in the ordinary course of business
     at the subsidiaries' normal credit terms, including interest rate and
     collateralization, and were all current as to their terms at December 31,
     1993, and 1992. The aggregate dollar amounts of these loans were $18.8
     million and $12.5 million at December 31, 1993, and 1992, respectively.
     During 1993, additions totaled $118.0 million and repayments totaled $111.7
     million.
          Nonaccrual and renegotiated loans totaled $158 million, $250 million,
     and $302 million at December 31, 1993, 1992, and 1991, respectively. The
     effect of nonaccrual and renegotiated loans on interest income was as
     follows:



          Commitments to lend additional funds to customers whose loans were
     classified as nonaccrual or renegotiated at December 31, 1993, totaled $9.4
     million.
          During 1993, there were no loans that were restructured at market
     interest rates and returned to a fully performing status.





          Activity in the allowance for credit losses was as follows:


NOTE G - BANK PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT

     Bank premises and equipment at December 31 consisted of the following:




NOTE H - LONG-TERM DEBT

     Long-term debt (debt with original maturities of more than one year) at
     December 31 consisted of the following:






          The floating-rate subordinated capital notes due November 29, 1996,
     are currently redeemable at the option of the Company (with Federal Reserve
     Bank approval). If the option is not exercised, the notes will be exchanged
     at maturity for capital securities of the Company whose market value will
     equal the principal amount of the notes. The interest rate per annum is
     one-eighth of one percent above the London interbank offered rate ("LIBOR")
     for three-month Eurodollar deposits subject to a minimum of 5.25 percent.
     At December 31, 1993, the interest rate was 5.25 percent.
          The floating-rate subordinated notes due November 30, 2010, may be
     redeemed at par at the option of the Company. The interest rate per annum
     for each quarterly period is one-eighth of one percent above LIBOR for
     three-month Eurodollar deposits subject to a minimum of 5.25 percent. At
     December 31, 1993, the interest rate was 5.25 percent.
          The step-up subordinated notes due August 15, 2005, are issued by the
     Company's subsidiary bank, First Bank National Association. The interest
     rate on these notes is 6.25 percent through August 14, 2000, and 7.30
     percent thereafter. The notes have a one-time call feature at the option of
     the Bank on August 15, 2000.
          Notes issued under the Company's medium-term note program may mature
     from 9 months to 15 years and bear fixed or floating interest rates. The
     notes outstanding at December 31, 1993, mature from January 1994 to April
     1996 and have rates of 3.33 percent to 9.91 percent. The weighted average
     interest rate at December 31, 1993, is 6.32 percent.
          Maturities of long-term debt outstanding at December 31, 1993, were:


NOTE I - SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

     COMMON STOCK - At December 31, 1993, the Company has reserved 6,824,562
     shares of its common stock for future issuances under the Dividend
     Reinvestment Plan, Employee Stock Purchase Plan, and the Stock Option Plans
     (see Note K on page 55). Additionally, 3,952,000 shares of common stock
     have been reserved for issuance upon conversion of the Series 1991A
     Convertible Preferred Stock, described below under "Preferred Stock."
          In January 1994 the Board of Directors approved a new Stock Incentive
     Plan which authorizes the issuance of up to 5,000,000 shares of the
     Company's common stock. This plan extends through January 2004. The terms
     of the new plan are substantially the same as the existing 1991 Stock
     Incentive Plan.
          During 1992 and 1993 the Company completed four significant
     acquisitions in which common shares aggregating 35.0 million were issued in
     exchange for the stock of the acquired banks. (See Note C on page 47.)
          In connection with the Boulevard acquisition, the Company announced it
     would buy back shares of its common stock approximately equal to the number
     of shares to be issued to effect the transaction, or approximately 6.5
     million shares. The repurchase of these shares began in October 1993. As of
     December 31, 1993, approximately 3.9 million common shares with a cost of
     $121.4 million have been repurchased.
          In January 1993 the Company announced a $75 million common stock
     repurchase program. Repurchased shares were to replace a portion of the
     shares issued in connection with the BSI acquisition, to provide for
     issuances under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan and the Dividend
     Reinvestment Plan and to be used for other corporate purposes. As of
     December 31, 1993, approximately 2.3 million shares with a cost of $65.7
     million have been repurchased.




          The Company has outstanding 12.6 million common shares sold in a
     private placement on July 18, 1990, which had accompanying periodic stock
     purchase rights (PSPRs) and risk event warrants. The PSPRs become
     exercisable upon the event of a dividend shortfall, which will be deemed to
     exist if the company does not pay an annual dividend equal to at least $.82
     per share during any of the 10 years following closing. Upon exercise, the
     holders of the PSPRs will receive value equal to the dividend shortfall in
     the form of shares of the Company's common or preferred stock, or the PSPRs
     may be redeemed for cash.
          The risk event warrants become exercisable (i) when a change in
     control, as defined, occurs and the value received by common shareholders
     is less than $13.875 per share, or (ii) on July 18, 2000, if the common
     stock market price is less than $13.875 per share; however, this exercise
     provision terminates at any time after July 18, 1995, if the common stock
     market price exceeds $20.82 per share for 30 consecutive trading days and
     tangible book value exceeds $16.32 per share. If the risk event warrants
     become exercisable in either event, the holders of the warrants will
     receive value equal to any shortfall in the form of common or preferred
     stock or cash at the option of the Company.
          The Company's Dividend Reinvestment Plan provides for automatic
     reinvestment of dividends and for optional cash purchases of additional
     shares at market price of up to $5,000 per quarter.

     PREFERRED STOCK - The company has four classes of cumulative preferred
     stock with par values of $1.00 per share and 10,000,000 shares authorized.
     During 1993 the Company announced intentions to repurchase $125 million of
     its preferred stock. As of December 31, 1993, approximately $115.2 million
     has been repurchased. On January 19, 1994, the Board of Directors
     authorized the redemption of an additional $159.3 million of the Company's
     preferred stock, consisting of $89 million of Preferred Stock Series 1989A
     and $70.3 million of Preferred Stock Series 1989B.
          Series 1983A which had 1,000,000 shares outstanding at December 31,
     1992, was redeemed by the Company in 1993 at its stated value of $100 per
     share.
          Series 1989A has 3,560,000 shares outstanding, redeemable at the
     option of the Company on or after April 1, 1994, through March 31, 1995, at
     $26.313 per share, through April 1, 1999, at prices declining to its stated
     value of $25 per share, and thereafter at $25 per share. Dividends are at a
     rate of 10.5 percent per annum.
          Series 1989B has 1,405,000 shares outstanding, redeemable at the
     option of the Company on or after April 1, 1994, through March 31, 1999, at
     $51.50 per share, and thereafter at its stated value of $50 per share.
     During 1993, approximately 95,000 shares were repurchased by the Company.
     Dividends are adjusted quarterly at a rate of the highest of three U.S.
     Treasury rates plus .50 percent, but no lower than 7 percent and no greater
     than 14 percent per annum. The average dividend rates on such shares for
     the years ended December 31, 1993, 1992, and 1991 were 7.41 percent, 8.24
     percent, and 8.93 percent, respectively.
          Series 1991A Convertible Preferred Stock, issued in November 1991, has
     2,133,600 shares outstanding, redeemable at the option of the Company on or
     after January 1, 1996, at $52.1375 per share, and thereafter at prices
     declining to its stated value of $50 per share on or after July 1, 2002.
     During 1993, approximately 156,400 shares were repurchased by the Company.
     Dividends are at a rate of 7.125 percent per annum. Series 1991A
     Convertible Preferred Stock is convertible at the option of the holder at
     any time into common stock of the Company at the rate of 1.7256 shares of
     common stock for each share of preferred stock, which is equivalent to a
     conversion price of $28.975 per share of common stock.
          Shares of all the Company's preferred stock issuances rank prior to
     common stock as to dividends and liquidation and have no voting rights
     except (i) in the event of certain dividend arrearages (in which event,
     holders of shares of the preferred stock will be entitled to elect two
     additional directors to the Company's Board of Directors to serve until
     such dividend arrearages have been eliminated), and (ii) on matters that
     would have an adverse effect upon a series of the preferred stock,
     including the issuance of additional shares of preferred stock or shares of
     any other preferred stock ranking on a parity with the preferred stock.




     PREFERRED STOCK PURCHASE RIGHTS - In December 1988 the Company declared a
     dividend of one preferred stock purchase right ("Right") for each
     outstanding share of common stock based on the shareholders of record on
     January 4, 1989. One Right has also been issued with respect to each share
     of common stock issued since January 4, 1989. The Rights are designed to
     help management obtain fair and equal treatment for all shareholders in the
     event of a potential takeover.
          Each Right initially entitles the registered holder to purchase from
     the Company one one-hundredth of a share of Series A Junior Participating
     Preferred stock, par value $1, of the Company at a price of $80, subject to
     adjustment.
          In the event that any person or group acquires 20 percent or more of
     the Company's common stock outstanding, each Right (other than any Right
     held by the acquiring person or group) will thereafter entitle the holder
     to receive upon exercise shares of the Company's common stock having a
     market value of two times the purchase price.
          In the event that the Company is acquired in a merger or other
     business combination transaction or 50 percent or more of its consolidated
     assets or earning power is sold, each Right will thereafter entitle the
     holder to receive upon exercise shares of common stock of the acquiring
     company having a market value of two times the purchase price.
          The Rights will not be exercisable and will be transferable with and
     only with the common stock until 10 days after (i) a public announcement
     that a person or group has acquired 20 percent or more of the Company's
     common stock outstanding, or (ii) a public announcement or commencement of
     a tender or exchange offer that would result in a person or group acquiring
     20 percent or more of the common stock.
          The Rights expire on January 4, 1999, unless they are redeemed by the
     Company at a price of $.01 per Right prior to the acquisition by a person
     or group of 20 percent of the Company's common stock outstanding. Pursuant
     to an amendment adopted by the Board of Directors, the Rights also will
     expire on the date that is 24 months after the first date upon which the
     Company can generally be acquired by bank holding companies, principally
     located in at least 15 of the 20 states that as of September 30, 1992, had
     the largest amount of bank deposits.
          Until the Right is exercised, the Right holder will have no rights as
     a stockholder of the Company, including the right to vote or to receive
     dividends.

NOTE J - MERGER, INTEGRATION AND RESTRUCTURING PROVISIONS

     In the second quarter of 1993, the Company recorded merger, integration and
     restructuring charges totaling $72.2 million relating to the acquisition of
     CNB. Charges of $29.7 million were recorded to provide for anticipated
     reorganization and restructuring costs, system conversions, and customer
     communication.  Premises and equipment write-downs of $14.3 million relate
     to redundant main office and branch facilities. Other charges, totaling
     $28.2 million, primarily involve severance.
          In the fourth quarter of 1992, the Company recorded merger,
     integration and restructuring charges totaling $84.0 million relating
     primarily to the acquisition of WCIC. Premises and equipment write-downs of
     $31.2 million related to the closing of redundant main office and branch
     facilities. Securities and interest rate swap write-downs of $12.6 million
     reflected the Company's intention to dispose of certain mortgage-backed
     securities and swaps. Other charges, totaling $40.2 million, primarily
     involved severance, system conversions, and customer communications costs.
          In September 1989 the Company announced plans to restructure
     operations of certain businesses. The plans included a workforce reduction
     of approximately 10 to 15 percent, the closing of certain loan production
     offices, the downsizing of other operations and a reduction of earning
     assets of approximately 10 percent. A provision of $37.5 million was
     recorded in the third quarter of 1989 for costs of the restructuring.
     During 1990 the Company terminated its asset purchase agreement with Banks
     of Iowa, which agreed to repurchase its Class B common shares held by the
     Company. The $9.5 million gain on the sale of the common shares was
     credited to the restructuring reserve. During 1991, securities of state and
     political subdivision were sold as part of the continued reduction in
     earning assets. Gains on the sales of these securities, which totaled $7.8
     million, were credited to the restructuring reserve. By year-end 1991, the
     restructuring was substantially complete. As of December 31, 1991, the
     related restructuring reserve had been fully utilized for severance and
     related workforce reduction expenses as well as for costs of office
     closings, operations downsizing, and earning asset reductions.




NOTE K - EMPLOYEE BENEFITS

     PENSION PLAN - Pension benefits are provided to substantially all employees
     based on years of service and employees' compensation while employed with
     the Company. Employees are fully vested after five years of service.
          The Company's funding policy is to contribute actuarially determined
     amounts to the plan sufficient to meet the minimum funding requirements set
     forth in the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, plus such
     additional amounts as the Company determines to be appropriate. The
     actuarial cost method used to compute pension cost is the projected unit
     credit method.
          Prior to May 28, 1993, when they became participants in the Company's
     plan, the former CNB employees were covered by a separate, noncontributory
     pension plan that provided a defined benefit based on an employee's years
     of service and compensation during employment with CNB. The Company is
     currently in the process of merging the former CNB plan with its existing
     plan.
          The following table sets forth the aggregate funded status and the net
     amounts recognized in the Company's balance sheet and statement of income
     for the two plans at December 31:



          For the periods ended December 31, 1992, and 1991, the plans were
     valued separately, and each plan independently determined its assumptions.
     The aggregate disclosures, therefore, reflect the following weighted
     average assumptions.



     OTHER POSTRETIREMENT PLANS - In addition to providing pension benefits, the
     Company provides certain health care and life insurance benefits to retired
     employees. Substantially all of the Company's employees may become eligible
     for these benefits at or after age 55 with at least five years of service
     and age plus years of service equal to or greater than 65 while working for
     the Company. In years prior to 1992, the cost of retiree health care
     benefits was recognized as expense as claims were paid. These costs totaled
     approximately $4.5 million for 1991.
          Effective January 1, 1993, the Company revised the provisions of the
     existing retiree health care plan. Under the terms of the new plan, the
     Company will subsidize the cost of coverage for employees who retire




     before age 65 with at least 10 years of service. The dollar amount of the
     subsidy will be based on the employee's age and service at the time of
     retirement, and will remain frozen until the retiree reaches age 65. After
     age 65 the retiree will assume responsibility for the full cost of
     coverage. The new plan also contains other cost-sharing features such as
     deductibles and coinsurance. The Company will continue to subsidize the
     cost of coverage for employees who retired before 1993, and will subsidize
     the cost for certain employees who retire before 1995. Those subsidies, as
     well as the retirees' contributions, will be adjusted periodically.
          Effective January 1, 1992, the company adopted SFAS 106, "Employers'
     Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions," for its
     retiree benefit plans. Under SFAS 106, the Company is required to accrue
     the estimated cost of retiree benefit payments, other than pensions, during
     employees' active service periods.
          The Company elected to recognize the effect of this change in
     accounting on the immediate recognition basis. The cumulative effect as of
     January 1, 1992, of adopting SFAS 106 was the recognition of accrued
     postretirement health care costs totaling $52.1 million. After related tax
     benefits of $20.5 million, net income for 1992 was reduced by $31.6
     million.
          The Company currently intends to fund the postretirement benefit costs
     as they are incurred. The following table sets forth the plan's funded
     status recognized in the Company's balance sheet and statement of income at
     December 31:



          For measurement purposes, 12.9 percent and 8.5 percent annual rates of
     increase in the per capita cost of covered health care benefits for
     participants under age 65 and aged 65 and over, respectively, were assumed
     for 1993. For 1994 the annual rates of increase were assumed to be 12.0
     percent and 8.0 percent, respectively. Both rates were assumed to decrease
     gradually to 4.5 percent by 2003 and remain at that level thereafter. The
     health care cost trend rate assumption has a significant effect on the
     amounts reported. To illustrate, increasing the assumed health care cost
     trend rates by 1 percentage point in each year would increase the
     accumulated postretirement benefit obligation as of December 31, 1993, by
     $6.8 million and the aggregate of the service and interest cost components
     of net periodic postretirement benefit cost for the year then ended by $.7
     million.
          The weighted-average discount rate used in determining the accumulated
     postretirement benefit obligation was 7.0 percent as of December 31, 1993,
     and 8.0 percent as of December 31, 1992.

     STOCK PURCHASE PLAN - The 1984 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended in
     1989 and 1991, permits all eligible employees (those employed for one year
     with the Company) and directors to purchase common stock. The plan provides
     for a purchase price of 85 percent to 100 percent (as determined by a
     committee of the Board of Directors for each purchase period) of the fair
     market value at the beginning or the end of the purchase period, whichever
     is lower. For the current option period ending June 30, 1994, the Committee
     approved an option price of 85 percent of fair market value. The Plan
     results in no expense to the Company.

     STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN - In April 1991 shareholders approved the 1991 Stock
     Incentive Plan, which authorizes the issuance of up to 3,000,000 shares of
     the Company's common stock. The Plan extends




     through April 2001. The Plan allows for the granting of nonqualified stock
     options, incentive stock options, stock appreciation rights (SARs),
     restricted stock or stock units (RSUs), performance awards, dividend
     equivalents, and other stock-based awards at or above 100 percent of the
     market price at the date of grant. Awards may provide that upon their
     exercise, the holder will receive shares of common stock or cash as
     determined by a committee of the Board of Directors (Committee).
     Restrictions on the restricted shares and RSUs generally limit the holders'
     rights to transfer the shares during the restriction period determined by
     the Committee. At December 31, 1993, there were 1,230,217 shares available,
     subject to adjustment for forfeitures, for grant under the Plan.
          Restricted shares granted under the 1991 Plan vest over periods of
     three to seven years, with the vesting of certain shares being subject to
     acceleration based on the performance of the Company in comparison to the
     performance of a predetermined group of regional banks. Compensation
     expense related to these shares is determined at the time of grant based on
     the market price of the Company's stock and is amortized on a straight line
     basis over the vesting period. For the performance-based restricted shares,
     compensation expense is being amortized using the midpoint of the vesting
     period.
          The Company made stock grants under the 1991 Plan of 1,780 shares in
     1993 and 2,725 shares in 1992, based on the terms of an employee
     performance recognition program. There are no restrictions on these shares.
     Compensation expense is recognized at the date of grant based on the market
     price of the Company's stock.
          Options granted under the 1991 Plan and predecessor plans are
     generally exercisable up to 10 years from the date of grant. On the date
     exercised, the option proceeds are credited to the common stock account to
     the extent of par value of the shares issued and the excess is credited to
     capital surplus.
          In January 1994 the Board of Directors approved a new Stock Incentive
     Plan which authorizes the issuance of up to 5,000,000 shares of the
     Company's common stock. This plan extends through January 2004. The terms
     of the new plan are substantially the same as the 1991 Stock Incentive
     Plan.
          The option information presented below has been restated to reflect
     the effects of the adjusted options under the WCIC and CNB Plans. The
     number and exercise price (option price) of options and restricted shares
     granted under these plans were as follows:



          In January 1994, the Board of Directors granted 5.2 million stock
     options from the 1991 and 1994 Stock Incentive Plans with an exercise price
     of $29.75, which vest over periods of up to five years, subject to
     acceleration based on the performance of the Company.




NOTE L - INCOME TAXES

     The components of income tax expense were:



          The reconciliation between income tax expense and the amount computed
     by applying the statutory federal income tax rate was as follows:




          At December 31, 1993, for income tax purposes, the Company had the
     following carryforwards available:




In addition, the Company has state net operating loss carryforwards of $356
million, primarily in one taxing jurisdiction. These carryforwards expire in
years 2001-2008.





     Deferred income tax assets and liabilities reflect the tax effect of
temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for
financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for the same items for income
tax reporting purposes. Significant components of the Company's deferred tax
liabilities and assets as of December 31, 1993, and 1992, are as follows:





     As discussed in Note B, effective January 1, 1992, the Company adopted the
provisions of SFAS 109. This resulted in the recognition of $213.9 million of
deferred tax assets at January 1, 1992, of which $188.9 million was included in
the 1992 results of operations as a cumulative effect of an accounting change
and $25.0 million pertaining to carryforwards resulting from purchase business
combinations was reflected as a reduction of goodwill.

     The realization of the Company's tax assets is dependent on the Company's
ability to generate taxable income in future periods. The Company has evaluated
the available evidence supporting the realization of its deferred tax assets and
determined it is more likely than not that the assets will be realized. In
support of this evaluation, the Company reviewed the level of taxable income
generated in the last three years. These calculations are included in the table
below. Assuming the Company maintained the level of book taxable income
(excluding nonrecurring charges) generated in 1993 the Company would realize its
net tax assets in the next year. In addition, the Company's five-year plan
indicates a pretax earnings trend that supports, after taking into account
reversals of applicable temporary differences, the assumption that the deferred
tax assets will be realized.








NOTE M --> FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS WITH OFF-BALANCE SHEET RISK AND CREDIT
           CONCENTRATIONS

     The Company uses various financial instruments that have off-balance sheet
     risk in the normal course of business to meet the financing needs of its
     customers and to manage its interest rate risk. These instruments involve,
     to varying degrees, elements of credit, interest rate, or liquidity risk.
     The contract or notional amounts of these financial instruments at December
     31, 1993, and 1992 were as follows:




     COMMITMENTS TO EXTEND CREDIT --> Commitments to extend credit are legally
     binding and generally have fixed expiration dates or other termination
     clauses. The contractual amount of the commitments represents the Company's
     exposure to credit loss on commitments to extend credit, in the event of
     nonperformance by the counterparty. The Company monitors its credit risk
     for commitments to extend credit by applying the same credit policies in
     making commitments as it does for loans, including obtaining collateral to
     secure commitments based on management's credit assessment of the
     counterparty. Collateral held varies, but may include marketable
     securities, receivables, inventory, equipment, and real estate. Since the
     Company expects many of the commitments will expire without being






     drawn upon, total commitment amounts do not necessarily represent the
     Company's future liquidity requirements. In addition, the commitments to
     extend consumer credit include various consumer credit line products that
     are cancellable upon notification.


     LETTERS OF CREDIT --> Standby letters of credit are conditional commitments
     issued by the Company guaranteeing the performance of a customer to a third
     party. The guarantees frequently support public and private borrowing
     arrangements, including commercial paper issuances, bond financings, and
     other similar transactions. The Company issues commercial letters of credit
     on behalf of customers to ensure payment of amounts owed or collection of
     amounts receivable in connection with trade transactions. The Company's
     credit loss exposure in the event of counterparty nonperformance is the
     letter of credit contractual amount and is the same exposure involved in
     extending loans. Management assesses the counterparty's credit to determine
     the collateral obtained to support the letters of credit. Collateral held
     varies, but may include marketable securities, real estate, accounts
     receivable and inventory. Since the conditions requiring the Company to
     fund letters of credit may not materialize, the Company expects the letters
     of credit liquidity requirements to be less than the total outstanding
     commitments.

     INTEREST RATE OPTIONS AND SWAPS --> Interest rate swaps involve the
     contractual exchange of fixed and floating rate interest payment
     obligations based on a notional principal amount. The Company enters into
     interest rate swap contracts to hedge its balance sheet for risk caused by
     fluctuations in interest rates, to improve the liquidity of the Company
     without adversely affecting the rate sensitivity and as an intermediary for
     customers. At December 31, 1993, and 1992, interest rate swaps totaling
     $2.8 billion and $2.7 billion, respectively, hedged medium-term notes,
     subordinated debt, deposit notes, long-term certificates of deposit,
     deposit accounts, and savings certificates.
       Activity with respect to interest rate swap hedges was as follows:




       For interest rate swaps designated as hedges, the weighted average
     interest rates to be paid were 3.32 percent and 3.55 percent at December
     31, 1993, and 1992, respectively. At these same dates, the weighted average
     interest rates to be received were 6.98 percent and 7.13 percent. FBS is a
     receiver of fixed and payer of floating on all hedges as of December 31,
     1993.
       For notional balances and yields by maturity date of the interest rate
     swap hedging portfolio as of December 31, 1993, see Table 17 on page 35
     from which such information is incorporated by reference into these Notes
     to Consolidated Financial Statements.
       At December 31, 1993, interest rate floors totaling $950 million with an
     average remaining maturity of 4.0 years hedged floating rate commercial
     loans. No interest rate floors designated as hedges were outstanding at
     December 31, 1992. For interest rate floors designated as hedges, the
     weighted average 3-month LIBOR strike was 3.50 percent, compared with a
     corresponding market index of 3.31 percent.
       In addition to using swaps and options as part of the Company's
     asset/liability management strategy, the Company also acts as intermediary
     for swap and option agreements on behalf of its customers. To reduce its
     exposure to interest rate and market risks related to these agreements, the
     Company enters into offsetting positions. The total notional amount of
     customer swap agreements, including the offsetting positions, was $199
     million and $241 million at December 31, 1993, and 1992, respectively. The
     total notional amount of customer option agreements, including the
     offsetting positions, was $396 million and $371 million at December 31,
     1993, and 1992, respectively.
       Interest rate swap and option contracts will result in gains and losses
     subsequent to the date of the contract, due to interest rate movements. For
     intermediated swaps, the Company records these gains and losses as they
     occur in trading income. For swaps used as hedges, the Company recognizes
     the gains or losses as an adjustment to the interest income or expense on
     the hedged item over the terms of the hedge. The Company amortizes the gain
     or loss on terminated hedges over the original life of the hedge if the
     hedged item remains outstanding. The amortization of deferred gains and
     losses






     increased interest expense by $.9 million during 1993, and decreased
     interest expense by $3.3 million and $2.2 million in 1992 and 1991,
     respectively. Unamortized deferred losses net of gains, were $3.4 million
     at December 31, 1993. The Company will amortize these losses and gains
     through the year 2000.
          Interest rate swap and option agreements contain credit risk in the
     event counterparties are unable to meet the terms of their contracts. The
     Company estimates the credit risk for interest rate swap and option
     contracts by calculating the present value of the cost to replace all
     outstanding contracts in a gain position at current market rates, excluding
     counterparty contract gains and losses reported on a net basis. At December
     31, 1993, and 1992, the gain position of these contracts, in the aggregate,
     was approximately $172 million and $149 million, respectively.
          The Company manages the credit risk of its interest rate swap and
     option contracts through credit approvals, limits, bilateral collateral
     agreements and monitoring procedures. Independent commercial bankers
     perform credit analysis to establish counterparty limits. Senior management
     approves counterparty limits and periodically reviews the limits to monitor
     compliance. In addition, the Company reduces the assumed counterparty
     credit risk through master netting agreements, which permit the Company to
     settle interest rate contracts with the same counterparty on a net basis.

     LIQUIDITY SUPPORT GUARANTEES -->  Liquidity support guarantees are
     contracts whereby the Company agrees to provide a liquidity facility to
     support commercial paper issued by its customers. The contracts are secured
     by notes receivable, bonds, and private insurance, guaranteeing payment of
     principal and interest on any funds advanced. Since the conditions that
     require the Company to fund the guarantees may not materialize, total
     guarantee amounts do not necessarily represent the Company's future funding
     obligation.

     FORWARD CONTRACTS AND COMMITMENTS TO SELL MORTGAGE LOANS --> Futures and
     forward contracts are contracts for the delayed delivery of securities or
     cash settlement money market instruments. The Company enters into these
     contracts to hedge the interest rate risk of its mortgage loans held for
     sale. At December 31, 1993, and 1992, forward contracts outstanding were
     $1,352 million and $771 million, respectively. At December 31, 1993, net
     unamortized deferred gains on the forward agreements were $5.2 million. The
     Company manages its credit risk on forward contracts, which would arise in
     the event of nonperformance by counterparties, through credit approval and
     limit procedures.
          The Company is committed under agreements, which are not expected to
     result in loss to the Company, to sell mortgage loans pursuant to master
     delivery commitments, and the remaining balance on those commitments was
     $132 million at December 31, 1993, and $376 million at December 31, 1992.

     MORTGAGES SOLD WITH RECOURSE --> Various recourse provisions, relating to
     residential and multi-family mortgages sold with recourse, obligate the
     Company for $194 million at December 31, 1993, and $445 million at December
     31, 1992. All of the loans sold are collateralized by real estate mortgages
     and a portion of the loans sold are supported by either
     government-sponsored or private mortgage insurance.

     FOREIGN CURRENCY COMMITMENTS --> Commitments to purchase and sell foreign
     currency primarily consist of contracts to exchange currencies at specified
     exchange rates on specified dates with various counterparties, which
     enables customers to transfer or reduce the risks associated with changes
     in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company minimizes the market and
     liquidity risks created by changes in currency exchange rates by taking
     offsetting positions. In addition, the Company controls the market risks
     associated with these contracts by limiting the net exposure through
     policies, procedures and monitoring. The Company manages its credit risk,
     or potential risk of loss from contract nonperformance by a counterparty,
     through credit limit approval and monitoring procedures. The aggregate
     replacement cost of contracts in a gain position at December 31, 1993, was
     not significant.

     CREDIT CONCENTRATIONS --> The Company concentrates its lending to borrowers
     in the region where the Company has banking offices and lends to borrowers
     in a wide variety of industries.
          Approximately 70 percent of the Company's commercial and financial
     portfolio is outstanding to borrowers located in the Company's operating
     region of Minnesota, Colorado, Wisconsin, Montana, North Dakota, and South
     Dakota. Collateral held may include marketable securities, accounts
     receivable, inventory and equipment.
          For detail of the Company's real estate portfolio by project type and
     geography as of December 31, 1993, and 1992, see Table 10 on page 28 which
     is incorporated by reference into these Notes to Financial Statements. Such
     loans are collateralized by the related property.




          For detail of the Company's consumer loan portfolio by loan type see
     Table 9 on page 26 under the category "Consumer" as of December 31, 1993,
     and 1992, which is incorporated by reference into these Notes to Financial
     Statements. Approximately 70 percent of the total consumer portfolio
     outstanding at December 31, 1993, is to customers located in the Company's
     operating region. Residential mortgages, home equity, and auto loans are
     secured, but other consumer loan types are generally not secured.

NOTE N --> FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     SFAS 107, "Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments," requires
     the disclosure of the fair value of all financial instruments for which it
     is practicable to estimate that value. Financial instruments are generally
     defined as cash, equity instruments or investments, and contractual
     obligations to pay or receive cash or another financial instrument. In
     defining fair value, the Statement indicates quoted market prices are the
     preferred means of estimating the value of a specific instrument but in the
     cases where market quotes are not available, fair values should be
     determined using various valuation techniques such as discounted cash flow
     calculations or by using pricing models or services.
          Due to the nature of its business and the financing needs of its
     customers, the Company is involved with a large number of financial
     instruments, the majority of which are not actively traded. Accordingly,
     the Company has used various valuation techniques to estimate the fair
     value of its financial instruments. These techniques are significantly
     affected by the assumptions used, including the discount rate, the
     estimated timing and amount of cash flows, and the aggregation methods for
     valuing similar products. In this regard, the resulting fair value
     estimates cannot be substantiated by comparison to independent markets, and
     in a majority of the cases, could not be realized by the immediate sale or
     settlement of the instrument. Also, the estimates reflect a point in time
     valuation that could change significantly based on changes in outside
     economic factors, such as the general level of interest rates. Finally, the
     required disclosures exclude the estimated values of certain financial
     instruments and all nonfinancial instrument cash flows and are not intended
     to provide or estimate a market value of the Company. The following
     assumptions were used by the Company in estimating the fair value of the
     specific financial instruments.

     CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS --> Cash and cash equivalents have no interest
     rate or credit risk component, thus their carrying value was assumed to
     approximate fair value.

     SECURITIES --> Generally, these items were valued using available market
     quotes. In some instances, for securities that are not widely traded,
     market quotes for comparable securities were used.

     LOANS --> The loan portfolio consists of both variable rate and fixed rate
     loans. The fair value for performing commercial variable rate loans, most
     of which reprice within the next three months or are subject to immediate
     repricing, were assumed to equal carrying value. For all nonaccrual loans,
     the projected cash flows were reduced by the amount of estimated losses and
     discounted over an assumed average remaining life of one to two years. The
     fair value of fixed rate loans was estimated using discounted cash flow
     analyses, as described below.

     COMMERCIAL AND FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS:  In order to apply a discounted cash
     flow analysis, loans were aggregated into "pools" of similar types and
     expected repayment terms. The discount rates applied to the pools were
     based on the current rates for loans with similar maturities and credit
     risks. Current loan rates include a component for credit risk which has
     proven to be adequate, in the aggregate, for future loan losses. The
     expected cash flows were reduced for estimated historical prepayment
     experience. The fixed rate loans in the commercial and financial
     institutions portfolio had a weighted average rate of 7.5 percent in 1993
     and 8.1 percent in 1992 and a weighted average maturity of 1.7 years in
     1993 and 3.1 years in 1992. The average discount rate used to value these
     loans was 6.6 percent in 1993 and 7.3 percent in 1992.

     COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE AND CONSTRUCTION:  Commercial real estate and
     construction loans were valued using a discounted cash flow analysis. The
     fixed rate portion of this portfolio (excluding nonaccruals) had a weighted
     average interest rate of 9.0 percent in 1993 and 9.4 percent in 1992 and a
     weighted average remaining maturity of 4.2 years in 1993 and 4.4 years in
     1992. The average discount rate used to value these loans was 9.6 percent
     in 1993 and 10.0 percent in 1992.

     RESIDENTIAL FIRST MORTGAGES:  Residential first mortgage loans were
     segregated into pools of similar coupons and maturities. These "pools" were
     then matched to similar mortgage backed securities and




     market quotes were obtained. In addition, the fair value of the mortgage
     servicing rights related to these mortgages was estimated using a
     discounted cash flow analysis and included in the fair value. The fixed
     rate portion of this portfolio had a weighted average interest rate of 8.1
     percent in 1993 and 8.7 percent in 1992 with an estimated weighted average
     contractual remaining maturity of 14.2 years in 1993 and 15 years in 1992.

     SECOND MORTGAGES AND CONSUMER INSTALLMENT:  Fair values for second
     mortgages and consumer installment loans were estimated using a discounted
     cash flow analysis. The loans' values were computed using current loan
     rates for similar loans. Prepayment assumptions ranging from 20-25 percent
     were applied to scheduled cash flows, based upon the Company's experience
     with these assets. The fixed rate portion of the consumer installment loans
     had a weighted average rate of 9.2 percent in 1993 and 11.0 percent in 1992
     and a weighted average remaining maturity of 1.4 years in 1993 and 1.3
     years in 1992. The weighted average discount rate used was 7.5 percent in
     1993 and 9.4 percent in 1992. The fixed rate portion of the second mortgage
     loans had a weighted average interest rate of 9.0 percent in 1993 and 10.5
     percent in 1992 and a weighted average remaining term of 2.3 years in 1993
     and 2.4 years in 1992. The weighted average discount rate applied to second
     mortgage loans was 7.3 percent in 1993 and 8.7 percent in 1992.

     REVOLVING HOME EQUITY AND CONSUMER LINES:  The fair value of revolving
     lines was based on terms of the existing loans and included the estimated
     value of the customer relationship. This approach is similar to that used
     by the Company to evaluate potential acquisitions of portfolios of this
     type. Estimated net interest income, noninterest income, expenses and
     account attrition were discounted on an after-tax basis using an estimated
     cost of capital of 13.7 percent in 1993 and 12.0 percent in 1992. The home
     equity lines had a weighted average interest rate of 7.8 percent in 1993
     and 7.9 percent in 1992 and a weighted average life of 5.3 years in 1993
     and 8.6 years in 1992. Credit card loans had a weighted average rate of
     15.4 percent in 1993 and 15.5 percent in 1992, and an estimated average
     life of 7.3 years in 1993 and 4.4 years in 1992. Other revolving lines had
     a weighted average interest rate of 10.6 percent in 1993 and 10.8 percent
     in 1992 and a weighted average life of 7.6 years in 1993 and 5.9 years in
     1992.

     DEPOSIT LIABILITIES --> The fair value of demand deposits, savings
     accounts, and certain money market deposits is defined by SFAS 107 to be
     equal to the amount payable on demand at the date of the financial
     statements. (See core deposit intangible below.) Fair values for fixed rate
     certificates of deposits were estimated using a discounted cash flow
     analysis using the current certificate of deposit yield curve to establish
     discount rates. The weighted average interest rate for the certificate of
     deposits was 5.3 percent in 1993 and 5.7 percent in 1992 and the weighted
     average maturity was 1.0 year in 1993 and 1.2 years in 1992. The weighted
     average discount rate was 3.4 percent in 1993 and 3.9 percent in 1992.

     SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS --> Federal funds purchased, borrowings under
     repurchase agreements, and other short-term borrowings are at variable
     rates or have short-term maturities and their carrying value is assumed to
     approximate their fair value.

     LONG-TERM DEBT --> Medium-term notes and mortgage note obligations totaling
     $123 million in 1993 and $346 million in 1992 were valued with a discounted
     cash flow analysis using current market rates of similar maturity debt
     securities to discount cash flows. The weighted average interest rate was
     9.4 percent in 1993 and 9.5 percent in 1992 and the weighted average
     maturity was .7 years in 1993 and 2.6 years in 1992. Other long-term debt
     instruments were valued using available market quotes.

     LOAN COMMITMENTS, LETTERS OF CREDIT AND GUARANTEES --> The substantial
     majority of the Company's commitments have variable rates and do not expose
     the Company to interest rate risk. No premium or discount was ascribed to
     loan commitments because when funded, virtually all funding will be at
     current market rates.

     INTEREST RATE SWAPS, OPTIONS, FLOORS AND CAPS --> The interest rate swap
     cash flows were estimated using a third party pricing model and discounted
     based on appropriate LIBOR, Euro dollar future and Treasury yield curves.
     Interest rate options were valued using an option pricing model.

     CORE DEPOSIT INTANGIBLE --> Core deposits provide a stable, low-cost source
     of funds which can be invested to earn a return greater than the cost of
     servicing the deposits. (See deposit liabilities above.) The fair value of
     the Company's core deposits was estimated using a discounted cash flow
     model





     which estimates the present value of the difference between the ongoing
     cost of the core deposits and the cost of alternative funds at current
     market rates. This is the same method the Company uses in calculating the
     value of the core deposit intangible of an acquired bank. Under this method
     the Company's core deposit intangible had an estimated fair value of $220
     million as of December 31, 1993.

          The estimated fair values of the Company's financial instruments are
     shown in the table below:








NOTE O --> COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES

Rental expense for operating leases amounted to $72.1 million in 1993,
$66.4 million in 1992 and $65.9 million in 1991.

     Future minimum payments, by year and net of sublease rentals, under
capitalized leases and noncancellable operating leases with initial or
remaining terms of one year or more, consisted of the following at
December 31, 1993:



     The Company currently occupies approximately 640,000 square feet in
First Bank Place, located in Minneapolis, under a 10-year lease. The
Company has eight five-year options to renew the lease. Minimum rental
payments are approximately $12.5 million annually.

     In November 1992 the Company took possession of a 368,000 square foot
facility in St. Paul. The lease term extends for 21 years, commencing
November 1991, with two five-year renewal options. Minimum rental payments
are approximately $4.2 million annually.

     A wholly-owned subsidiary of First Bank National Association ("the
Bank") is a partner in a joint venture that owns and operates a twin-tower
office complex known as Pillsbury Center. The Bank and the Parent Company
have long-term lease agreements to occupy space in one of the towers.
Approximately two-thirds of the space has been sublet for the remaining
life of the long-term lease obligation and, except for two floors which are
occupied by the Company, the remaining space has been sublet through the
year 2001. The unamortized portion of the capitalized lease was $23.3
million at December 31, 1993, and $23.6 million at December 31, 1992.
Minimum annual payments required under the leases are approximately $2.7
million.

     Various legal proceedings are currently pending against the Company.
Due to the complex nature of some of these actions and proceedings, it may
be a number of years before such matters ultimately are resolved. In the
opinion of management, the aggregate liability, if any, will not have a
material adverse effect on the Company's financial position.






NOTE P --> SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


     CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET --> Time certificates of deposit in
     denominations of $100,000 or more totaled $1,061 million and $1,374 million
     at December 31, 1993, and 1992, respectively.

     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS --> Listed below are supplemental
     disclosures to the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.



NOTE Q --> FIRST BANK SYSTEM, INC. (PARENT COMPANY)

     CONDENSED BALANCE SHEET








CONDENSED STATEMENT OF INCOME








CONDENSED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS






       Certain restrictions exist regarding the extent to which bank
     subsidiaries may transfer funds to the Company in the form of dividends,
     loans or advances. Federal law prevents the Company and its nonbank
     susbsidiaries from borrowing from bank subsidiaries unless the loans are
     secured by various types of collateral. These secured loans that may be
     made by bank subsidiaries to the Company or any individual affiliate are
     generally limited to 10 percent of the bank's equity and 20 percent of the
     bank's equity for loans to all affiliates and the Company in the aggregate.
       Payment of dividends to the Company by its subsidiary banks is subject to
     ongoing review by banking regulators and is subject to various statutory
     limitations and in certain circumstances requires approval by banking
     regulatory agencies. The approval of the Comptroller of the Currency is
     required if total dividends declared by a national bank in any calendar
     year exceed the bank's net profits (as defined) for that year combined with
     its retained net profits for the preceding two calendar years. These
     permissible dividends are further limited by the minimum capital
     constraints imposed on all national banks by the Comptroller of the
     Currency. All subsidiaries have the ability to pay dividends without prior
     regulatory approval except one bank which bank represented less than one
     percent of total assets at December 31, 1993.







REPORT  OF  MANAGEMENT


The financial statements of First Bank System, Inc. were prepared by management,
which is responsible for their integrity and objectivity.  The statements have
been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles
appropriate in the circumstances and include amounts that are based on manage-
ment's best estimates and judgment.  All financial information throughout the
annual report is consistent with that in the financial statements.

     The Company maintains accounting and internal control systems that are
believed to provide reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded and
transactions are properly authorized and recorded.  To monitor compliance, the
Company carries out an extensive audit program.  This program includes a review
for compliance with written policies and procedures and a comprehensive review
of the adequacy and effectiveness of internal control systems.  However, there
are limits inherent in all systems of internal accounting control and management
recognizes that errors or irregularities may occur.  Based on the recognition
that the costs of such systems should not exceed the benefits to be derived,
management believes the Company's system provides an appropriate cost/benefit
balance.

     The Company's independent auditors, Ernst & Young, have been engaged to
render an opinion on the financial statements and to assist in carrying out the
audit program described above.  Their opinion on the financial statements is
based on procedures performed in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards, including tests of the accounting records to the extent necessary to
allow them to report on the fairness of the financial statements.  Ernst & Young
has full access to the Audit Committee.

     The management of the Company is committed to and has always maintained and
enforced a philosophy of high ethical standards in the conduct of its business.
Written policies covering conflicts of interest and other subjects are
formulated in a Code of Ethics which is uniformly applicable to all officers and
employees of the Company.


/s/ JOHN F. GRUNDHOFER
    JOHN F. GRUNDHOFER
    Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer



/s/ RICHARD A. ZONA
    RICHARD A. ZONA
    Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer



/s/ SUSAN E. LESTER
    SUSAN E. LESTER
    Executive Vice President and Controller


REPORT  OF  INDEPENDENT  AUDITORS

The Board of Directors and Shareholders
First Bank System, Inc.


We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of First Bank
System, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1993 and 1992, and the related
consolidated statements of income, shareholders' equity and cash flows for each
of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1993.  These financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our respon-
sibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our
audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of First Bank
System, Inc. and subsidiaries at December 31,1993 and 1992, and the consolidated
results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31,1993, in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles.

     As discussed in Note B to the consolidated financial statements, in 1993
First Bank System, Inc. changed its method of accounting for certain investments
in debt and equity securities.



Minneapolis, Minnesota
January 13,1994





CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET--FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY









CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME---FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY








QUARTERLY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA



THE FOURTH QUARTER OF 1992 INCLUDED $110.4 MILLION IN MERGER-RELATED CHARGES AND
$13.6 MILLION IN THE PROVISION FOR CREDIT LOSSES IN CONNECTION WITH THE WESTERN
CAPITAL INVESTMENT CORPORATION AND BANK SHARES INCORPORATED ACQUISITIONS. THE
SECOND QUARTER OF 1993 INCLUDED $72.2 MILLION IN MERGER-RELATED CHARGES IN
CONNECTION WITH THE COLORADO NATIONAL BANKSHARES, INC. ACQUISITION.






CONSOLIDATED DAILY AVERAGE BALANCE SHEET AND RELATED YIELDS AND RATES














SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL DATA










The common stock of First Bank System, Inc. is traded on the New York Stock
Exchange.






COMMERCIAL LOAN MATURITIES AND SENSITIVITY TO CHANGES IN INTEREST RATES



THE MATURITIES OF LOANS SHOWN ABOVE ARE BASED ON REMAINING SCHEDULED REPAYMENTS.



TIME CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT AND OTHER TIME DEPOSITS IN DENOMINATIONS OF
$100,000 OR MORE AT DECEMBER 31









SHORT-TERM FUNDS BORROWED






ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

Securities and Exchange Commission
Washington, D.C. 20549

Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 for the fiscal year ended December 31,1993.

Commission File Number 1-6880

FIRST BANK SYSTEM, INC.

Incorporated in the State of Delaware
IRS Employer Identification #41-0255900
Address: 601 Second Avenue South
Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402-4302
Telephone: (612) 973-1111

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act (all registered on
the New York Stock Exchange): Common Stock, Par Value $1.25; 10.50 percent
Preferred Stock, Series 1989A; $3.5625 Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock,
Series 1991A; Preferred Share Purchase Rights.

     As of January 31,1994, First Bank System, Inc. had 115,470,984 shares of
common stock outstanding.  The aggregate market value of common stock held by
non-affiliates as of January 31, 1994, was $3,542,287,104.

     First Bank System, Inc. (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.

     No disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K
is contained in the Company's definitive proxy statement incorporated by
reference herein.

     This Annual Report and Form 10-K incorporates into a single document the
requirements of the accounting profession and the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  Only those sections of the Annual Report referenced in the
following cross-reference index are incorporated in the Form 10-K.


Cross-Reference                                                           Page
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

PART I

ITEM 1       Business
             General . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .80
             Distribution of Assets, Liabilities  and
               Stockholders' Equity; Interest Rates
               and Interest Differential . . . . . . . . . . . . .19-20, 74-75
             Investment Portfolio. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37-38, 71
             Loan Portfolio. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21, 25-33, 50, 77
             Summary of Loan Loss Experience . . . . . . . . . . . . .21,25-33
             Deposits. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74-75, 77
             Return on Equity and Assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .76
             Short-Term Borrowings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .78
ITEM 2       Properties. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .80
ITEM 3       Legal Proceedings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .none
ITEM 4       Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders . . . . .none

PART II

ITEM 5       Market for the Registrant's Common
               Equity and Related Stockholder Matters. . . . . . . .19, 69, 76
ITEM 6       Selected Financial Data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .13
ITEM 7       Management's Discussion and Analysis of
               Financial Condition and Results of Operations . . . . . . 12-39
ITEM 8       Financial Statements and Supplemental Data. . . . . . . . .73, 81
ITEM 9       Changes in and Disagreements with
               Accountants on Accounting and
               Financial Disclosures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .none

PART III

ITEM 10      Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant. . . . . . .83
ITEM 11      Executive Compensation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . *
ITEM 12      Security Ownership of Certain
               Beneficial Owners and Management. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . *
ITEM 13      Certain Relationships and Related Transactions. . . . . . . . . *

PART IV

ITEM 14      Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules
               and Reports on Form 8-K . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .81


*FIRST BANK SYSTEM'S DEFINITIVE PROXY STATEMENT FOR THE 1994 ANNUAL MEETING OF
 SHAREHOLDERS IS INCORPORATED HEREIN BY REFERENCE, OTHER THAN THE SECTIONS
 ENTITLED "REPORT OF THE ORGANIZATION COMMITTEE ON EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION" AND
 "PERFORMANCE GRAPH."





GENERAL --> First Bank System, Inc. (the "Company") is a regional, multi-state
bank holding company headquartered in the Twin Cities of Minneapolis and
St. Paul, Minnesota.  The Company was incorporated in Delaware in 1929 and owns
more than 97 percent of the capital stock of each of the nine commercial banks
and four trust companies, having 181 banking offices in Minnesota, Colorado,
Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, Washington, and Wisconsin.  The Company
also has various nonbank subsidiaries engaged in financial services principally
in the Upper Midwest.

     The banks are engaged in general commercial banking business principally in
domestic markets.  They range in size from $42 million to $12.3 billion in
deposits and provide a wide variety of services to individuals, businesses,
industry, institutional organizations, governmental entities and other financial
institutions.  Depository services include checking accounts, savings accounts
and time certificate contracts.  Ancillary services such as cash management and
receivable lockbox collection are provided for corporate customers.  Nine
subsidiary banks and four trust companies provide a full range of fiduciary
activities for individuals, estates, foundations, business corporations, and
charitable organizations.

     The Company provides banking services through its subsidiary banks to both
domestic and foreign customers and correspondent banks.  These services include
consumer banking, commercial lending, financing of import/export trade, foreign
exchange, and investment services.

     The Company, through its subsidiaries, also provides services in mortgage
banking, trust, commercial and agricultural finance, data processing, leasing,
and brokerage services.

     On a full-time equivalent basis, employment during 1993 averaged a total of
12,300 employees.

COMPETITION --> The commercial banking business is highly competitive.
Subsidiary banks compete with other commercial banks and with other financial
institutions, including savings and loan associations, mutual savings banks,
finance companies, mortgage banking companies, credit unions, and mutual funds.
In recent years, competition also has increased from institutions not subject to
the same regulatory restrictions as domestic banks and bank holding companies.

GOVERNMENT POLICIES --> The operations of the Company's various operating units
are affected by state and federal legislative changes and by policies of various
regulatory authorities, including those of the several states in which they
operate, the United States and foreign governments.  These policies include, for
example, statutory maximum legal lending rates, domestic monetary policies of
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, United States fiscal
policy, international currency regulations and monetary policies, and capital
adequacy and liquidity constraints imposed by bank regulatory agencies.

SUPERVISION AND REGULATION --> The Company is a registered bank holding company
under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (the "Act") and is subject to the
supervision of, and regulation by, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System (the "Board").

     Under the Act, a bank holding company may engage in banking, managing or
controlling banks, furnishing or performing services for banks it controls, and
conducting activities that the Board has determined to be closely related to
banking.  The Company must obtain approval of the Board before acquiring control
of a bank or by acquiring more than 5 percent of the outstanding voting shares
of a company engaged in a "bank-related" business.  Under the Act and state
laws, the Company is subject to certain restrictions as to states in which the
Company can acquire a bank.

     National banks are subject to the supervision of, and are examined by, the
Comptroller of the Currency.  State banks are subject to the supervision of the
regulatory authorities of the states in which they are located.  All subsidiary
banks of the Company are members of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation,
and as such, are subject to examination thereby.  In practice, the primary
federal regulator makes regular examinations of each subsidiary bank subject to
its regulatory review or participates in joint examinations with other federal
regulators.  Areas subject to regulation by federal and state authorities
include the allowance for credit losses, investment, loans, mergers, issuance of
securities, payment of dividends, establishment of branches and other aspects of
operations.

PROPERTIES --> At December 31,1993, the Company's subsidiaries owned and
operated a total of 138 facilities while leasing an additional 148 facilities,
all of which are well maintained.

     The Company's largest facilities are located in Minneapolis, St. Paul, and
Denver.  In Minneapolis, First Bank National Association and the Company's
corporate offices occupy parts of four buildings.  Thirty-one floors of First
Bank Place and two floors of Pillsbury Center are leased.  The Company also
occupies nine floors in the Marquette bank building and five floors in the
Concourse building, both of which are owned by the Company.  In St. Paul, the
Company leases an Operations Center as well as one-third of the First National
Bank Building and four floors in the First Trust Center.  In Denver, Colorado
National Bank occupies approximately 70 percent of the Colorado National Bank
Building and three percent of the Park Central Building, both of which are owned
by subsidiaries of Colorado National Bank.

     Additional information with respect to premises and equipment is presented
in Notes G and 0 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.







EXHIBITS


Financial Statements Filed                                  Page
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
First Bank System, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Financial Statements. . . . . . . . . . . .    40
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . . . . . . .    44
Report of Independent Auditors . . . . . . . . . . . . .    70

Schedules to the consolidated financial statements required by Article 9 of
Regulation S-X are omitted since the required infor-
mation is included in the footnotes or is not applicable.

     During the three months ended December 31, 1993, the Company filed a report
on Form 8-K on October 13,1993, relating to the announcement of the Company's
intention to purchase Boulevard Bancorp, Inc.

     The following Exhibit Index lists the Exhibits to Annual Report on Form
10-K.

          (1)3A     Restated Certificate  of Incorporation, as amended.  Filed
                    as Exhibit 3A to report on Form 10-K for fiscal year ended
                    December 31,1989.

             3B     By-laws.

              4     [Pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A) of Regulation S-K,
                    copies of instruments defining the rights of holders  of
                    long-term debt are not filed. First Bank System,  Inc.
                    agrees to furnish a copy thereof to the Securities and
                    Exchange Commission upon request.]

         (1)1OA     Agreement of Merger and Consolidation dated November 8,1992,
                    by and among First Bank System, Inc., Central
                    Bancorporation, Inc. and Colorado National Bankshares, Inc.
                    Filed as Exhibit 2.1 to 8-K Report filed November 13,1992.

         (1)10B     Stock Purchase Agreements dated as of May 30, 1990, among
                    Corporate Partners, L.P.; Corporate Offshore Partners, L.P.;
                    The State Board of Administration of Florida and First Bank
                    System, Inc. and related documents. Filed as Exhibits 4.8-
                    4.15 to Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed on
                    September 10, 1991.

      (1)(2)10C     First Bank System, Inc. 1987 Stock Option Plan.  Filed as
                    Exhibit 10E to report on Form 10-K for fiscal year ended
                    December 31,1991.

      (1)(2)10D     First Bank System, Inc. Nonqualified Supplemental Executive
                    Retirement Plan.  Filed as Exhibit 1OF to report on Form 10-
                    K for fiscal year ended December 31,1991.

      (1)(2)10E     First Bank System, Inc. Executive Deferral Plan.  Filed as
                    Exhibit lOG to report on Form 10-K for fiscal year ended
                    December 31,1991.

      (1)(2)10F     First Bank System, Inc. Annual Incentive Plan.  Filed as
                    Exhibit 10H to report on Form 10-K for fiscal year ended
                    December 31,1992.

      (1)(2)10G     First Bank System, Inc.  Independent Director Retirement and
                    Death Benefit Plan.  Filed as Exhibit 10I to report on Form
                    10-K for fiscal year ended December 31,1992.

      (1)(2)10H     First Bank System, Inc.  Deferred Compensation Plan for
                    Directors.  Filed as Exhibit 10J to report on Form 10-K for
                    fiscal year ended December 31,1992.


         (1)10I     Rights Agreement dated as of December 21,1988, between First
                    Bank System, Inc. and Morgan Shareholder Services Trust
                    Company.  Filed as Exhibit 1 to 8-K Report filed January
                    5,1989.

      (1)(2)10J     First Bank System, Inc.  Restated Employee Stock Purchase
                    Plan.  Filed as Exhibit 10L to report on Form 10-K for
                    fiscal year ended December 31,1991.

      (1)(2)10K     Form of Change-in-Control Agreement between First Bank
                    System, Inc. and certain officers of the Company. Filed as
                    Exhibit 10M to report on Form 1O-K for fiscal year ended
                    December 31, 1991.

      (1)(2)10L     First Bank System, Inc. 1991 Stock Incentive Plan.  Filed as
                    Exhibit A to Definitive Proxy Statement of Annual Meeting of
                    Shareholders on April 24,1991.

         (2)10M     First Bank System, Inc. 1994 Stock Incentive Plan.

      (1)(2)10N     Agreement between First Bank System, Inc. and John F.
                    Grundhofer dated December 30,1992.  Filed as Exhibit 10O to
                    report on Form 10-K for fiscal year ended December 31,1992.

         (2)10O     Deferred Income Agreement between First Bank System, Inc.
                    and John F. Grundhofer dated November 1, 1993.

         (2)10P     Description of First Bank System, Inc. Stock Option Loan
                    Policy.

             11     Statement re: Computation of Primary and Fully Diluted Net
                    Income per Common Share.

             12     Statement re: Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed
                    Charges.

             13     Integrated Annual Report / Form 10-K to Shareholders for
                    the year ended December 31,1993 (See cover page).

             21     Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

             23     Consent of Ernst& Young.


Copies of the Exhibits will be furnished upon request and payment of the
Company's reasonable expenses in furnishing the Financial Statement Schedule and
Exhibits.

(1)  Exhibit has heretofore been filed with the Securities and Exchange
     Commission and is incorporated herein as an exhibit by reference.

(2)  Items that are management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements
     required to be filed as an exhibit pursuant to Item 14(c) of this
     Form 10-K.





SIGNATURES


Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on February
16,1994, on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

First Bank System, Inc.
John F. Grundhofer
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below on February 16,1994, by the following persons on behalf of
the registrant and in the capacities indicated.


JOHN F. GRUNDHOFER
Chairman, President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director
(principal executive officer)

RICHARD A. ZONA
Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer
(principal financial officer)

SUSAN E. LESTER
Executive Vice President and Controller
(principal accounting officer)

ROGER L HALE
Director

DELBERT W. JOHNSON
Director

JOHN H. KAREKEN
Director

RICHARD L. KNOWLTON
Director

KENNETH A. MACKE
Director

THOMAS F. MADISON
Director

MARILYN C. NELSON
Director

WILL F. NICHOLSON, JR.
Director

NICHOLAS R. PETRY
Director

EDWARD J. PHILLIPS
Director

JAMES J. RENIER
Director

S. WALTER RICHEY
DIRECTOR

RICHARD L ROBINSON
Director

LYLE E. SCHROEDER
Director






EXECUTIVE OFFICERS



JOHN F. GRUNDHOFER

Mr. Grundhofer, 55, has been Chairman of the Board, President and Chief
Executive Officer of First Bank System since 1990.  Previously, he served as
Vice Chairman and Senior Executive Officer for Southern California, Wells Fargo
Bank N.A.

WILLIAM F. FARLEY

Mr. Farley, 49, has been Vice Chairman of First Bank System since 1990.  His
previous positions include: Partner, Headrick& Farley and President, First Bank
National Association.

PHILIP G. HEASLEY

Mr. Heasley, 44, was named Vice Chairman in 1993 and continues to serve as
President of the Retail Product Group.  His previous positions include:
Executive Vice President and President of the Retail Product Group and Senior
Vice President, Consumer Business, Electronic Banking Division.

RICHARD A. ZONE

Mr. Zona, 49, has served as Vice Chairman since 1990 and Chief Financial Officer
since 1989.  He was previously a Partner at Ernst & Young,

J. ROBERT HOFFMANN

Mr. Hoffmann, 48, has been Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Officer
since 1990.  He previously served as Executive Vice President, Credit
Administration at First Bank National Association.

JOHN M. MURPHY, JR.

Mr. Murphy, 52, has been Chairman and Chief Investment Officer, First Trust
National Association, since 1990.  Before that he was Managing Director, First
Asset Management, a division of First Bank National Association.

DANIEL C. ROHR

Mr. Rohr, 47, has served as Executive Vice President of the Commercial Banking
Group since 1990.  Previously, he was Executive Vice President and Chief Credit
Officer at Columbia Savings & Loan Association.

ROBERT H. SAYRE

Mr. Sayre, 54, has served as Executive Vice President of Human Resources since
1990.  Previously, he was Executive Director at Russell Reynolds Associates,
Inc.

MICHAEL J. O'ROURKE

Mr. O'Rourke, 49, has been Executive Vice President, Secretary and General
Counsel since 1991.  Previously, he was Senior Vice President, Secretary and
General Counsel.

SUSAN E. LESTER

Ms. Lester, 37, was named Executive Vice President in 1993, in addition to her
duties as Controller.  Previously, she was Senior Vice President and Controller.

DAVID R. EDSTAM

Mr. Edstam, 46, has been Senior Vice President and Treasurer since 1989.

ELIZABETH A. MALKERSON

Ms. Malkerson, 44, has been Senior Vice President of Corporate Relations since
1990.  Her previous position was Vice President of External Affairs.



DIRECTORS



COLEMAN BLOOMFIELD

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Minnesota Mutual Life Insurance Co.
St. Paul, Minnesota

JOHN F. GRUNDHOFER

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
First Bank System, Inc.
Minneapolis, Minnesota

ROGER L. HALE

President and Chief Executive Officer
TENNANT
Minneapolis, Minnesota

*DELBERT W. JOHNSON

President
Pioneer Metal Finishing, Inc.
Minneapolis, Minnesota

JOHN H. KAREKEN

Professor of Banking and Finance
Curtis L. Carlson School of Management
University of Minnesota
Minneapolis, Minnesota

RICHARD L KNOWLTON

Chairman of the Board
Hormel Foods Corporation
Austin, Minnesota

KENNETH A. MACKE

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Dayton Hudson Corporation
Minneapolis, Minnesota

THOMAS F. MADISON

Retired President
U.S. West Communications-Markets
Minneapolis, Minnesota

MARILYN C. NELSON

Vice Chairman and Director
Carlson Holdings, Inc.
Minneapolis, Minnesota

WILL F. NICHOLSON, JR.

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
Colorado National Bankshares, Inc.
Denver, Colorado

NICHOLAS R. PETRY

President
The Petry Company
Denver, Colorado

EDWARD J. PHILLIPS

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Phillips Beverage Company
Minneapolis, Minnesota

JAMES J. RENIER

Retired Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
Honeywell Inc.
Minneapolis, Minnesota

S. WALTER RICHEY

President and Chief Executive Officer
Space Center Company
St. Paul, Minnesota

RICHARD L. ROBINSON

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Robinson Dairy, Inc.
Denver, Colorado

RICHARD L. SCHALL

Retired Vice Chairman of the Board
Dayton Hudson Corporation
Minneapolis, Minnesota

LYLE E. SCHROEDER

President and Chief Executive Officer
Sioux Valley Hospital
Sioux Falls, South Dakota


*ELECTED TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
 EFFECTIVE JANUARY 19, 1994






FBS LOCATIONS


                                   First Bank System, Inc. primarily serves
                                   Minnesota, Colorado, Montana, North Dakota,
                                   South Dakota, and Wisconsin through 181
                                   banking locations and 24 additional offices
                                   of nonbank subsidiaries.
       [GRAPHICS; MAP]
                                   - FBS Retail and commercial banking

                                   - Corporate Trust offices

                                   - Republic Acceptance offices

MINNESOTA                COLORADO                 SOUTH DAKOTA

Albert Lea               Arvada (2)               Aberdeen
Alexandria               Aspen                    Rapid City (3)
Anoka (2)                Aurora (4)               Sioux Falls (4)
Apple Valley             Boulder (2)
Austin                   Broomfield               WISCONSIN
Babbitt                  Canon City
Blaine                   Colorado Springs(6)      Brookfield
Bloomington (4)          Denver (18)              Brown Deer
Brainerd                 Englewood (3)            La Crosse
Brooklyn Park            Evergreen                Milwaukee
Burnsville (2)           Fort Collins (2)         Onalaska
Cloquet                  Glenwood Springs
Columbia Heights         Golden                   CORPORATE TRUST OFFICES
Cottage Grove            Grand Junction
Duluth (3)               Greeley                  Billings, MT
Eagan                    La Junta                 Boston, MA
East Grand Forks         Lakewood (4)             Chicago, IL
Eden Prairie (2)         Littleton (4)            Denver, CO
Edina (3)                Longmont                 Duluth, MN
Fairmont                 Loveland                 Fargo, ND
Forest Lake              Northglenn               Frederick, MD
Hibbing                  Pueblo (4)               Los Angeles, CA
Hopkins                  Westminster (2)          Milwaukee, WI
Little Canada            Wheatridge               Portland, OR
Mankato (2)                                       San Francisco, CA
Minneapolis (13)         MONTANA                  Seattle, WA
Minnetonka (2)                                    St. Paul, MN
Oakdale                  Billings (2)
Owatonna                 Bozeman                  REPUBLIC ACCEPTANCE CORP.
Plymouth (2)             Butte                    OFFICES
Ramsey                   Great Falls (3)
Robbinsdale              Havre                    Kansas City, MO
Rochester (3)            Helena                   Milwaukee, WI
Shoreview                Miles City               Minneapolis, MN
St. Anthony              Missoula (2)             St. Louis, MO
St. Cloud
St. Louis Park           NORTH DAKOTA
St. Paul (6)
Virginia                 Bismarck (2)
Wayzata                  Fargo (4)
West St. Paul            Grand Forks (2)
White Bear Lake (2)      Jamestown
Willmar                  Minot (2)
Woodbury






CORPORATE DATA



EXECUTIVE OFFICES

First Bank Place
601 Second Avenue South
Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402-4302
(612) 973-1111


ANNUAL MEETING

The annual meeting of shareholders will be held at the Minneapolis Convention
Center, 1301 Second Avenue South, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55403, at 2 p.m. on
Thursday, April 28,1994.


SECURITIES INFORMATION

First Bank System Common Stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under
the ticker symbol FBS and also may be found under the listing FtBkSy.  The
transfer agent and registrar for First Bank System is First Chicago Trust
Company of New York, P.O. Box 2500, Jersey City, New Jersey 07303-2500.

DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT

First Bank System shareholders can take advantage of a plan that provides
automatic reinvestment of dividends and/or optional cash purchases of additional
shares at market price of up to $5,000 per quarter.  If you would like more
information, contact First Chicago Trust Company of New York, P.O. Box 13531,
Newark, New Jersey 07188-0001, (800) 446-2617.

INVESTMENT COMMUNITY CONTACTS

John R. Danielson
Senior Vice President, Investor Relations
(612) 973-2261

Karin E. Glasgow
Assistant Vice President, Investor Relations
(612) 973-2264

General Information, Investor Relations
(612) 973-2263
First Bank System, Inc.
P.O. Box 522
Minneapolis, Minnesota 55480

A limited number of spiral-bound 1993 Annual Reports are available for the
investment community.  Please write or call Investor Relations to obtain a copy.

COMMUNITY RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

For information about FBS's community reinvestment activities, call FBS
Community Relations, (612) 973-2433.

For additional annual reports or information about the 1994 annual meeting of
shareholders, please contact Corporate Relations, First Bank System, First Bank
Place, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402, (612) 973-2434.

First Bank System is an Equal Employment Opportunity/Affirmative Action
employer.




                          APPENDIX OF GRAPHIC MATERIAL





