
10-K
FORM 10-K, CHEMICAL BANKING CORPORATION





                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C.  20549
                                   FORM 10-K
                ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF
                      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


                          CHEMICAL BANKING CORPORATION
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)



       REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: (212) 270-6000


          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:



        SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT: NONE
 NUMBER OF SHARES OF COMMON STOCK OUTSTANDING ON FEBRUARY 28, 1994: 253,255,253
     INDICATE BY CHECK MARK WHETHER THE REGISTRANT (1) HAS FILED ALL REPORTS
REQUIRED TO BE FILED BY SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934 DURING THE PRECEDING 12 MONTHS (OR FOR SUCH SHORTER PERIOD THAT THE
REGISTRANT WAS REQUIRED TO FILE SUCH REPORTS), AND (2) HAS BEEN SUBJECT TO SUCH
FILING REQUIREMENTS FOR THE PAST 90 DAYS.  YES ..X..  NO ....

     INDICATE BY CHECK MARK IF DISCLOSURE OF DELINQUENT FILERS PURSUANT TO ITEM
405 OF REGULATION S-K IS NOT CONTAINED HEREIN, AND WILL NOT BE CONTAINED, TO
THE BEST OF REGISTRANT'S KNOWLEDGE, IN DEFINITIVE PROXY OR INFORMATION
STATEMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN PART III OF THIS FORM 10-K OR ANY
AMENDMENT TO THIS FORM 10-K. [X]

     THE AGGREGATE MARKET VALUE OF CHEMICAL BANKING CORPORATION COMMON STOCK
HELD BY NON-AFFILIATES OF CHEMICAL BANKING CORPORATION ON FEBRUARY 28, 1994 WAS
$9,372,000,000.



PROXY STATEMENT FOR THE ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS TO BE HELD MAY 17, 1994
   PART III (OTHER THAN INFORMATION INCLUDED IN THE PROXY STATEMENT PURSUANT TO
   RULE 402 (I), (K) AND (L) OF REGULATION S-K)


                                FORM 10-K INDEX






                                     PART I

ITEM 1.       BUSINESS

OVERVIEW

Chemical Banking Corporation (the "Corporation") is a bank holding company
organized under the laws of Delaware in 1968 and registered under the Bank
Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the "BHCA").  On December 31, 1991,
Manufacturers Hanover Corporation ("MHC") merged with and into the Corporation
(the "Merger").  The Merger was accounted for as a pooling of interests and,
accordingly, the Corporation's financial statements include the consolidated
results of MHC.  In addition, on June 19, 1992, Manufacturers Hanover Trust
Company ("MHT"), a New York banking corporation, was merged with and into
Chemical Bank ("Chemical Bank"), a New York banking corporation.  Certain
amounts in the 1992 and 1991 financial statements have been reclassified to
conform with the presentation of the 1993 financial statements.

The Corporation conducts domestic and international financial services
businesses through various bank and non-bank subsidiaries.  The principal bank
subsidiaries of the Corporation are Chemical Bank and Texas Commerce Bank
National Association, a subsidiary of Texas Commerce Bancshares, Inc. ("Texas
Commerce"), a bank holding company subsidiary of the Corporation headquartered
in Texas.  The bank and non-bank subsidiaries of the Corporation operate
nationally through offices located primarily in New York, Texas and New Jersey
as well as through overseas branches and an international network of
representative offices, subsidiaries and affiliated banks.

The financial services provided by the Corporation's domestic subsidiaries
include personal and commercial checking accounts, savings and time deposit
accounts, United States corporate tax depository facilities, personal and
business loans, consumer financing, leasing, real estate financing, investment
banking, mortgage banking, individual credit cards, money transfer, cash
management, safe deposit facilities, payroll management, correspondent banking,
personal trust and estate administration, full investment services, discount
brokerage, United States Government and Federal agency securities dealership,
and corporate debt and equity securities dealership and underwriting.

Internationally, services also include correspondent banking arrangements,
merchant banking, underwriting and trading of eurosecurities, and foreign
exchange activities.

The Corporation's bank subsidiaries also provide products to ensure that a
customer will have a specific currency-exchange or interest rate at some future
date.  These products include interest-rate and currency swaps, interest rate
options, future rate agreements, forward interest-rate contracts, foreign
exchange contracts and financial futures.

The Corporation retains a 40% interest in the CIT Group Holdings, Inc. ("CIT").
CIT, directly or through its subsidiaries, engages in diversified financial
services activities, primarily in the United States.  These activities include
asset-based finance and leasing, sales finance and factoring.  For additional
information pertaining to CIT, see the section entitled "Noninterest Revenue"
in Section B, page 30.





ORGANIZATIONAL REVIEW

The Corporation's activities are internally organized, for management reporting
purposes, into various business sectors.  Developments that have occurred
during 1993 with respect to these business sectors are disclosed below .


                                     A1



THE GLOBAL BANK
The Global Bank provides banking, financial advisory, trading and investment
services to corporations and public sector clients worldwide through a network
of offices in 35 countries, including major operations in all key international
financial centers.  For a discussion of the Global Bank's business activities,
see the section entitled "Lines of Business Results" in Section B at page 32.
Additionally, during 1993, the Corporation received approval from the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the "Federal Reserve Board") for
authority for its securities subsidiary, Chemical Securities Inc. ("CSI"), to
underwrite and deal in corporate debt and equity securities.

THE REGIONAL BANK
The Regional Bank is a leading provider of services to consumers in the
tri-state metropolitan region of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut.  For a
discussion of the Regional Bank's business activities, see the section entitled
"Lines of Business Results" in Section B at page 33.  Additionally, during
1993, the Corporation continued to build The Hanover Funds, the Corporation's
proprietary mutual funds family, by increasing the number of funds available
for investment from six to ten, continued the merging of the branch systems of
Chemical Bank and MHT, introduced unified products throughout the Regional Bank
branch network and initiated steps to sell insurance products nationwide
through a joint venture with MDS/Bankmark.  In 1994, the Corporation sold
certain of Chemical Bank's branches located in Albany, Buffalo, Rochester,
Syracuse and certain other upstate locations to Fleet Bank of New York, and
plans to close approximately 50 branches located in the N.Y. metropolitan area.

TEXAS COMMERCE
Texas Commerce is a major financial institution in Texas with over 115
locations statewide and serving as the primary Texas bank for more than half of
all companies located in Texas with annual revenues of $250 million or more.
For a discussion of Texas Commerce's business activities, see the section
entitled "Lines of Business Results" in Section B at page 33.  In February
1993, Texas Commerce acquired certain assets of four former banks of the First
City Bancorporation of Texas and in September 1993 Texas Commerce acquired
Ameritrust Texas Corporation.  As a result of these acquisitions, at December
31, 1993, Texas Commerce ranked, in terms of total deposits, first in the
Houston and third in the Dallas/Fort Worth banking markets and had more than
doubled its trust assets under management to $14 billion, the largest trust
operations in the southwest United States.

REAL ESTATE AND CORPORATE
For a discussion on the Corporation's real estate and corporate business
sectors, see the section entitled "Lines of Business Results" in Section B at
page 34.

ACQUISITIONS, DIVESTITURES AND STRATEGIC POSITIONING
The acquisitions and divestitures undertaken by the Corporation during 1993 are
consistent with the Corporation's desire to focus on businesses and markets
where it has or can acquire a leadership position.  The Corporation intends to
continue to examine opportunities for expansion or acquisition, particularly in
businesses in which economies of scale are important (such as credit cards,
mortgage servicing, mutual funds and certain areas of operating services) or in
which significant expense savings can be obtained from
consolidation of operations (such as in-market consolidations of banking
operations).  Likewise, businesses that fall outside the Corporation's
strategic focus (either in terms of product offering or geographic market), may
be candidates for divestiture or closure.  The Corporation also intends to
continue its productivity efforts to focus on containing costs throughout the
organization and increasing efficiency over the long term.  As part of this
program, the Corporation may open new branches and close existing branches from
time to time in order to keep its distribution system attuned to changing
economics of branch banking and changing customer preferences for delivery of
banking services.

                                       A2

COMPETITION

The Corporation and its subsidiaries and affiliates operate in a highly
competitive environment.  The Corporation's bank subsidiaries compete with
other domestic and foreign banks, thrift institutions, credit unions, and money
market and other mutual funds for deposits and other sources of funds.  In
addition, the Corporation and its bank and non-bank subsidiaries face increased
competition with respect to the diverse financial services and products they
offer.  Competitors also include leasing companies, finance companies,
brokerage firms, investment banking companies, merchant banks, and a variety of
other financial services and advisory companies.  Many of these competitors are
not subject to the same regulatory restrictions as are domestic bank holding
companies and banks, such as the Corporation and its bank subsidiaries.

The Corporation expects that competitive conditions will continue to intensify
as a result of technological advances.  Technological advances have, for
example, made it possible for non-depository institutions to offer customers
automatic transfer systems and other automated payment systems services that
have been traditional banking products.

GOVERNMENT MONETARY POLICIES AND ECONOMIC CONTROLS

The earnings and business of the Corporation are affected by general economic
conditions, both domestic and international.  In addition, fiscal or other
policies that are adopted by various regulatory authorities of the United
States, by foreign governments, and by international agencies can have
important consequences on the financial performance of the Corporation.  The
Corporation is particularly affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve
Board, which regulates the national supply of bank credit.  Among the
instruments of monetary policy available to the Federal Reserve Board are
engaging in open-market operations in United States Government securities;
changing the discount rates of borrowings of depository institutions; imposing
or changing reserve requirements against depository institutions deposits and
certain assets of foreign branches; and imposing or changing reserve
requirements against certain borrowings by banks and their affiliates
(including parent corporations such as the Corporation).  These methods are
used in varying combinations to influence the overall growth of bank loans,
investments, and deposits, and the interest rates charged on loans or paid for
deposits.

The Corporation has economic, credit, legal, and other specialists who monitor
economic conditions, and domestic and foreign government policies and actions.
However, since it is difficult to predict changes in macroeconomic conditions
and in governmental policies and actions relating thereto, it is difficult to
foresee the effects of any such changes on the business and earnings of the
Corporation and its subsidiaries.

SUPERVISION AND REGULATION

The Corporation is subject to regulation as a registered bank holding company
under the BHCA.  As such, the Corporation is required to file with the Federal
Reserve Board an annual report and other information required quarterly
pursuant to the BHCA. The Corporation is also subject to the examination
powers of the Federal Reserve Board.

Under the BHCA, the Corporation may not engage in any business other than
managing and controlling banks or furnishing certain specified services to
subsidiaries, and may not acquire voting control of non-banking corporations,
except those corporations engaged in businesses or furnishing services which
the Federal Reserve Board deems to be so closely related to banking as "to be a
proper incident thereto".  Further, the Corporation is prohibited, with certain
exceptions, from acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than
5% of the voting shares of any non-banking corporation, and may not acquire
direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of
any domestic bank without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board.
Under existing laws, the Federal Reserve Board generally is prohibited from
approving any application by a bank holding company to acquire voting shares of
any bank in another state unless such interstate acquisitions are authorized by
the laws of such state or unless, under certain circumstances, such bank is a
failing bank.





                                       A3

Federal law imposes limitations on the payment of dividends by the subsidiaries
of the Corporation that are state member banks of the Federal Reserve System (a
"state member bank") or national banks.  Non-bank subsidiaries of the
Corporation are not subject to such limitations.  The amount of dividends that
may be paid by a state member bank, such as Chemical Bank, or by a national
bank, such as Texas Commerce Bank National Association, is limited to the
lesser of the amounts calculated under a "recent earnings" test and an
"undivided profits" test.  Under the recent earnings test, a dividend may not
be paid if the total of all dividends declared by a bank in any calendar year
is in excess of the current year's "net profits" combined with the "retained
net profits" of the two preceding years unless the bank obtains the approval of
its appropriate Federal banking regulator (which, in the case of a member bank,
is the Federal Reserve Board and, in the case of a national bank, is the Office
of the Comptroller of the Currency (the "Comptroller of the Currency")).  Under
the undivided profits test, a dividend may not be  paid in excess of a bank's
"undivided profits then on hand", after deducting losses and "bad debts" in
excess of the allowance for loan and lease losses.

Under regulations adopted by the Federal Reserve Board and the Comptroller of
the Currency, the terms "net profits" and "undivided profits then on hand" are
defined as the amounts reported by a bank on its Reports of Condition and
Income; the term "retained net profits" is defined as net income (as defined)
less any common or preferred dividends declared for the reporting period; and
the term "bad debts" is defined to include matured obligations due a bank on
which the interest is past due and unpaid for six months, unless the debts are
well secured and in the process of collection.  Generally, a debt is considered
"matured" when all or a part of the principal is due and payable as a result of
demand, arrival of the stated maturity date, of acceleration by contract or by
operation of law.  The New York Banking Department also adopted regulations in
December 1990 that require net profits of New York State-chartered banks, like
Chemical Bank, to be calculated in a manner similar to the method set forth in
the Federal Reserve Board's regulations.

At December 31, 1993, in accordance with the foregoing restrictions, the
Corporation's bank subsidiaries could, without the approval of their relevant
banking regulators, pay dividends of approximately $1,715 million to their
respective bank holding companies, plus an additional amount equal to their net
profits from January 1, 1994 through the date of any such dividend payment.

In addition to the dividend restrictions described above, the Federal Reserve
Board, the Comptroller of the Currency and the FDIC have authority under the
Financial Institutions Supervisory Act to prohibit or to limit the payment of
dividends by the banking organizations they supervise, including the
Corporation and its subsidiaries that are banks or bank holding companies, if,
in the banking regulator's opinion, payment of a dividend would constitute an
unsafe or unsound practice in light of the financial condition of the banking
organization.

For a further discussion of the dividend restrictions imposed on the
Corporation's subsidiaries that are state member or national banks, see Note
17, "Restrictions on Cash and Intercompany Funds Transfers", in Section B on
page 71.

The Corporation is also subject to the risk-based capital and leverage
guidelines of the Federal Reserve Board, which require that the Corporation's
capital-to-assets ratios meet certain minimum standards.  For a discussion of
the Federal Reserve Board's guidelines and the Corporation's ratios, see the
sections entitled "Capital", "Risk-Based Capital Ratios", and "Leverage Ratios"
in Section B, pages 42 through 44.  The FDIC, the Federal Reserve Board and the
Comptroller of the Currency also have issued proposed rules which are intended
to revise the risk-based capital rules to take into account interest-rate risk.
For a further discussion of the proposed rulemaking and the Corporation's
assessment of the impact the proposal would have on the capital ratios of the
Corporation, see the section entitled "Interest Rate Sensitivity" in Section B
at pages 47 through 49.





                                       A4

FDICIA
On December 19, 1991, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act
of 1991 ("FDICIA") was enacted.  Among other things, FDICIA requires the FDIC
to establish a risk-based assessment system for FDIC deposit insurance and
revises certain provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act as well as
certain other Federal banking statutes.  In general, FDICIA provides for
expanded regulation of depository institutions and their affiliates, including
parent holding companies, by such institutions' appropriate Federal banking
regulators, and requires the appropriate Federal banking regulator to take
"prompt corrective action" with respect to a depository institution if such
institution does not meet certain capital adequacy standards.

Prompt Corrective Action.  Pursuant to FDICIA, the Federal Reserve Board, the
FDIC and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency adopted regulations,
effective December 19, 1992, setting forth a five-tier scheme for measuring the
capital adequacy of the depository institutions they supervise.  Under the
regulations (commonly referred to as the "prompt corrective action" rules), an
institution would be placed in one of the following capital categories: (i)
well capitalized (an institution that has a total risk- based capital ratio of
at least 10%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6% and a Tier 1
leverage ratio of at least 5%); (ii) adequately capitalized (an institution
that has a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 8%, a Tier 1 risk-based
capital ratio of at least 4% and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 4%); (iii)
undercapitalized (an institution that has a total risk-based capital ratio of
under 8% or a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio under 4% or a Tier 1 leverage
ratio under 4%); (iv) significantly undercapitalized (an institution that has a
total risk-based capital ratio of under 6% or a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio
under 3% or a Tier 1 leverage ratio under 3%); and (v) critically
undercapitalized (an institution that has a ratio of tangible equity to total
assets of 2% or less).

Supervisory actions by the appropriate Federal banking regulator will depend
upon an institution's classification within the five categories.  All
institutions are generally prohibited from declaring any dividends, making any
other capital distribution, or paying a management fee to any controlling
person, if such payment would cause the institution to become undercapitalized.
Additional supervisory actions are mandated for an institution falling into one
of the three "undercapitalized" categories, with the severity of supervisory
action increasing at greater levels of capital deficiency.  For example,
critically undercapitalized institutions are, among other things, restricted
from making any principal or interest payments on subordinated debt without
prior approval of their appropriate Federal banking regulator.  The regulations
apply only to banks and not to bank holding companies, such as the Corporation;
however, the Federal Reserve Board is authorized to take appropriate action at
the holding company level based on the undercapitalized status of such holding
company's subsidiary banking institution.  In certain instances relating to an
undercapitalized banking institution, the bank holding company would be
required to guarantee the performance of the undercapitalized subsidiary and
may be liable for civil money damages for failure to fulfill its commitments on
such guarantee.

At December 31, 1993, Chemical Bank and Texas Commerce National Association
were each "well capitalized".

Brokered Deposits.  The FDIC issued a rule, effective June 16, 1992, regarding
the ability of depository institutions to accept brokered deposits.  Under the
rule, the term "brokered deposits" is defined to include deposits that are
solicited by a bank's affiliates on its behalf.  A significant portion of
Chemical Bank's wholesale deposits are solicited on its behalf by a
broker-dealer affiliate of Chemical Bank and are considered brokered deposits.
Under the rule, (i) an "undercapitalized  institution is prohibited from
accepting, renewing or rolling over brokered deposits, (ii) an "adequately
capitalized" institution must obtain a waiver from the FDIC before accepting,
renewing or rolling over brokered deposits and is not permitted to pay interest
on brokered deposits accepted in such institution's normal market area at rates
that "significantly exceed" rates paid on deposits of similar maturity in such
area, and (iii) a "well capitalized" institution may accept, renew or roll over
brokered deposits without restriction.  The definitions of "well capitalized",
"adequately capitalized", and "undercapitalized" are the same as those utilized
in the "prompt corrective action" rules described above.  As noted above, at
December 31, 1993, each of Chemical Bank and Texas Commerce Bank National
Association was "well capitalized".




                                      A5

FDIC Insurance Assessments.  The FDIC has adopted final rules implementing, for
assessment periods commencing January 1, 1994, risk- based insurance premiums.
Under the assessment system, each depository institution is assigned to one of
nine risk classifications based upon certain capital and supervisory measures
and, depending upon its classification, will be assessed premiums ranging from
23 basis points to 31 basis points.  In adopting the "permanent" risk-based
assessment system, the FDIC indicated that, if future conditions so warrant, it
may reconsider certain aspects of the rate schedules and of the risk
classification categories.  The Corporation believes that the implementation of
the "permanent" risk-based FDIC assessment system will not have a material
effect on the Corporation's  FDIC expenses during 1994.

Other FDICIA Rules.  Other rules that have been adopted pursuant to FDICIA
include:  (i) real estate lending standards for banks, which would provide
guidelines concerning loan-to-value ratios for various types of real estate
loans; (ii) rules relating to consumer lending, including regulations governing
advertising and disclosures required for consumer deposit accounts; (iii) rules
requiring depository institutions to develop and implement internal procedures
to evaluate and control credit and settlement exposure to their correspondent
banks; (iv) rules implementing the FDICIA provision prohibiting, with certain
exceptions, FDIC- insured state banks from making equity investments of the
types and amount, or from engaging as principal in activities, not permissible
for national banks;  and (v) rules mandating enhanced financial reporting and
audit requirements.   Rules proposed, but not yet adopted, include those
addressing (i) various "safety and soundness" issues, including operations and
managerial standards, standards for asset quality, earnings and stock
valuations, and compensation standards for the officers, directors, employees
and principal stockholders of the depository institution, (ii) the degree to
which the risk-based capital rules should be revised to take into account
interest-rate risk, as previously mentioned and (iii) notice provisions in the
case of branch closings.

The Corporation expects the rules and regulations adopted and proposed to be
adopted pursuant to FDICIA will result in increased compliance costs for the
Corporation and its bank subsidiaries but does not expect such rules and
regulations to have a material impact on the operations of the Corporation or
its bank subsidiaries.

POWERS OF THE FDIC UPON INSOLVENCY OF AN INSURED DEPOSITORY INSTITUTION
The Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989
("FIRREA") imposes liability on an FDIC-insured depository institution (such as
the Corporation's bank subsidiaries), for costs incurred by the FDIC in
connection with the insolvency of other FDIC-insured institutions under common
control with such institution (commonly referred to as "cross-guarantees" of
insured depository institutions).  An FDIC cross-guarantee claim against a
depository institution is superior in right of payment to claims of the holding
company and its affiliates against such depository institution.

In the event an insured depository institution becomes insolvent, or upon the
occurrence of certain other events specified in the Federal Deposit Insurance
Act, whenever the FDIC is appointed the conservator or receiver of such insured
depository institution, the FDIC has the power: (i) to transfer any of such
bank's assets and liabilities to a new obligor (including, but not limited to,
another financial institution acquiring all or a portion of the bank's
business, assets or liabilities), without the approval of such bank's
creditors; (ii) to enforce the terms of such bank's contracts pursuant to their
terms, or (iii) to repudiate or disaffirm any contract or lease to which such
depository institution is a party, the performance of which is determined by
the FDIC to be burdensome and the disaffirmance or repudiation of which is
determined by the FDIC to promote the orderly administration of such depository
institution's assets.  Such provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act
would be applicable to obligations and liabilities of those of the
Corporation's subsidiaries that are insured depository institutions, such as
Chemical Bank and Texas Commerce Bank National Association, including without
limitation, obligations under senior or subordinated debt issued by such banks
to investors (hereinafter referred to as "public noteholders") in the public
markets.





                                     A6

In its resolution of the problems of an insured depository institution in
default or in danger of default, the FDIC is not permitted to take any action
that would have the effect of increasing the losses to a deposit insurance fund
by protecting depositors for more than the insured portion of their deposits or
by protecting creditors of the insured depository institution (including public
noteholders), other than depositors.  On October 25, 1993, the FDIC issued
proposed rules to implement these provisions.  In addition, the FDIC is
authorized to settle all uninsured and unsecured claims in the insolvency of an
insured institution by making a final settlement payment after the declaration
of insolvency based upon a percentage determined by the FDIC reflecting an
average of the FDIC's receivership recovery experience, regardless of the
assets of the insolvent institution actually available for distribution to
creditors.  Such a payment would constitute full payment and disposition of the
FDIC's obligations to claimants.

The Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 included a "depositor preference"
provision, which provided that, in the event of a liquidation of an insured
depository institution, claims of depositors and their subrogees, including the
FDIC in respect of the payment of insured deposits, would be entitled to a
preference over all other unsecured claimants against the depository
institution, including some creditors (such as certain public noteholders),
other than depositors.

As a result of the provisions described above, whether or not the FDIC ever
sought to repudiate any obligations held by public noteholders of any
subsidiary of the Corporation that is an insured depository institution, such
as Chemical Bank or Texas Commerce Bank National Association, the public
noteholders would be treated differently from, and could receive, if anything,
substantially less than, holders of deposit obligations of such depository
institution.

OTHER SUPERVISION AND REGULATION
Under Federal Reserve Board policy, the Corporation is expected to act as a
source of financial strength to each bank subsidiary and to commit resources to
support such bank subsidiary in circumstances where it might not do so absent
such policy.  Any loans by a bank holding company to any of its subsidiary
banks are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other
indebtedness of the subsidiary banks.  In the event of a bank holding company's
bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to a Federal bank
regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank at a certain
level will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of
payment.

The bank subsidiaries of the Corporation are subject to certain restrictions
imposed by Federal law on extensions of credit to, and certain other
transactions with, the Corporation and certain other affiliates and on
investments in stock or securities thereof.  Such restrictions prevent the
Corporation and other affiliates from borrowing from a bank subsidiary unless
the loans are secured in specified amounts.  Without the prior approval of the
Federal Reserve Board, secured loans, other transactions and investments by any
bank subsidiary are generally limited in amount as to the Corporation and as to
each of the other affiliates to 10% of the bank's capital and surplus and as to
the Corporation and all such other affiliates to an aggregate of 20% of the
bank's capital and surplus.  Federal law also requires that transactions
between a bank subsidiary and the Corporation or certain non-bank affiliates,
including extensions of credit, sales of securities or assets and the provision
of services, be conducted on terms at least as favorable to the bank subsidiary
as those that apply or that would apply to comparable transactions with
unaffiliated parties.

The Corporation's bank and non-bank subsidiaries are subject to direct
supervision and regulation by various other Federal and state authorities.
Chemical Bank, as a New York State-chartered bank and member bank of the
Federal Reserve System, is subject to supervision and regulation of the New
York State Banking Department as well as by the Federal Reserve Board and the
FDIC.  The Corporation's national bank subsidiaries, such as Texas Commerce
Bank National Association, Chemical Bank New Jersey, N.A. and Chemical Bank,
N.A., are subject to substantially similar supervision and regulations by the
Comptroller of the Currency.  Supervision and regulation by each of the
foregoing regulatory agencies generally include comprehensive annual reviews of
all major aspects of the relevant bank's business and condition, as well as the
imposition of periodic reporting requirements and limitations on






                                       A7

investments and other powers.  The activities of the Corporation's
broker-dealers are subject to the regulations of the Securities and Exchange
Commission and the National Association of Securities Dealers, and, in the case
of CSI, are subject to the supervision and regulation of the Federal Reserve
Board (which has imposed conditions governing CSI's activities, including
limitations on the gross revenues that may be derived from certain of CSI's
activities).  Additionally, various securities activities conducted by the bank
subsidiaries of the Corporation, such as dealing in municipal securities,
acting as transfer agent, the making available of mutual funds and providing
other types of investment management services, are subject to the regulations
of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Municipal Securities Rulemaking
Board and, with respect to certain activities of its mutual funds, the Federal
Reserve Board.  The types of activities in which the foreign branches of
Chemical Bank and the international subsidiaries of the Corporation may engage
are subject to various restrictions imposed by the Federal Reserve Board.  Such
foreign branches and international subsidiaries are also subject to the laws
and banking authorities of the countries in which they operate.

Federal and state legislation affecting the banking industry has played, and
will continue to play, a significant role in shaping the nature of the
financial services industry.  For example, there are bills currently pending in
Congress that would permit, to varying degrees, the interstate expansion and
branching of bank holding companies and banks, respectively.  In addition,
there are cases pending before Federal and state courts that seek to expand or
restrict interpretations of existing laws and their accompanying regulations
affecting bank holding companies and their subsidiaries.  It is not possible to
predict the extent to which the Corporation and its subsidiaries may be
affected by any of these initiatives.

FOREIGN OPERATIONS

For geographic distributions of total assets, total revenue, total expense,
income before income tax expense and net income, see Note 21, "International
Operations", of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Section B,
page 77.  For a discussion of foreign loans, see the sections entitled
"Cross-Border Outstandings" and "Outstandings to Countries Engaged in Debt
Rescheduling" in Section B, pages 41 and 42.

                                      A8

STATISTICAL INFORMATION

In addition to the statistical information that is presented in the following
pages in this Section A of the Form 10-K, the following statistical information
is included in Section B of the Form 10-K:







                                       A9


DISTRIBUTION OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY; 
INTEREST RATES AND INTEREST DIFFERENTIAL

For a five-year summary of the consolidated average balances, interest rates
and interest differentials on a taxable-equivalent basis for the years 1993
through 1989, see Section B, pages 80 and 81.  Income computed on a
taxable-equivalent basis is income as reported in the Consolidated Statement of
Income adjusted to make income and earning yields on assets exempt from income
taxes (primarily Federal taxes) comparable to other taxable income.  The
incremental tax rate used for calculating the taxable equivalent adjustment was
approximately 43% in each of the years 1993 through 1989.

Within the five-year summary, the principal amounts of nonaccrual and
renegotiated loans have been included in the average loan balances used to
determine the average interest rate earned on loans.  Interest accrued but not
collected at the date a loan is placed on nonaccrual status is reversed against
interest income.  Subsequent cash receipts are applied either to the
outstanding principal balance or recorded as interest income, depending on
management's assessment of the ultimate collectibility of principal and
interest.  Interest income is accrued on renegotiated loans at the renegotiated
rates.  Certain renegotiated loan agreements call for additional interest to be
paid on a deferred or a contingent basis.  Such interest is taken into income
only as collected.


A summary of interest rates and interest differentials segregated between
domestic and foreign operations for the years 1993, 1992 and 1991 is presented
on pages A11 and A12 herein.  Regarding the basis of segregation between the
domestic and foreign components, see Note 21 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements in Section B, page 77.

The tables on pages A13 through A16 herein present an analysis of the effect on
net interest income of volume and rate changes for the periods 1993 over 1992
and 1992 over 1991.  In this analysis, the change due to the volume/rate
variance has been allocated to volume.





                                  A10

CHEMICAL BANKING CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

INTEREST RATES AND INTEREST DIFFERENTIAL ANALYSIS OF NET INTEREST INCOME -
DOMESTIC AND FOREIGN








                                       A11








                                     A12

CHEMICAL BANKING CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES


CHANGE IN NET INTEREST INCOME
VOLUME AND RATE ANALYSIS
_______________________________________






                                      A13



                                 1993 OVER 1992






                                      A14

CHEMICAL BANKING CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES


CHANGE IN NET INTEREST INCOME
VOLUME AND RATE ANALYSIS






                                      A15

                                 1992 OVER 1991







                                      A16

SECURITIES PORTFOLIO

On December 31, 1993, the Corporation adopted Statement of Financial Accounting
Standard No. 115 "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity
Securities" ("SFAS 115").  SFAS 115 addresses the accounting for investments in
equity securities that have readily determinable fair values and all
investments in debt securities.  Prior to the adoption of SFAS 115,
available-for-sale securities were carried at the lower of aggregate amortized
cost or market value.  For a further discussion of the Corporation's securities
portfolio see Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in
Section B, pages 60 through 61.

Of the securities held in the Corporation's securities portfolio, the U.S.
Government is the only issuer whose securities exceeded 10% of the
Corporation's total stockholders' equity at December 31, 1993.  The year-end
balances of the Corporation's held-to- maturity securities for 1993, 1992 and
1991 were as follows:




The year-end balances of the Corporation's available-for-sale securities for
1993 and 1992 were as follows:




(a)  Includes investments in debt securities issued by foreign governments,
     corporate debt securities, collateralized mortgage obligations of private
     issuers, and other debt and equity securities.





                                      A17


The following table presents, by maturity range and type of security, the
amortized cost at December 31, 1993, and the average yield of the
held-to-maturity securities portfolio.



The following table presents, by maturity range and type of security, the fair
value and amortized cost at December 31, 1993 and the average yield of the
available-for-sale securities portfolio.





LOAN PORTFOLIO

The table below sets forth the amount of loans outstanding by type for the
dates indicated:




MATURITIES AND SENSITIVITY TO CHANGES IN INTEREST RATES

The following table shows the maturity distribution based upon the terms of the
loan agreements, and sensitivity to changes in interest rates of the loan
portfolio, excluding consumer loans, at December 31, 1993:



(a)  LDC denotes loans to countries engaged in debt rescheduling.
(b)  Includes demand loans, overdrafts and loans having no stated schedule of
     repayments and no stated maturity.





                                      A19

RISK ELEMENTS

The following table shows the principal amounts of nonaccrual and renegotiated
loans at the dates indicated:



See Note 7 on page 64 of Section B for interest income calculated on the
carrying value of nonaccrual and renegotiated loans that would have been
recorded if these loans had been current in accordance with their original
terms (interest at original rates), and the amount of interest income on these
loans that was included in income for the periods indicated.

_______________________________________________________________________________


The following table presents loans past due 90 days or more for which interest
is being accrued at the dates indicated:






(a)   Includes consumer loans, exclusive of residential mortgage loans, as to
      which interest or principal is past due 90 days or more which are
      generally not classified as nonperforming but, rather, are charged-off on
      a formula basis upon reaching certain specified stages of delinquency.




                                      A20

ALLOWANCE FOR LOSSES

The table below sets forth the Allowance for Losses for the dates indicated:



_________________________

(a)   Includes $55 million related to the decision to accelerate the
      disposition of certain nonperforming residential mortgage loans.
(b)   Includes $175 million of recoveries on the disposition of LDC debt.
(c)   Includes $19 million increase in allowance related to the acquisition by
      Texas Commerce of certain assets of four former banks of First City 
      Bancorporation of Texas, Inc.
(d)   Includes a $902 million charge to adjust Brazilian medium- and long-term
      outstandings to an estimated net recoverable value.
(e)   Includes a $349 million charge related to the Mexican debt restructuring
      agreement.  This amount represents the difference between the carrying
      value of the debt exchanged and the face value of the bonds received.
(f)   Includes special additions of $1.7 billion for loans to countries
      engaged in debt rescheduling and $210 million to Texas Commerce's
      allowance for losses.





                                      A21


ALLOWANCE FOR LOSSES-FOREIGN

The following table shows, for the years 1993-1989, the changes in the
portion of the allowance for losses allocated to loans related to foreign
operations, including activity related to countries engaged in debt
rescheduling:
        


(a)   Includes a $902 million charge to adjust Brazilian medium- and
      long-term outstandings to an estimated net recoverable value.  
        
(b)   Includes a $349 million charge related to the Mexican debt
      restructuring agreement.  This amount represents the difference
      between the carrying value of the debt exchanged and the face value of
      the bonds received.  
        
(c)   Includes a special addition of $1.7 billion for loans to countries
      engaged in debt rescheduling.
        
The consolidated year-end allowance for losses is available to absorb
potential credit losses from the  entire loan portfolio, as well as from other
balance sheet and off-balance sheet credit related transactions.
        
LOAN LOSS ANALYSIS







                                                                A22

DEPOSITS

The following data provide a summary of the Corporation's average deposits and
average interest rates for the years 1993-1991:



Substantially all of the foreign deposits are in denominations of $100,000 or
more.

The following table presents deposits in denominations of $100,000 or more by 
maturity range and type for the dates indicated:



At December 31, 1993, time and savings deposits in domestic offices totaled
$51,940 million, of which $5,231 million were time certificates of deposit in
denominations of $100,000 or more, $3,916 million were other time deposits in
denominations of $100,000 or more and $34,290 million were money market deposit
accounts and other savings accounts.  Deposits of $100,000 or more in foreign
offices totaled $22,894 million, substantially all of which were
interest-bearing.

At December 31, 1992, time and savings deposits in domestic offices totaled
$51,353 million, of which $5,173 million were time certificates of deposit in
denominations of $100,000 or more, $3,549 million were other time deposits in
denominations of $100,000 or more and $33,330 million were money market deposit
accounts and other savings accounts.  Deposits of $100,000 or more in foreign
offices totaled $20,007 million, substantially all of which were
interest-bearing.





                                      A23

ITEM 2.       PROPERTIES

The headquarters of the Corporation is located in New York City at 270 Park
Avenue, which is a 50-story bank and office building owned by the Corporation.
This location contains approximately 1.3 million square feet of commercial
office and retail space.  The Corporation also owns and occupies a 22-story
bank and office building at 4 New York Plaza with 900,000 square feet of
commercial office and retail space.  The Corporation also occupies, under
leasehold agreements, office space at 55 Water Street, 277 Park Avenue, 95 Wall
Street and various other locations in New York City.

The Corporation, as lessee, also occupies offices in the United Kingdom.  The
most significant office space leased in the United Kingdom is the 168,000
square feet at 125 London Wall, which lease expires in December 2017.

In addition, the Corporation and its subsidiaries own and occupy administrative
and operational facilities in Hicksville, New York; Moorestown, New Jersey;
Houston, Texas; McAllen, Texas; Austin, Texas; Arlington, Texas and El Paso,
Texas.

The Corporation and its subsidiaries occupy branch offices and other locations
throughout the United States and in foreign countries under various types of
ownership and leasehold agreements which, when considered in the aggregate, are
not material to its operations.

ITEM 3.       LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

On January 4, 1991, Best Products Co., Inc., a catalog showroom retailer, and
several of its wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively "Best") filed under
Chapter 11 of Title 11 of the United States Code (the "Bankruptcy Code") in the
United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York (the
"Bankruptcy Court").  On or about December 29, 1992, Best commenced adversary
proceedings in the Bankruptcy Court against Chemical Bank arising out of a
leveraged buyout of Best.

Chemical Bank acted as agent bank for a syndicate of financial institutions
(the "Bank Group") that provided permanent financing of approximately $622
million (of which Chemical Bank held, as of January 4, 1991, approximately $185
million of outstanding principal and accrued and unpaid interest) to Best in
connection with its leveraged buyout.  Best's complaint alleges that the
principal and interest payments made to the Bank Group and the fees and
expenses paid to the Bank Group in return for the financing (of which Chemical
Bank's share of all such payments is approximately $232 million) constituted
fraudulent conveyances in violation of New York and Virginia law.

In January 1994, Best filed and disseminated a plan of reorganization which,
among other things, contemplates that all of the claims asserted by Best
against Chemical Bank and the Bank Group would be dismissed pursuant to a
compromise and settlement that is part of the plan.  On February 4, 1994, the
Resolution Trust Corporation (the "RTC"), acting as receiver for certain other
creditors of Best, filed an adversary proceeding against the Bank Group seeking
a declaration that the Bank Group cannot enforce the subordination provisions
of the Intercreditor Agreement to which such other creditors, Best, and
Chemical Bank, as agent for the Bank Group, are parties because the Bank
Group's claims against Best constitute fraudulent conveyances.  The RTC seeks a
further declaration that if, by reasons of the subordination provisions of the
Intercreditor Agreement, the Bank Group receives distributions from Best
pursuant to a confirmed plan of reorganization, the RTC's rights to recover
such distributions from the Bank Group shall survive the confirmation of such
plan of reorganization.

The Bankruptcy Court has approved the disclosure statement for the plan of
reorganization and a creditor vote on the plan has taken place.  A hearing on
the compromise and settlement of Best's claims against Chemical Bank and the
Bank Group commenced on March 16, 1994 and has not been concluded.  Although
there can be no assurance that the Bankruptcy Court will approve the compromise
and settlement or confirm the proposed plan of reorganization,  management
believes that the above-described proceedings will be resolved without having
any material adverse impact on the financial condition of Chemical Bank or the
Corporation.
        
ITEM 4.       SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

None.

                                      A24

                      EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT







Unless otherwise noted, all of the Corporation's above-named executive officers
have continuously held senior level positions with the Corporation and Chemical
Bank during the five fiscal years ended December 31, 1993.  There are no family
relationships among the foregoing executive officers.





                                      A25

                                    PART II


ITEM 5.       MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
              MATTERS

The outstanding shares of the Corporation's Common Stock are listed on the New
York Stock Exchange and the International Stock Exchange of the United Kingdom
and the Republic of Ireland.  For the quarterly high and low prices of the
Common Stock on the New York Exchange and the quarterly dividends declared data
for the Corporation's common stock in the last two years, see the section
entitled "Quarterly Financial Information" in Section B, page 79.

At February 28, 1994, there were approximately 55,637 holders of record of the
Corporation's Common Stock.

ITEM 6.       SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

For five-year selected financial data, see "Financial Review" in Section B,
page 25.

ITEM 7.       MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
              RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of
operations, entitled "Management's Discussion and Analysis", appears in Section
B, pages 26 through 51.

ITEM 8.       FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The consolidated financial statements appear, together with the Notes thereto
and the report of Price Waterhouse dated January 18, 1994 thereon, in Section
B, pages 52 through 79.

Supplementary financial data for each full quarter within the two years ended
December 31, 1993 are included in Section B, page 79 in the table entitled
"Quarterly Financial Information".  Also included in Section B, pages 80
through 82, are the "Average Consolidated Balance Sheet, Interest and Rates"
and the "Consolidated Balance Sheet" for Chemical Bank and Subsidiaries.

ITEM 9.       CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
              FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.





                                      A26

                                    PART III


ITEM 10.      DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE CORPORATION


ITEM 11.      EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION


ITEM 12.      SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT


ITEM 13.      CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS



Pursuant to Instruction G (3) to Form 10-K, the information to be provided by
Items 10, 11, 12 and 13 of Form 10-K (other than information pursuant to Rule
402 (i), (k) and (l) of Regulation S-K) are incorporated by reference to the
Corporation's definitive proxy statement for the annual meeting of
stockholders, to be held May 17, 1994, which proxy statement will be filed with
Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days
of the close of the Corporation's 1993 fiscal year.





                                      A27

                                    PART IV


ITEM 14.      EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

              (a)  EXHIBITS

                   1.   Financial Statements

The consolidated financial statements, the Notes thereto and the report thereon
listed in Item 8 are set forth in Section B, commencing on page 52 thereof.

                   2.   Financial Statement Schedules
                        None.

                   3.   EXHIBITS






                                      A28






                                      A29






                                      A30





The Corporation hereby agrees to furnish to the Commission, upon request,
copies of instruments defining the rights of holders for the following
outstanding nonregistered long-term debt of the Corporation and its
subsidiaries: Floating Rate Subordinated Capital Note Due 1999 of the
Corporation; Floating Rate Subordinated Note Due 1998 of the Corporation;
Subordinated Floating Rate Notes Due 2003 of the Corporation; Floating Rate
Note Due 2002 of the Corporation; Zero-Coupon Note Due 2002 of the Corporation;
Serial Zero Coupon Guaranteed Notes Due 1984-2003 of the Corporation; 7 1/4%
Subordinated Notes Due 2002 of Chemical Bank; 7% Subordinated Notes Due 2005 of
Chemical Bank; Floating Rate Subordinated Notes Due May 5, 2003 of Chemical
Bank; Floating Rate Subordinated Notes Due June 15, 2000 of Chemical Bank;
Floating Rate Subordinated Notes Due July 29, 2003 of Chemical Bank; 6.58%
Subordinated Notes Due 2005 of Chemical Bank; 6.70% Subordinated Notes Due 2008
of Chemical Bank; 6.125% Subordinated Notes Due 2008 of Chemical Bank;
Adjustable Rate Notes Due April 1, 2011 of Texas Commerce Bancshares, Inc.;
Floating Rate Subordinated Capital Notes Due 1994 of Manufacturers Hanover
Trust Company; Floating Rate Subordinated Notes Due 1997 of Manufacturers
Hanover Corporation; Floating Rate Subordinated Capital Notes Due April 1997 of
Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company; LIBOR Note, Series C, Due March 1998 of
Manufacturers Hanover Corporation; and Subordinated Note Due April 1996 of
Manufacturers Hanover Corporation.  These instruments have not been filed as
exhibits hereto by reason that the total amount of each issue of such
securities does not exceed 10% of the total assets of the Corporation and its
subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.

(b)  REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

       o   A Form 8-K dated October 21, 1993 was filed setting forth the
           Corporation's financial results for the 1993 third quarter and the
           announcement that Walter V. Shipley was to succeed John F.
           McGillicuddy as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of
           the Corporation on January 1, 1994.

       o   A Form 8-K dated November 19, 1993 was filed relating to the
           redemption of Chemical Banking Corporation's 10 3/4% Cumulative
           Preferred Stock on December 31, 1993.





                                      A31






                                   SECTION B


                             Pages 1 - 23 not used





                                      A32



                                                                CHEMICAL BANKING
                                                                CORPORATION
                                                                AND SUBSIDIARIES



FINANCIAL REPORT




                                      B24

                                                                CHEMICAL BANKING
                                                                CORPORATION
                                                                AND SUBSIDIARIES




FINANCIAL REVIEW(a)




(a) On December 31, 1991, Manufacturers Hanover Corporation ("MHC") merged with
and into Chemical Banking Corporation (the "merger"). The merger was accounted
for as a pooling of interests and, accordingly, all amounts include the
consolidated results of MHC. (b) In March 1992, the Class B Common Stock was
converted into the Corporation's Common Stock.  (c) Includes the impact of a
$625 million restructuring charge incurred in connection with the merger with
MHC. (d) Reflects special provisions of $1.9 billion for the allowance for
losses, including $1.7 billion for the allowance for losses related to
countries engaged in debt rescheduling ("LDC").  n/m--As a result of the loss,
these ratios are not meaningful.  n/a--Not applicable.





                                                                             B25

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
COMPARISON BETWEEN 1993 AND 1992



OVERVIEW

Chemical Banking Corporation (the "Corporation") earned record net income of
$1,604 million for 1993, an increase of 48% from $1,086 million reported for
1992. Net income per common share for 1993 was $5.77, compared with $3.90 in
1992.
         The higher net income in 1993 reflected strong revenue growth in the
Corporation's core businesses. Total noninterest revenue in 1993 increased 33%
from 1992 reflecting strong performances from capital markets, corporate
finance, personal trust and national consumer activities, as well as higher
profits from venture capital activities. Also contributing to the strong
earnings was a lower provision for losses reflecting improvement in the
Corporation's credit quality.
         The Corporation's 1993 results included the impact of two significant
accounting changes. On January 1, 1993, the Corporation adopted Financial
Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 106, "Employers' Accounting for
Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions" ("SFAS 106"), which resulted in a
charge of $415 million and Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No.
109, "Accounting for Income Taxes" ("SFAS 109"), which resulted in an income
tax benefit of $450 million. The net favorable impact of the adoption of these
two new accounting standards was $35 million. Income before the effect of these
accounting changes was $1,569 million ($5.63 per common share), an increase of
44% from 1992.
         Due to the strength of its earnings, the Corporation recognized in
1993 its remaining available Federal tax benefits. Tax benefits in 1993
amounted to $331 million (excluding the aforementioned adoption of SFAS 109),
compared with $278 million in 1992.  The Corporation's earnings, beginning with
the fourth quarter of 1993, were reported on a fully-taxed basis.
         For all of 1993, the Corporation realized merger-related expense
savings of $525 million related to the December 31, 1991 merger of the
Corporation and MHC, compared with $280 million in 1992.
         The Corporation's nonperforming assets at December 31, 1993 were $3.53
billion, down 42% from $6.09 billion at the 1992 year-end. Nonperforming assets
were 2.4% of total assets at the end of 1993, compared with 4.4% at December
31, 1992. At December 31, 1993, the non-LDC allowance for losses was 123% of
non-LDC nonperforming loans, compared with 64% at the same date a year ago.
         In 1993, the Corporation increased the quarterly cash dividend on its
outstanding common stock to $0.38 per share, a 27% increase from the quarterly
dividend of $0.30 per share paid in 1992. This overall increase was achieved
through an increase in March 1993 to $0.33 per share and in December 1993 to
$0.38 per share.
         At December 31, 1993, the Corporation's ratios of Tier 1 Capital to
risk-weighted assets and Total Capital to risk-weighted assets were 8.12% and
12.22%, respectively, well in excess of the minimum ratios specified by the
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System ("Federal Reserve Board"),
compared with 7.33% and 11.55%, respectively, at December 31, 1992.

[NET INCOME BAR GRAPH -- SEE EDGAR APPENDIX]
[RETURN ON AVERAGE COMMON STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY BAR GRAPH -- SEE EDGAR APPENDIX]





B26

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

NET INTEREST INCOME



(a) Reflects a pro forma adjustment to the net interest income amount included
in the Statement of Income to permit comparisons of yields on tax-exempt and
taxable assets.

         The Corporation's net interest income was $4,636 million in 1993, up
from $4,598 million in 1992. The improvement in net interest income for 1993
was due to the favorable impact from the reduction in nonperforming loans,
higher average interest earning assets and lower funding costs (primarily as a
result of the upgrades to the Corporation's credit ratings). These improvements
were partially offset by a decrease in the Corporation's loan portfolio as a
result of continued sluggish loan demand, loan paydowns from businesses
refinancing their borrowings in the debt and equity markets, as well as
management's strategic decision to reduce the credit risk profile of the
Corporation. As a consequence, there was a remixing of the composition of the
Corporation's average interest-earning assets to liquid assets, which support
the Corporation's trading businesses. Also contributing to the reduction in net
interest income was the expiration of positions taken prior to and in the early
part of 1992 to take advantage of declining U.S.  interest rates.
         The negative impact on net interest income from nonperforming loans in
1993 was $111 million, down from $293 million in 1992. The improvement is
principally due to the significant reduction in the level of the Corporation's
nonperforming loans as well as the lower interest rate environment in 1993.
         Average interest-earning assets rose 3.0% in 1993 to $124.9 billion,
compared with $121.2 billion in 1992. The growth occurred in Federal funds and
resale agreements, trading account assets, consumer loans and securities,
partially offset by a decline in commercial lending. Although the asset remix
resulted in a lower contribution to net interest income, the increase in liquid
trading account assets resulting from the remix contributed to the significant
increase in trading revenue, which is recorded in noninterest revenue.
         The Corporation's average total loans in 1993 were $78.7 billion, a
decrease of $3.5 billion from a year ago. As a percentage of total
interest-earning assets, the loan portfolio decreased to 63.0% in 1993 from
67.8% a year ago. The decline was due to the aforementioned reduction in
commercial lending, partially offset by the continued growth in consumer loans,
principally credit card and installment loans.

[NET INTEREST INCOME BAR GRAPH -- SEE EDGAR APPENDIX]

         The securities portfolio averaged $23.7 billion in 1993, compared with
$21.7 billion in 1992. The Corporation's liquid interest-earning assets
averaged $22.5 billion in 1993, an increase of $5.1 billion from a year ago. As
a result of the aforementioned remix of interest-earning assets, the percentage
of the combined portfolio of securities and liquid assets to total
interest-earning assets increased to 37.0% in 1993 from 32.2% in 1992.
         The $3.7 billion growth in interest-earning assets was funded by a
$2.3 billion increase in interest-bearing liabilities and a $1.4 billion
increase in interest-free funds. For 1993, average interest-bearing liabilities
were $106.5 billion, compared with $104.2 billion for the same period in 1992.
The Corporation's average core deposit base increased 7% in 1993 to $60.8
billion and funded 48.7% of average interest-earning assets, compared with
47.1% during 1992. As a result of this increase in core deposits, coupled with
the issuance of long-term debt and internally generated capital during 1993,
the Corporation was able to utilize lower-cost funds to support
interest-earning assets in 1993.
         The interest rate spread, which is the difference between the average
rate on interest-earning assets and the average rate on interest-bearing
liabilities, was 3.20% for both 1993 and 1992. During 1993, the spread was
favorably affected by the smaller negative impact from nonperforming loans and
lower funding costs, offset by the aforementioned shift in the Corporation's
balance sheet asset mix.
         The net yield on interest-earning assets, which is the average rate
for interest-earning assets less the average rate paid for all sources of
funds, including the impact of interest-free funds, was 3.73% in 1993, compared
with 3.82% in 1992. The decline in the net yield was impacted by the same
factors that affected the interest rate spread, as well as by a lower
contribution from interest-free sources of funds. The contribution from
interest-free funds to the net yield in 1993 was 53 basis


                                  
                                                                          B27

points, compared with 62 basis points in 1992. The decline resulted from the
lower interest rate environment in 1993, despite an increase of $1.4 billion in
interest-free funds that financed interest-earning assets.
         Management anticipates that the net yield on interest-earning assets
will be slightly lower in 1994 than 1993. Net interest income in 1994 is
expected to approximate the 1993 level as an anticipated higher level of
interest-earning assets is expected to offset the anticipated decline in net
yield.



(a) Nonperforming loans are included in the average loan balances.


DOMESTIC NET INTEREST INCOME

Domestic net interest income was $3,697 million in 1993, an increase of $53
million from the prior year. The increase in 1993 was attributable to a higher
level of interest-earning assets and the significant reduction in nonperforming
loans, partially offset by the aforementioned remixing of the Corporation's
interest-earning assets.

FOREIGN NET INTEREST INCOME

Net interest income from foreign operations was $939 million for 1993, compared
with $954 million in 1992. In 1993, the Corporation recorded interest
collections on Argentine loans of $48 million (including a one-time cash
payment of $29 million related to interest arrearages), compared with $19
million in 1992. Interest income on Brazilian loans was $75 million in 1993,
relatively unchanged from $76 million in 1992.

[COMPOSITION OF INTEREST - EARNING ASSETS PIE CHART -- SEE EDGAR APPENDIX]

PROVISION FOR LOSSES

The provision for losses in 1993 was $1,259 million, a decrease of 8% from
$1,365 million in 1992. In both years, the provision equaled the amount of the
respective year's non-LDC net charge-offs (which was lower in 1993 than in
1992, despite a $55 million provision related to the decision to accelerate the
disposition of certain nonperforming residential mortgage loans).
         As a result of the significant improvement in the Corporation's
nonperforming assets during 1993 and the favorable credit environment
anticipated for 1994, the Corporation expects a significant reduction in the
provision for losses in 1994.




         Noninterest revenue totaled $4,024 million in 1993, an increase of 33%
from last year. The growth in noninterest revenue was primarily the result of
record combined trading revenue, increases in various fee-based revenue, higher
venture capital gains and other revenue, principally gains from the sale of
refinancing country securities.



B28


         Trust and investment management fees are primarily derived from
corporate and personal trust activities. Services provided include custody,
securities processing, and private banking to customers on a global basis. The
increase of $45 million for 1993 was principally due to growth in the
Corporation's personal trust and asset management businesses. Personal trust
fees increased $31 million in 1993 to $196 million, principally due to a rise
in the market value of investments under management and to new customer
relationships developed as a result of two acquisitions by Texas Commerce
Bancshares Inc. ("Texas Commerce") in 1993: the acquisition of certain assets
of the former First City Bancorporation of Texas, Inc. ("First City Banks") in
February 1993 and the acquisition of Ameritrust Texas Corporation
("Ameritrust") in September 1993.
         Corporate finance and syndication fees include revenue from managing
and syndicating loan arrangements; providing financial advisory services in
connection with leveraged buyouts, recapitalizations and mergers and
acquisitions; and arranging private placements. Corporate finance and
syndication fees in 1993 reached $338 million, a 28% increase from the prior
year, principally resulting from the continued strong growth in global loan
originations and distribution activities. During 1993, the Corporation acted as
agent or co-agent for approximately $185 billion of syndicated credit
facilities, a reflection of the Corporation's large client base and strong
emphasis on distribution. During 1993, the Federal Reserve Board approved the
Corporation's applications to underwrite and deal in all debt and equity
securities. Fees from underwriting debt offerings also contributed to the
increase.
         Service charges on deposit accounts totaled $288 million in 1993, an
increase of 9% over last year. The increase from 1992 was primarily due to the
higher level of fees related to retail accounts as well as a larger deposit
base (principally resulting from the acquisition of the First City Banks).

[NONINTEREST REVENUE BAR GRAPH -- SEE EDGAR APPENDIX]

         Fees for other banking services for 1993 were $1,067 million, an
increase of $27 million from a year ago, which is indicative of the continued
growth in the Corporation's core revenue businesses. The fee level for 1993 was
primarily affected by changes in the following areas:

*        Retail credit card fees increased $28 million from last year due to
         increased transaction volume, reflecting a growing consumer cardholder
         base and the return to the balance sheet of previously securitized
         loans. In the fourth quarter of 1993, the Corporation initiated a
         program for a co-branded MasterCard with Shell Oil Company. Revenue
         from the Shell program was insignificant in 1993; however, it is
         expected to contribute to growth in retail card fees for 1994.

*        Mortgage servicing fees increased $6 million in 1993, reflecting the
         purchase of mortgage servicing rights as well as a higher level of
         mortgage originations resulting from the low interest-rate environment
         in 1993. The Corporation originated $14.7 billion of mortgage loans in
         1993 versus $12.5 billion in 1992.

*        Loan commitment fees were $90 million in 1993, an increase of $9
         million from 1992.

*        Loan servicing fees were $23 million in 1993, a decrease of $20
         million from a year ago, primarily reflecting the reduction in the
         level of securitized credit card loans serviced in 1993 versus 1992.

         Combined revenues from trading account and foreign exchange activities
in 1993 were $1,073 million, an increase of 26% from $853 million a year ago.
The increase was in part due to continued efforts by the Corporation to
diversify and expand its trading activities through an emphasis on
market-making and sales businesses. The Corporation's sources of trading
revenue are through sales, arbitrage, market-making and positioning. In 1993,
the Corporation, taking advantage of its higher credit ratings and its
increasing global presence, broadened its global trading activities and
increased the range of products it offers and the currency markets in which it
operates. The resulting growth in transaction volume, coupled with a broader
range of instruments, market volatility and wider spreads (especially in the
European markets) contributed to the increased revenues.
         The following table sets forth the components of trading account and
foreign exchange revenues for 1993 and 1992.



(a) Includes interest rate swaps, currency swaps, foreign exchange forward
contracts, interest rate futures, and forward rate agreements.
(b) Includes foreign exchange spot and option contracts.
(c) Includes U.S. and foreign government agency and corporate debt securities;
emerging markets debt instruments, debt-related derivatives, equity securities,
equity derivatives, and commodity derivatives.





                                                                            B29

         Trading revenues are affected by many factors including volatility of
currencies and interest rates, the volume of transactions executed by the
Corporation's customers, its success in proprietary positioning, its credit
standings and steps taken by central banks and governments to affect financial
markets. Although the Corporation believes that its improved credit standing
has recently been contributing to the improvement in its trading revenue, other
factors, such as market volatility, governmental actions, or success in
proprietary positioning, might not be as favorable in future periods as they
were in 1993. For a further discussion of the Corporation's risk-management
products and related revenues, see the Off-Balance Sheet section of the
Management's Discussion and Analysis and Note Eighteen of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.
         Securities gains were $142 million in 1993, compared with $53 million
in 1992. For further discussion of the Corporation's securities, see the
Securities section.
         The Corporation's other noninterest revenue is primarily comprised of
income from venture capital activities, equity income from affiliates
(including the Corporation's 40% interest in The CIT Group Holdings, Inc.
("CIT")), and gains on the sale of corporate assets. The most significant items
within other revenue for 1993 and 1992 are listed in the following table.



(a) Principally reflects a $179 million gain from the sale of Argentine
floating rate bonds and $152 million gain from the sale of interest due and
unpaid bonds received from Brazil.
(b) The Corporation's 40% net investment in CIT at December 31, 1993 and 1992,
totaled $849 million and $816 million, respectively.

         Income from venture capital activities, net of valuation losses, was
$301 million in 1993, an increase of $201 million from 1992. At December 31,
1993, the Corporation had equity and equity-related investments with a carrying
value of $1.3 billion. On average, these investments are held for four to seven
years. Income is recognized when an investment is sold or the investment is
marked to market at a discount to the public value upon completion of an
initial public offering. The Corporation believes that venture capital will
continue to make substantial contributions to the Corporation's earnings,
although the timing of the recognition of gains from such activities is
unpredictable and it is expected that revenues from such activities will vary
significantly from period to period.

NONINTEREST EXPENSE




         Noninterest expense in 1993 was $5,293 million, compared with $4,930
million in 1992. Included in noninterest expense were expenses related to two
acquisitions by Texas Commerce  during 1993 and higher expenses associated with
investments in certain key businesses, such as expansion of the Corporation's
securities business and the introduction of the co-branded MasterCard program
with Shell Oil Company. In the fourth quarter of 1993, the Corporation incurred
$53 million in operating expenses in connection with its introduction of the
Shell MasterCard from Chemical Bank.
         Noninterest expense for 1993 reflected $525 million in expense savings
related to the December 31, 1991 merger of the Corporation and MHC, up from
$280 million of expense savings for 1992. The Corporation expects to continue
to realize expense savings (estimated at approximately $710 million in 1994 and
approximately $750 million in 1995 and each year thereafter) and one-time
merger related benefits in connection with its implementation of the merger.
During 1993, the Corporation incurred a charge of $115 million, principally
related to changes since the date of the merger in the Corporation's facilities
plans and revised estimates of occupancy-related costs associated with
headquarters and branch consolidations. The Corporation does not anticipate any
further merger-related restructuring charges.
         During 1993, the ratio of noninterest operating expense (excluding
one-time charges) to total operating revenue improved to 59.1% from 63.7% in
1992.
         Salaries and employee benefits expenses in 1993 were $2,466 million,
compared with $2,349 million recorded in 1992. The increase from last year was
primarily the result of significantly higher incentive compensation costs due
to increased revenues (primarily from the Corporation's capital markets and
corporate finance activities), higher expenses related to services provided by
temporary employment agencies to assist with merger integration efforts, and
the additional staff costs from the 1993 acquisitions by Texas Commerce.
Additionally, as a result of the adoption of SFAS 106, expenses for 1993
related to other postretirement benefits ("OPEB") were approximately $20
million higher than in 1992.





B30


         Total staff at December 31, 1993 amounted to 41,567 compared with
39,687 at December 31, 1992. The increase in staff count from December 31, 1992
is attributable to the acquisition of the First City Banks and Ameritrust. At
December 31, 1993, merger-related staff reductions totaled 6,221 from July 15,
1991 (the date the merger with MHC was first announced) exceeding the goal of
6,200 established at that time. In 1994, the Corporation expects pension and
OPEB expense to be approximately $30 million higher than the 1993 level
primarily due to a decrease in the discount rate utilized in determining the
benefit obligation to 7.5%.  For a further discussion, see Note Thirteen of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
         Occupancy expense in 1993 was $587 million, an increase of $21 million
from 1992. The increase in 1993 principally resulted from $13 million in
occupancy-related expenses associated with the facilities acquired in
connection with the First City Banks and Ameritrust transactions. The remaining
increase in occupancy expense largely reflected the consolidation and
relocation of certain facilities in London.
         Equipment expense in 1993 was $337 million compared with $316 million
in 1992. The increase in 1993 was primarily the result of technology
enhancements to support the Corporation's investment in certain businesses,
such as Geoserve, retail banking and capital markets.
         Foreclosed property expense was $287 million in 1993, compared with
$283 million in 1992. Included in the 1993 results was $20 million related to
the accelerated disposition of nonperforming assets originally extended several
years ago under a reduced-documentation residential mortgage program that was
discontinued in 1990. Management expects that foreclosed property expense in
1994 will be significantly lower than the 1993 level.
         In 1993, the Corporation incurred the aforementioned $115 million
charge related to the final assessment of costs associated with the merger with
MHC and $43 million in connection with the acquisition of assets and assumption
of liabilities of the First City Banks from the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation (the "FDIC"). For a further discussion, see Note Two of the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements.
         Other expense comprises items such as professional services,
insurance, marketing, communications expense and FDIC assessments. Other
expense in 1993 was $1,458 million compared with $1,416 million in 1992. The
1992 amount included a $41 million charge incurred in combining the
Corporation's employee benefit plans and a $30 million charge for the
Corporation's Canary Wharf lease arrangement. The increase in other expense
from last year principally reflected higher marketing costs, operating expenses
associated with the First City Banks and Ameritrust acquisitions, and higher
FDIC costs due to a higher deposit base as a result of such acquisitions.
         Marketing expense for 1993 was $187 million, an increase of $76
million from 1992. The higher level of marketing expense reflected the
Corporation's marketing program for the co-branded MasterCard with Shell Oil
Company, an increase in credit card solicitation costs (exclusive of Shell),
and increased promotional advertising related to the Corporation's retail
banking business.
         Included in other expense for 1993 was approximately $76 million
related to the amortization of goodwill and other intangible assets and other
ongoing expenses associated with the First City Banks and Ameritrust
acquisitions. As a result of these acquisitions, total amortization of goodwill
and intangibles increased to $106 million in 1993 from $80 million in 1992.
         The Corporation expects that noninterest operating expense in 1994
will be somewhat higher than that in 1993 (after taking into consideration the
effects of merger-related cost savings anticipated to be realized during the
year), reflecting costs associated with the continued investment by the
Corporation to grow key business activities. Nevertheless, one of management's
objectives for 1994 and thereafter will be to continue to improve the ratio of
noninterest operating expenses to total operating revenue.

[OVERHEAD RATIO BAR GRAPH -- SEE EDGAR APPENDIX]

INCOME TAXES

The Corporation recorded income tax expense of $539 million in 1993, compared
with $243 million in 1992. Included in the 1993 and 1992 income tax expense
were approximately $331 million and $278 million, respectively, of Federal
income tax benefits.
         The Corporation adopted SFAS 109 as of January 1, 1993, and, after
taking into account the additional tax benefits associated with the adoption of
SFAS 106, the Corporation recognized a favorable cumulative effect on income
tax expense of $450 million (or $1.81 per common share). This favorable impact
was recorded within the caption "Net Effect of Changes in Account-





                                                                             
                                                                         B31

ing Principles" on the Consolidated Statement of Income. Prior years' financial
statements have not been restated to apply the provisions of SFAS 109.
         Due to the strength of its earnings, the Corporation recognized in the
third quarter of 1993 its remaining available Federal income tax benefits in
accordance with SFAS 109. As a result, the Corporation's earnings beginning in
the fourth quarter of 1993 were reported on a fully-taxed basis.
         On August 10, 1993, President Clinton signed the Omnibus Budget
Reconciliation Act ("OBRA") of 1993, which increased the corporate Federal tax
rate from 34% to 35% retroactive to January 1, 1993. The impact of the higher
Federal tax rate increased the Corporation's tax provision; however, this was
more than offset by an increase in the value of the Corporation's deferred tax
assets. As a result, the Corporation's tax expense in 1993 decreased by
approximately $8 million due to the enactment of OBRA.
         The Corporation's effective tax rate was 25.6% in 1993, compared with
18.3% in 1992. Excluding the $331 million of benefits recognized under SFAS 109
for 1993, the Corporation's effective tax rate for 1993 would have been 41.3%.
Excluding the $278 million of benefits recognized in 1992, the Corporation's
effective tax rate for 1992 would have been 39.2%.

LINES OF BUSINESS RESULTS

Profitability of the Corporation is tracked with an internal information system
that produces line-of-business performance within the Global Bank, Regional
Bank, Real Estate and Corporate sectors. A set of management accounting
policies has been developed and implemented to ensure that the reported results
of the groups reflect the economics of their businesses. Line-of-business
results are subject to restatement as appropriate whenever there are
refinements in management reporting policies or changes to the management
organization. Thus, certain amounts reported in 1992 have been restated to
conform with the presentation of the current-year's results. Line-of-business
results are subject to further restatements as may be necessary to reflect
future changes in internal management reporting.
         Guidelines exist for assigning expenses that are not directly incurred
by businesses, such as overhead and taxes, as well as for allocating
stockholders' equity and the provision for losses, utilizing a risk-based
methodology. Noninterest expenses of the Corporation are fully allocated to the
business units except for special corporate one-time charges. Management has
developed a risk-adjusted capital methodology that quantifies different types
of risk -- credit, operating and market -- within various businesses and
assigns capital accordingly. Credit risk is computed using a risk-grading
system that is consistently applied throughout the Corporation. The
Corporation's businesses are evaluated on a fully-taxed basis. The tax benefits
currently reflected in the Corporation's income tax expense (which results in a
lower effective tax rate) are generally included in the Corporate sector.
         Texas Commerce's results are tracked and reported on a legal entity
basis, including the return-on-common equity calculation.

GLOBAL BANK

The Global Bank is organized into three principal management entities: Banking
& Corporate Finance (domestic wholesale banking, corporate finance and venture
capital activities); Asia, Europe & Capital Markets (international wholesale
banking and corporate finance, and the Corporation's trading and treasury
functions); and Developing Markets (businesses include cross-border investment
banking, local merchant banking and trade finance). The Global Bank seeks to
optimize its risk profile by emphasizing underwriting, distribution, and
risk-management skills.




         The Global Bank produced excellent results in 1993, as evidenced by
net income of $1.181 billion and a 31.9% return on equity, a substantial
increase from the 1992 results of $806 million and 20.2%, respectively. The
1993 performance was characterized by strong noninterest revenue growth.
Overall trading revenues exceeded $1.050 billion in 1993, up approximately 26%
from $834 million in 1992. Earnings from derivatives, foreign exchange and
securities trading were particularly strong throughout the entire global
network. Trading results in the emerging markets area were almost double the
amounts recorded in 1992.
         Corporate finance and syndication fees were also strong in 1993, a
reflection of the Corporation's leadership position in global loan origination
and distribution, as the Global Bank continued to be the industry leader in
loan syndications during 1993.  In 1993, revenues from venture capital
activities were $301 million, a substantial increase from $100 million in 1992.
The Developing Markets Group also benefited from $301 million of noninterest
revenue related to restructured country debt, principally the sale of Argentine
and Brazilian debt securities.





B32




REGIONAL BANK

The Regional Bank includes Retail Banking (comprised of New York Markets,
Retail Card Services and National Consumer Business), Regional Relationship
Banking (comprised of Middle Market, Private Banking and Chemical Bank New
Jersey, N.A.) and Geoserve. The Corporation's Technology and Operations group
is also managed within this organizational structure. The Retail Bank provides
a broad array of products and services including consumer lending, residential
financing, deposit services and credit card financing. The Corporation
maintains a leading market share position in serving the financial needs of
Middle Market commercial enterprises in the New York metropolitan area. Private
Banking serves its high-net worth clientele with banking and investment
services. The Geoserve unit offers cash management, funds transfer, trade,
corporate trust and securities processing to the global market and is a market
leader in many of its businesses.




         The Regional Bank's net income of $504 million and return on equity of
23.9% in 1993 improved significantly from the 1992 results of $351 million and
15.2%, respectively. In 1993, New York Markets' net income increased modestly
from 1992, reflecting a higher level of fees and wider deposit spreads. The
National Consumer Business results reflected strong net interest income growth
in 1993 as loan volume substantially increased. Mortgage servicing volume
exceeded $36.4 billion, an increase of $6.0 billion over the prior year, and
contributed to higher servicing fee revenues. Retail Card Services also
benefited from higher net interest income due to increased volume. This
performance was accompanied by an improvement in overall credit quality, as
charge-offs in the Retail Card portfolio in 1993 declined from 1992 levels.
During the fourth quarter of 1993, a program for a co-branded MasterCard with
Shell Oil Company was announced. The new Shell MasterCard offers cardholders
rebates towards the purchase of Shell gasoline.  The start-up costs associated
with this program accounted for over two-thirds of the overall increase in
noninterest expense for the Regional Bank compared with 1992. Regional
Relationship Banking had a significant increase in earnings, primarily due to
reduced credit costs in Middle Market and Chemical Bank New Jersey, N.A.
Private Banking produced higher earnings as a result of increased net interest
income (represented by solid loan growth) and fees. Geoserve also reported an
increase in its earnings in 1993 over the prior year, primarily due to
significant growth in revenue from several new business initiatives.

TEXAS COMMERCE BANCSHARES

Texas Commerce is a premier corporate banking institution in the State of Texas
and a leader in providing financial products and services to individuals
throughout Texas. The 1993 results included the acquisitions of the First City
Banks and Ameritrust. As a result of these acquisitions, Texas Commerce had the
largest trust operations in the southwest United States. As of December 31,
1993, Texas Commerce had $22 billion in total assets.



         Texas Commerce's net income of $190 million in 1993 improved from last
year's results of $180 million. The improved 1993 results also included $79
million of income tax expense compared with only $4 million for last year due
to the use of net operating loss carryforwards in 1992. On a pre-tax basis, the
$269 million of operating earnings posted by Texas Commerce was up 46% over
last year and represented the most profitable year in its history. Although
commercial loan demand remained weak, Texas Commerce benefited from its strong
customer base to post substantial increases in revenue from fee-based services
and growth in deposit volumes. Solid expense management also contributed to the
strong earnings.
         The aforementioned results for the year ended December 31, 1993
exclude the restructuring charge ($43 million pre-tax; $30 million after-tax)
related to the acquisition of the First City Banks and a positive $9 million
after-tax net effect from the implementation of SFAS 106 and SFAS 109.
         Nonperforming assets declined to $219 million at December 31, 1993,
down 49% from the end of 1992 and 84% below the peak of $1,303 million in
mid-1988. Based on the continuing improvements in asset quality and Texas
Commerce's already adequate allowance for losses, no overall credit provision
was recorded in 1993.





                                                                             B33



REAL ESTATE

Real Estate includes the management of the Corporation's commercial real estate
portfolio, exclusive of those in Texas Commerce and Chemical Bank New Jersey,
N.A. The net loss of $222 million in 1993 resulted from credit costs remaining
at high levels, although credit quality continued to improve. Total
nonperforming assets at December 31, 1993 were $1,304 million, down 33% from
$1,944 million at December 31, 1992. Noninterest expense of $213 million for
1993 included $119 million of foreclosed property expense.



n/m--Not meaningful due to net loss.

CORPORATE

Corporate had a net loss of $49 million in 1993, compared with a net loss of $6
million in 1992. Included in the $49 million loss were the following one-time
items: a noninterest expense charge of $67 million ($115 million pre-tax) as a
result of a reassessment of costs associated with the merger with MHC; an
after-tax loss of $53 million ($75 million pre-tax) due to the writedown
associated with the accelerated disposition of nonperforming residential
mortgages; and a $30 million after-tax restructuring charge ($43 million
pre-tax) related to the acquisition of the First City Banks. In addition,
Corporate included the recognition of any Federal tax benefits and a net $35
million gain from the adoption of SFAS 106 and SFAS 109. Included in the $6
million net loss in 1992 were one-time charges of $41 million for costs
incurred to combine the Corporation's employee benefit plans, and $30 million
for London occupancy-related expenses in connection with the Corporation's
Canary Wharf lease arrangements.
         Corporate also includes the management results attributed to the
parent company, the Corporation's investment in CIT, and some effects remaining
at the corporate level after the implementation of management accounting
policies. The following examples represent management accounting policies which
had a corporate impact: the performance of individual businesses are evaluated
on a fully-taxed basis, whereas the Corporation's overall tax rate in 1993 was
lower due to the utilization of Federal tax benefits; the difference between
risk-adjusted credit loss provisions in the business units and the overall
financial provision for losses taken by the Corporation; and the difference
between risk-adjusted capital in the groups and the Corporation's financial
capital.

BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS

SECURITIES

As of December 31, 1993, the Corporation adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and
Equity Securities" ("SFAS 115"). As a result of the adoption of SFAS 115, debt
and equity securities that were previously measured at amortized cost or at the
lower of aggregate amortized cost or market are measured at fair value. See
Note Four of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further
discussion of SFAS 115.
         The prepayment of mortgage-backed securities and collateralized
mortgage obligations ("CMO") is actively monitored through the Corporation's
portfolio management function. The Corporation typically invests in CMO's with
stable cash flows and relatively short duration, thereby limiting the impact of
interest rate fluctuations on the portfolio. Management regularly does
simulation testing regarding the impact that interest and market rate changes
would have on its CMO portfolio. Mortgage-backed securities and CMO's which
management believes have high prepayment risk are included in the
available-for-sale portfolio.

CREDIT PORTFOLIO

Loans outstanding, the most significant component of earning assets, totaled
$75.4 billion at December 31, 1993, compared with $82.0 billion at December 31,
1992. The decline of $6.6 billion primarily reflected weak loan demand (except
large syndicated loans discussed below), loan paydowns from businesses that are
refinancing their borrowings in the debt and equity markets, as well as
management's strategic decision to reduce the credit risk profile of the
Corporation. Partially offsetting these declines was growth in credit card
receivables and installment loans.
         The Corporation is a leading participant in loan originations and
sales. This activity is comprised of the sale of loans and lending commitments
to investors, generally without recourse. These sales include syndication,
assignment and participation, and include both short- and medium-term
transactions. This loan distribution capability allows the Corporation to
compete aggressively and profitably in wholesale lending markets by enabling it
to reduce larger individual credit exposures and thereby to price more flexibly
than if all loans were held as permanent investments. The Corporation also
benefits from increased liquidity.





B34




         The Corporation's loan balances at December 31, 1993 and 1992 were as
follows:



(a) Represents loans secured primarily by real property, other than loans
secured by mortgages on 1-4 family residential properties.
(b) Consists of 1-4 family residential mortgages, credit cards, installment
loans (direct and indirect types of consumer finance) and student loans.

CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT

A significant aspect of banking is understanding, measuring and managing credit
risk. Credit risk represents the possibility that a loss may occur if a
borrower or counterparty fails to honor fully the terms of a contract. Under
the direction of the Chief Credit Officer, risk policies are formulated,
approved and communicated throughout the Corporation. The Credit Risk
Management Committee, chaired by the Chief Credit Officer, is responsible for
maintaining a sound credit process, addressing risk issues and reviewing the
portfolio.
         The Corporation's credit risk management is an integrated process
operating concurrently at the transaction and portfolio levels. For credit
origination, business units formulate strategies, target markets and determine
acceptable levels of risk. Credit officers work with client managers, portfolio
management and, when appropriate, the syndications group during the
underwriting process.
         The consumer and commercial segments of the portfolio have different
risk characteristics and different techniques are utilized to measure and
manage their credit risks. The consumer portfolio is evaluated on a product as
well as geographic basis.  Within the commercial segment, each credit facility
is risk graded. Facilities are subject to hold targets based on risk, and are
often syndicated in order to lower potential concentration risks. Credits not
syndicated remain on the balance sheet and are carefully monitored and
analyzed. The loan review process includes industry specialists and country
risk managers who provide independent expert insight into the portfolio.
Industries and countries are also graded in a process which is incorporated
into credit risk decisions through the facility risk grading system and by
direct consultation with originating officers. The Corporation's global
exposure system is utilized to monitor exposure by industry, obligor, business
unit, product, geographic region and risk grade. This data is integral to the
process of formulating strategic portfolio direction.
         Risk management conducts independent evaluations of business unit
portfolios and risk processes, reviewing compliance with risk policies,
especially facility risk grading and problem credit recognition. Remedial
actions for problem credits are the responsibility of the special loan group.
         Significant progress was made in 1993 on the Corporation's credit risk
profile. Credit quality indicators are favorable and improving, and the outlook
for 1994 is for these positive trends to continue.

NONPERFORMING ASSETS

The following table sets forth the nonperforming assets of the Corporation at
December 31, 1993 and 1992.



         The Corporation's total nonperforming assets at December 31, 1993 were
$3,525 million, down 42% from $6,092 million at December 31, 1992. The decline
from the prior year-end resulted from a $1,499 million decrease in non-LDC
nonperforming loans, a $726 million decrease in LDC nonperforming loans and a
$342 million decrease in assets acquired as loan satisfactions. The
Corporation's nonperforming assets do not include certain assets acquired in
connection with the First City Banks acquisition. See Note Seven of the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements. Management expects a further significant
reduction in the level of nonperforming assets during 1994.





                                                                             B35



         The following table presents the reconciliation of non-LDC
nonperforming assets for 1993 and 1992.

RECONCILIATION OF NON-LDC NONPERFORMING ASSETS



(a) Excludes charge-offs on a formula basis..

         Nonperforming LDC loans at December 31, 1993 were $622 million, a
decrease of $726 million from the 1992 year-end. The decrease in nonperforming
LDC loans principally reflected charge-offs, sales and swaps and the removal of
restructured Argentine debt from nonaccrual status. For a further discussion
with respect to Argentina, see the Outstandings to Countries Engaged in Debt
Rescheduling section.

[NONPERFORMING ASSETS BAR GRAPH -- SEE EDGAR APPENDIX]

         As of December 31, 1993, the Corporation had consumer loans of $299
million (which primarily consisted of credit card and installment loans), and
commercial loans of $24 million that were not characterized as nonperforming
loans, although such loans were past due 90 days or more as to principal or
interest. The comparable amounts at December 31, 1992 included consumer loans
of $303 million and commercial loans of $90 million. Consumer loans, exclusive
of residential mortgage loans, as to which interest or principal is past due 90
days or more are generally not classified as nonperforming but, rather, are
charged off on a formula basis upon reaching certain specified stages of
delinquency. A commercial loan on which interest or principal is past due 90
days or more is not classified as nonperforming if the loan is considered
well-secured (i.e., the collateral value is considered sufficient to cover the
principal and accrued interest on the loan) and is in the process of
collection. At each of December 31, 1993 and 1992, the past-due consumer and
commercial loans of the Corporation that were not characterized as
nonperforming were substantially all domestic.

ALLOWANCE FOR LOSSES

The allowance for losses is available to absorb potential credit losses from
the entire loan portfolio, as well as from other balance sheet and off-balance
sheet credit-related transactions. The appropriate level of the allowance is
based on analyses of the loan portfolio as well as other credit-related balance
sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments and reflects an amount which,
in management's judgment, is adequate to provide for potential losses. The
analyses include consideration of such factors as the risk rating of individual
credits, the size and diversity of the portfolio, particularly in terms of
industry and geography, economic and political conditions, prior loss
experience and results of the Corporation's periodic credit reviews of its
portfolio.  If deemed appropriate, as a result of such analyses, the allowance
for losses is increased or decreased by a charge or credit, respectively, to
income.
         The accompanying table reflects the activity in the allowance for
losses for the years ended December 31, 1993 and 1992.

ALLOWANCE FOR LOSSES



(a) Includes $55 million related to the decision to accelerate the disposition
of certain nonperforming residential mortgages.
(b) Related to First City Banks acquisition.





B36




         The Corporation's allowance for losses has been allocated between the
non-LDC and LDC portfolio segments. The Corporation's non-LDC allowance at the
1993 year-end was $2.4 billion, or 3.35% of non-LDC loans outstanding, compared
with $2.2 billion, or 2.83% of non-LDC loans outstanding, at December 31, 1992.
         The LDC allowance totaled $.6 billion at December 31, 1993, compared
with $.8 billion at the end of 1992. The changes in the non-LDC and the LDC
allowances during 1993 resulted primarily from the reallocation of $200 million
from the LDC allowance to the non-LDC allowance. The reallocation reflected the
Corporation's ongoing analysis and evaluation of its LDC loan portfolio,
including the finalization of the Argentine financing program and progress in
debt negotiations with Brazil. In addition, during 1993, the Corporation
allocated a specific portion of the LDC allowance for Brazilian outstandings as
a result of the Corporation's evaluation of its refinancing country portfolio
and in consideration of recent recommendations of the Interagency Country
Exposure Review Committee ("ICERC"). At December 31, 1993, the balance
allocated to Brazil was $82 million. For further discussion of this allocation,
see Note Six of the Consolidated Notes to the Financial Statements.
         The Corporation will continue to assess developments relating to the
various LDC debt renegotiations. Continued progress in this area will allow the
Corporation to evaluate its options with respect to the allowance currently
allocated to the LDC portfolio.
         The following table reflects the Corporation's allowance coverage
ratios at December 31, 1993 and 1992.

ALLOWANCE COVERAGE RATIOS



         The Corporation deems its allowance for losses at December 31, 1993 to
be adequate. Although the Corporation considers that it has sufficient reserves
to absorb losses that may currently exist in the portfolio, but are not yet
identifiable, the precise loss content from the loan portfolio, as well as from
other balance sheet and off-balance sheet credit-related instruments, is
subject to continuing review based on quality indicators, concentrations,
changes in business conditions, and other external factors such as competition,
legal and regulatory requirements. The Corporation will continue to reassess
the adequacy of the allowance for losses.

NET CHARGE-OFFS



(a) Includes charge-offs of $51 million related to loans to the former
republics of Yugoslavia (collectively "Yugoslavia").

         For a discussion of net charge-offs, see the various credit portfolio
sections. Management expects total non-LDC net charge-offs in 1994 to decrease
significantly from the 1993 amount.

COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE PORTFOLIO

Commercial real estate loans represent loans secured primarily by real
property, other than loans secured by one-to-four family residential
properties, which are included in the consumer loan portfolio. Commercial real
estate loans outstanding for the Corporation totaled $7.9 billion at December
31, 1993, compared with $8.6 billion a year ago. The decrease during 1993 is
attributable to repayments, transfers to real estate owned and charge-offs,
partially offset by the addition of approximately $500 million of commercial
real estate loans acquired as part of the First City Banks acquisition.
         The table below indicates the composition of the commercial real
estate loan portfolio.







                                                                             B37


         Commercial mortgages provide financing for the acquisition or
refinancing of commercial properties, and typically have terms ranging from
three to seven years. Construction loans are generally originated to finance
the construction of real estate projects. When a loan financing the completed
construction has cash flows sufficient to support a commercial mortgage, the
loan is transferred from construction status to commercial mortgage status.
         The following table shows the Corporation's commercial real estate
loan portfolio, nonperforming loans and foreclosed commercial real estate, by
property type and geographic location.



(a) Nonperforming loans are included in loan balances. Real Estate Owned
denotes foreclosed commercial real estate, which is included in assets acquired
as loan satisfactions.
(b) Represents residential property construction, land development and
multi-family permanent mortgages, excluding 1-4 family residential mortgages.

         The largest concentration of commercial real estate loans is in the
New York/New Jersey and Texas markets, representing 48% and 23%, respectively,
of the commercial real estate portfolio. No other state represented more than
3% of the commercial real estate loan portfolio. The New York/New Jersey
economy stabilized during 1993, resulting in moderate improvements in
commercial space leasing activity. However, in most real estate property
sectors of that region, demand is not yet sufficient to result in higher
prices. Improvements in the Texas economy have resulted in significant growth
in employment (employment rates in Dallas and Austin are currently above the
national average) and in improvements in the real estate market. In California,
where the Corporation has less than 3% of its commercial real estate loans, the
economy is still weak. At December 31, 1993, the portfolio included $601
million of secured international real estate loans which are primarily located
in the United Kingdom and Hong Kong.
         The Corporation's management has a process to monitor all real estate
credits to assist it in early identification of problem loans. Line credit
officers work in conjunction with appraisers to review individual loans,
conduct regular market analyses and evaluate portfolio segments. In addition,
real estate problem assets are managed in special units staffed for
restructuring, workout and collection and real estate management and
disposition. The Corporation reassesses the market value of real estate owned
for possible impairment on a continual basis.
         Nonperforming commercial real estate assets totaled $1.6 billion at
December 31, 1993, a 34% decrease from a year ago. The decrease reflects
nonaccrual loans returning to accrual status, charge-offs and the continuing
sale of foreclosed property.  Nonperforming commercial real estate loans were
$707 million, down 43% from $1,251 million at December 31, 1992. Real estate
owned totaled $866 million at December 31, 1993, down 22% from $1,116 million
at December 31, 1992.





B38

         Improvement in nonperforming commercial real estate asset levels
during 1993 is the result of increased liquidity in the commercial real estate
markets, lower interest rates and successful focused workout activities.
         Commercial real estate loans entering nonperforming status declined
significantly in 1993 when compared with 1992.  Reductions to nonperforming
assets in the form of payments, return to accrual status and sales of real
estate owned were greater than the additions to nonperforming assets in each
quarter of 1993. Commercial real estate net charge-offs in the 1993 totaled
$284 million, compared with $354 million in 1992. Writedowns of commercial real
estate owned totaled $199 million in 1993, compared with $212 million in 1992.
Approximately $298 million in commercial real estate owned was sold in 1993.
Generally, these assets were sold at or above carrying value. Commercial real
estate net charge-offs, writedowns and nonperforming assets for 1994 are
expected to be below 1993 levels.

COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL PORTFOLIO

The commercial and industrial portfolio totaled $25.0 billion at December 31,
1993, representing 33% of the total loan portfolio.  The portfolio is
diversified geographically and by industry. Approximately 75% of the commercial
and industrial loans are domestic.  The commercial and industrial portfolio is
comprised of 39 industry groups which are graded and actively monitored by the
Corporation's industry specialists. Approximately 70% of the industries each
represent less than 1% of total loans. The largest industry concentration is
oil and gas at approximately 2.9% of total loans. Real estate related, of
approximately $1.6 billion, is the second largest concentration representing
2.2% of total loans.
         Included in commercial and industrial are loans related to highly
leveraged transactions ("HLT"). The Corporation originates and syndicates loans
in HLTs, which include acquisitions, leveraged buyouts and recapitalizations.
HLT loans at December 31, 1993 totaled approximately $1.9 billion, compared
with $3.3 billion at December 31, 1992. The Corporation was also committed at
December 31, 1993 to lend an additional amount of approximately $.9 billion.
The substantial reduction in the HLT loan portfolio from year-end 1992 can be
largely attributed to repayments, charge-offs and reclassifications to non-HLT
status. At December 31, 1993, the Corporation had $269 million in nonperforming
HLT loans compared with $586 million at year-end 1992. Net charge-offs related
to HLTs during 1993 totaled approximately $81 million, versus $185 million for
1992.

FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, AND FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS
AND OFFICIAL INSTITUTIONS PORTFOLIOS

Financial institutions include commercial banks and companies whose businesses
primarily involve lending, financing, investing, underwriting or insuring.
Loans to financial institutions were 11% of total loans at December 31, 1993.
Fifty-seven percent of these loans were to domestic financial institutions.
Loans to financial institutions are predominantly to commercial banks and
broker-dealers, which together comprise over half the financial institution
total.
         At year-end 1993, 7% of the Corporation's total loans were to foreign
governments, government agencies, government-owned commercial enterprises, and
official institutions, exclusive of LDC loans. Approximately 65% of foreign
government and official institution loans were to central and other
government-owned banks and government institutions.

CONSUMER PORTFOLIO

The consumer loan portfolio consists of one-to-four family residential
mortgages, credit cards, installment loans and student loans.  The consumer
loan portfolio totaled $25.8 billion at December 31, 1993, representing 34% of
total loans, an increase from $23.8 billion, or 29% of total loans, at December
31, 1992. During 1993, the Corporation's consumer loan portfolio grew by 9%,
primarily due to increases in credit card receivables and installment loans.
         The following table represents the composition of the Corporation's
consumer loan portfolio at December 31, 1993 and December 31, 1992.



         Underlying improvements in the economy in 1993 generally strengthened
the financial position of the consumer. A healthier economy and easing
employment concerns stimulated revolving line and closed-end loan debt levels.
Additionally, attractive mortgage rates stimulated home sales to first-time
buyers. Credit card receivables at December 31, 1993, increased $1.0 billion
from a year ago, of which $443 million related to the co-branded Shell
MasterCard program which was introduced in the fourth quarter of 1993.





                                                                            B39

         Total nonperforming consumer loans at December 31, 1993 were $125
million and were comprised of $101 million of loans secured by residential real
estate and $24 million of installment loans. At December 31, 1992, total
nonperforming consumer loans were $241 million and were comprised of $210
million of loans secured by residential real estate and $31 million of
installment loans. Residential real estate owned at December 31, 1993 totaled
$20 million, compared with $57 million at the 1992 year-end. The reductions in
nonperforming consumer loans and residential real estate owned at December 31,
1993 reflected the decision to accelerate the disposition of $162 million of
nonperforming residential mortgages.
         Net charge-offs in the consumer portfolio totaled $419 million in 1993
compared with $401 million in 1992. The 1993 net charge-offs consisted of $322
million in credit card receivables, $28 million in installment loans and $69
million in residential mortgages (which included the $55 million charge
associated with the aforementioned accelerated disposition). The composition of
the 1992 net charge-offs were $348 million in credit card receivables, $35
million in installment loans and $18 million in residential mortgages. There
were essentially no credit losses in 1993 and 1992 in the student loan
portfolio due to the existence of Federal and State government guarantees.
Excluding the charge of $55 million for the accelerated disposition program,
the decline in consumer loan charge-offs is due to the effect of further
refinement of the Corporation's risk management techniques, including enhanced
account monitoring standards and greater efficiencies in the collection and
recovery processes.
         Consumer loan balances are expected to increase in 1994, particularly
in the residential mortgage and the credit card portfolios. In 1994, the
Corporation's strategy will continue to emphasize risk management and consumer
loan portfolio credit quality. Management expects consumer loan charge-offs in
1994 will approximate the 1993 level due to the anticipated higher level of
credit card receivables outstanding as a result of the Shell MasterCard
program.

Mortgage Banking Activities: With respect to the Corporation's mortgage banking
activities, the Corporation both originates and services residential mortgage
loans. After origination, the Corporation may sell loans to investors,
primarily in the secondary market, while  retaining the rights to service such
loans. In accordance with current accounting standards, the value of such
servicing rights related to originating mortgage loans is not recorded as an
asset in the financial statements. The Corporation originated $14.7 billion of
mortgages in 1993 versus $12.5 billion in 1992.
         In addition to originating mortgage servicing rights, the Corporation
also purchases mortgage servicing rights. The Corporation may purchase bulk
rights to service a loan portfolio or the Corporation may purchase loans
directly and then sell such loans while retaining the servicing rights. The
Corporation's servicing portfolio amounted to $36.4 billion at December 31,
1993 compared with $30.4 billion at December 31, 1992. Purchased mortgage
servicing rights (included in other assets) amounted to $249 million at
December 31, 1993 compared with $204 million at December 31, 1992. The mortgage
loans to which the Corporation's servicing rights relate are, to a substantial
degree, of recent vintage (i.e., originated within the past two years when
interest rates have been relatively low). Additionally, the Corporation
utilizes accelerated amortization and continually evaluates prepayment exposure
of the portfolio, thereby adjusting the balance and remaining life of the
servicing rights as a result of prepayments. Accordingly, the current interest
rate environment has not had a material adverse effect on the carrying value of
the Corporation's purchased mortgage servicing rights. During 1993, the
Corporation wrote down $14 million with respect to its purchased mortgage
servicing rights.

CROSS-BORDER OUTSTANDINGS

The extension of credits denominated in a currency other than that of the
country in which a borrower is located, such as dollar-denominated loans made
overseas, are called "cross-border" credits. In addition to the credit risk
associated with any borrower, these particular credits are also subject to
"country risk" -- economic and political risk factors specific to the country
of the borrower which may make the borrower unable or unwilling to pay
principal and interest according to contractual terms. Other risks associated
with these credits include the possibility of insufficient foreign exchange and
restrictions on its availability.  To minimize country risk, the Corporation
monitors its foreign credits in each country with specific consideration given
to maturity, currency, industry and geographic concentration of the credits. In
addition, the Corporation establishes limits governing lending to the various
categories of the foreign portfolio.
         The following table lists all countries in which the Corporation's
cross-border outstandings exceeded 1% of consolidated assets as of any of the
dates specified. The Corporation does not have significant local currency
outstandings to the individual countries listed in the following table that are
not hedged or are not funded by local currency borrowings.





B40




(a) Outstandings (including loans and accrued interest, interest-bearing
deposits with banks, securities, acceptances and other monetary assets, except
equity investments) represent those of both the public and private sectors and
are presented on a risk basis, i.e., net of written guarantees and tangible
liquid collateral when held outside the foreign country. At December 31, 1993,
outstandings to Italy amounted to $1,281 million which was in excess of .75% of
total assets. At December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991, outstandings to Brazil
amounted to $1,328 million, $1,224 million and $1,148 million, respectively,
which were in excess of .75% of total assets in each of such year. At December
31, 1992, outstandings to Korea amounted to $1,074 million, which were in
excess of .75% of total assets. At December 31, 1991, outstandings to Venezuela
amounted to $1,162 million, which was in excess of .75% of total assets for
such year.
(b) Outstandings exclude equity received in debt-for-equity conversions, which
is recorded initially at fair market value and generally accounted for under
the cost method. Commitments (outstanding letters of credit, standby letters of
credit, guarantees and unused legal commitments) are excluded. At December 31,
1993, off-balance sheet commitments, after adjusting for transfers of risk,
amounted to $1,133 million for Japan, $1,247 million for the United Kingdom,
and $357 million for Germany.
(c) The average outstandings to Japan during 1993 and 1992 (based on
quarter-end amounts) was approximately $3.6 billion and $1.2 billion,
respectively.
(d) The average outstandings to Germany during 1993 (based on quarter-end
amounts) was approximately $1.2 billion.

OUTSTANDINGS TO COUNTRIES ENGAGED IN DEBT RESCHEDULING

The following table sets forth the Corporation's outstandings to countries
engaged in debt rescheduling at the dates indicated.



(a) Trade and short-term outstandings include accrued interest,
interest-bearing deposits with banks and trade-related credits.
(b) Amounts outstanding to Venezuela exclude interest rate reduction bonds with
a book value of $365 million and $483 million at December 31, 1993 and 1992,
respectively. The principal amount of these bonds is secured by zero-coupon
U.S. Treasury securities. As of December 31, 1993, the market values of these
bonds and the underlying collateral were $292 million and $65 million,
respectively.
(c) Amounts outstanding to Argentina exclude principal reduction bonds and
interest rate reduction bonds with an aggregate book value of $17 million at
December 31, 1993. The principal amount of these bonds is secured by
zero-coupon U.S. Treasury securities.  As of December 31, 1993, the market
values of these bonds and the underlying collateral were $17 million and $4
million, respectively.
(d) Amounts outstanding to Uruguay exclude interest rate reduction bonds with a
book value of $129 million at each of December 31, 1993 and 1992. The principal
amount of these bonds is secured by zero-coupon U.S. Treasury securities. As of
December 31, 1993, the market values of these bonds and the underlying
collateral were $108 million and $20 million, respectively.

         LDC outstandings are subject to unique economic, political and social
risks. In 1993 and prior years, borrowers in LDC countries have restructured
and refinanced their obligations. The Corporation expects to continue a program
of close cooperation with members of the international financial community and
the representatives of LDC countries.
         The Corporation's medium- and long-term LDC outstandings decreased to
$2,248 million at December 31, 1993, from $3,463 million at December 31, 1992,
a reduction of $1,215 million, or 35%. The reduction from December 31, 1992 is
primarily attributable to loan sales, charge-offs, and the removal of the
Argentine debt that was restructured in 1993.
         Following is a summary of significant recent developments with respect
to the Corporation's outstandings to Brazil and Argentina.

Brazil: Nonperforming loans to Brazilian borrowers totaled $403 million at
December 31, 1993, down from $713 million at December 31, 1992, reflecting a
reduction in medium- and long-term outstandings.
         Substantial progress was made during 1993 on the
agreement-in-principal reached in July 1992 between the Government of Brazil
and the Bank Advisory Committee ("BAC") on the debt and debt service reduction
package covering $45 billion of medium- and long-term debt (the "Financing
Package").





                                                                             B41

During 1993, the Corporation agreed to exchange its eligible "Old" debt
(multi-year Deposit Facility Agreement and other pre-1988 restructured debt)
for 65% Capitalization Bonds and 35% Discount Bonds. The agreement also
provides for the exchange of the Corporation's eligible "New Money" debt
(credit extensions originating from the 1988 restructuring) for New Money
Bonds, Debt Conversion Bonds and Cruzeiro Dollar Bonds. The Financing Package
was signed by 95% of the debt holders on December 15, 1993. The exchange is
expected to take place by April 15, 1994.
         Brazil has paid 50% of contractual interest due throughout 1993 and is
expected to continue these 50% payments until the exchange date. The remaining
unpaid interest due is expected to be received by the Corporation on the
exchange date in the form of 12-year, uncollateralized Eligible Interest
("EI's") Bonds in the principal amount of approximately $150 million.
         The Corporation's total Brazilian outstandings currently affected by
the Financing Package amount to $1,112 million (which includes loan amounts
previously charged off). Debt tendered under the Capitalization Bonds option
will be exchanged at face value for 20-year uncollateralized bonds initially
bearing interest at 4% and gradually increasing to 8% in year seven and
thereafter. The principal balance of the bonds will be increased semi-annually
during the first six years for the difference between the interest due based on
the stated rate and the rate of 8%. Equal semi-annual principal payments will
commence after a ten-year grace period.  Debt tendered under the Discount Bond
option will be exchanged at a 35% discount for 30-year bonds bearing interest
at LIBOR plus 13/16% with a bullet payment at maturity. The principal payment
on the Discount Bonds is expected to be collateralized by zero-coupon U.S.
Treasury obligations having a redemption value at maturity equal to the face
value of the Bonds. Interest payments on these bonds are expected to be
collateralized by permitted investments on a 12- month rolling basis and will
become fully collateralized during a two-year phase-in period. The New Money
Bonds, Debt Conversion Bonds and Cruzeiro Dollar Bonds are uncollateralized 15-
or 17-year instruments bearing interest at LIBOR plus 13/16% with equal
semi-annual principal payments commencing after a seven- or ten-year grace
period. The Corporation does not expect to incur any additional charge-offs as
a result of the Financing Package.
         The Corporation has sold substantially all of its Interest Due and
Unpaid ("IDU") Bonds which were received in November 1992 under the agreement
reached by the BAC and Brazil for the settlement of past-due interest owed to
bank creditors on medium- and long-term outstandings for 1989 and 1990. During
1993, the Corporation recognized a gain of $152 million (in other revenue) from
the sale of its IDU Bonds.

Argentina: Argentine nonperforming loans were $7 million at December 31, 1993
compared with $316 million at December 31, 1992. The decrease in medium- and
the long-term outstandings and in nonperforming loans is primarily attributable
to the exchange of eligible debt for 30-year collateralized Par and Discount
Bonds issued by the Republic of Argentina and the sale of local Argentine
government instruments.
         The rescheduling agreement reached between the Republic of Argentina
and the Bank Advisory Committee on the settlement of the country's medium- and
long-term debt of approximately $23 billion and associated interest in arrears
was completed during 1993.  On April 7, 1993, the creditor banks exchanged
their eligible debt into collateralized 30 year Par and Discount Bonds under
the terms of the Argentine rescheduling agreement. The Corporation's total
Argentine outstandings affected by the rescheduling agreement were $870 million
(which includes loan amounts previously charged off). Par Bonds in the amount
of $613 million and Discount Bonds in the amount of $167 million were issued to
the Corporation. The Corporation did not take any additional charge-offs in
connection with the debt exchange. In connection with the agreement, the
Corporation received $337 million of Floating Rate Bonds ("FRB's") and $32
million in cash, of which $29 million was recorded in net interest income in
1993.
         The Corporation has sold substantially all of the aforementioned Par
Bonds, Discount Bonds and FRB's received as a result of the refinancing
agreement. The Corporation recognized a $179 million gain (in other revenue)
during 1993 from the sale of its FRB's.

CAPITAL

Total stockholders' equity at December 31, 1993 was $11.16 billion, an increase
from $9.85 billion at year-end 1992. The $1.31 billion increase in
stockholders' equity from December 31, 1992 included $1.11 billion in retained
earnings generated during 1993.  The Corporation raised $200 million in new
common equity primarily through the sale in March 1993 of

[TOTAL STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY BAR GRAPH -- SEE EDGAR APPENDIX]





B42

3.8 million shares of the Corporation's common stock. Two series of fixed-rate
preferred stock totaling $400 million issued during 1993 were more than offset
by the redemption of three series of adjustable-rate preferred stock totaling
$594 million. Such redemptions were part of the Corporation's plan to improve
its capital position by achieving lower financing costs and reducing
interest-rate risk. The Corporation will continue to evaluate the opportunity
for future redemptions of preferred stock given current market conditions. The
Corporation's ratio of common stockholders' equity to total assets was 6.34% at
December 31, 1993, an increase from 5.73% at year end 1992. The ratio of total
stockholders' equity to total assets at December 31, 1993 was 7.45%, an
increase from 7.05% from the same date a year ago.
         Total capitalization (total stockholders' equity under risk-based
capital guidelines, and subordinated and senior debt that qualifies as Tier 2
Capital as discussed below under "Risk-Based Capital Ratios") increased by $810
million during 1993.

LONG-TERM DEBT

During 1993, the Corporation issued $3.5 billion of long-term debt (including
$1.6 billion of subordinated debt that qualifies as Tier 2 Capital, of which
$1.1 billion was issued through its Chemical Bank subsidiary). These issuances
were offset by maturities of $402 million of long-term debt (including $330
million of medium-term notes) and the redemption of $1.9 billion of long-term
debt.  As a result of these actions, the Corporation improved its liquidity and
extended the maturities of its debt portfolio. See the Liquidity Management
section for further discussion of the Corporation's long-term debt redemptions.

COMMON STOCK DIVIDENDS

In the first quarter of 1993, the Board of Directors of the Corporation
increased the quarterly dividend on the Corporation's common stock from $0.30
per share to $0.33 per share. In the fourth quarter of 1993, the Corporation
declared an increase  in the quarterly dividend to be paid on its common stock
in January 1994 from $0.33 per share to $0.38 per share. Future dividend
policies will be determined by the Board of Directors in light of the earnings
and financial condition of the Corporation and its subsidiaries and other
factors, including applicable governmental regulations and policies.

RISK-BASED CAPITAL RATIOS

Under the Federal Reserve Board risk-based capital guidelines, banking
organizations are required to maintain certain ratios of "Qualifying Capital"
to "risk-weighted assets". "Qualifying Capital" is classified into two tiers,
referred to as Tier 1 Capital and Tier 2 Capital. Tier 1 Capital consists of
common equity, qualifying perpetual preferred equity and minority interests in
the equity accounts of unconsolidated subsidiaries, less goodwill and other
non-qualifying intangible assets. Tier 2 Capital consists of perpetual
preferred equity not qualifying for Tier 1, qualifying allowance for credit
losses, mandatory convertible debt and subordinated debt and other qualifying
securities. The amount of Tier 2 Capital may not exceed the amount of Tier 1
Capital. In calculating "risk-weighted assets", certain risk percentages, as
specified by the Federal Reserve Board, are applied to particular categories of
both on- and off-balance sheet assets. Under the guidelines, the Corporation's
Tier 1 Capital ratio and Total Capital ratio to risk-weighted assets at
December 31, 1993 were 8.12% and 12.22%, respectively, well in excess of the
minimum ratios specified by the Federal Reserve Board. Also on that date,
Chemical Bank's ratios of Tier 1 Capital and Total Capital to risk-weighted
assets, were 7.90% and 12.54%, respectively. Chemical Bank was "well
capitalized" as defined by the Federal Reserve Board. To be "well capitalized,"
a banking organization must have a Tier 1 Capital ratio of at least 6%, Total
Capital ratio of at least 10% and Tier 1 leverage ratio (as defined in the
following section) of at least 5%.
         These ratios, as well as the leverage ratio discussed below, do not
reflect any adjustment in stockholders' equity due to the adoption of SFAS No.
115. The Federal Reserve Board has proposed to permit banking corporations to
include in Tier 1 Capital the net amount of any unrealized gains or losses from
securities available-for-sale. If the Corporation were to treat the amount at
December 31, 1993 of its net unrealized gains attributable to
available-for-sale securities as regulatory capital, the Tier 1 Capital, Total
Capital and Tier 1 leverage ratios would be 8.30%, 12.39% and 6.92%,
respectively, at December 31, 1993. The total capitalization would have
increased by an additional $215 million for a total increase of $1,025 million
during 1993.

[RISK-BASED CAPITAL RATIOS BAR GRAPH -- SEE EDGAR APPENDIX]





                                                                         B43

LEVERAGE RATIOS

The Tier 1 leverage ratio is defined as Tier 1 Capital divided by average total
assets (net of allowance for losses, goodwill and other non-qualifying
intangible assets). The minimum leverage ratio is 3% for banking organizations
that do not anticipate significant growth and that have well-diversified risk
(including no undue interest rate risk), excellent asset quality, high
liquidity and good earnings. Higher capital ratios could be required if
warranted by the particular circumstances, or risk profile, of a given banking
organization. The Federal Reserve Board has not advised the Corporation of any
specific minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio applicable to it. The Corporation's Tier
1 leverage ratio was 6.77% at December 31, 1993, compared with 6.60% at
December 31, 1992. At December 31, 1993, Chemical Bank's Tier 1 leverage ratio
was 6.97%.
         The table which follows sets forth the Corporation's Tier 1 Capital,
Tier 2 Capital and risk-weighted assets, and the Corporation's risk-based
capital and Tier 1 leverage ratios for the dates indicated.

CAPITAL RATIOS



Excluding the Corporation's securities subsidiary, Chemical Securities Inc.,
the December 31, 1993 ratios of Tier 1 Capital to risk-weighted assets and
Total Capital to risk-weighted assets were 7.93% and 11.86%, respectively,
compared with 7.20% and 11.29%, respectively, at December 31, 1992.

LIQUIDITY MANAGEMENT

The objective of liquidity management is to ensure the availability of
sufficient cash flows to meet all financial commitments and to capitalize on
opportunities for business expansion. Liquidity management addresses the
Corporation's ability to meet deposit withdrawals either on demand or at
contractual maturity, to repay borrowings as they mature, and to make new loans
and investments as opportunities arise. Liquidity is managed on a daily basis
at both the parent company and the subsidiary levels, enabling senior
management to monitor effectively changes in liquidity and to react accordingly
to fluctuations in market conditions. Contingency plans exist and could be
implemented on a timely basis to minimize the risk associated with dramatic
changes in market conditions.
         The primary source of liquidity for the bank subsidiaries of the
Corporation derives from their ability to generate core deposits, which
includes all deposits except zero-rate deposits, foreign deposits and
certificates of deposit of $100,000 or more.  The Corporation considers funds
from such retail sources to comprise its subsidiary banks' "core" deposit base
because of the historical stability of such sources of funds. The average core
deposits at the Corporation's bank subsidiaries for 1993 were $61 billion, an
increase from $57 billion for 1992. These deposits fund a proportion of the
Corporation's asset base, thereby reducing the Corporation's reliance on other,
more volatile, sources of funds. For 1993, the Corporation's percentage of
average core deposits to average interest-earning assets was 49%, compared with
47% during 1992. Average core deposits as a percentage of average loans was 77%
for 1993, compared with 70% in 1992.
         The Corporation holds marketable securities and other short-term
investments which can be readily converted to cash. In addition, active asset
securitization programs and loan syndication networks are maintained in order
to facilitate the timely liquidation of certain assets if and when deemed
desirable.
         The Corporation is also an active participant in the capital markets.
In addition to issuing commercial paper and medium-term notes, the Corporation
raises funds through the issuance of long-term debt, common stock and preferred
stock. During 1993, the Corporation issued $200 million of common stock, $400
million of preferred stock, $1.6 billion of subordinated debt ($1.1 billion of
which was issued by Chemical Bank) and $1.9 billion of senior debt (including
$1.1 billion through its medium-term note program) in various public offerings.
         During 1993 and 1992, several nationally-recognized statistical rating
organizations announced upgrades in the ratings of the Corporation's senior
debt, subordinated debt, commercial paper and preferred stock. These rating
increases enhanced and should continue to enhance the Corporation's access to
global capital and money markets, a primary source of liquidity for an
international money-center institution. The ability to access this
geographically diverse assortment of distribution channels and to issue a wide
variety of capital and money market instruments at various maturities provides
the Corporation with a full array of alternatives for managing its liquidity
position.
         During 1993, the Corporation redeemed $1.9 billion of its long-term
debt and $594 million of its preferred stock. Such redemptions were and will
continue to be undertaken by the Corporation in light of its ability (as a
result of current market conditions in general and the recent upgrades in the
Corpora-





B44


tion's debt ratings in particular) to access the credit markets on terms more
favorable than that of the redeemed debt and preferred stock. These redemptions
were and continue to be part of the Corporation's plan to improve its capital
position by achieving lower financing costs, reducing interest rate risk and
lengthening maturities. The Corporation will continue to evaluate the
opportunity for future redemptions of debt and preferred stock given current
market conditions.
         The following comments apply to the Consolidated Statement of Cash
Flows.
         Cash and due from banks decreased $2.0 billion during 1993, as net
cash used by operating activities exceeded the net cash provided by investing
and financing activities. The $8.5 billion net cash used by operating
activities was principally due to cash outflows from a net increase in
trading-related assets ($10.5 billion) and purchases of available-for-sale
securities ($7.6 billion), partially offset by the maturity and sale of
available-for-sale securities ($1.6 billion and $5.4 billion, respectively).
The $.4 billion net cash provided from investing activities was largely the
result of cash inflows from the net decrease in loans ($6.7 billion) and
proceeds from the maturity of held-to-maturity securities ($5.0 billion),
partially offset by cash outflows from the purchases of held-to-maturity
securities ($6.4 billion), as well as increases in deposits with banks ($4.2
billion) and Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale
agreements ($2.4 billion). The $6.0 billion net cash provided by financing
activities was due to increases in Federal funds purchased, securities sold
under repurchase agreements and other borrowed funds ($3.3 billion), foreign
deposits ($2.9 billion) and net proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt
($3.5 billion), partially offset by repayments and maturities of long-term debt
($2.3 billion).
         The Corporation's anticipated cash requirements (on a parent
company-only basis) for 1994 include approximately $1,650 million for maturing
medium- and long-term debt, anticipated dividend payments on the Corporation's
common stock and preferred stock and for other parent company operations. The
Corporation considers the sources of liquidity available to the parent company
to be more than sufficient to meet its obligations. The sources of liquidity
available to the Corporation (on a parent company-only basis) include its
liquid assets (including deposits with its bank subsidiaries and short-term
advances to and repurchase agreements with its securities subsidiaries) as well
as dividends and the repayment of intercompany advances from its bank and
non-bank subsidiaries. In addition, as of December 31, 1993, the Corporation
had available to it $750 million in committed credit facilities from a
syndicate of domestic and international banks. The facilities included a $241
million three-year facility and a $509 million 364-day facility.

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS

The Corporation utilizes various off-balance sheet financial instruments in two
ways: trading and asset/liability management.  Certain of these instruments,
commonly referred to as "derivatives", represent contracts with counterparties
where payments are made to or from the counterparty based upon specific
interest rates, currency levels, other market rates or on terms predetermined
by the contract. Derivatives, along with foreign exchange contracts, can
provide a cost-effective alternative to assuming and mitigating risks
associated with traditional on-balance sheet instruments. Such derivative and
foreign exchange transactions involve, to varying degrees, credit risk (i.e.,
the possibility that a loss may occur because a party to a transaction fails to
perform according to the terms of a contract) and market risk (i.e., the
possibility that a change in interest or currency rates will cause the value of
a financial instrument to decrease or become more costly to settle).
         The Corporation's actual credit losses arising from such transactions
have been immaterial during 1993, 1992 and 1991. The effects of market losses
have been reflected in trading revenue, as the trading instruments are
marked-to-market on a daily basis.

TRADING ACTIVITIES: RISK MANAGEMENT PRODUCTS

The Corporation utilizes derivative and foreign exchange instruments to meet
the financing needs of its customers and to generate revenues through its
trading activities. The Corporation has four fundamental trading activities
which generate revenue. The Corporation seeks to maintain a balance between
generally stable market-making, sales and arbitrage businesses and potentially
less stable positioning.

Market-making: The Corporation trades with the intention of making a profit
based on the spread between bid and ask prices. The Corporation views the
market risk related to market-making to be relatively low and very short-term.
The stability of market-making, compared to other trading activities, is
considered by the Corporation to be medium, as both the spreads and the market
volume can fluctuate. The Corporation considers market-making to be a key
trading activity in its non-exchange traded businesses and emphasizes its use,
especially in its foreign exchange, derivative and government markets
businesses.

Sales: The Corporation accesses products for its clients at competitive prices.
The Corporation is emphasizing sales since the Corporation believes it to be a
stable business, given the Corporation's worldwide client franchise.

Arbitrage: This is the purchase or sale of derivatives in one market and the
almost simultaneous sale or purchase in another market to take advantage of
differences in interest and currency





                                                                            B45


rates. Because of the nature of trading markets, where there are numerous
instruments that relate to one another, and the Corporation's market-making
franchise, the Corporation emphasizes the use of this strategy. The Corporation
considers arbitrage to be a key fundamental of its risk management business.

Positioning: The Corporation takes certain positions in the market with the
intention of generating revenue. This strategy has the lowest stability of all
four trading activities. The Corporation's emphasis in this area is less than
in the other fundamental trading activities.

ASSET/LIABILITY MANAGEMENT

The Corporation employs a variety of off-balance sheet instruments in managing
its exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates and foreign exchange
rates. In some cases, these instruments are used to hedge specific on-balance
sheet exposures. For example, an interest rate swap contract may be entered
into in conjunction with a debt offering, shifting the effective rate paid from
fixed to variable, or vice versa, at terms more advantageous than if the debt
offering had originally been fixed-rate or variable-rate, as the case may be.
         More often, these contracts are used as one of many tools in the
Corporation's overall management of its exposure, as opposed to hedging
specific transactions as described above. A swap in which the Corporation
receives a fixed interest rate and pays a floating rate may serve as a
substitute for an investment in a fixed-rate security. Such a swap transaction
will have an effect on the Corporation's consolidated interest rate sensitivity
identical to a security investment but potentially at more favorable terms
depending on market conditions. For a discussion regarding the Corporation's
interest rate positions, see the Interest Rate Sensitivity Section. For a
discussion regarding the Corporation's asset/liability management policies, see
Note One of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. At December 31,
1993, the net deferred amount relating to off-balance sheet instruments used in
asset/liability management activities was immaterial.

CREDIT AND MARKET RISK MANAGEMENT

The effective management of credit and market risk is a vital ingredient of the
Corporation's trading activities and asset/liability management. The
Corporation also manages the risks associated with its trading activities
through geographic and product diversification. Because of the changing market
environment, which results in increasingly complex financial instruments, and
because of the Corporation's business strategy to maintain geographic and
product diversification, the monitoring and managing of these risks is a
continual process. The Corporation has reviewed both the Group of Thirty report
entitled "Derivatives Practices and Principles" and the recently issued Federal
Reserve Board examination guidelines for trading activities, and management
considers itself to be substantially in compliance with the recommendations and
general thrust of these documents.

Credit Risk: The Corporation controls the credit risk arising from derivative
and foreign exchange transactions through its credit approval process and the
use of risk control limits and monitoring procedures. The Corporation uses the
same credit procedures when entering into derivative and foreign exchange
transactions as it does for traditional lending products. The credit approval
process involves first evaluating each counterparty's creditworthiness, then
assessing the applicability of off-balance sheet instruments to the risks the
counterparty is attempting to manage, and determining if there are specific
transaction characteristics which alter the risk profile. Credit limits are
calculated and monitored on the basis of potential exposure which takes into
consideration current market value and estimates of potential future movements
in market values.
         The notional principal of derivative and foreign exchange instruments
is the amount on which interest and other payments in a transaction are based.
For derivative transactions, the notional principal typically does not change
hands; it is simply a quantity that is used to calculate payments. While
notional principal is the most commonly used volume measure in the derivative
and foreign exchange markets, it is not a measure of credit or market risk. The
notional principal of the Corporation's derivatives and foreign exchange
products greatly exceeds the possible credit and market loss that could arise
from such transactions. As a result, the Corporation does not consider the
notional principal to be indicative of its credit or market risk exposure. The
Corporation believes the true measure of credit risk exposure is the
replacement cost (the cost to replace the contract at current market rates
should the counterparty default prior to the settlement date). This is also
referred to as the mark-to-market exposure amount.
         Mark-to-market exposure is a measure, at a point in time, of the value
of a derivative or foreign exchange contract in the open market. When the
mark-to-market is positive, it indicates the counterparty owes the Corporation
and, therefore, creates a repayment risk for the Corporation. When the
mark-to-market is negative, the Corporation owes the counterparty. In this
situation the Corporation does not have repayment risk.
         When the Corporation has more than one transaction outstanding with a
counterparty, the "net" mark-to-market exposure represents the netting of the
positive and negative exposures with the same counterparty. If there is a net
negative number, the Corporation's exposure to the counterparty is considered
zero. Net mark-to-market is the best measure of credit risk when there is a
master netting agreement between the Corporation and the counterparty.





B46



         The Corporation routinely enters into derivative and foreign exchange
product transactions with regulated financial institutions, which it believes
have relatively low credit risk. At December 31, 1993, over 80% of transaction
counterparties were commercial banks. The remaining 20% were comprised mainly
of other financial institutions and major corporations.
         The Corporation's trading activities are geographically diverse.
Trading activities are undertaken in more than 20 countries, although a
majority of the Corporation's transactions are executed in the United States,
Japan and Western Europe, areas which the Corporation believes have the most
developed laws regarding derivatives and foreign exchange businesses. Trading
products include not only foreign exchange and derivatives but also securities,
including LDC debt.
         The majority of derivative and foreign exchange transactions are
outstanding for less than one year. At December 31, 1993, 28% of outstanding
transactions were scheduled to expire within three months, 13% within three to
six months, 13% within six months to one year, 26% within one to three years
and 20% greater than three years. The short-term nature of these transactions
along with product diversification mitigates credit risk, as transactions
settle quickly.

Market Risk: Market risk management is an effective and wide-ranging activity
at the Corporation. A critical goal is the separation of duties of those
responsible for day-to-day trading and those responsible for position valuation
and limit reporting.
         The Chairman of the Market Risk Committee delegates instrument
authorities and risk limits to individual business units and exception
authority to the senior managers of divisions responsible for those units.
Procedures and policies specify authorized instruments and provide for risk
limits. Critical risk limits that are designated as primary involve independent
daily tracking and centralized reporting, while less-critical risk limits are
independently monitored and are reported centrally on a periodic basis.
Individual business units often set additional internal limits that are
monitored in the same manner. Criteria for risk limit determination include,
among other factors, relevant market analysis, prior track record, business
strategy, and management experience and depth.
         The Chairman of the Market Risk Committee is supported by the Market
Risk Group. One focus of the group is independent analysis of instrument
authority and limit requests, limit utilization, measure of revenue to risk,
average risk levels, and related topics. Other focuses include measures of
value at risk, criteria for official volatility and correlation statistics, and
formulas for determination of market-related credit exposure. Additionally, the
group reviews the market risk related to new products (as one element of the
Corporation's new product process) and provides independent review of the
mathematical and simulation models utilized by the Corporation. The group
combines efforts with other functional units to assess cross-discipline risks
in business units having significant market risk.
         For further discussion of the Corporation's off-balance sheet
financial instruments, see Note Eighteen of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.

INTEREST RATE SENSITIVITY

The Corporation's net interest income is affected by changes in the level of
market interest rates based upon mismatches between the repricing of its assets
and liabilities. Interest rate sensitivity arises in the ordinary course of the
Corporation's banking business as the repricing characteristics of its loans do
not necessarily match those of its deposits and other borrowings. This
sensitivity can be altered by adjusting investments and the maturities of
wholesale funding and with the use of off-balance sheet derivative instruments.
         Interest rate sensitivity is managed and controlled on a consolidated
basis by the Corporation's Asset and Liability Policy Committee. A key element
of the Corporation's interest rate risk management strategy is that it allows
the assumption of limited interest rate sensitivities at a decentralized level
by authorized units with close contacts with the markets. These units operate
within authorities administered centrally which limit the size of exposures by
currency and the instruments that can be used to manage the sensitivity. The
positions are consolidated and reviewed frequently by the Asset and Liability
Policy Committee, which seeks to maximize the Corporation's net interest income
while ensuring that the risks to earnings from adverse movements in interest
rates are kept within pre-specified limits deemed acceptable by the
Corporation.

Measuring Interest Rate Sensitivity: Management uses a variety of techniques to
measure its interest rate sensitivity. One such tool is aggregate net gap
analysis, an example of which is presented below. Assets and liabilities are
placed in maturity ladders based on their contractual maturities or repricing
dates. Assets and liabilities for which no specific contractual maturity or
repricing dates exist are placed in ladders based on management's judgments
concerning their most likely repricing behaviors.
         Derivatives used in interest rate sensitivity management are also
included in the maturity ladders. The aggregate notional amounts of derivatives
are netted when the repricing of the "receive-side" and "pay-side" of two swaps
occur within the same gap interval. Such net amount represents the repricing
mismatch of the Corporation's derivatives during the particular gap interval.
It is the amount of the net repricing mismatch, rather than the aggregate
notional principal of the derivatives repricing during the period, that is
included in the gap analysis, because it is the amount of the mismatch that
reflects the impact of the Corporation's derivatives in altering the repricing
profile of the Corporation. See Note Eighteen of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements for the aggregate notional principal of off-balance sheet
instruments used for asset/liability management.





                                                                            B47




(a) Represents repricing effect of off-balance sheet positions, which include
interest rate swaps and options, financial futures, and similar agreements that
are used as part of the Corporation's overall asset and liability management
activities.

         A net gap for each time period is calculated by subtracting the
liabilities repricing in that interval from the assets repricing. A negative
gap -- more liabilities repricing than assets -- will benefit net interest
income in a declining interest rate environment and will detract from net
interest income in a rising interest rate environment. Conversely, a positive
gap -- more assets repricing than liabilities -- will benefit net interest
income if rates are rising and will detract from net interest income in a
falling rate environment.
         At December 31, 1993, the Corporation had $7,912 million more
liabilities than assets repricing within one year, amounting to 5.3% of total
assets. This compares with $7,255 million, or 5.2% of total assets at December
31, 1992. The consolidated gaps include exposure to U.S. dollar interest rates
as well as exposure to non-U.S. dollar rates in currency markets in which the
Corporation does business. Since U.S. interest rates and non-U.S. interest
rates do not move in tandem, the overall cumulative gaps will tend to overstate
the exposures of the Corporation to U.S. interest rates.
         Simple gap analysis measures the Corporation's exposure at a
particular point in time. The exposure changes continuously as a result of the
Corporation's ongoing business and its management initiatives. Moreover, gap
analysis cannot reveal the impact of factors such as administered rates (i.e.,
the prime lending rate), pricing strategies on its consumer and business
deposits, changes in balance sheet mix or various options embedded in the
balance sheet. Accordingly, the Asset and Liability Policy Committee
supplements its gap analysis with comprehensive simulations of net interest
income under a variety of market interest rate scenarios. These simulation
models take explicit account of pricing strategies and deposit responses and
the behavior of embedded options. At December 31, 1993, based on these
simulations, net





B48


interest income sensitivity to a gradual 150 basis point rise in market rates
over the course of 1994 was estimated at less than two percent of projected
1994 after-tax net income.
         While management believes the simulation models do provide a
meaningful representation of the Corporation's interest rate sensitivity, these
simulation models do not necessarily take into account all business
developments which can have an impact on net interest income, such as changes
in credit quality or the size and composition of the balance sheet.
         In 1993, the Federal Reserve Board and certain other Federal banking
regulators proposed a system for measuring interest rate risk and assessing
capital adequacy based on the sensitivity of a banking organization's "net
economic value" to changes in the level of market interest rates. The system
compares the net present value of net interest income-related cash flows under
current market conditions to the net present values under hypothetical,
instantaneous increases and declines in market rates. The proposal envisions
that banks whose net economic value sensitivity exceeds one percent of total
assets would be identified as having excessive interest rate risk and,
potentially, become subject to additional capital requirements. While final
rules have not been adopted, management believes its current interest
rate-sensitivity position falls within the range deemed acceptable by the
regulators' measurement system.

ACCOUNTING DEVELOPMENTS

ACCOUNTING BY CREDITORS FOR IMPAIRMENT OF A LOAN

In May 1993, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, ("FASB") issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 114, "Accounting by Creditors
for Impairment of a Loan" ("SFAS 114"). SFAS 114 requires that the carrying
value of impaired loans be measured based on the present value of expected
future cash flows discounted at the loan's effective interest rate or, as a
practical expedient, at the loan's observable market price or the fair value of
the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent.  Under the new standard, a
loan is considered impaired when, based on current information, it is probable
that the borrower will be unable to pay contractual interest or principal
payments as scheduled in the loan agreement. SFAS 114 is applicable to all
loans that are identified for evaluation, uncollateralized as well as
collateralized, with certain exceptions.
         SFAS 114 applies to financial statements for fiscal years beginning
after December 15, 1994, although earlier application is encouraged. Management
is currently evaluating the financial impact of adopting this new accounting
standard.

OFFSETTING OF AMOUNTS RELATED TO CERTAIN CONTRACTS

The Corporation records unrealized gains and losses related to interest rate
and foreign exchange contracts net on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
         In March 1992, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 39, "Offsetting of
Amounts Related to Certain Contracts" (the "Interpretation"), with an effective
date of  January 1, 1994, which changes the reporting of unrealized gains and
losses on interest rate and foreign exchange contracts on the balance sheet.
The Interpretation requires that gross unrealized gains be reported as assets
and gross unrealized losses be reported as liabilities. The Interpretation,
however, permits netting of such unrealized gains and losses with the same
counterparty when master netting agreements have been executed. If this
Interpretation had been in effect at December 31, 1993, giving effect to the
master netting agreements in place at that time, assets and liabilities each
would have increased by approximately $13.6 billion and the Tier 1 leverage
ratio would have been 6.19%. In 1994, to mitigate the impact of the
Interpretation, the Corporation anticipates expanding the number of master
netting agreements to which it is a party. Upon adoption of this new reporting
requirement, the Corporation's net income and risk-based capital ratios will
not be affected, although the Corporation expects its asset-based ratios (such
as the Tier 1 leverage ratio) will decrease.

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
COMPARISON BETWEEN 1992 AND 1991

OPERATING HIGHLIGHTS

The Corporation's net income was $1,086 million, or $3.90 per common share, for
1992, compared with $154 million, or $.11 per share, in 1991. The 1991 results
reflected a pre-tax restructuring charge of $625 million taken in connection
with the merger with MHC.  Excluding the restructuring charge, earnings for
1991 were $779 million, or $3.56 per share. There were no tax benefits recorded
in connection with the restructuring charge.
         The Corporation's 1992 earnings, in comparison with the prior year,
benefited from a 13% increase in net interest income, a 27% improvement in
combined trading account and foreign exchange revenue, as well as higher
revenues from fees for other banking services, service charges on deposit
accounts and trust and investment management fees. Partially offsetting these
factors were higher credit costs in 1992 compared with 1991, reflecting the
impact of the weak economy on certain areas of the Corporation's credit
portfolio.





                                                                            B49


NET INTEREST INCOME

The Corporation's net interest income was $4,598 million in 1992, an increase
of 13% from $4,080 million for 1991. The improvement in net interest income
from 1991 was attributable to wider spreads in a lower interest rate
environment, lower funding costs (primarily due to upgrades received in 1992 in
the Corporation's credit ratings) and effective asset/liability management.

PROVISION FOR LOSSES AND NET CHARGE-OFFS

The provision for losses for 1992 was $1,365 million, compared with $1,345
million for 1991.
         The Corporation's non-LDC net charge-offs totaled $1,365 million in
1992 an increase from $1,191 million in 1991. The increase from the prior year
was principally due to the continued weak economy and its effects on certain
areas of the Corporation's credit portfolio. However, non-LDC net charge-offs
declined in each of the last three quarters of 1992.
         LDC net charge-offs in 1992 included $51 million related to Yugoslavia
as a result of a recommendation of ICERC issued in the 1992 fourth quarter. LDC
net charge-offs and losses on sales and swaps in 1991 included $902 million
related to Brazilian loans, of which $491 million occurred in the 1991 fourth
quarter. These charge-offs reflected the Corporation's evaluation of its LDC
portfolio and the recommendations of ICERC and had the effect of adjusting the
Corporation's medium- and long-term Brazilian outstandings to an estimated net
recoverable value.

NONINTEREST REVENUE

Noninterest revenue totaled $3,026 million in 1992, an increase of $164 million
from 1991. The increase was primarily the result of higher foreign exchange
trading revenue, service charges on deposit accounts and fees for other banking
services, partially offset by lower securities gains, corporate finance and
syndication fees and other revenue.
         Trust and investment management fees increased in 1992 to $361 million
from $344 million in 1991. The improvement from the prior year occurred in the
stock transfer and corporate trust businesses and also reflected higher
personal trust fees due to a rise in the market value of assets under
management.
         Corporate finance and syndication fees in 1992 were $265 million, a
decrease of 12% from 1991. The decline principally resulted from the sale of a
nonstrategic business in the fourth quarter of 1991.
         Service charges on deposit accounts were $264 million in 1992, an
increase from $229 million in 1991. This increase resulted from higher
per-account fees, as well as growth in the Corporation's domestic deposit
accounts.
         Fees for other banking services include revolving credit fees,
commissions on letters of credit, fees in lieu of compensating balances,
mortgage servicing fees, loan commitment fees and other transactional fee
revenue. Such fees totaled $1,040 million in 1992, an increase from $959
million in 1991. The increase from the prior year reflected growth in a number
of fee components, as well as the prospective reclassification of certain
banking relationship fees from other revenue to fees for other banking
services.
         Revenues from all trading activities (trading account revenue and
foreign exchange revenue) were $853 million in 1992 compared with $671 million
in 1991. In 1992, trading account revenue and foreign exchange revenue were
$377 million and $476 million, respectively, compared with $382 million and
$289 million, respectively, in 1991. The increases were primarily the result of
increased transaction volumes, market volatility, and the Corporation's higher
credit ratings, which resulted in increased opportunities in several key
businesses.
         Securities gains in 1992 were $53 million compared with $110 million
in 1991. The gains recorded in both years principally resulted from certain
actions taken by the Corporation in managing its interest rate sensitivity and
enhancing its securities portfolio.
         Other revenue for 1992 was $190 million compared with $247 million in
1991. The decrease from 1991 was principally due to lower revenue in connection
with the Corporation's residential mortgage warehouse operations, the
aforementioned reclassification of certain fees from other revenue to fees for
other banking services and higher gains recorded in 1991 on the disposition of
nonstrategic corporate assets.

NONINTEREST EXPENSE

Noninterest expense was $4,930 million in 1992, compared with $5,307 million in
1991. The results for 1992 included a one-time charge of $41 million related to
costs incurred in combining the Corporation's employee benefit plans and a $30
million charge for London occupancy-related expenses associated with the
Corporation's Canary Wharf lease arrangements. The 1991 results included a $625
million restructuring charge in connection with the merger with MHC and an $18
million reduction of expense related to an insurance settlement. Excluding the
impact of the aforementioned items, noninterest expense in 1992 increased by
$159 million, or 3.4%, from 1991. The 1992 full-year noninterest expense
included higher foreclosed property expense, incentive compensation costs
(principally due to improved revenues from the Corporation's trading
businesses) and FDIC premiums, which collectively increased by $208 million.
The remaining amount of noninterest expense declined from year-to-year,
reflecting the impact of merger-related expense savings.





B50


         Salaries and employee benefit expenses in 1992 were $2,349 million,
slightly lower than the $2,369 million recorded in 1991. The decline was
primarily due to lower costs attributable to the reduction in staff from
attrition and layoffs subsequent to the merger announcement on July 15, 1991.
Partially offsetting this reduction was approximately $63 million of higher
incentive compensation costs due to improved revenues primarily from the
Corporation's trading businesses.
         Occupancy and equipment expenses for 1992 were $882 million, a slight
increase from $878 million in 1991.
         Foreclosed property expense in 1992 was $283 million compared with
$154 million in 1991. The $129 million year-to-year increase reflected higher
operating expenses associated with an increased level of foreclosed assets and
a higher level of expenses incurred in connection with writedowns resulting
from updated market valuations.
         For 1992, other expense was $1,416 million compared with $1,281
million in 1991. Other expense comprises items such as professional fees,
insurance, advertising and communications expense, and in 1992 and 1991
included the aforementioned one-time charges.

INCOME TAXES

The Corporation recorded income tax expense of $243 million in 1992, compared
with $136 million in 1991. Included in the 1992 and 1991 income tax expense was
approximately $278 million and $130 million, respectively, of Federal income
tax benefits. The Corporation's 1991 income tax expense was reduced by $55
million as a result of settlements with the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") of
taxes from prior years.
         The Corporation's effective tax rate in 1992 was lower than the
statutory rate primarily due to the recognition of approximately $278 million
of Federal income tax benefits. For 1991, the $625 million restructuring
charge, the aforementioned $130 million Federal income tax benefit and the $55
million reduction in tax expense were the most significant factors affecting
the Corporation's effective tax rate. Deferred tax benefits were reflected in
the financial statements in accordance with the recognition requirements of
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 96, "Accounting for Income
Taxes".

NONPERFORMING ASSETS

The Corporation's total nonperforming assets at December 31, 1992 were $6,092
million, compared with $6,155 million at December 31, 1991. The decline from
the prior year-end resulted from a $251 million decrease in assets acquired as
loan satisfactions, partially offset by an $100 million increase in LDC
nonperforming loans and an $88 million increase in non-LDC nonperforming loans.
         The non-LDC nonperforming assets decreased $163 million from the 1991
year-end primarily due to $1.3 billion of payments received on nonperforming
loans and the sale of assets acquired, $1.1 billion of charge-offs and
writedowns (excluding consumer loan charge-offs on a formula basis) and $0.6
billion of loans returning to performing status, partially offset by $2.8
billion of loans placed on nonperforming status during 1992.
         LDC nonperforming loans at December 31, 1992 were $1,348 million, an
increase of $100 million from the 1991 year-end. The increase in nonperforming
LDC loans principally reflected the placement of loans to Yugoslavia on
nonperforming status during 1992, partially offset by charge-offs and sales and
swaps of LDC loans.

CASH FLOWS

The following comments apply to the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Cash
and due from banks increased $1.3 billion during 1992, as net cash provided by
operating activities exceeded the net cash used by investing and financing
activities. The net cash provided by operating activities reflected changes in
operating assets/liabilities and higher earnings adjusted for non-cash charges
and credits. Financing activities used $1.1 billion of net cash, mainly due to
decreases in Federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase
agreements and other borrowed funds. The net cash used in investing activities
was largely the result of cash outflows for the purchases of securities and the
net increase in loans, partially offset by cash inflows from sales and
maturities of securities and the decrease in loans due to sales and
securitizations.





                                                                            B51

MANAGEMENT'S REPORT ON RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL REPORTING


To Our Stockholders


The management of Chemical Banking Corporation and its subsidiaries has the
responsibility for preparing the accompanying consolidated financial statements
and for their integrity and objectivity. The statements were prepared in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The consolidated
financial statements include amounts that are based on management's best
estimates and judgments. Management also prepared the other information in the
annual report and is responsible for its accuracy and consistency with the
consolidated financial statements.
  Management maintains a comprehensive system of internal control to assure the
proper authorization of transactions, the safeguarding of assets, and the
reliability of the financial records. The system of internal control provides
for appropriate division of responsibility and is documented by written
policies and procedures that are communicated to employees. The Corporation
maintains a strong internal auditing program that independently assesses the
effectiveness of the internal controls and recommends possible improvements
thereto. Management believes that as of December 31, 1993, the Corporation
maintains an effective system of internal control.
  The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors reviews the systems of internal
control and financial reporting. The Committee meets and consults regularly
with management, the internal auditors and the independent accountants to
review the scope and results of their work.
  The accounting firm of Price Waterhouse has performed an independent audit of
the Corporation's financial statements. Management has made available to Price
Waterhouse all of the Corporation's financial records and related data, as well
as the minutes of stockholders' and directors' meetings. Furthermore,
management believes that all representations made to Price Waterhouse during
its audit were valid and appropriate. The firm's report appears below.


/s/ WALTER V. SHIPLEY 
- - - ---------------------
Walter V. Shipley
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer



/s/ PETER J. TOBIN    
- - - ------------------
Peter J. Tobin
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer



/s/ JOSEPH L. SCLAFANI 
- - - ----------------------
Joseph L. Sclafani
Senior Vice President and Controller


January 18, 1994



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS



TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND STOCKHOLDERS OF CHEMICAL BANKING CORPORATION



[LOGO] PRICE WATERHOUSE                               
       1177 AVENUE OF THE AMERICAS, NEW YORK, NY 10036
       



In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Chemical Banking
Corporation and Subsidiaries, and the related consolidated statements of
income, of changes in stockholders' equity and of cash flows present fairly, in
all material respects, the financial position of Chemical Banking Corporation
and its subsidiaries at December 31, 1993 and 1992, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 1993, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.
These financial statements are the responsibility of the management of Chemical
Banking Corporation; our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these
statements in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards which
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit
includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles
used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above.
  As described in Notes Four, Thirteen and Sixteen to the consolidated
financial statements, Chemical Banking Corporation changed its methods of
accounting for certain investments in debt and marketable equity securities,
post-retirement benefits and income taxes in 1993.


/s/ PRICE WATERHOUSE  
- - - ---------------------


January 18, 1994





B52






CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET



The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these
Statements.





                                                                             B53




CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME




The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these
Statements.





B54


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY




(a) Balance was ($10) million, ($15) million and ($17) million at December 31,
1993, 1992, and 1991, respectively.  The Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements are an integral part of these statements.





                                                                             B55


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS




The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these
Statements.





B56





NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


NOTE ONE

SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Chemical Banking Corporation (the "Corporation") is a bank holding company
organized under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1968 and registered under
the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended. On December 31, 1991,
Manufacturers Hanover Corporation ("MHC") was merged with and into the
Corporation. The merger was accounted for as a pooling of interests and, as a
result, the Corporation's financial statements include the consolidated
accounts of MHC. In addition, on June 19, 1992, Manufacturers Hanover Trust
Company ("MHT") was merged with and into Chemical Bank.
         The Corporation conducts domestic and international financial services
businesses through various bank and non-bank subsidiaries. The principal bank
subsidiaries of the Corporation are Chemical Bank, a New York State bank
("Chemical Bank"), and Texas Commerce Bank National Association, a subsidiary
of Texas Commerce Bancshares Inc. ("Texas Commerce"), a bank holding company
organized under the laws of the State of Delaware. The accounting and financial
reporting policies of the Corporation and its subsidiaries conform to generally
accepted accounting principles and prevailing industry practices. The following
is a description of significant accounting policies.

BASIS OF PRESENTATION

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Corporation
and its majority-owned subsidiaries, after eliminating intercompany balances
and transactions. Equity investments in less than majority-owned companies
(20%-50% ownership interest) are generally accounted for in accordance with the
equity method of accounting. The Corporation's pro-rata share of earnings
(losses) of equity investments is included in other noninterest revenue.
         Securities and other property held in a fiduciary or agency capacity
are not included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet since these are not assets
or liabilities of the Corporation.
         Certain amounts in prior periods have been reclassified to conform to
the current presentation.

STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

For purposes of preparing the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the
Corporation defines cash and cash equivalents as those amounts included in the
balance sheet caption "cash and due from banks". Cash flows from loans and
deposits are reported on a net basis.

TRADING ACCOUNT ASSETS

Trading account assets include securities, refinancing country loans, money
market, credit and certain derivative instruments held for trading purposes.
Obligations to deliver securities sold but not yet purchased are included in
other borrowed funds. Trading account assets and liabilities are carried at
fair value. Gains and losses on trading account assets and liabilities,
including market value adjustments, are included in trading account and foreign
exchange revenue.

HELD-TO-MATURITY AND AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE SECURITIES

Effective December 31, 1993, the Corporation adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and
Equity Securities" ("SFAS 115"). Securities that may be sold in response to or
in anticipation of changes in interest rates and resulting prepayment risk, or
other factors, are classified as available-for-sale and carried at fair value.
The unrealized gains and losses on these securities, along with any unrealized
gains and losses on related hedges, are reported net of applicable taxes in a
separate component of stockholders' equity. At December 31, 1992, securities
available-for-sale were carried at the lower of aggregate cost or market value
(see Note Four). Securities that the Corporation has the positive intent and
ability to hold to maturity continue to be carried at amortized cost.
         Interest income on securities, including amortization of premiums and
accretion of discounts, is recognized using the interest method. The
Corporation anticipates prepayments of principal in the calculation of the
effective yield for collateralized mortgage obligations and mortgage-backed
securities. The specific identification method is used to determine realized
gains and losses on sales of securities, which are reported in securities
gains.

LOANS

Loans are generally reported at the principal amount outstanding, net of
unearned income and net deferred loan fees (deferred nonrefundable
yield-related loan fees, net of related direct origination costs). Mortgage
loans held for sale are carried at the lower of aggregate cost or market value.
Loans meeting the accounting definition of a security are reported as loans but
are valued consistent with SFAS 115.
         Interest income is recognized using the interest method or on a basis
approximating a level rate of return over the term of the loan. Net deferred
loan fees are amortized into interest income over the term of the loan.
         Nonaccrual loans are those on which the accrual of interest has
ceased. Loans, other than certain consumer loans discussed below, are placed on
nonaccrual status immediately if, in the opinion of management, principal or
interest is not likely to be paid in accordance with the terms of the loan
agreement, or when principal or interest is past due 90 days or more and





                                                                             B57

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



collateral, if any, is insufficient to cover principal and interest. Interest
accrued but not collected at the date a loan is placed on nonaccrual status is
reversed against interest income. In addition, the amortization of net deferred
loan fees is suspended when a loan is placed on nonaccrual status. Interest
income is recognized on nonaccrual loans only to the extent received in cash.
However, where there is doubt regarding the ultimate collectibility of the loan
principal, cash receipts, whether designated as principal or interest, are
thereafter applied to reduce the carrying value of the loan. Loans are restored
to accrual status only when interest and principal payments are brought current
and future payments are reasonably assured.
         Renegotiated loans are those for which concessions, such as the
reduction of interest rates or deferral of interest or principal payments, have
been granted due to a deterioration in the borrower's financial condition.
Interest on renegotiated loans is accrued at the renegotiated rates. Certain
renegotiated loan agreements call for additional interest to be paid on a
deferred or contingent basis. Such interest is taken into income only as
collected.
         Consumer loans (exclusive of residential mortgage products which are
accounted for in accordance with the nonaccrual loan policy discussed above)
are generally charged to the allowance for losses upon reaching specified
stages of delinquency. Accrued interest is reversed against interest income
when such consumer loans are charged off.

ALLOWANCE FOR LOSSES

The allowance for losses is based on periodic reviews and analysis of the
portfolio, which comprises primarily loans and other financial instruments,
including commitments to extend credit, guarantees, letters of credit, and
derivatives and foreign exchange contracts. The analysis includes consideration
of such factors as the risk rating of individual credits, the size and
diversity of the portfolio (particularly in terms of industry and geography),
economic and political conditions, prior loss experience and results of
periodic credit reviews of the portfolio. The allowance for losses is increased
by charges against income and reduced by charge-offs, net of recoveries, and
losses on sales and swaps of loans to countries engaged in debt rescheduling.

PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT

Premises and equipment, including leasehold improvements, are carried at cost
less accumulated depreciation and amortization.  Capital leases are included in
premises and equipment at the capitalized amount less accumulated amortization.
Depreciation and amortization of premises are included in occupancy expense
while depreciation of equipment is included in equipment expense.  Depreciation
and amortization are computed using the straight-line method over the estimated
useful life of the owned asset and, for leasehold improvements, over the
estimated useful life of the related asset or the lease term, whichever is
shorter.

ASSETS ACQUIRED AS LOAN SATISFACTIONS

Assets acquired in full or partial satisfaction of debt, either formally or
through in-substance foreclosure, are reported at the lower of cost or fair
value less estimated costs to sell. These are primarily real estate assets.
Writedowns of such assets subsequent to six months from the date of acquisition
are included in foreclosed property expense. Operating expenses, net of related
revenue, and gains and losses on sales of such assets are reported net in
foreclosed property expense.

INTANGIBLES

Goodwill and other acquisition intangibles are amortized over the estimated
periods to be benefited, the majority of which are being amortized over periods
not exceeding 25 years.

OFF-BALANCE SHEET INSTRUMENTS USED IN TRADING ACTIVITIES

The Corporation deals in interest rate, foreign exchange, equity and commodity
contracts to generate trading revenues. Such contracts include futures,
forwards, swaps and options. Contracts used in trading activities are adjusted
to fair value. Realized and unrealized gains and losses on trading positions
are recognized in trading account and foreign exchange revenue. A portion of
the market valuation relating to certain contracts is deferred and accreted to
income over the life of the contracts to match ongoing servicing costs and
credit risks, as appropriate.

OFF-BALANCE SHEET INSTRUMENTS USED IN
ASSET/LIABILITY MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES

As part of its asset/liability management activities, the Corporation may enter
into interest rate futures, forwards, swaps and options contracts. Gains and
losses realized on futures and forward contracts are deferred and amortized
over the terms of the related assets or liabilities and are included as
adjustments to interest income or interest expense. Settlements on interest
rate swaps and options contracts are recognized over the lives of the
agreements as adjustments to interest income or interest expense.
         Interest rate contracts used in connection with the securities
portfolio that is designated as available-for-sale are carried at fair value
with gains and losses, net of applicable tax, reported in a separate component
of stockholders' equity, consistent with the reporting of unrealized gains and
losses on such securities.

FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION

Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated to U.S.
dollars using prevailing rates of exchange. Gains and losses on foreign
currency translation from operations for which the functional currency is other
than the U.S.





B58



dollar, together with related hedges and tax effects, are reported in
stockholders' equity. For foreign operations for which the U.S. dollar is the
functional currency, translation gains and losses, including the related
hedges, are included in trading account and foreign exchange revenue.

CORPORATE FINANCE AND SYNDICATION FEES

Corporate finance and syndication fees primarily include fees received for
managing and syndicating loan arrangements; providing investment banking and
financial advisory services in connection with leveraged buyouts,
recapitalizations, and mergers and acquisitions; underwriting debt securities;
and arranging private placements. Syndication fees are recognized upon receipt
when certain yield tests are satisfied. Corporate finance and underwriting fees
are generally recognized when all services to which they relate have been
provided.

FEES FOR OTHER BANKING SERVICES

Fees received in connection with loan commitments, standby letters of credit,
related administrative services performed and other fees are generally
recognized over the period the related service is provided.

INCOME TAXES
Effective January 1, 1993, the Corporation adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes" ("SFAS 109"). Under
SFAS 109, the deferred tax liability (asset) is determined based on enacted tax
rates which will be in effect when the underlying items of income and expense
are expected to be reported to the taxing authorities. Annual deferred tax
expense (benefit) is equal to the change in the deferred tax liability (asset)
account from the beginning to the end of the year. A current tax liability or
asset is recognized for the estimated taxes payable or refundable for the
current year. During 1992 and 1991, the Corporation followed Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 96, "Accounting for Income Taxes" ("SFAS
96"). See Note Sixteen for further discussion.

NET INCOME PER COMMON SHARE

Net income per common share is computed by dividing net income, after deducting
preferred stock dividends, by the weighted average number of common shares and
common stock equivalents outstanding during the period.
         On December 31, 1991, MHC merged with and into the Corporation.
Pursuant to the merger, each share of common stock of MHC was converted into
1.14 shares of common stock of the Corporation, or 91,238,025 common shares,
and each share of preferred stock of MHC outstanding immediately prior to the
merger was converted into one share of newly created preferred stock of the
Corporation having terms similar to those of such MHC preferred stock. Common
shares and common stock equivalents outstanding for 1991 is based on the
combined weighted average number of shares of the Corporation's common stock
and MHC's common stock outstanding during the period as adjusted to reflect the
conversion of the MHC 97/8% Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock into shares
of MHC common stock prior to the merger and the conversion of each share of MHC
common stock outstanding immediately prior to the merger into 1.14 shares of
the Corporation's common stock as a result of the merger.
         For 1991 (due to the existence during such period of the Corporation's
Class B Common Stock), the earnings per share using the if-converted basis was
$0.11 and using the two-class basis was $0.06.
         Other common stock equivalents such as stock options are not included
in the calculation since their dilutive effect is immaterial.


NOTE TWO

ACQUISITIONS

In February 1993, the Corporation, through its Texas Commerce subsidiary,
acquired $3.8 billion in assets and assumed $3.4 billion in deposit liabilities
of four banks (the "First City Banks") of the former First City Bancorporation
of Texas, Inc. ("First City") from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(the "FDIC") in a federally-assisted transaction. The First City Banks were
primarily engaged in providing commercial banking services in Texas. The
premium paid to the FDIC was $333 million.
         In September 1993, the Corporation, through Texas Commerce Bank
National Association, a wholly-owned bank subsidiary of Texas Commerce,
acquired Ameritrust Texas Corporation ("Ameritrust"), a corporation engaged in
the delivery of personal, corporate and institutional trust and investment
services. The purchase price included a premium of $130 million.
         These acquisitions were recorded using the purchase method of
accounting. Under this method of accounting, the purchase price is allocated to
the respective assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated
fair values. Intangibles related to the Ameritrust acquisition are being
amortized over a 10-year period. Deposit premiums and other intangibles related
to the First City acquisition are being amortized over the estimated periods of
benefit. Goodwill related to both acquisitions is being amortized over 25
years.





                                                                             B59

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


NOTE THREE

TRADING ACCOUNT ASSETS

Trading account assets at December 31, 1993 and 1992, which are valued at fair
value, are presented in the following table.


(a) Primarily includes corporate debt and eurodollar bonds.


NOTE FOUR

SECURITIES

On December 31, 1993, the Corporation adopted SFAS 115, which addresses the
accounting for investments in equity securities that have readily determinable
fair values and for investments in all debt securities. Such securities are
classified in three categories and accounted for as follows: debt securities
that the Corporation has the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity
are classified as held-to-maturity and are measured at amortized cost; debt and
equity securities bought and held principally for the purpose of selling in the
near term are classified as trading securities and are measured at fair value,
with unrealized gains and losses included in earnings; debt and equity
securities not classified as either held-to-maturity or trading securities are
deemed available-for-sale and are measured at fair value, with unrealized gains
and losses, net of applicable taxes, reported in a separate component of
stockholders' equity.
         Prior to the adoption of SFAS 115, securities deemed
available-for-sale were carried at the lower of aggregate amortized cost or
market value.
         As a result of the adoption of SFAS 115, debt and equity securities in
the amount of $15,444 million that were previously measured at amortized cost
or at the lower of aggregate amortized cost or market are measured at fair
value.

HELD-TO-MATURITY SECURITIES

The amortized cost and estimated fair value of held-to-maturity securities were
as follows for the dates indicated:




(a) The Corporation's portfolio of securities generally consists of
investment-grade securities. The fair value of actively-traded securities is
determined by the secondary market, while the fair value for
non-actively-traded securities is based on independent broker quotations.
(b) Collateralized mortgage obligations of private issuers generally have
underlying collateral consisting of obligations of U.S.  Government and Federal
agencies and corporations.





B60



AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE SECURITIES

The amortized cost and estimated fair value of available-for-sale securities at
December 31, 1993 and 1992 were as follows:




(a) The Corporation's portfolio of securities generally consists of
investment-grade securities. The fair value of actively-traded securities is
determined by the secondary market, while the fair value for
non-actively-traded securities is based on independent broker quotations.
(b) Collateralized mortgage obligations of private issuers generally have
underlying collateral consisting of obligations of U.S.  Government and Federal
agencies and corporations.

         Cash proceeds from the sales of held-to-maturity securities during
1993, 1992 and 1991 were $152 million, $3,736 million, and $8,238 million,
respectively. Cash proceeds from the sale of available-for-sale securities
during 1993 and 1992 were $5,352 million and $684 million, respectively. Net
gains from available-for-sale securities sold in 1993 amounted to $139 million
(gross gains of $178 million and gross losses of $39 million). Gross gains from
held-to-maturity securities sold amounted to $3 million in 1993. Net gains from
securities sold in 1992 and 1991 were $53 million (gross gains of $140 million
and gross losses of $87 million) and $110 million (gross gains of $198 million
and gross losses of $88 million), respectively.
         The amortized cost, estimated fair value and average yield of
securities at December 31, 1993 by contractual maturity were as follows:


(a) The average yield is based on effective rates on book balances at the end
of the year. Yields are derived by dividing interest income, adjusted for
amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts, by total amortized cost.
(b) Securities with no stated maturity are included with securities with a
remaining maturity of ten years or more. Substantially all of the Corporation's
mortgage-backed securities are due in ten years or more based on contractual
maturity. The weighted-average maturity of mortgage-backed securities, which
reflects anticipated future prepayments based on a consensus of dealers in the
market, is approximately 5 years.





                                                                             B61

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE FIVE

LOANS

The composition of the loan portfolio at each of the dates indicated was as
follows:


(a) LDC denotes activity related to loans to countries engaged in debt
rescheduling.

         As discussed in Note Four, the Corporation adopted SFAS 115 effective
December 31, 1993. Certain loans that meet the accounting definition of a
security are classified as loans and are measured pursuant to SFAS 115. Bonds
that have been issued by foreign governments (such as Mexico and Venezuela) to
financial institutions, including the Corporation, as part of a debt
renegotiation are subject to the provisions of SFAS 115. Such loans are
classified as loans to foreign governments or as LDC loans.  At December 31,
1993, $3,783 million of loans, primarily renegotiated loans, were measured
under SFAS 115, including $1,962 million that are classified as
held-to-maturity and that are carried at amortized cost. Pre-tax gross
unrealized gains and gross unrealized losses related to these held-to-maturity
loans totaled $13 million and $362 million, respectively, at December 31, 1993.
Loans that were previously recorded at amortized cost and that were designated
as available-for-sale at December 31, 1993 are carried at fair value in the
amount of $1,821 million. Pre-tax gross unrealized gains and gross unrealized
losses on these loans totaled $86 million and $122 million, respectively, and
are reported net of taxes in a separate component of stockholders' equity. The
fair value of loans designated as available-for-sale was calculated after
consideration of the allowance for losses that would be available to cover
credit losses. Substantially all foreign government and LDC loans that meet the
accounting definition of a security mature in over 10 years.

RENEGOTIATED LOANS

In 1992, the Corporation exchanged $375 million of its medium- and long-term
loans to the Philippines for an equal amount of uncollateralized 151/2-year
interest rate reduction bonds with stated interest rates of 4% for years one
through two, 5% for years three through five, 6% for year six, and LIBOR plus
13/16% for each year thereafter.
         In 1991, the Corporation exchanged $135 million of its Uruguayan
medium- and long-term loans for an equal amount of 30-year interest rate
reduction bonds, which have been collateralized by zero-coupon U.S. Treasury
obligations and carry a fixed rate of 6.75%.
         In accordance with the Mexican debt restructuring agreement of 1990,
the Corporation exchanged approximately $2,527 million of Mexican medium- and
long-term loans for $663 million of 30-year principal reduction bonds, $1,515
million of 30-year interest rate reduction bonds and a $7 million contribution
of new money. Principal on the bonds is collateralized by zero-coupon U.S.
Treasury obligations. Principal reduction bonds carry a floating rate of
interest of LIBOR plus 13/16%. Interest rate reduction bonds carry a fixed rate
of 6.25%.
         In accordance with the Republic of Venezuela 1990 Financing Plan, the
Corporation exchanged approximately $605 million of Venezuelan medium- and
long-term loans for an equal amount





B62



of 30-year interest rate reduction bonds, which have been collateralized by
zero-coupon U.S. Treasury obligations and carry a fixed interest rate of 6.75%.
         In addition, under the new money option of the Venezuelan 1990
Financing Plan, the Corporation purchased $194 million of new money bonds and
then converted $968 million of existing outstandings into debt conversion
bonds. Debt conversion bonds have a 17-year maturity and bear interest at a
rate of LIBOR plus 7/8%. New money bonds have a 15-year maturity, and bear
interest at rates ranging from LIBOR plus 7/8% to LIBOR plus 1%.
         Aside from renegotiated loans to the Philippines, Uruguay, Mexico, and
Venezuela, the Corporation's remaining renegotiated loans at December 31, 1993
and 1992 were not significant.


NOTE SIX

ALLOWANCE FOR LOSSES

The table below summarizes the changes in the allowance for losses during 1993,
1992 and 1991.


(a) Includes $55 million related to the decision to accelerate the disposition
of certain nonperforming residential mortgages.
(b) Related to the First City Banks acquisition.
(c) Includes $895 million of net charge-offs and $7 million of losses on sales
and swaps related to Brazilian loans.

         During each of 1993 and 1992, the Corporation transferred $200 million
of the allowance for losses allocated to the LDC portfolio to the non-LDC
portion of the allowance. The reallocations reflect the Corporation's ongoing
analysis and evaluation of its LDC loan portfolio, including the finalization
of the Argentine financing program and progress in debt negotiations with
Brazil.  In addition, during 1993, the Corporation specifically allocated a
portion of the LDC allowance to Brazilian outstandings as a result of the
Corporation's evaluation of its refinancing country portfolio and in
consideration of recent recommendations of the Interagency Country Exposure
Review Committee. The LDC allowance allocated to Brazil was $82 million at
December 31, 1993.





                                                                             B63

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE SEVEN

NONPERFORMING ASSETS

The Corporation's nonperforming assets were as follows:



         Certain assets ("shared loss assets") acquired from First City are
subject to the loss-sharing provisions of the Purchase and Assumption
Agreements between the FDIC and Texas Commerce relating to the First City Banks
based in Houston and Dallas/Ft.  Worth. These agreements provide that, for a
period of five years following the acquisition, the FDIC will absorb 80% of
future losses arising from such shared loss assets up to $61 million from the
Houston bank and $21 million from the Dallas/Ft. Worth bank and 95% of losses
in excess of such respective amounts. Shared loss assets are certain specified
commercial and real estate loans acquired by Texas Commerce at those two banks.
At December 31, 1993, nonperforming shared loss assets were $98 million. Such
assets are not included in the amount of nonperforming assets in the table
above.
         The following table presents the amount of interest income recorded by
the Corporation on its nonaccrual and renegotiated loans (including LDC loans)
and the amount of interest income on the carrying value of such loans that
would have been recorded if these loans had been current in accordance with
their original terms (interest at original rates).

IMPACT OF NONPERFORMING LOANS ON INTEREST INCOME




NOTE EIGHT

SHORT-TERM AND OTHER BORROWINGS


(a) Average balances were computed using daily balances.

Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements are
generally issued on an overnight or demand basis.  Commercial paper is
generally issued in amounts not less than $100,000 and with maturities of 270
days or less. Other borrowings consist of demand notes and various other
borrowings in domestic and foreign offices that generally have maturities of
less than one year.
         At December 31, 1993, the Corporation had unused lines of credit
available for general corporate purposes, including the payment of commercial
paper borrowings, amounting to $750 million.





B64



NOTE NINE


(a) Includes subordinated notes in aggregate principal amounts of $3.8 billion
and $3.1 billion at December 31, 1993 and 1992, respectively.

         The accompanying table is a summary of long-term debt (net of
unamortized original issue debt discount, where applicable) displayed by
remaining maturity at December 31, 1993. The distribution by remaining maturity
is based on contractual maturity or the earliest date on which the debt is
redeemable at the option of the holder.
         Fixed-rate debt outstanding at December 31, 1993 matures at various
dates through 2008 at interest rates ranging from 3.26% to 11.83%. The
consolidated weighted-average interest rates on fixed-rate debt at December 31,
1993 and 1992 were 8.03% and 8.70%, respectively. Variable-rate debt
outstanding, with interest rates ranging from 3.32% to 6.67% at December 31,
1993, matures at various dates through 2011. The consolidated weighted-average
interest rates on variable-rate debt at December 31, 1993 and 1992 were 3.94%
and 4.60%, respectively.
         Included in long-term debt are equity commitment notes and equity
contract notes totalling $923 million and $1,826 million at December 31, 1993
and 1992, respectively.
         Equity commitment notes require that the Corporation issue, prior to
their maturity, shares of common stock or perpetual preferred stock or other
securities of the Corporation (collectively, "Capital Securities") approved by
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the "Federal Reserve
Board") equal to 100% of the original aggregate principal amount of the notes.
         Equity contract notes require the Corporation to exchange the notes at
maturity for Capital Securities with a market value equal to the principal
amount of the notes or, at the Corporation's option, to pay the principal of
the notes from amounts representing designated proceeds from the sale of
Capital Securities.
         At December 31, 1993, the Corporation had designated proceeds from the
sale of Capital Securities in an amount sufficient to satisfy fully the
dedication requirements of its equity commitment and equity contract notes.
         The Corporation has guaranteed several long-term debt issues of its
subsidiaries. Such guaranteed debt totaled $300 million and $291 million at
December 31, 1993 and 1992, respectively.
         At December 31, 1993, long-term debt aggregating $640 million was
redeemable at the option of the Corporation, in whole or in part, prior to
maturity, based on the terms specified in the respective notes.
         The Corporation's aggregate amounts of maturities and sinking fund
requirements for the five years subsequent to December 31, 1993 are $1,664
million in 1994, $1,167 million in 1995, $701 million in 1996, $679 million in
1997 and $605 million in 1998.


NOTE TEN

PREFERRED STOCK

At December 31, 1993, the Corporation was authorized to issue 200 million
shares of preferred stock, in one or more series, with a par value of $1 per
share. During 1993, the Corporation redeemed all 3.87 million outstanding
shares of its Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E, at a
redemption price of $51.50 per share plus accrued but unpaid dividends; all
four million outstanding shares of its Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred
Stock, Series F, at a redemption price of $50.00 per share plus accrued but
unpaid dividends; and all two million outstanding shares of its 103/4%
Cumulative Preferred Stock, at a redemption price of $105.375 per share plus
accrued but unpaid dividends. Two issues of preferred stock totaling $400
million were issued during 1993. At December 31, 1993, four million shares of
preferred stock designated as Junior Participating Preferred Stock were
reserved for issuance under the Corporation's Shareholders' Rights Plan (see
Note Twentythree).
         During 1992, the Corporation redeemed all 3.83 million outstanding
shares of its Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred





                                                                             B65

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



Stock, Series A, all 2 million outstandings shares of its Adjustable Rate
Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series B, and also retired all 170,000 shares of
preferred stock that were held in treasury.
         The following is a summary of the Corporation's preferred stocks
outstanding at December 31, 1993:


(a) Shares may be redeemed (at option of the Corporation) in whole or in part
through May 1, 1997 at $12.36 per share and at $12.00 per share thereafter.
(b) Shares may be redeemed (at option of the Corporation) in whole or in part
on or after June 30, 2000 at $25.00 per share.
(c) Shares may be redeemed (at option of the Corporation) from May 1, 1995 at
$53.00 per share, and at decreasing prices thereafter declining to $50.00 per
share on May 1, 2001 and thereafter. The shares are convertible at any time at
the option of the holder into shares of common stock at a conversion price
equal to $26.20, subject to adjustments as set forth in the terms of the
preferred stock.
(d) Shares were issued in 1992 and may be redeemed (at the option of the
Corporation) from June 1, 1997 at $25.00 per share.
(e) Shares were issued in 1992 and may be redeemed (at the option of the
Corporation) from October 1, 1997 at $100 per share. Such shares are
represented by 8,000,000 depositary shares, each representing .25 of a share.
(f) Shares were issued in 1993 and may be redeemed (at the option of the
Corporation) from April 1, 1998 at $100 per share. Such shares are represented
by 8,000,000 depositary shares, each representing .25 of a share.
(g) Shares were issued in 1993 and may be redeemed (at the option of the
Corporation) from June 1, 1998 at $100 per share. Such shares are represented
by 8,000,000 depositary shares, each representing .25 of a share.

         The dividend rate on the Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock,
Series C, is adjusted quarterly based on a formula that considers the interest
rates of selected short- and long-term U.S. Treasury securities prevailing at
the time the rate is set.  All the preferred stocks outstanding have preference
over the Corporation's common stock with respect to the payment of dividends
and the distribution of assets in the event of a liquidation or dissolution of
the Corporation.


NOTE ELEVEN

COMMON STOCK

At December 31, 1993, the Corporation was authorized to issue 400 million
shares of common stock, $1 par value per share. At December 31, the number of
shares of common stock issued and outstanding were as follows:



         As of December 31, 1993, approximately 18,472,629 shares of common
stock were reserved for issuance under various employee incentive and stock
purchase plans and under the Corporation's Dividend Reinvestment Plan. In
addition, as of such date, the Corporation had reserved 7,700,000 shares of
common stock for issuance upon the conversion of its 10% Convertible Preferred
Stock.
         Under the Corporation's Dividend Reinvestment Plan, stockholders may
reinvest all or part of their quarterly dividends in shares of common stock.
         Common stock issued during 1993, 1992 and 1991 was as follows:







B66



NOTE TWELVE

FEES FOR OTHER BANKING SERVICES AND OTHER REVENUE

Details of fees for other banking services were as follows:



         In 1992, the Corporation reclassified the amortization of purchased
mortgage servicing rights from other expenses to fees for other banking
services. Such amounts are recorded as reductions to mortgage servicing fees.
Prior period amounts have been restated to conform with the 1992 presentation.

Other Revenue: Included in other revenue was venture capital income of $301
million in 1993, compared with $100 million in 1992 and $66 million in 1991.
Also included in other revenue in 1993 were $179 million of gains related to
the sale of Argentine past-due interest bonds and $152 million related to the
sale of Brazilian interest-due-and-unpaid bonds.


NOTE THIRTEEN

POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS

Pension Plans: The Corporation amended its noncontributory pension plan as of
January 1, 1993 (the "noncontributory plan"). It covers substantially all
domestic employees and provides for defined benefits pursuant to a cash balance
feature and a final-average-pay feature. Contributions will be made to the
noncontributory plan within the range of levels permitted under applicable law.
Through December 31, 1992, employees of the Corporation and the former MHC had
separate noncontributory pension plans that covered substantially all domestic
employees who satisfied minimum age and length-of-service requirements (the
"prior domestic plans"). Both prior domestic plans provided a defined benefit
that was determined based on years of service and either annual compensation
during employment or a percentage of qualifying compensation during final years
of employment. Certain benefits accrued under such prior domestic plans are
added to benefits accrued after January 1, 1993 under the noncontributory plan.
         The Corporation also maintains a number of pension plans in foreign
jurisdictions covering the employees of certain foreign operations. A new
defined contribution plan was adopted in 1992 for United Kingdom employees.
Contributions are made to the foreign plans in accordance with local plan and
legal requirements.
         The accompanying tables present the aggregate funded status and the
net asset amounts recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheet and the
components of net pension expense recognized in the Consolidated Statement of
Income for those plans in effect at the respective dates that had assets in
excess of benefit obligations. At December 31, 1993, the assumptions used to
determine the actuarial present value of the benefit obligation included: a
7.5% discount rate and a 5% annual rate of increase in future compensation. For
1993 expense, an 8.75% discount rate, a 6% annual rate of increase in future
compensation and a 9.5% annual long-term rate of return on plan assets were
assumed. The 1992 and 1991 amounts in the accompanying tables reflect the
following weighted-average assumptions: discount rates of 8.75% in 1992 and
8.5% to 9.5% in 1991; annual rates of increase in future compensation of 6% in
both 1992 and 1991; and annual long-term rates of return on plan assets of 9.5%
in 1992, and 9% to 10% in 1991.



         In 1993, the changes in the benefits design in connection with the
noncontributory pension plan resulted in significantly higher net periodic
pension expense. The increase in the unrecognized net loss at December 31, 1993
resulted primarily from the change in assumptions. Amortization of the loss in
excess of a 10% corridor will result in an increase in expense in 1994 and
subsequent years. In addition, the assumed annual long-term rate of return on
plan assets will be lowered to 8.5% in 1994.





                                                                             B67

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



         In 1992, the Corporation recognized a one-time, pre-tax charge of $41
million relating to costs incurred in combining the Corporation's employee
benefit plans. The $41 million included: $17 million of special-window
termination benefits, net of settlement and curtailment gains, that related to
the prior domestic plans; and a $24 million cost for restructuring plans
covering United Kingdom employees.



         The Corporation also has several defined benefit plans that it has
elected not to prefund fully based on plan and legal requirements. At each of
December 31, 1993 and 1992, the Corporation's accrued liability related to
those plans totaled $43 million and $37 million, respectively, and expense was
$8 million in both 1993 and 1992.

Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions: The Corporation provides
postretirement health care and life insurance benefits to substantially all
domestic employees hired prior to April 15, 1992 who meet certain age and
length-of-service requirements at retirement. The amount of benefits provided
varies with length of service and date of hire. The Corporation has not
prefunded these benefits.
         Effective January 1, 1993, the Corporation adopted SFAS No. 106,
"Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions" ("SFAS
106"). SFAS 106 requires recognition, during the years of the employees' active
service, of the employer's expected cost and obligation of providing
postretirement health care and other postretirement benefits other than
pensions to employees and eligible dependents.
         The Corporation elected to expense the entire unrecognized accumulated
obligation as of the date of adoption of SFAS 106 via a one-time pre-tax charge
of $415 million. During 1993, the Corporation accrued $38 million of periodic
expense, which was comprised of $35 million of interest and $3 million related
to the cost of benefits earned during the year. Of the $38 million, $31 million
related to current retirees. Through December 31, 1992, the Corporation
recognized the costs of providing postretirement benefits on a cash basis. In
1992, the Corporation recognized cash-basis costs of $22 million.
         At December 31, 1993, the Corporation's accumulated benefit obligation
totaled $481 million, of which $419 million related to current retirees, with
the remainder attributable to active employees. After consideration of an
unrecognized net loss of $68 million, the accrued obligation included in
accounts payable and accrued expenses on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at
December 31, 1993 totaled $413 million. The unrecognized net loss in excess of
a 10% corridor will be amortized commencing in 1994; however, the increase in
expense resulting from such amortization will be offset by lower interest cost.
As of December 31, 1993, a 7.5% discount rate was used to determine the
actuarial present value of the benefit obligation. A 9% rate was used to
compute the 1993 interest expense. The assumed medical benefits cost trend rate
was 15% for 1993, declining by 1% per year to a floor of 6%. The effect of a 1%
increase in the assumed medical-benefits cost trend rate would be to increase
the December 31, 1993 accumulated obligation and related periodic expense by
approximately 10%.


NOTE FOURTEEN

EMPLOYEE STOCK INCENTIVE PLANS

In 1992, the Corporation adopted a new, consolidated stock incentive plan (the
"current plan"). The current plan provides for stock-based awards, including
stock options and restricted stock. The former plans of the Corporation and MHC
generally provided for similar types of awards. The following discussion
applies to outstanding awards issued under all of the Corporation's current and
former employee stock incentive plans (the "plans").
         At each of December 31, 1993 and 1992, 223,365 and 587,653 shares,
respectively, of the Corporation's common stock were reserved for issuance and
available for future awards under the current plan.
         Stock options are issued at prices at least equal to the market value
of the Corporation's common stock on the grant date.  Under generally accepted
accounting principles, no expense is currently required to be recognized in
conjunction with options granted or exercised; amounts received upon the
exercise of options are recorded as common stock and capital surplus. Options
generally expire ten years after the grant date. Options cannot be exercised
until one year after the grant date and generally become exercisable over
various periods as determined in the grant. At December 31, 1993, stock options
covering 4,616,083 shares of the Corporation's common stock were exercisable
under the plans.





B68



         Restricted stock is issued and valued as of the grant date, and the
value is amortized to compensation expense over the restriction period. During
1993 and 1992, 48,500 and 28,500 shares, respectively, of restricted stock were
issued under the current plan.
         The following table presents a summary of the aggregate options
transactions which occurred under all of the Corporation's plans during 1993
and 1992.




NOTE FIFTEEN

RESTRUCTURING CHARGES AND OTHER EXPENSE

In 1993, the Corporation completed an assessment of costs associated with the
merger of the Corporation and MHC and, as a result, included in noninterest
expense a charge of $115 million. The charge is related principally to changes
in the Corporation's facilities plans since the merger announcement and revised
estimates of occupancy-related costs associated with headquarters and branch
consolidations. At December 31, 1993, the merger reserve balance was
approximately $80 million.
         The Corporation's Texas Commerce subsidiary incurred a restructuring
charge of $43 million in 1993 in connection with the acquisition of assets and
assumption of liabilities of the First City Banks from the FDIC. The
restructuring charge is being utilized for expenses associated with cost-saving
actions arising from the acquisition. These actions include the consolidation
of operations and the elimination of redundant expenses.
         In 1991, in connection with the merger with MHC, the Corporation
incurred a pre-tax restructuring charge of $625 million, principally for
expenses associated with staff reductions and office consolidations.

Other Expense: Included in other expense were FDIC assessments of $175 million
in 1993, compared with $159 million in 1992 and $143 million in 1991.
Professional services expense in 1993 was $193 million compared with $196
million in 1992 and $213 million in 1991, and marketing expense in 1993 was
$187 million compared with $111 million in 1992 and $100 million in 1991.


NOTE SIXTEEN

INCOME TAXES

The Corporation adopted SFAS 109 as of January 1, 1993 and, after taking into
account the additional tax benefits associated with the adoption of SFAS 106
(see Note Thirteen), the Corporation recognized a favorable cumulative effect
on income tax expense of $450 million (or $1.81 per common share). Prior-years'
financial statements have not been restated to apply the provisions of SFAS
109.
         Prior to 1993, the Corporation followed Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 96, "Accounting for Income Taxes" ("SFAS 96"). The
primary difference between SFAS 109 and SFAS 96 is that SFAS 96 precluded the
recognition of deferred tax assets the realization of which was dependent on
taxable earnings of future years. SFAS 109 requires recognition of such
deferred tax assets except where, in management's judgement, the realization of
such tax benefits appears unlikely.
         The cumulative effect adjustment upon adoption of SFAS 109 was less
than the unrecognized benefits available at December 31, 1992 because of the
timing of anticipated future income, tax law limitations on the utilization of
tax-attribute carryovers, and the recognition of losses at the two predecessor
institutions in recent years.
         A valuation reserve was established as of January 1, 1993, in
accordance with the requirements of SFAS 109, for tax benefits available to the
Corporation but for which realization was in doubt. The Corporation's valuation
reserve for Federal taxes of $452 million upon adoption of SFAS 109, as
restated for the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 ("OBRA"), was
reevaluated and reduced by $331 million during 1993 due to the strength of the
Corporation's earnings. The remaining Federal valuation reserve of $121 million
relates to tax benefits





                                                                             B69

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



which are subject to tax law limitations on realization. At this time, the 
Corporation believes that realization of these benefits is sufficiently in
doubt to preclude recognition in accordance with the criteria of SFAS 109.
         Additionally, a valuation reserve approximating $148 million was
established as of January 1, 1993 against all New York State and City deferred
tax assets. Because of the lack of any loss carryover provision under New York
statutes, the Corporation is uncertain at this time whether these tax benefits
can be realized. The Corporation has recorded deferred New York State and City
tax liabilities of approximately $202 million, after valuation reserve, as of
December 31, 1993. Foreign deferred taxes are not material.
         On August 10, 1993, President Clinton signed OBRA, which increased the
corporate Federal tax rate from 34% to 35% retroactive to January 1, 1993. The
impact on current and deferred tax assets and liabilities resulted in a
decrease in the Corporation's tax expense of approximately $8 million.
         Deferred income tax expense (benefit) results from differences between
amounts of assets and liabilities as measured for income tax return and
financial reporting purposes. The significant components of Federal deferred
tax assets and liabilities as of December 31, 1993 are reflected in the
following table.



         The components of income tax expense included in the Consolidated
Statement of Income were as follows:



         Not reflected in the accompanying table are the tax effects of foreign
currency translation adjustments related to the hedging of foreign net
investments. Because the functional currency used in the hedging of foreign
investments is not the U.S.  dollar, the tax effects are recorded directly in
stockholders' equity and are not included in consolidated income. These tax
effects amounted to a decrease of $2 million in 1993 and $4 million in 1992 and
an increase of $4 million in 1991. Additionally, the tax effects of SFAS 115 on
unrealized gains and losses, with respect to available-for-sale securities, are
recorded directly in stockholders' equity and in 1993 amounted to a decrease of
$145 million.
         The tax expense applicable to securities gains and losses for the
years 1993, 1992 and 1991 was $62 million, $17 million and $31 million,
respectively.
         A reconciliation of the income tax expense computed at the applicable
statutory U.S. income tax rate to the actual income tax expense for the past
three years is shown in the following table.







B70



         The following table presents the domestic and foreign components of
income before income taxes for the past three years.


(a) For purposes of this disclosure, foreign income is defined by Securities
and Exchange Commission regulations as income generated from operations located
outside the United States.


NOTE SEVENTEEN

RESTRICTIONS ON CASH AND INTERCOMPANY FUNDS TRANSFERS

Federal Reserve Board regulations require depository institutions to maintain
cash reserves with a Federal Reserve Bank. The average amount of reserve
balances deposited by the Corporation with various Federal Reserve Banks was $1
billion during both 1993 and 1992.
         Restrictions imposed by Federal law prohibit the Corporation and
certain other affiliates from borrowing from banking subsidiaries unless the
loans are secured in specified amounts. Such secured loans to the Corporation
or to each of certain other affiliates generally are limited to 10% of the
banking subsidiary's capital and surplus; the aggregate amount of all such
loans is limited to 20% of the banking subsidiary's capital and surplus.
         The principal sources of the Corporation's income are dividends and
interest from Chemical Bank and the other banking and non-banking subsidiaries
of the Corporation. Federal law imposes limitations on the payment of dividends
by the subsidiaries of the Corporation that are state member banks of the
Federal Reserve System (a "state member bank") or are national banks. Under
such limitations, dividend payments by such banks are limited to the lesser of
(i) the amount of "undivided profits then on hand" (as defined) less the amount
of "bad debts" (as defined) in excess of the allowance for losses and (ii)
absent regulatory approval, an amount not in excess of "net profits" (as
defined) for the current year plus "retained net profits" (as defined) for the
preceding two years. Non-bank subsidiaries of the Corporation are not subject
to such limitations.
         At December 31, 1993, in accordance with the foregoing restrictions,
the Corporation's bank subsidiaries could, without the approval of their
relevant banking regulators, pay dividends of approximately $1.7 billion to
their respective bank holding companies, plus an additional amount equal to
their net profits from January 1, 1994 through the date of any such dividend
payment.
         In addition to dividend restrictions, the Federal Reserve Board, the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the FDIC have authority under the
Financial Institutions Supervisory Act to prohibit or to limit the payment of
dividends by the banking organizations they supervise, including the
Corporation and its subsidiaries that are banks or bank holding companies, if,
in the banking regulator's opinion, payment of a dividend would constitute an
unsafe or unsound practice in light of the financial condition of the banking
organization.


NOTE EIGHTEEN

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS WITH OFF-BALANCE SHEET RISK

Derivatives and Foreign Exchange Products: In the normal course of its
business, the Corporation utilizes various financial instruments to meet the
financing needs of its customers, to generate revenues through its trading
activities, and to manage its exposure to fluctuations in interest and currency
rates. Derivatives and foreign exchange transactions involve, to varying
degrees, credit risk and market risk. Credit risk is the possibility that a
loss may occur because a party to a transaction fails to perform according to
the terms of the contract. Market risk is the possibility that a change in
interest or currency rates will cause the value of a financial instrument to
decrease or become more costly to settle.
         The Corporation controls the credit risk arising from derivative and
foreign exchange transactions by using the same credit procedures when entering
into such transactions as it does for traditional lending products. The credit
approval process involves first evaluating each counterparty's
creditworthiness, then assessing the applicability of derivative instruments to
the risks the counterparty is attempting to manage and determining if there are
specific transaction characteristics which alter the risk profile.  If
collateral is deemed necessary to reduce credit risk, the amount and nature of
the collateral obtained is based





                                                                             B71

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



on management's credit evaluation of the customer. Collateral held varies but
may include cash, investment securities, accounts receivable, inventory,
property, plant and equipment, and real estate.
         The market risk associated with derivatives and foreign exchange
products, the prices of which are constantly fluctuating, is regulated by
imposing strict limits as to the types, amounts and degree of risk that traders
may undertake. These limits are approved by senior management, and the risk
positions of traders are reviewed on a daily basis to monitor compliance with
the limits.
         The notional principal of derivatives and foreign exchange products is
the amount upon which interest and other payments in a transaction are based.
For derivative transactions, the notional principal typically does not change
hands; it is simply a quantity that is used to calculate payments. While
notional principal is the most commonly used volume measure in the derivatives
and foreign exchange markets, it is not a measure of credit exposure. The
Corporation believes that the true measure of credit exposure is the
replacement cost (the cost to replace the contract at current market rates
should the counterparty default prior to the settlement date). This is also
referred to as the mark-to-market exposure amount.
         Overall counterparty credit risk assumed by the Corporation is
substantially reduced through master netting agreements. The Corporation enters
into master netting agreements which permit the Corporation to offset the
mark-to-market exposure for derivative or foreign exchange contracts with the
same counterparty. During 1993, the Corporation began to expand the number of
master netting agreements for all of its instruments executed with its
counterparties.
         Credit exposure not recorded on the consolidated balance sheet at each
of  December 31, 1993 and 1992 is summarized in the following table. The amount
of mark-to-market exposure presented for 1993 takes into account the effects of
master netting agreements in effect at December 31, 1993.



         The Corporation's actual credit losses arising from such transactions
have been immaterial during 1993, 1992 and 1991.
         The following table summarizes the aggregate notional amounts of
interest rates and foreign exchange contracts as of December 31, 1993 and 1992.
The table should be read in conjunction with the preceding narrative as well as
the descriptions of these products and their risks immediately following.


(a) ALM: Asset/Liability Management.





B72



         The Corporation deals in interest-rate and foreign exchange contracts
to generate fee income and trading revenues and also utilizes interest rate
contracts to manage its own asset/liability risk.
         Interest rate swaps are contracts in which a series of interest rate
flows in a single currency are exchanged over a prescribed period. The notional
amount on which the interest payments are based is not exchanged. Most interest
rate swaps involve the exchange of fixed and floating interest payments.
Cross-currency interest rate swaps are contracts that involve the exchange of
both interest and principal amounts in two different currencies. The risks
inherent in interest rate and cross currency swap contracts are the potential
inability of a counterparty to meet the terms of each contract and the risk
associated with changes in the market values of the underlying interest rates.
To reduce its exposure to market risk, the Corporation may enter into
offsetting positions.
         Interest rate options, which include caps and floors, are contracts
which transfer, modify, or reduce interest rate risk in exchange for the
payment of a premium when the contract is initiated. As a writer of interest
rate caps, floors, and other options, the Corporation receives a premium in
exchange for bearing the risk of unfavorable changes in interest rates. Foreign
currency options are similar to interest rate option contracts, except that
they are based on currencies instead of interest rates. To reduce its exposure
to market risk related to writing or purchasing options the Corporation may
enter into offsetting positions.
         Forward rate agreements are contracts to exchange payments on a
certain future date, based on a market change in interest rates from trade date
to contract maturity date. The maturity of these agreements is typically less
than two years. To reduce its exposure to market risk, the Corporation may
enter into offsetting positions.
         Foreign exchange contracts are contracts for the future receipt or
delivery of foreign currency at previously agreed upon terms. The risks
inherent in these contracts are the potential inability of a counterparty to
meet the terms of each contract and the risk associated with changes in the
market values of the underlying currencies. To reduce its exposure to market
risk, the Corporation may enter into offsetting positions.
         Futures and forwards are contracts for the delayed delivery of
securities or money market instruments in which the seller agrees to deliver on
a specified future date, a specified instrument, at a specified price or yield.
The credit risk inherent in futures is the risk that the exchange may default.
Futures contracts settle in cash daily and, therefore, there is minimal credit
risk to the Corporation. The credit risk inherent in forwards arises from the
potential inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts.
Both futures and forwards are also subject to the risk of movements in interest
rates or the value of the underlying securities or instruments.
         The Corporation enters into other contracts such as stock index option
contracts and commodity contracts. Stock index option contracts are contracts
to pay or receive cash flows from counterparties based upon the increase or
decrease in the underlying index. Commodity contracts include swaps, caps and
floors and are similar to interest rate contracts, except that they are based
on commodity indices instead of interest rates.
         The Corporation also enters into transactions involving "when-issued
securities". When-issued securities are commitments to purchase or sell
securities authorized for issuance, but not yet actually issued. Accordingly,
they are not recorded on the balance sheet until issued. At December 31, 1993
and 1992, commitments to purchase were $2,194 million and $2,799 million,
respectively, and commitments to sell were $1,790 million and $3,158 million,
respectively.

Credit-related financial instruments: In meeting the financing needs of its
customers, the Corporation issues commitments to extend credit, standby and
other letters of credit and guarantees, and also provides securities lending
services. For these instruments, the contractual amount of the financial
instrument represents the maximum potential credit risk if the counterparty
does not perform according to the terms of the contract. A large majority of
these commitments expire without being drawn upon. As a result, total
contractual amounts do not represent future credit exposure or liquidity
requirements.
         The following table summarizes the Corporation's maximum credit risk,
which is represented by contract amounts relating to these financial
instruments at December 31, 1993 and 1992.


(a) Excludes credit card commitments of $18 billion and $13 billion at December
31, 1993 and 1992, respectively.

         Unfunded commitments to extend credit are agreements to lend to a
customer who has complied with predetermined contractual conditions.
Commitments generally have fixed expiration dates.
         Standby letters of credit and guarantees are conditional commitments
issued by the Corporation generally to guarantee the performance of a customer
to a third party in borrowing arrangements, such as commercial paper, bond
financing, construction and similar transactions. The credit risk involved in
issuing standby letters of credit is essentially the same as that involved in
extending loan facilities to customers and may be reduced by participations to
third parties. The Corporation holds collateral to support those standby
letters of credit and guarantees written for which collateral is deemed
necessary. At December 31, 1993, 94% of the Corporation's standby letters of
credit and guarantees written expire in less than five years.





                                                                             B73

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



         Customers' securities lent are customers' securities held by the
Corporation which are lent to third parties. The Corporation obtains
collateral, with a market value exceeding 100% of the contract amount, for all
such customers' securities lent, which is used to indemnify customers against
possible losses resulting from third-party defaults.

CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT RISK

Concentrations of credit risk arise when a number of customers are engaged in
similar business activities, or activities in the same geographic region, or
have similar economic features that would cause their ability to meet
contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic
conditions.
         Concentrations of credit risk indicate the relative sensitivity of the
Corporation's performance to both positive and negative developments affecting
a particular industry. Based on the nature of the banking business, management
does not believe that any of these concentrations are unusual.
         The accompanying table presents the Corporation's significant
concentrations of credit risk for all financial instruments.  The Corporation
has procedures to monitor counterparty credit risk and to obtain collateral
when deemed necessary. Accordingly, management believes that the total credit
exposure shown below is not representative of the potential risk of loss
inherent in the portfolio.



         Geographic concentrations are a factor most directly affecting the
credit risk of the real estate and LDC segments of the Corporation's loan
portfolio. The Corporation's real estate portfolio is primarily concentrated in
the New York Metropolitan area and in Texas. Its LDC portfolio is concentrated
in Latin America.


NOTE NINETEEN

FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 107, "Disclosures About Fair
Value of Financial Instruments" ("SFAS 107"), requires the Corporation to
disclose fair value information about financial instruments for which it is
practicable to estimate the value, whether or not such financial instruments
are recognized on the balance sheet. Fair value is the amount at which a
financial instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between
willing parties, other than in a forced sale or liquidation, and is best
evidenced by a quoted market price if one exists.
         Quoted market prices are not available for a significant portion of
the Corporation's financial instruments. As a result, the fair values presented
are estimates derived using present value or other valuation techniques and may
not be indicative of the net realizable or liquidation value. In addition, the
calculation of estimated fair value is based on market conditions at a specific
point in time and may not be reflective of current or future fair values.
         Certain financial instruments and all nonfinancial instruments are
excluded from the scope of SFAS 107. Accordingly, the fair value disclosures
required by SFAS 107 provide only a partial estimate of the fair value of the
Corporation; for example, the values associated with the various ongoing
businesses which the Corporation operates are excluded. The Corporation has
estimated the value related to the long-term relationships with its customers
through its deposit base and its credit card accounts, commonly referred to as
core deposit intangibles and credit card relationships, respectively, as well
as the value of its portfolio of mortgage servicing rights and its owned and
leased premises. In the aggregate, these items add significant value to the
Corporation but their fair value is not disclosed in this Note.
         The following summary presents the methodologies and assumptions used
to estimate the fair value of the Corporation's financial instruments required
to be valued pursuant to SFAS 107.





B74



FINANCIAL ASSETS

Assets for Which Fair Value Approximates Book Value: The fair value of certain
financial assets carried at cost, including cash and due from banks, deposits
with banks, federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale
agreements, due from customers on acceptances, short-term receivables and
accrued interest receivable is considered to approximate their respective book
values due to their short-term nature and negligible credit losses. In
addition, the Corporation carries trading account assets and derivatives used
in trading activities at fair value. See Note One for a description of these
financial instruments.

Securities: Securities held-to-maturity are carried at amortized cost at each
of December 31, 1993 and 1992. Securities available-for-sale and interest rate
contracts used in connection with such portfolio are carried at fair value at
December 31, 1993. Such securities were carried at lower of aggregate amortized
cost or market value at December 31, 1992. The valuation methodologies for
securities are discussed in Note Four.

Loans: The fair value of the Corporation's non-LDC commercial loan portfolio
was estimated by assessing the two main risk components of the portfolio:
credit and interest. The estimated cash flows were adjusted to reflect the
inherent credit risk and then discounted, using rates appropriate for each
maturity that incorporate the effects of interest rate changes. Generally, LDC
loans were valued based on secondary market prices.
         For consumer installment loans and residential mortgages, for which
market rates for comparable loans are readily available, the fair value was
estimated by discounting cash flows, adjusted for prepayments. The discount
rates used for consumer installment loans were current rates offered by
commercial banks and thrifts; for residential mortgages, secondary market
yields for comparable mortgage-backed securities, adjusted for risk were used.
The fair value of credit card receivables was estimated by discounting expected
net cash flows. The discount rate used incorporated the effects of interest
rate changes only, since the estimated cash flows were adjusted for credit
risk.
         The estimated fair value of net loans increased from 100% of carrying
value at December 31, 1992 to 104% of carrying value at December 31, 1993
primarily due to the positive effect of a $2.2 billion reduction in
nonperforming loans during 1993.

Other: Included in other assets are equity investments, venture capital
investments and securities acquired as loan satisfactions.  The fair value of
these investments was determined on an individual basis. The valuation
methodologies included market values of publicly-traded securities, independent
appraisals, and cash flow analyses.

FINANCIAL LIABILITIES

Liabilities for Which Fair Value Approximates Book Value: SFAS 107 requires
that the fair value disclosed for deposit liabilities with no stated maturity
(i.e., demand, savings and certain money market deposits) be equal to the
carrying value. SFAS 107 does not allow for the recognition of the inherent
funding value of these instruments.
         The fair value of foreign deposits, federal funds purchased and
securities sold under repurchase agreements, other borrowed funds, acceptances
outstanding, short-term payables and accounts payable and accrued liabilities
are considered to approximate their respective book values due to their
short-term nature.

Domestic Time Deposits: The fair value of time deposits was estimated by
discounting cash flows based on contractual maturities at the average interest
rates offered by commercial banks and thrifts.

Long-Term Debt: The valuation of long-term debt takes into account several
factors, including current market interest rates and the Corporation's credit
rating. Quotes were gathered from various investment banking firms for
indicative yields for the Corporation's securities over a range of maturities.

Derivatives Used for Asset/Liability Management: The Corporation employs
off-balance sheet financial instruments to manage its asset/liability exposure
to fluctuations in interest rates. These instruments are mostly used to manage
overall exposure as opposed to hedging specific on-balance sheet items. The
estimated fair value and carrying value of these instruments at December 31,
1993 was $725 million and $300 million, respectively. The estimated fair value
and carrying value of these instruments at December 31, 1992 was $756 million
and $246 million, respectively. Interest rate contracts were valued at the net
present value of expected cash flows based upon prevailing market rates.

Unused Commitments and Letters of Credit: The Corporation has reviewed the
unfunded portion of commitments to extend credit as well as standby and other
letters of credit, and has determined that the fair value of such financial
instruments is not material.
         The following table presents the financial assets and liabilities
required to be valued for SFAS 107.





                                                                             B75

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS




(a) Estimated fair value in 1993 includes a decrease of approximately $2
million representing estimated fair value amounts of interest rate contracts,
used in connection with available-for-sale securities.
(b) Estimated fair value in 1993 includes an increase of approximately $2 
million representing estimated fair value amounts of interest rate contracts, 
used in connection with mortgages held-for-sale.
(c) Estimated fair value in 1993 includes an increase of approximately $7 
million representing estimated fair value amounts of interest rate contracts, 
used in connection with long-term debt.


NOTE TWENTY

COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

At December 31, 1993, the Corporation and its subsidiaries were obligated under
a number of noncancelable operating leases for premises and equipment used
primarily for banking purposes. Certain leases contain rent escalation clauses
for real estate taxes and other operating expenses and renewal option clauses
calling for increased rents. No lease agreement imposes any restrictions on the
Corporation affecting its ability to pay dividends, engage in debt or equity
financing transactions or to enter into further lease agreements. Future
minimum rental payments required under operating leases with initial or
remaining noncancelable lease terms in excess of one year as of December 31,
1993 were as follows:



         Total rental expense in 1993, 1992 and 1991 was as follows:



         At December 31, 1993 and 1992, assets amounting to $18 billion and $26
billion, respectively, were pledged to secure public deposits and for other
purposes. The significant components of the $18 billion of assets pledged at
December 31, 1993 to secure public deposits and for other purposes were as
follows: $4 billion were securities, $8 billion were loans, and the remaining
$6 billion were primarily trading account assets. These amounts compare with
$11 billion of securities, $8 billion of loans and $7 billion of trading
account assets pledged at December 31, 1992.
         The Corporation and its subsidiaries are defendants in a number of
legal proceedings. After reviewing with counsel all such actions and
proceedings pending against or involving the Corporation and its subsidiaries,
management does not expect the aggregate liability or loss, if any, resulting
therefrom to have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial
condition of the Corporation.





B76



NOTE TWENTYONE

INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS

The accompanying table presents total assets and income statement information
for 1993, 1992 and 1991 pertaining to international and domestic operations of
the Corporation by major geographic areas, based on the domicile of the
customer. The Corporation defines international activities as business
transactions that involve customers residing outside of the United States.
However, a definitive separation of the Corporation's domestic and foreign
businesses cannot be performed because many of the Corporation's domestic
operations service international business.
         As these operations are highly integrated, estimates and subjective
assumptions have been made to apportion revenue and expenses between domestic
and international operations. Estimates of the following are allocated on a
management accounting basis: stockholders' equity, interest costs charged to
users of funds, and overhead, administrative and other expenses incurred by one
area on behalf of another. The provision for losses is allocated based on
actual net charge-offs and changes in outstandings.
         Although the Corporation considers the balance in the non-LDC
allowance for losses to be available for both domestic and foreign losses, a
portion of the allowance is allocated, based on a methodology consistent with
the allocation of the provision for losses, to international operations.

(a) No geographic region included in other international amounts to more than
10% of the total for the Corporation.


NOTE TWENTYTWO

PARENT COMPANY

Condensed financial information of Chemical Banking Corporation, the Parent
Company, is presented on the next page.
         For purposes of preparing the Statement of Cash Flows, cash and cash
equivalents are those amounts included in the balance sheet caption cash with
banks.





                                                                             B77

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS




(a) At December 31, 1993, aggregate annual maturities and sinking fund
requirements for all issues for the years 1994 through 1998 were $937 million,
$844 million, $679 million, $472 million, and $596 million, respectively.










B78



NOTE TWENTYTHREE

SHAREHOLDERS' RIGHTS PLAN

The Corporation has in place a Shareholders' Rights Plan. The Shareholders'
Rights Plan contains provisions intended to protect stockholders in the event
of unsolicited offers or attempts to acquire the Corporation, including offers
that do not treat all stockholders equally, acquisitions in the open market of
shares constituting control without offering fair value to all stockholders,
and other coercive or unfair takeover tactics that could impair the Board of
Directors' ability to represent stockholders' interests fully. The
Shareholders' Rights Plan provides that attached to each share of common stock
is one right (a "Right") to purchase a unit consisting of one one-hundredth of
a share (a "Unit") of Junior Participating Preferred Stock for an exercise
price of $150 per unit, subject to adjustment.
         The Rights have certain anti-takeover effects. The Rights may cause
substantial dilution to a person that attempts to acquire the Corporation
without the approval of the Board of Directors unless the offer is conditioned
on a substantial number of Rights being acquired. The Rights, however, should
not affect offers for all outstanding shares of common stock at a fair price
and otherwise in the best interests of the Corporation and its stockholders as
determined by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may, at its
option, redeem all, but not fewer than all, of the then outstanding Rights at
any time until the 10th business day following a public announcement that a
person or a group had acquired beneficial ownership of 20% or more of the
Corporation's outstanding common stock or total voting power.



(a) The Corporation's common stock is listed and traded on the New York Stock
Exchange and the International Stock Exchange of the United Kingdom and
Republic of Ireland. The high, low and closing prices of the Corporation's
common stock are from the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transaction Tape.





                                                                             B79



AVERAGE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET, INTEREST AND RATES



Fees and commissions on loans included in loan interest amounted to $176
million, $159 million, $149 million, $162 million and $204 million in
1993-1989, respectively.
The ratio of average stockholders' equity to average assets was 7.3%, 6.7%,
5.4%, 5.1% and 4.8% in 1993-1989, respectively.



B80






                                                                             B81

                                                                CHEMICAL BANK
                                                                AND SUBSIDIARIES


CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET





B82

                                   SIGNATURES


     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on behalf of the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized on the 15th day of
March, 1994.

                                             CHEMICAL BANKING CORPORATION
                                                     (Registrant)


                                             By WALTER V. SHIPLEY
                                                ----------------------
                                                (Walter V. Shipley,
                                                Chairman of the Board and
                                                Chief Executive Officer)

     This report has been reviewed by each member of the Board of Directors and
pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, signed on
behalf of the registrant by members present at the meeting of the Board of
Directors on the date indicated. The Corporation does not exercise the power of
attorney to sign on behalf of any Director.













                                          APPENDIX I

                            NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF GRAPHIC IMAGE MATERIAL


Pursuant to Item 304 of Regulation S-T, the following is a description of the
graphic image material included in the foregoing Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Section B.

           
           
           
           
           
           
           
           

                          
                          
                          
                          
                          
                          
                          
                          


                                EXHIBIT INDEX


EXHIBIT
NUMBER                          DESCRIPTION
- - - -------                         -----------



