
10-K405
v67051e10-k405.txt
COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION




- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                         ------------------------------

                                   FORM 10-K
                         ------------------------------

     [X]   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
           SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 3, 2000

                                       OR

     [ ]   TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
           SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 0-20355
                         ------------------------------

                          COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)



                       999 LAKE DRIVE, ISSAQUAH, WA 98027
               (Address of principal executive offices)(Zip Code)

       REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: (425) 313-8100

        SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT: NONE

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:



                         ------------------------------

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  YES [X]  NO [ ]

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  [X]

     The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
registrant at November 3, 2000 was $15,486,655,791.

     The number of shares outstanding of the registrant's common stock as of
November 3, 2000 was 447,755,589.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

     Portions of the Company's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held on January 25, 2001 are incorporated by reference into
Part III of this Form 10-K.

- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                          COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION

     ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 3, 2000





                                     PART I

ITEM 1--BUSINESS

     Costco Wholesale Corporation ("Costco" or the "Company") began operations
in 1983 in Seattle, Washington. In October 1993, Costco merged with The Price
Company, which had pioneered the membership warehouse concept in 1976, to form
Price/Costco, Inc., a Delaware corporation. In January 1997, after the spin-off
of most of its non-warehouse assets to Price Enterprises, Inc., the Company
changed its name to Costco Companies, Inc. On August 30, 1999, the Company
reincorporated from Delaware to Washington and changed its name to Costco
Wholesale Corporation, which trades on the NASDAQ under the symbol "COST".

GENERAL

     Costco operates membership warehouses based on the concept that offering
members very low prices on a limited selection of nationally branded and
selected private label products in a wide range of merchandise categories will
produce high sales volumes and rapid inventory turnover. This rapid inventory
turnover, when combined with the operating efficiencies achieved by volume
purchasing, efficient distribution and reduced handling of merchandise in
no-frills, self-service warehouse facilities, enables Costco to operate
profitably at significantly lower gross margins than traditional wholesalers,
discount retailers and supermarkets.

     Costco buys nearly all of its merchandise directly from manufacturers for
shipment either directly to Costco's selling warehouses or to a consolidation
point ("depot") where various shipments are combined so as to minimize freight
and handling costs. As a result, Costco eliminates many of the costs associated
with multiple step distribution channels, which include purchasing from
distributors as opposed to manufacturers, use of central receiving, storing and
distributing warehouses, and storage of merchandise in locations off the sales
floor. By providing this more cost-effective means of distributing goods, Costco
meets the needs of business customers who otherwise would pay a premium for
small purchases and for the distribution services of traditional wholesalers,
and who cannot otherwise obtain the full range of their product requirements
from any single source. In addition, these business members will often combine
personal shopping with their business purchases. The cost savings on brand name
and selected private label merchandise are the primary motivation for
individuals shopping for their personal needs. Costco's merchandise selection is
designed to appeal to both the business and consumer requirements of its members
by offering a wide range of nationally branded and selected private label
products, often in case, carton or multiple-pack quantities, at attractively low
prices.

     Because of its high sales volume and rapid inventory turnover, Costco
generally has the opportunity to receive cash from the sale of a substantial
portion of its inventory at mature warehouse operations before it is required to
pay all its merchandise vendors, even though Costco takes advantage of early
payment terms to obtain payment discounts. As sales in a given warehouse
increase and inventory turnover becomes more rapid, a greater percentage of the
inventory is financed through payment terms provided by vendors rather than by
working capital.

     Costco's typical warehouse format averages approximately 134,000 square
feet. Floor plans are designed for economy and efficiency in the use of selling
space, in the handling of merchandise and in the control of inventory. Because
shoppers are attracted principally by the availability of low prices on brand
name and selected private label goods, Costco's warehouses need not be located
on prime commercial real estate sites or have elaborate facilities.

     By strictly controlling the entrances and exits of its warehouses and by
limiting membership to selected groups and businesses, Costco has been able to
limit inventory losses to less than three-tenths of one percent of net
sales--well below those of typical discount retail operations. Losses associated
with dishonored checks have also been minimal, since individual memberships are
generally limited to members of qualifying groups, and bank information from
business members is verified prior to establishing a check purchase limit.
Memberships are invalidated at the point of sale for those members who have
issued dishonored checks to Costco.


ITEM 1--BUSINESS (CONTINUED)
     Costco's policy is generally to limit advertising and promotional expenses
to new warehouse openings and occasional direct mail marketing to prospective
new members. These practices result in lower marketing expenses as compared to
typical discount retailers and supermarkets. In connection with new warehouse
openings, Costco's marketing teams personally contact businesses in the area
that are potential Wholesale Members. These contacts are supported by direct
mailings during the period immediately prior to opening. Potential Gold Star
(individual) members are contacted by direct mail or by providing such mailings
to be distributed through credit unions, employee associations and other
entities representing individuals who are eligible for Gold Star membership.
After a membership base is established in an area, most new memberships result
from word-of-mouth advertising, follow-up contact by direct mail distributed
through regular payroll or other organizational communications to employee
groups, and ongoing direct solicitations to prospective wholesale members.

     Costco's warehouses generally operate on a seven-day, 68-hour week, and are
open somewhat longer during the holiday season. Generally, warehouses are open
weekdays between 10:00 a.m. and 8:30 p.m., with earlier closing hours on the
weekend. Because these hours of operation are shorter than those of traditional
discount grocery retailers and supermarkets, labor costs are lower relative to
the volume of sales. Merchandise is generally stored on racks above the sales
floor and displayed on pallets containing large quantities of each item, thereby
reducing labor required for handling and stocking. In addition, sales are
processed through centralized, automated check-out stands. Most items are not
individually price marked; rather, each item is bar-coded so it can be scanned
into electronic cash registers. This allows price changes without remarking
merchandise. Substantially all manufacturers provide merchandise pre-marked with
the item numbers and bar codes and many provide special, larger package sizes.

     Costco's merchandising strategy is to provide the customer with a broad
range of high quality merchandise at prices consistently lower than could be
obtained through traditional wholesalers, discount retailers or supermarkets. An
important element of this strategy is to carry only those products on which
Costco can provide its members significant cost savings. Items which members may
request but which cannot be purchased at prices low enough to pass along
meaningful cost savings are usually not carried. Costco seeks to limit specific
items in each product line to fast selling models, sizes and colors. Therefore,
the Company carries an average of only 3,700 to 4,500 active stockkeeping units
("SKU's") per warehouse in its core warehouse business, as opposed to discount
retailers and supermarkets which normally stock 40,000 to 60,000 SKU's or more.
These practices are consistent with Costco's membership policies of satisfying
both the business and personal shopping needs of its wholesale members, thereby
encouraging high volume shopping. Many consumable products are offered for sale
in case, carton or multiple-pack quantities only. Appliances, equipment and
tools often feature commercial and professional models. Costco's policy is to
accept returns of merchandise within a reasonable time after purchase.

     The following table indicates the approximate percentage of net sales
accounted for by each major category of items sold by Costco during fiscal 2000,
1999, and 1998:





ITEM 1--BUSINESS (CONTINUED)
     Costco has direct buying relationships with many producers of national
brand name merchandise. No significant portion of merchandise is obtained by
Costco from any one of these or any other single supplier. Costco has not
experienced any difficulty in obtaining sufficient quantities of merchandise,
and believes that if one or more of its current sources of supply became
unavailable, it would be able to obtain alternative sources without experiencing
a substantial disruption of its business. Costco may also purchase selected
private label merchandise of the same product, as long as quality and customer
demand are comparable, and the savings to its customers are greater.

     Costco reports on a 52/53-week fiscal year, consisting of 13 four-week
periods and ending on the Sunday nearest the end of August. The first, second
and third quarters consist of three periods each, and the fourth quarter
consists of four periods (five weeks in the thirteenth period in a 53-week
year). There is no material seasonal impact on Costco's operations, except an
increased level of sales and earnings during the Christmas holiday season.
Fiscal 2000 was a 53-week fiscal year.

MEMBERSHIP POLICY

     Costco's membership format is designed to reinforce customer loyalty and
provide a continuing source of membership fee revenue. Costco has two primary
types of members: Business and Gold Star (individual) members. In addition, the
Company offers an Executive Membership program to both Business and Gold Star
members.

     Businesses, including individuals with a business license, retail sales
license or other evidence of business existence, may become Business members.
Costco promotes Business membership through its merchandise selection and its
membership marketing programs. Business members generally pay an annual
membership fee of $45 for the primary and spouse membership card with add-on
membership cards available for an annual fee of $35 (including a free spouse
card).

     Individual memberships are available to employees of federal, state and
local governments, financial institutions, corporations, utility and
transportation companies, public and private educational institutions, and other
selected organizations. Individual members generally pay an annual membership
fee of $45, which includes a spouse card.

     Executive Memberships are available to all members for an annual fee of
$100. This membership offers Business and Gold Star members the opportunity to
save on various services such as merchant credit card processing, auto and
homeowner insurance, employee health insurance, real estate and mortgage
services, long-distance telephone services and small business loans. The
services offered are generally provided by third-party service providers and
vary by state. In addition, Executive Members qualify for a 2% reward, up to a
maximum of $500 per year, on all qualified purchases made at Costco.

     As of September 3, 2000, Costco had approximately 4.2 million Business
memberships and approximately 10.5 million Gold Star memberships. Members can
utilize their memberships at any warehouse location.

LABOR

     As of September 3, 2000, Costco had approximately 78,000 employees, about
one-half of whom were part-time. Approximately 12,000 hourly employees in
California, Maryland, New Jersey, New York and one warehouse in Virginia are
represented by the International Brotherhood of Teamsters. In addition, one
warehouse in the Canadian province of British Columbia is represented by the
Retail Wholesale Union. All remaining hourly employees are non-union. Costco
considers its employee relations to be good.

COMPETITION

     The Company operates in the rapidly changing and highly competitive
merchandising industry. When The Price Company pioneered the membership
warehouse club concept in 1976, the dominant companies



ITEM 1--BUSINESS (CONTINUED)
selling comparable lines of merchandise were department stores, grocery stores
and traditional wholesalers. Since then, new merchandising concepts and
aggressive marketing techniques have led to a more intense and focused
competitive environment. Wal-Mart has become the largest retailer in the United
States (and the world) and has expanded further into various food merchandising
formats. Target has also emerged as a significant retail competitor.
Approximately 877 warehouse clubs exist across the U.S. and Canada, including
the 296 warehouses operated by the Company in North America; and every major
metropolitan area has some, if not several, club operations. Low-cost operators
selling a single category or narrow range of merchandise, such as Home Depot,
Office Depot, PetSmart, Toys-R-Us, Circuit City and Barnes & Noble, have
significant market share in their respective categories. New forms of retailing
involving modern technology are boosting sales in certain stores, while home
shopping and electronic commerce over the Internet is becoming increasingly
popular. Likewise, in the institutional food business, companies such as Smart &
Final, which operates in Arizona, California and Florida, are capturing an
increasingly greater share of the institutional food business from wholesale
operators and others. (See "Item 7--Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations".)

REGULATION

     Certain state laws require that the Company apply minimum markups to its
selling prices for specific goods, such as tobacco products and alcoholic
beverages. While compliance with such laws may cause the Company to charge
somewhat higher prices than it otherwise would charge, other retailers are also
typically governed by the same restrictions, and the Company believes that
compliance with such laws does not have a material adverse effect on its
operations.

     It is the policy of the Company to sell at lower than manufacturers'
suggested retail prices. Some manufacturers attempt to maintain the resale price
of their products by refusing to sell to the Company or to other purchasers that
do not adhere to suggested retail prices or that otherwise sell at discounted
prices. To date, the Company believes that it has not been materially affected
by its inability to purchase directly from such manufacturers. Both federal and
state legislation is proposed from time to time which, if enacted, would
restrict the Company's ability to purchase goods or extend the application of
laws enabling the establishment of minimum prices. The Company cannot predict
the effect on its business of the enactment of such federal or state
legislation.

     Certain states, counties and municipalities have enacted or proposed laws
and regulations that would prevent or restrict the operations or expansion plans
of certain large retailers and warehouse clubs, including the Company, within
their jurisdictions. The Company believes that, if enacted, such laws and
regulations could have a material adverse effect on the Company's operations.



ITEM 2--PROPERTIES

WAREHOUSE PROPERTIES

     At September 3, 2000, Costco operated 313 warehouse clubs: 237 in the
United States (in 28 states); 59 in Canada (in 9 Canadian provinces); 10 in the
United Kingdom (eight in England; two in Scotland); three in Korea, three in
Taiwan, and one in Japan--primarily under the "Costco Wholesale" name. The
following is a summary of owned and leased warehouses by region:

                              NUMBER OF WAREHOUSES



     The following schedule shows warehouse openings (net of warehouse closings)
by region for the past five fiscal years and expected openings (net of closings)
through December 31, 2000:



     As of September 3, 2000, the Company operated (through a 50%-owned joint
venture) 18 warehouses in Mexico. These warehouses are not included in the
number of warehouses open in any period because the joint venture is accounted
for on the equity basis and therefore their operations are not consolidated in
the Company's financial statements.

     The Company's headquarters are located in Issaquah, Washington.
Additionally, the Company maintains regional buying and administrative offices,
operates regional cross-docking facilities (depots) for the consolidation and
distribution of certain shipments to the warehouses, and operates various
processing, packaging, and other facilities to support ancillary and other
businesses.

ITEM 3--LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     The Company is involved from time to time in claims, proceedings and
litigation arising from its business and property ownership. The Company does
not believe that any such claim, proceeding, or litigation, either alone or in
the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial
position or results of its operations.

ITEM 4--SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     The Company's annual meeting is scheduled for 10:00 a.m. on January 25,
2001, at the Doubletree Hotel in Bellevue, Washington. Matters to be voted on
will be included in the Company's proxy statement to be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission and distributed to stockholders prior to the
meeting.



ITEM 4A--EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     The following is a list of the names, ages and positions of the executive
officers of the registrant.



     James D. Sinegal has been President, Chief Executive Officer and a director
of the Company since October 1993 upon consummation of the merger of Costco
Wholesale Corporation and The Price Company (the "Merger"). From its inception
in 1983 until 1993, he was President and Chief Operating Officer of Costco
Wholesale Corporation and served as Chief Executive Officer from August 1988
until October 1993. Mr. Sinegal was a co-founder of Costco Wholesale Corporation
and has been a director since its inception.

     Jeffrey H. Brotman is a native of the Pacific Northwest and is a 1967
graduate of the University of Washington Law School. Mr. Brotman was a
co-founder and Chairman of the Board of Costco Wholesale Corporation from its
inception. Upon the consummation of the Merger, Mr. Brotman became the Vice-
Chairman of the Company, and has served as Chairman since December 1994. Mr.
Brotman is a founder of a number of other specialty retail chains.

     Richard D. DiCerchio was named Senior Executive Vice President of the
Company in 1997 and he is currently Senior Executive Vice President and Chief
Operating Officer--Merchandising, Distribution and Construction and has been a
director of the Company since October 1993. Until mid-August 1994, he also
served as Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer--Northern Division.
He was appointed Chief Operating Officer--Western Region of Costco Wholesale
Corporation in August 1992 and was appointed Executive Vice President and
director of Costco Wholesale Corporation in April 1986. From June 1985 to April
1986, he was Senior Vice President, Merchandising of Costco Wholesale
Corporation. He joined Costco Wholesale Corporation as Vice President,
Operations in May 1983.

     Richard A. Galanti has been Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer of the Company since the Merger and has been a director of the Company
since January 1995. He was Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and
Treasurer of Costco Wholesale Corporation from January 1985, until the Merger,
having joined Costco Wholesale Corporation as Vice President--Finance in March
1984. From 1978 to February 1984, Mr. Galanti was an Associate with Donaldson,
Lufkin & Jenrette Securities Corporation.

     Franz E. Lazarus was named Executive Vice President, Chief Operating
Officer--International Operations in September 1995 and assumed the additional
responsibilities over Manufacturing and Ancillary Businesses upon the retirement
of David B. Loge in August 2000. From August 1994 to September 1995 Mr. Lazarus
served as Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer--Northern Division
of the Company. Subsequent to the Merger in October 1993, he served as Executive
Vice President, Chief Operating Officer--Eastern Division. He was named
Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer--East Coast Operations of
Costco Wholesale Corporation in August 1992. Mr. Lazarus joined Costco Wholesale
Corporation in November 1983 and has held various management positions prior to
his current position.



ITEM 4A--EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT (CONTINUED)
     W. Craig Jelinek has been Executive Vice President, Chief Operating
Officer--Northern Division since September 1995. He had been Senior Vice
President, Operations--Northwest Region since September 1992. From May 1986 to
September 1994 he was Vice President, Regional Operations Manager--Los Angeles
Region and has held various management positions since joining Costco Wholesale
Corporation in April 1984.

     Paul G. Moulton was named Executive Vice President in October 1999 and has
been responsible for Marketing, E-commerce and Member Services since August
1999. He was Senior Vice President, Information Systems from November 1997 to
August 1999. From 1995 to 1997 he was Senior Vice President, COO of Costco Asia;
and from 1992 to 1995 he was Senior Vice President, COO of Costco Europe. From
1990 to 1992 Mr. Moulton was Vice President of Finance and Corporate Treasurer
and has held various management positions since joining Costco Wholesale
Corporation in 1985.

     Joseph P. Portera has been Executive Vice President, Chief Operating
Officer--Eastern Division of the Company since August 1994 and assumed the
additional responsibilities of Chief Operating Officer--Canadian Division upon
the retirement of Edward W. Maron in September 2000. He was Senior Vice
President, Operations--Northern California Region from October 1993 to August
1994. From August 1991 to October 1993 he was Senior Vice President,
Merchandising--Non Foods of Costco Wholesale Corporation, and has held various
management positions since joining Costco Wholesale Corporation in April 1984.

     Dennis R. Zook has been Executive Vice President, Chief Operating
Officer--Southern Division of the Company since the Merger, which includes
management responsibilities for the Company's joint venture operation in Mexico.
He was Executive Vice President of The Price Company since February 1989. Mr.
Zook became Vice President of West Coast Operations of The Price Company in
October 1988 and has held various management positions since joining The Price
Company in October 1981.



                                    PART II

ITEM 5--MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

     Costco Common Stock is quoted on The Nasdaq Stock Market's National Market
under the symbol "COST."

     The following table sets forth the closing high and low sales prices of
Costco Common Stock for the period January 1, 1998 through November 3, 2000. The
quotations are as reported in published financial sources. The Company's Board
of Directors approved a 2-for-1 stock split of Costco Common Stock which became
effective for shareholders of record on December 24, 1999. The common stock
began trading at the post-split price on January 14, 2000 and all stock prices
below reflect the post-split price.



     On November 3, 2000 the Company had 7,691 stockholders of record.

                                DIVIDEND POLICY

     Costco has never paid regular dividends and presently has no plans to
declare a cash dividend. Under its two revolving credit agreements, Costco is
generally permitted to pay dividends in any fiscal year up to an amount equal to
50% of its consolidated net income for that fiscal year.

ITEM 6--SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

                     SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA

     The following tables set forth selected financial and operating data for
Costco for the ten fiscal years in the period ended September 3, 2000, giving
effect to the merger of Costco Wholesale Corporation and The Price Company using
the pooling-of-interests method of accounting and treating the non-club real
estate segment as a discontinued operation prior to its spin-off in 1994. This
selected financial and operating data should be read in conjunction with "Item
7 -- Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations," and the consolidated financial statements of Costco for fiscal
2000.



                          COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION

                      SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA
                 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT WAREHOUSE DATA)


- - ------------------------------
(a) Includes the effect of adopting SFAS 121, a $65,000 pre-tax ($38,675
    after-tax or $0.09 per diluted share) provision for asset impairment.

(b) Represents a one-time non-cash charge reflecting the cumulative effect of
    the Company's change in accounting for membership fees from a cash to a
    deferred method.

(c) All per share data reflects the 2-for-1 stock split which became effective
    for shareholders of record on December 24, 1999. The common stock began
    trading at the post-split price on January 14, 2000.



                          COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION

                      SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA
                 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT WAREHOUSE DATA)


- - ------------------------------
(a) Includes relocations as well as new warehouse openings.

(b) Includes relocations as well as outright closings.

(c) Includes the acquisition of two warehouses in Korea formerly operated under
    a license agreement.



ITEM 7--MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS

     Certain statements contained in this document constitute forward-looking
statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995. For these purposes, forward-looking statements are statements that address
activities, events, conditions or developments that the Company expects, or
anticipates may occur in the future. Such forward-looking statements involve
risks and uncertainties that may cause actual events, results or performance to
differ materially from those indicated by such statements. These risks and
uncertainties include, but are not limited to, domestic and international
economic conditions including exchange rates, the effects of competition and
regulation, conditions affecting the acquisition, development, ownership or use
of real estate, actions of vendors, and other risks identified from time to time
in the Company's public statements and reports filed with the SEC.

     The Company's Board of Directors approved a 2-for-1 stock split of Costco
Common Stock whereby shareholders of record received one additional share of
common stock for every share held on the record date of December 24, 1999. The
common stock began trading at a post-split price on January 14, 2000, and all
per share data reflects that 2-for-1 stock split.

COMPARISON OF FISCAL 2000 (53 WEEKS) AND FISCAL 1999 (52 WEEKS):
  (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT EARNINGS PER SHARE)

     Net income for fiscal 2000, a 53-week fiscal year, increased 59% to
$631,437, or $1.35 per diluted share, from $397,298, or $0.86 per diluted share
during fiscal year 1999, a 52-week fiscal year. Net income for fiscal 1999 was
impacted by both a $50,000 fourth quarter pre-tax provision for impaired assets
and warehouse closing costs, as well as the one-time $118,023 non-cash,
after-tax charge recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 1999, reflecting the
cumulative effect of the Company's change in accounting for membership fees from
a cash to a deferred method. Excluding the impact of these two charges, net
income in fiscal 1999 would have been $545,321, or $1.18 per diluted share and
would have resulted in a 16% increase in net income in fiscal 2000 compared to
fiscal 1999.

     Net sales increased 17% to $31,620,723 in fiscal 2000 from $26,976,453 in
fiscal 1999. This increase was due to: (i) higher sales at existing locations
opened prior to fiscal 1999; (ii) increased sales at 14 warehouses (21 opened, 7
closed) that were opened in fiscal 1999 and in operation for the entire 2000
fiscal year; (iii) first year sales at the 21 new warehouses opened (25 opened,
4 closed) during fiscal 2000; and (iv) fiscal 2000 being a 53-week fiscal year.
Changes in prices did not materially impact sales levels.

     Comparable sales, that is sales in warehouses open for at least a year,
increased at an 11% annual rate in fiscal 2000 compared to a 10% annual rate
during fiscal 1999.

     Membership fees and other revenue increased 13% to $543,573, or 1.72% of
net sales, in fiscal 2000 from $479,578, or 1.78% of net sales, in fiscal 1999.
This increase was primarily due to membership sign-ups at the 21 new warehouses
opened in fiscal 2000.

     Gross margin (defined as net sales minus merchandise costs) increased 18%
to $3,298,553, or 10.43% of net sales, in fiscal 2000 from $2,806,254, or 10.40%
of net sales, in fiscal 1999. Gross margin as a percentage of net sales
increased due to increased sales penetration of certain higher gross margin
ancillary businesses and private label products and improved performance of the
Company's international operations. The gross margin figures reflect accounting
for most U.S. merchandise inventories on the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method.
If all inventories had been valued using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method,
inventories would have been higher by $8,150 at September 3, 2000, and $11,150
at August 29, 1999.

     Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of net sales
increased to 8.71% during fiscal 2000 from 8.67% during fiscal 1999, primarily
reflecting higher expenses associated with international expansion, the rollout
of certain ancillary businesses and an increase in credit card merchant fees
associated with the rollout of a new co-branded credit card program which was
partially offset by a year-over-year improvement in the Company's core warehouse
operations driven by an increase in comparable warehouse sales and improvements
within Central and Regional administrative offices.



ITEM 7-- MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)
     Preopening expenses totaled $42,321, or 0.13% of net sales, during fiscal
2000 and $31,007, or 0.11% of net sales, during fiscal 1999. During fiscal 2000,
the Company opened 25 new warehouses compared to 21 new warehouses during fiscal
1999. Pre-opening expenses also include costs related to remodels, expanded
fresh foods and ancillary operations at existing warehouses, as well as expanded
international operations, and the opening of two new regional offices.

     The provision for impaired assets and warehouse closing costs was $7,000 in
fiscal 2000 compared to $56,500 in fiscal 1999. The fiscal 2000 provision
includes a charge of $10,956 for the impairment of long-lived assets, which was
offset by $3,956 of gains on the sale of real property. The fiscal 1999
provision includes a charge of $31,080 for the impairment of long-lived assets
and $30,865 for warehouse and other facility closing costs, which were offset by
$5,445 of gains on the sale of real property. The provision for warehouse
closing costs in fiscal 1999 includes $24,773 for future lease obligations and
$6,092 for other expenses directly related to the closedown of warehouses and
other facilities. At September 3, 2000, the reserve for warehouse closing costs
was $11,762, of which $8,887 related to future lease obligations.

     Interest expense totaled $39,281 in fiscal 2000, and $45,527 in fiscal
1999. The decrease in interest expense is primarily due to an increase in
capitalized interest related to construction projects and a decrease in the
interest rate related to the 7 1/8% Senior Notes due to entering into a
"fixed-to-floating" interest rate swap agreement in December 1999 that
effectively converted the fixed rate of 7 1/8% to a floating rate indexed to the
30-day commercial paper rate. In August 2000 the swap agreement was amended to
index the floating rate to the three-month LIBOR rate.

     Interest income and other totaled $54,226 in fiscal 2000 compared to
$44,266 in fiscal 1999. The increase was primarily due to higher rates of
interest earned on higher balances of cash and cash equivalents and short-term
investments during fiscal 2000 as compared to fiscal 1999 and improved earnings
from Costco Mexico; a 50% owned joint venture.

     The effective income tax rate on earnings was 40% in both fiscal 2000 and
fiscal 1999.

COMPARISON OF FISCAL 1999 (52 WEEKS) AND FISCAL 1998 (52 WEEKS):
  (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT EARNINGS PER SHARE)

     Net income for fiscal 1999 was impacted by both a $50,000 fourth quarter
pre-tax provision for impaired assets and warehouse closing costs, as well as
the one-time $118,023 non-cash, after-tax charge recorded in the first quarter
of fiscal 1999, reflecting the cumulative effect of the Company's change in
accounting for membership fees from a cash to a deferred method. The impact of
these two charges resulted in net income for fiscal 1999 of $397,298, or $.86
per diluted share compared to fiscal 1998 net income of $459,842, or $1.01 per
diluted share. Excluding the impact of these two charges, net income in fiscal
1999 would have been $545,321, or $1.18 per diluted share. Assuming the newly
adopted accounting treatment for deferring membership fees had been in effect in
fiscal 1998, net income for fiscal 1998 would have been $444,451, or $.98 per
diluted share; and the year-over-year earnings per share increase, adjusted for
these items, would have been 20%.

     Net sales increased 13% to $26,976,453 in fiscal 1999 from $23,830,380 in
fiscal 1998. This increase was due to: (i) higher sales at existing locations
opened prior to fiscal 1998; (ii) increased sales at 16 warehouses that were
opened in fiscal 1998 and in operation for the entire 1999 fiscal year; and
(iii) first year sales at the 14 new warehouses opened (21 opened, 7 closed)
during fiscal 1999. Changes in prices did not materially impact sales levels.

     Comparable sales, that is sales in warehouses open for at least a year,
increased at a 10% annual rate in fiscal 1999 compared to an 8% annual rate
during fiscal 1998.

     Membership fees and other revenue increased 9% to $479,578, or 1.78% of net
sales, in fiscal 1999 from $439,497, or 1.84% of net sales, in fiscal 1998. This
increase is primarily due to membership sign-ups at the



ITEM 7-- MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)
14 new warehouses opened in fiscal 1999 and a five dollar increase in the annual
membership fee for both Business and Gold Star members effective April 1, 1998
in the United States and May 1, 1998 in Canada.

     Effective with the first quarter of fiscal 1999, the Company changed its
method of accounting for membership fee income from a "cash basis" to a
"deferred basis", whereby membership fee income is recognized ratably over the
one-year life of the membership. If the deferred method had been used in fiscal
1998, membership fees and other would have been reduced by $25,651 to $413,846,
or 1.74% of net sales, and the year-over-year increase would have been 16%.

     Gross margin (defined as net sales minus merchandise costs) increased 15%
to $2,806,254, or 10.40% of net sales, in fiscal 1999 from $2,450,689, or 10.28%
of net sales, in fiscal 1998. Gross margin as a percentage of net sales
increased due to increased sales penetration of certain higher gross margin
ancillary businesses, favorable inventory shrink results, and improved
performance of the Company's international operations. The gross margin figures
reflect accounting for most U.S. merchandise inventories on the last-in,
first-out (LIFO) method. If all inventories had been valued under the first-in,
first-out (FIFO) method, inventories would have been higher by $11,150 at August
29, 1999 and $16,150 at August 30, 1998.

     Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of net sales
decreased to 8.67% during fiscal 1999 from 8.69% during fiscal 1998. This
decrease primarily reflects the increase in comparable warehouse sales noted
above, and a year-over-year improvement in the Company's core warehouse
operations and Central and Regional administrative offices, which were partially
offset by higher expenses associated with international expansion and certain
ancillary businesses.

     Preopening expenses totaled $31,007, or 0.11% of net sales, during fiscal
1999 and $27,010, or 0.11% of net sales, during fiscal 1998. During fiscal 1999,
the Company opened 21 new warehouses compared to 16 new warehouses during fiscal
1998. Pre-opening expenses also include costs related to remodels, expanded
fresh foods and ancillary operations at existing warehouses.

     The provision for impaired assets and warehouse closing costs was $56,500
in fiscal 1999 compared to $6,000 in fiscal 1998. The fiscal 1999 provision
includes a charge of $31,080 for the impairment of long-lived assets and $30,865
for warehouse and other facility closing costs, which were offset by $5,445 of
gains on the sale of real property. The provision for warehouse closing costs
includes $24,773 for lease obligations and $6,092 for other expenses directly
related to the closedown of warehouses and other facilities. The increase in
warehouse closing costs is primarily attributable to the Company's decision in
the fourth quarter of fiscal 1999 to relocate several warehouses (which were not
otherwise impaired) to larger and better-located facilities.

     Interest expense totaled $45,527 in fiscal 1999, and $47,535 in fiscal
1998. The decrease in interest expense is primarily due to an increase in
capitalized interest related to construction projects.

     Interest income and other totaled $44,266 in fiscal 1999 compared to
$26,662 in fiscal 1998. The increase was primarily due to interest earned on
higher balances of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments during
fiscal 1999 as compared to fiscal 1998.

     The effective income tax rate on earnings was 40% in both fiscal 1999 and
fiscal 1998.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Expansion Plans

     Costco's primary requirement for capital is the financing of the land,
building and equipment costs for new warehouses plus the costs of initial
warehouse operations and working capital requirements, as well as additional
capital for international expansion through investments in foreign subsidiaries
and joint ventures.

     While there can be no assurance that current expectations will be realized,
and plans are subject to change upon further review, it is management's current
intention to spend an aggregate of approximately $900,000 to $1,100,000 during
fiscal 2001 in the United States and Canada for real estate, construction,



ITEM 7-- MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)
remodeling and equipment for warehouse clubs and related operations; and
approximately $150,000 to $200,000 for international expansion, including the
United Kingdom, Asia, Mexico and other potential ventures. These expenditures
will be financed with a combination of cash provided from operations, the use of
cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments (which totaled $572,531 at
September 3, 2000), short-term borrowings under revolving credit facilities and
other financing sources as required.

     Expansion plans for the United States and Canada during fiscal 2001 are to
open approximately 34 to 36 new warehouse clubs, including 5 to 6 relocations of
existing warehouses to larger and better-located warehouses. The Company expects
to continue expansion of its international operations and plans to open 2 to 3
additional units in the United Kingdom through its 80%-owned subsidiary, two
additional units in Korea through its 95%-owned subsidiary and one additional
unit in Japan through a wholly-owned subsidiary during the next year. Other
international markets are being assessed.

     Costco and its Mexico-based joint venture partner, Controladora Comercial
Mexicana, each own a 50% interest in Costco Mexico. As of September 3, 2000,
Costco Mexico operated 18 warehouses in Mexico and plans to open one to two new
warehouse clubs during fiscal 2001.

Acquisition of Minority Interest

     On May 26, 2000, the Company acquired from the Littlewoods Organisation PLC
its 20% equity interest in Costco Wholesale UK Limited, bringing the Company's
ownership in Costco Wholesale UK Limited to 80%. The acquisition was funded with
cash and cash equivalents on hand. Costco Wholesale UK Limited currently
operates ten Costco warehouse locations--eight in England and two in Scotland.

Bank Credit Facilities and Commercial Paper Programs (all amounts stated in
thousands of US dollars)

     The Company has in place a $425,000 commercial paper program supported by a
$425,000 bank credit facility with a group of 11 banks, which expires in January
2001. At September 3, 2000, no amounts were outstanding under the loan facility
or the commercial paper program. On November 15, 2000, the bank facility was
increased to $500,000 of which $250,000 expires on November 14, 2001 and
$250,000 expires on November 15, 2005.

     In addition, a wholly owned Canadian subsidiary has a $136,000 commercial
paper program supported by a $95,000 bank credit facility with three Canadian
banks, which expires in March, 2001. At September 3, 2000, no amounts were
outstanding under the bank credit facility or the Canadian commercial paper
program.

     The Company has agreed to limit the combined amount outstanding under the
U.S. and Canadian commercial paper programs to the $520,000 combined amounts of
the respective supporting bank credit facilities.

Letters of Credit

     The Company has separate letter of credit facilities (for commercial and
standby letters of credit), totaling approximately $372,000. The outstanding
commitments under these facilities at September 3, 2000 totaled approximately
$273,000, including approximately $28,000 in standby letters of credit.

Derivatives

     The Company has limited involvement with derivative financial instruments
and uses them only to manage well-defined interest rate and foreign exchange
risks. Forward foreign exchange contracts are used to hedge the impact of
fluctuations of foreign exchange on inventory purchases. The amount of interest
rate and foreign exchange contracts outstanding at September 3, 2000 were not
material to the Company's results of operations or its financial position.
Effective December 10, 1999, the Company entered into a "fixed-to-floating"
interest rate swap agreement on its $300,000 7 1/8% Senior Notes, replacing the
fixed interest rate with a floating rate indexed to the 30-day commercial paper
rate. On August 11, 2000, the swap agreement was amended to index the floating
rate to the three-month LIBOR rate.



ITEM 7-- MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)
Financial Position and Cash Flows

     Working capital totaled approximately $66,000 at September 3, 2000,
compared to working capital of $450,000 at August 29, 1999. The decrease in net
working capital was primarily due to increases in accrued salaries and benefits
and other current liabilities of approximately $171,000, accrued sales and other
taxes of approximately $37,000, deferred membership income of approximately
$36,000, short-term borrowings of approximately $10,000, and decreases in cash
and cash equivalents and short-term investments of approximately $125,000 and in
net inventory levels (inventories less accounts payable) of $5,000.

     Net cash provided by operating activities totaled $1,070,358 in fiscal 2000
compared to $940,863 in fiscal 1999. The increase in net cash from operating
activities is primarily a result of increased net income, adjusted for the
non-cash cumulative effect of accounting change.

     Net cash used in investing activities totaled $1,045,664 in fiscal 2000
compared to $953,923 in fiscal 1999. The investing activities primarily relate
to additions to property and equipment for new and remodeled warehouses of
$1,228,421 and $787,935 in fiscal 2000 and 1999, respectively. The Company
opened 25 warehouses during fiscal 2000 compared to 21 warehouses opened during
fiscal 1999. In addition, the Company plans to open approximately 15 new
warehouses, including four relocations, in the first quarter of fiscal 2001 as
compared to the 6 new warehouses opened in the first quarter of fiscal 2000. In
fiscal 2000, the Company purchased an additional 20% interest in Costco UK from
Littlewoods Organisation PLC. Net cash used in investing activities also
reflects a decrease in short-term investments of $208,959 since the beginning of
fiscal 2000.

     Net cash provided by financing activities totaled $58,605 in fiscal 2000
compared to $85,845 in fiscal 1999. This decrease is primarily due to the
repurchase of 3.13 million shares of common stock partially offset by the
proceeds from the exercise of stock options and an increase in bank overdrafts.

     The Company's balance sheet as of September 3, 2000 reflects a $1,128,939
or 15% increase in total assets since August 29, 1999. The increase is primarily
due to a net increase in property and equipment and merchandise inventory
related to the Company's expansion program offset by a decrease in cash and cash
equivalents and short-term investments.

Stock Repurchase Program (dollars in thousands except per share data)

     On November 5, 1998, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had
authorized a stock repurchase program of up to $500,000 of Costco Common Stock
over the subsequent three years. Under the program, the Company may repurchase
shares from time to time in the open market or in private transactions as market
conditions warrant. The Company expects to fund stock purchases from cash and
short-term investments on hand, as well as from future operating cash flows. The
repurchased shares would constitute authorized, but unissued shares and would be
used for general corporate purposes including stock option grants under stock
option programs. As of September 3, 2000, the Company had repurchased 3.13
million shares of common stock at an average price of $31.96 per share, totaling
approximately $99,946 (excluding commissions).

Year 2000

     The Company implemented an extensive project to ensure that its systems
were Year 2000 compliant and fully operational prior to the year 2000 and on
into the 21st Century. Virtually all systems--including information technology
systems and non-information technology equipment--have worked properly in the
year 2000. In addition, the Company has not experienced any material year
2000-related problems with its significant suppliers with which its systems
interface or exchange data. The total costs related to the Year 2000 efforts
were approximately $7,500--in line with prior estimates and were fully expensed
as incurred during the relevant fiscal periods.



ITEM 7-- MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)
Membership Fee Increases

     Effective September 1, 2000 the Company has increased annual membership
fees for its Gold Star (individual), Business, and Business Add-on Members.
These fee increases, averaging approximately $5 per member across all member
categories, will allow the Company to be even more competitive in the future,
and pass on additional savings to its more than 18 million members worldwide.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

     During June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 133, Accounting for
Derivative and Hedging Activities, and in June 2000 issued SFAS 138, Accounting
for Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities, an amendment
of SFAS 133. These new standards require companies to record derivative
financial instruments on the balance sheet as assets or liabilities, measured at
fair value. Gains or losses resulting from changes in the fair value of those
derivatives would be accounted for based on the use of the derivative and
whether the instrument qualified for hedge accounting, as defined in SFAS 133
and 138. The Company was required to adopt the provisions of SFAS 133 and 138 on
September 4, 2000, the first day of fiscal 2001. The Company's use of derivative
instruments is limited to the fixed-to-floating swap contract on its 7 1/8%
Senior Notes and foreign exchange contracts and the impact of adoption was not
material.

     In December 1999, the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission
released Staff Accounting Bulletin, or SAB, No. 101, "Revenue Recognition", to
provide guidance on the recognition, presentation, and disclosure of revenues in
financial statements. The Company believes that its revenue recognition
practices are in conformity with the guidelines in SAB 101, as revised, and that
this pronouncement will have no impact on its financial statements.

     In March 2000, the FASB released Interpretation No. 44, "Accounting for
Certain Transactions involving Stock Compensation, an interpretation of APB
Opinion No. 25," which provides clarification of Opinion No. 25 for certain
issues, such as the determination of who is an employee, the criteria for
determining whether a plan qualifies as a non-compensatory plan, the accounting
consequence of various modifications to the terms of a previously fixed stock
option or award, and the accounting for an exchange of stock compensation awards
in a business combination. The Company believes that its practices are in
conformity with this guidance, and therefore Interpretation No. 44 will have no
impact on its financial statements.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure of Market Risk

     The Company is exposed to financial market risk resulting from changes in
interest and currency rates. As a policy, the Company does not engage in
speculative or leveraged transactions, nor hold or issue financial instruments
for trading purposes.

     The nature and amount of the Company's long and short-term debt can be
expected to vary as a result of future business requirements, market conditions
and other factors. As of September 3, 2000, approximately 54% of the Company's
debt is fixed rate. The Company's primary interest rate exposure results from
changes in LIBOR which is used to determine the interest rate applicable to its
$300,000 7 1/8% Senior Notes and $140,000 unsecured note payable to banks.
Effective December 10, 1999, the Company entered into a "fixed-to-floating"
interest rate swap agreement on the $300,000 7 1/8% Senior Notes, replacing the
fixed interest rate with a floating rate indexed to the 30-day commercial paper
rate. On August 11, 2000 the swap agreement was amended to index the floating
rate to the three-month LIBOR rate. The Company's potential increase in interest
expense over one year that would result from a hypothetical, instantaneous and
unfavorable change of 100 basis points in the interest rate of its variable rate
obligations would be approximately $4,400 pre-tax.



ITEM 7-- MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)
     The Company's long-term debt also includes its $900,000 principal amount at
maturity Zero Coupon Subordinated Notes. While fluctuations in interest rates
may affect the fair value of this debt, interest expense will not be affected
due to the fixed interest rate of the Notes.

     The Company's short-term investments as of September 3, 2000, include
corporate notes and bonds and certificates of deposit with maturities of less
than sixty days. These investments are classified as available for sale. If
interest rates were to increase or decrease immediately, it could have a
material impact on the fair value of these investments. However, changes in
interest rates would not likely have a material impact on interest income.

     Most foreign currency transactions have been conducted in local currencies,
limiting the Company's exposure to changes in currency rates. The Company
periodically enters into forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge the impact
of fluctuations in foreign currency rates on inventory purchases. The foreign
exchange contracts outstanding at September 3, 2000, were not material to the
Company's results of operations or its financial position.

ITEM 8--FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     Financial statements of Costco are as follows:



ITEM 9--CHANGE IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL
DISCLOSURE

     None.



                                    PART III

ITEM 10--DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     For information with respect to the executive officers of the Registrant,
see Item--4A "Executive Officers of the Registrant" at the end of Part I of this
report. The information required by this Item concerning the Directors and
nominees for Director of the Company is incorporated herein by reference to
Costco's Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on
January 25, 2001. The Proxy Statement will be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission within 120 days of the end of the Company's fiscal year.

ITEM 11--EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference
to Costco's Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on
January 25, 2001. The Proxy Statement will be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission within 120 days of the end of the Company's fiscal year.

ITEM 12--SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference
to Costco's Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on
January 25, 2001. The Proxy Statement will be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission within 120 days of the end of the Company's fiscal year.

ITEM 13--CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference
to Costco's Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on
January 25, 2001. The Proxy Statement will be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission within 120 days of the end of the Company's fiscal year.

                                    PART IV

ITEM 14--EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     (a) Documents filed as part of this report are as follows:

        1.  Financial Statements: See listing of Financial Statements included
            as a part of this Form 10-K on Item 8 of Part II.

        2.  Financial Statement Schedules--None.

        3.  Exhibits:

            The required exhibits are included at the end of the Form 10-K
            Annual Report and are described in the Exhibit Index immediately
            preceding the first exhibit.

     (b) Current reports on form 8-K filed--None.



                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

November 10, 2000                         COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION
                                          (Registrant)

                                          By/s/ RICHARD A. GALANTI
                                            ------------------------------------
                                                Richard A. Galanti
                                             Executive Vice President
                                                    and Chief Financial
                                                      Officer

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.







- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To Costco Wholesale Corporation:

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Costco
Wholesale Corporation (a Washington corporation) and subsidiaries ("Costco") as
of September 3, 2000 and August 29, 1999, and the related consolidated
statements of income, stockholders' equity and cash flows for the 53 weeks ended
September 3, 2000 and the 52 weeks ended August 29, 1999 and August 30, 1998.
These financial statements are the responsibility of Costco's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of Costco as of September 3,
2000 and August 29, 1999, and the results of its operations and its cash flows
for the 53 weeks ended September 3, 2000 and the 52 weeks ended August 29, 1999
and August 30, 1998, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States.

     As explained in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, during the
year ended August 29, 1999, the Company changed its method of accounting for
membership fee income from a cash basis to a deferred basis whereby membership
fee income is recognized ratably over the one-year life of the membership.

                                          /s/  ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
Seattle, Washington
October 10, 2000



                          COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION

                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                    (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PAR VALUE)



      The accompanying notes are an integral part of these balance sheets.


                          COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION

                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)



   The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.



                          COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION

                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

  FOR THE 53 WEEKS ENDED SEPTEMBER 3, 2000, 52 WEEKS ENDED AUGUST 29, 1999 AND
                                AUGUST 30, 1998
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)



   The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.



                          COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)



   The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements



                          COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 1--SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     Basis of Presentation

     The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Costco
Wholesale Corporation, a Washington corporation, and its subsidiaries ("Costco"
or the "Company"). All inter-company transactions between the Company and its
subsidiaries have been eliminated in consolidation. Costco Wholesale Corporation
primarily operates membership warehouses under the Costco Wholesale name.

     Costco operates membership warehouses that offer very low prices on a
limited selection of nationally branded and selected private label products in a
wide range of merchandise categories in no-frills, self-service warehouse
facilities. At September 3, 2000, Costco operated 313 warehouse clubs: 237 in
the United States; 59 in Canada; 10 in the United Kingdom; three in Korea; three
in Taiwan; and one in Japan. As of September 3, 2000, the Company also operated
(through a 50%-owned joint venture) 18 warehouses in Mexico.

     The Company's investment in the Costco Mexico joint venture and in other
unconsolidated joint ventures that are less than majority owned are accounted
for under the equity method.

     Fiscal Years

     The Company reports on a 52/53-week fiscal year basis, which ends on the
Sunday nearest August 31st. Fiscal year 2000 was 53 weeks and fiscal years 1999
and 1998 were 52 weeks.

     Cash Equivalents

     The Company considers all highly liquid investments with a maturity of
three months or less at the date of purchase to be cash equivalents.

     Short-term Investments

     At September 3, 2000 and August 29, 1999, short-term investments consisted
of the following:



     The Company's short-term investments have been designated as being
available-for-sale and, accordingly, are reported at fair value. The fair market
value of short term investments approximates their carrying value and unrealized
holding gains and losses were not significant at September 3, 2000 or August 29,
1999. Realized gains and losses are included in interest income and were not
significant in fiscal 2000, 1999 and 1998. Short-term investments held by the
Company at September 3, 2000, mature between one and sixty days from the
purchase date.


                          COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 1--SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
     Receivables

     Receivables consist primarily of vendor rebates and promotional allowances
and other miscellaneous amounts due to the Company, and are net of allowance for
doubtful accounts of $3,368 at September 3, 2000 and $4,582 at August 29, 1999.

     Merchandise Inventories

     Merchandise inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market as
determined primarily by the retail inventory method, and are stated using the
last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for substantially all U.S. merchandise
inventories. The Company believes the LIFO method more fairly presents the
results of operations by more closely matching current costs with current
revenues. If all merchandise inventories had been valued using the first-in,
first-out (FIFO) method, inventories would have been higher by $8,150 at
September 3, 2000 and $11,150 at August 29, 1999.



     The Company provides for estimated inventory losses between physical
inventory counts on the basis of a standard percentage of sales. This provision
is adjusted periodically to reflect the actual shrinkage results of the physical
inventory counts, which generally occur in the second and fourth quarters of the
Company's fiscal year.

     Property and Equipment

     Property and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation and amortization
expenses are computed using the straight-line method for financial reporting
purposes and accelerated methods for tax purposes. Buildings are depreciated
over twenty-five to thirty-five years; equipment and fixtures are depreciated
over three to ten years; and land rights and leasehold improvements are
amortized over the initial term of the lease.

     Interest costs incurred on property and equipment during the construction
period are capitalized. The amount of interest costs capitalized was $10,919 in
fiscal 2000, $4,380 in fiscal 1999, and $3,542 in fiscal 1998.

     Goodwill

     Goodwill, included in other assets, totaled $49,230 at September 3, 2000
and $42,568 at August 29, 1999, resulting from certain business combinations.
Goodwill is being amortized over 2 to 40 years using the straight-line method.
Accumulated amortization was $15,896 at September 3, 2000 and $14,787 at August
29, 1999.

     Acquisition of Minority Interest

     On May 26, 2000, the Company acquired from the Littlewoods Organisation PLC
its 20% equity interest in Costco Wholesale UK Limited, bringing the Company's
ownership in Costco Wholesale UK Limited to 80%. The acquisition was funded with
cash and cash equivalents on hand. Costco Wholesale UK Limited currently
operates ten Costco warehouse locations -- eight in England and two in Scotland.


                          COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 1--SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
     Accounts Payable

     The Company's banking system provides for the daily replenishment of major
bank accounts as checks are presented. Accordingly, included in accounts payable
at September 3, 2000 and August 29, 1999 are $55,002 and $21,081 respectively,
representing the excess of outstanding checks over cash on deposit at the banks
on which the checks were drawn.

     Derivatives

     The Company has limited involvement with derivative financial instruments
and only uses them to manage well-defined interest rate and foreign exchange
risks. Forward foreign exchange contracts are used to hedge the impact of
fluctuations of foreign exchange on inventory purchases. The amount of interest
rate and foreign exchange contracts outstanding at year-end or in place during
fiscal 2000 was immaterial to the Company's results of operations or its
financial position.

     Effective December 10, 1999, the Company entered into a "fixed-to-floating"
interest rate swap agreement on its $300,000 7 1/8% Senior Notes which, as
amended, replaces the fixed interest rate with a floating rate indexed to the
three month LIBOR rate. The notional amount of the swap agreement is equal to
the base value of the notes ($300,000). This swap agreement expires in June
2005, coinciding with the maturity date of the Senior Notes.

     Foreign Currency Translations

     Assets and liabilities recorded in foreign currencies, as well as the
Company's investment in the Costco Mexico joint venture, are translated at the
exchange rate on the balance sheet date. Translation adjustments resulting from
this process are charged or credited to other comprehensive income. Revenue and
expenses of the Company's consolidated foreign operations are translated at
average rates of exchange prevailing during the year. Gains and losses on
foreign currency transactions are included in expenses.

     Membership Fees

     Membership fee revenue represents annual membership fees paid by
substantially all of the Company's members. Effective with the first quarter of
fiscal 1999, the Company changed its method of accounting for membership fee
income from a "cash basis" to a "deferred basis" whereby membership fee income
is recognized ratably over the one-year life of the membership. The change to
the deferred method of accounting for membership fees resulted in a one-time,
non-cash, pre-tax charge of approximately $196,705 ($118,023 after-tax, or $.25
per diluted share) to reflect the cumulative effect of the accounting change as
of the beginning of fiscal 1999. If the deferred method of accounting for
membership fee income had been in effect in fiscal 1998, net income would have
been $444,451, or $.98 per diluted share.

     Preopening Expenses

     Preopening expenses related to new warehouses, major remodels/expansions,
regional offices and other startup operations are expensed as incurred.


                          COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 1--SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
     Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

     The Company adopted the SFAS No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of
Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of" (SFAS No. 121),
as of the first quarter of fiscal 1997. In accordance with SFAS No. 121, the
Company recorded pretax, non-cash charges of $10,956, $31,080, and $5,629 in
fiscal 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively, reflecting its estimate of impairment
relating principally to excess property and closed warehouses. The charge
reflects the difference between carrying value and fair value, which was based
on market valuations for those assets whose carrying value was not recoverable
through future cash flows. The Company periodically evaluates the realizability
of long-lived assets based on expected future cash flows.

     Warehouse Closing Costs

     Warehouse closing costs incurred relate principally to the Company's
efforts to relocate certain warehouses that were not otherwise impaired to
larger and better-located facilities. As of September 3, 2000, the Company's
reserve for warehouse closing costs was $11,762, of which $8,887 related to
lease obligations.

     Income Taxes

     The Company accounts for income taxes under the provisions of Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes."
That standard requires companies to account for deferred income taxes using the
asset and liability method.

     Net Income Per Common and Common Equivalent Share

     The following data show the amounts used in computing earnings per share
and the effect on income and the weighted average number of shares of dilutive
potential common stock.



     All per share data reflects a 2-for-1 stock split which was approved by the
Company's Board of Directors for shareholders of record on December 24,1999. The
common stock began trading at a post-split price on January 14, 2000.


                          COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 1--SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
     The diluted share base calculation for fiscal years ended September 3,
2000, August 29, 1999 and August 30, 1998 excludes 3,659,000, 4,797,000 and
375,000 stock options outstanding, respectively. These options are excluded due
to their anti-dilutive effect as a result of their exercise prices being greater
than the average market price of the common shares during those fiscal years.

     In November 1998, the Company's Board of Directors authorized a stock
repurchase program of up to $500,000 of Costco Common Stock over the next three
years. Under the program, the Company may repurchase shares from time to time in
the open market or in private transactions as market conditions warrant. The
Company expects to fund stock purchases from cash and short-term investments on
hand, as well as from future operating cash flows. The repurchased shares would
constitute authorized but unissued shares and would be used for general
corporate purposes including stock option grants under stock option programs. As
of September 3, 2000, the Company had repurchased 3.13 million shares of common
stock at an average price of $31.96 per share, totaling approximately $99,946
excluding commissions.

     Supplemental Disclosure of Significant Non-Cash Activities

       Fiscal 2000 Non-Cash Activities

     - None.

       Fiscal 1999 Non-Cash Activities

     - In March 1999, approximately $48,000 principal amount of the $900,000,
       3 1/2% Zero Coupon Convertible Subordinated Notes were converted into
       approximately 1.09 million shares of Costco Common Stock.

       Fiscal 1998 Non-Cash Activities

     - None.

     Recent Accounting Pronouncements

     During June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 133, Accounting for Derivative and
Hedging Activities, and in June 2000, issued SFAS 138, Accounting for Certain
Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities, an amendment of SFAS 133.
These new standards require companies to record derivative financial instruments
on the balance sheet as assets or liabilities, measured at fair value. Gains or
losses resulting from changes in the fair value of those derivatives would be
accounted for based on the use of the derivative and whether the instrument
qualified for hedge accounting, as defined in SFAS 133 and 138. The Company was
required to adopt the provisions of SFAS 133 and 138 on September 4, 2000, the
first day of fiscal 2001. The Company's use of derivative instruments is limited
to the fixed-to-floating swap contract on its 7 1/8% Senior Notes and foreign
exchange contracts and the impact of adoption was not material.

     In December 1999, the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission
released Staff Accounting Bulletin, or SAB, No. 101, "Revenue Recognition", to
provide guidance on the recognition, presentation, and disclosure of revenues in
financial statements. The Company believes that its revenue recognition
practices are currently in conformity with the guidelines in SAB 101, as
revised, and that this pronouncement will have no impact on its financial
statements.


                          COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 1--SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
     In March 2000, the Financial Accounting Standard Board, or FASB, released
FASB Interpretation No. 44, "Accounting for Certain Transactions involving Stock
Compensation, an interpretation of APB Opinion No. 25," which provides
clarification of Opinion No. 25 for certain issues, such as the determination of
who is an employee, the criteria for determining whether a plan qualifies as a
non-compensatory plan, the accounting consequence of various modifications to
the terms of a previously fixed stock option or award, and the accounting for an
exchange of stock compensation awards in a business combination. The Company
believes that its practices are in conformity with this guidance, and therefore
Interpretation No. 44 will have no impact on its financial statements.

     Reclassifications

     Certain reclassifications have been reflected in the financial statements
in order to conform prior years to the current year presentation.

     Use of Estimates

     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the
date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and
expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those
estimates.

NOTE 2--DEBT

     Bank Lines of Credit and Commercial Paper Programs

     The Company has in place a $425,000 commercial paper program supported by a
$425,000 bank credit facility with a group of 11 banks, which expires in January
2001. At September 3, 2000, no amounts were outstanding under the loan facility
or the commercial paper program. On November 15, 2000, the bank facility was
increased to $500,000 of which $250,000 expires on November 14, 2001 and
$250,000 expires on November 15, 2005.

     In addition, a wholly owned Canadian subsidiary has a $136,000 commercial
paper program supported by a $95,000 bank credit facility with three Canadian
banks, which expires in March 2001. At September 3, 2000, no amounts were
outstanding under the bank credit facility or the Canadian commercial paper
program.

     The Company has agreed to limit the combined amount outstanding under the
U.S. and Canadian commercial paper programs to the $520,000 combined amounts of
the respective supporting bank credit facilities.

     Letters of Credit

     The Company has separate letter of credit facilities (for commercial and
standby letters of credit), totaling approximately $372,000. The outstanding
commitments under these facilities at September 3, 2000 totaled approximately
$273,000, including approximately $28,000 in standby letters of credit.


                          COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 2--DEBT (CONTINUED)
     Short-Term Borrowings

     The weighted average borrowings, highest borrowings and interest rate under
all short-term borrowing arrangements were as follows for fiscal 2000 and 1999:



     Long-term Debt

     Long-term debt at September 3, 2000 and August 29, 1999:



     The Company issued $300,000 of 7 1/8% Senior Notes in fiscal 1995. Interest
on the notes is payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15. The indentures
contain certain limitations on the Company's and certain subsidiaries' ability
to create liens securing indebtedness and to enter into certain sale leaseback
transactions. In December 1999, the Company entered into a "fixed-to-floating"
interest rate swap agreement which, as amended, replaces the fixed interest rate
with a floating rate indexed to LIBOR.


                          COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 2--DEBT (CONTINUED)
     In April 1996, the Company borrowed $140,000 from a group of banks under a
five-year unsecured term loan. Interest only is payable quarterly at rates based
on LIBOR.

     On August 19, 1997, the Company completed the sale of $900,000 principal
amount at maturity of Zero Coupon Subordinated Notes (the "Notes") due August
19, 2017. The Notes were priced with a yield to maturity of 3 1/2%, resulting in
gross proceeds to the Company of $449,640. The Notes are convertible into a
maximum of 20,438,180 shares of Costco Common Stock at an initial conversion
price of $22.00. Holders of the Notes may require the Company to purchase the
Notes (at the discounted issue price plus accrued interest to date of purchase)
on August 19, 2002, 2007, or 2012. The Company, at its option, may redeem the
Notes (at the discounted issue price plus accrued interest to date of
redemption) any time on or after August 19, 2002. As of September 3, 2000,
$48,123 in principal amount of the Zero Coupon Notes were converted by note
holders to shares of Costco Common Stock.

     In February, 1996, the Company filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission a shelf registration statement for $500,000 of senior debt
securities. Although the registration statement was declared effective, no
securities have been issued under this filing.

     At September 3, 2000, the fair value of the 7 1/8% Senior Notes, based on
market quotes, was approximately $300,120. The Senior Notes are not redeemable
prior to maturity. The fair value of the 3 1/2% Zero Coupon Subordinated Notes
at September 3, 2000, based on market quotes, was approximately $727,418. The
fair value of other long-term debt approximates carrying value.

     Maturities of long-term debt during the next five fiscal years and
thereafter are as follows:



  NOTE 3--LEASES

     The Company leases land and/or warehouse buildings at 68 of the 313
warehouses open at September 3, 2000, and certain other office and distribution
facilities under operating leases with remaining terms ranging from 1 to 30
years. These leases generally contain one or more of the following options which
the Company can exercise at the end of the initial lease term: (a) renewal of
the lease for a defined number of years at the then fair market rental rate; (b)
purchase of the property at the then fair market value; or (c) right of first
refusal in the event of a third party purchase offer. Certain leases provide for
periodic rental increases based on the price indices and some of the leases
provide for rents based on the greater of minimum guaranteed amounts or sales
volume. Contingent rents have not been material.

     Additionally, the Company leases certain equipment and fixtures under
short-term operating leases that permit the Company to either renew for a series
of one-year terms or to purchase the equipment at the then fair market value.


                          COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

  NOTE 3--LEASES (CONTINUED)
     Aggregate rental expense for fiscal 2000, 1999, and 1998, was $67,886,
$59,263, and $55,375, respectively. Future minimum payments during the next five
fiscal years and thereafter under non-cancelable leases with terms in excess of
one year, at September 3, 2000, were as follows:



NOTE 4--STOCK OPTIONS

     The Company's 1993 Combined Stock Grant and Stock Option Plan (the New
Stock Option Plan) provides for the issuance of up to 60 million shares of its
common stock upon the exercise of stock options and up to 3,333,332 shares
through stock grants. Prior to the merger of The Price Company and Costco
Wholesale Corporation, various incentive and non-qualified stock option plans
existed which allowed certain key employees and directors to purchase or be
granted common stock of The Price Company and Costco Wholesale Corporation
(collectively the Old Stock Option Plans). Options were granted for a maximum
term of ten years, and were exercisable upon vesting. Options granted under
these plans generally vest ratably over five to nine years. Subsequent to the
merger, new grants of options have not been made under the Old Stock Option
Plans. At September 3, 2000 options for approximately 12.6 million shares were
vested and 11.8 million shares were available for future grants under the plan.

     The Company applies Accounting Principles Board Opinion (APB) No. 25 and
related Interpretations in accounting for stock options. The Company grants
stock options at exercise prices equal to fair market value on the date of
grant, accordingly, no compensation cost has been recognized for the plans. Had
compensation cost for the Company's stock-based compensation plans been
determined based on the fair value at the grant dates for awards under those
plans consistent with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (SFAS
No. 123), "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," the Company's net income
and net income per share would have been reduced to the pro forma amounts
indicated below:



     The effects of applying SFAS No. 123 on pro forma disclosures of net income
and earnings per share for fiscal 2000, 1999 and 1998 are not likely to be
representative of the pro forma effects on net income and earnings per share in
future years.


                          COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 4--STOCK OPTIONS (CONTINUED)
     The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using
the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted average
assumptions used for grants in 2000, 1999 and 1998:



     Stock option transactions relating to the aggregate of the Old and New
Stock Option Plans are summarized below (shares in thousands):



- - ------------------------------
(1) Weighted-average exercise price/grant price

(2) The weighted-average fair value based on the Black-Scholes model of options
    granted during fiscal 2000, 1999 and 1998, were $20.35, $15.50, and $9.86,
    respectively.

     The following table summarizes information regarding stock options
outstanding at September 3, 2000:



- - ------------------------------
(1) Weighted-average

     At August 29, 1999 and August 30, 1998, there were 12,488 and 11,852
options exercisable at weighted average exercise prices of $21.19 and $9.83,
respectively.

NOTE 5--RETIREMENT PLANS

     The Company has a 401(k) Retirement Plan that is available to all U.S.
employees who have one year or more of service, except California union
employees. The plan allows pre-tax deferral against which the Company matches
50% of the first one thousand dollars of employee contributions. In addition,
the Company will provide each eligible participant a contribution based on
salary and years of service. The Company has a defined contribution plan for
Canadian and United Kingdom employees and contributes a percentage of each
employee's salary.


                          COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 5--RETIREMENT PLANS (CONTINUED)
     California union employees participate in a defined benefit plan sponsored
by their union. The Company makes contributions based upon its union agreement.
In June 1995, the Company also established a 401(k) plan for the California
union employees. The plan currently allows pre-tax deferral against which the
Company matches 50% of the first four hundred dollars of employee contributions.

     Amounts expensed under these plans were $97,830, $85,974, and $73,764 for
fiscal 2000, 1999, and 1998, respectively. The Company has defined contribution
401(k) and retirement plans only, and thus has no liability for post-retirement
benefit obligations under the SFAS No. 106 "Employer's Accounting for Post-
retirement Benefits Other than Pensions."

NOTE 6--INCOME TAXES

     The provisions for income taxes for fiscal 2000, 1999, and 1998 are as
follows:



- - ------------------------------
(a) Total provision for income taxes includes a provision on income before the
    cumulative effect of accounting change of $343,545 and a tax benefit of
    $78,682 resulting from the cumulative effect of accounting change.

     Reconciliation between the statutory tax rate and the effective rate for
fiscal 2000, 1999, and 1998 is as follows:




                          COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 6--INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED)
     The components of the deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:



     The deferred tax accounts at September 3, 2000 and August 29, 1999 include
current deferred income tax assets of $179,007 and $164,839, respectively, and
non-current deferred income tax liabilities of $80,386 and $58,217,
respectively. Current deferred income tax assets are included in other current
assets.

NOTE 7--COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

     Legal Proceedings

     The Company is involved from time to time in claims, proceedings and
litigation arising from its business and property ownership. The Company does
not believe that any such claim, proceeding or litigation, either alone or in
the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial
position or results of its operations.

NOTE 8--SEGMENT REPORTING

     In fiscal 1999, the Company adopted SFAS No. 131, "Disclosures about
Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information," which established reporting
and disclosure standards for an enterprise's operating segments. Operating
segments are defined as components of an enterprise for which separate financial
information is available and regularly reviewed by the Company's senior
management.


                          COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 8--SEGMENT REPORTING (CONTINUED)
     The Company and its subsidiaries are principally engaged in the operation
of membership warehouses in the United States, Canada, Japan and through
majority-owned subsidiaries in the United Kingdom, Taiwan and Korea and through
a 50%-owned joint venture in Mexico. The Company's reportable segments are based
on management responsibility.



NOTE 9--QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

     The tables that follow on the next two pages reflect the unaudited
quarterly results of operations for fiscal 2000 and 1999.



                          COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION

                   QUARTERLY STATEMENTS OF INCOME (UNAUDITED)
                 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)





                          COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION

                   QUARTERLY STATEMENTS OF INCOME (UNAUDITED)
                 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)





                                 EXHIBIT INDEX

     The following exhibits are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K
or are incorporated herein by reference. Where an exhibit is incorporated by
reference, the number that follows the description of the exhibit indicates the
document to which cross-reference is made. See the end of this exhibit index for
a listing of cross-reference documents.



- - ------------------------------
 (1) Incorporated by reference to the exhibits filed as part of the Registration
     Statement of Price/Costco, Inc. on Form S-4 (File No. 33-50359) dated
     September 22, 1993.

 (2) Incorporated by reference to the exhibits filed as part of the Annual
     Report on Form 10-K of Costco Companies, Inc. for the fiscal year ended
     August 31, 1997.



 (3) Incorporated by reference to the exhibits filed as part of the Current
     Report on Form 8-K filed by Costco Wholesale Corporation on August 30,
     1999.

 (4) Incorporated by reference to the exhibits filed as part of the Registration
     Statement of Price/Costco, Inc. on Form S-3 (File No. 33-59403) dated May
     17, 1995.

 (5) Incorporated by reference to the exhibits filed as part of the Annual
     Report on Form 10-K of Price/ Costco, Inc. for the fiscal year ended August
     28, 1994.

 (6) Incorporated by reference to the exhibits filed as part of the Annual
     Report on Form 10-K of Price/ Costco, Inc. for the fiscal year ended
     September 1, 1996.

 (7) Incorporated by reference to the exhibits filed as part of the Quarterly
     Report on Form 10-Q of Price/ Costco, Inc. for the fiscal year ended
     February 13, 1994.

 (8) Incorporated by reference to the exhibits filed as part of the Annual
     Report on Form 10-K of Price/ Costco, Inc. for the fiscal year ended
     September 3, 1995.

 (9) Incorporated by reference to the exhibits filed as part of the Annual
     Report on Form 10-K of Costco Companies, Inc. for the fiscal year ended
     August 30, 1998.

(10) Incorporated by reference to the exhibits filed as part of the Annual
     Report on Form 10-K of Costco Wholesale Corporation for the fiscal year
     ended August 29, 1999.


