Item 1A.RISK FACTORS

Investing in The Hartford involves risk. In deciding whether to invest in The Hartford, you
should carefully consider the following risk factors, any of which could have a significant or
material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity
of The Hartford and could also cause the trading price of our securities, including our common
stock and other equity-related securities, to experience significant fluctuations and volatility.
The Hartford may also be subject to other general risks that are not specifically enumerated. This
information should be considered carefully together with the other information contained in this
report and the other reports and materials filed by The Hartford with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (“SEC”). The following risk factors are not necessarily listed in order of importance.

Our operating environment remains subject to uncertainty about the timing and strength of an
economic recovery. The steps we have taken to realign our businesses and strengthen our capital
position may not be adequate to mitigate the financial, competitive and other risks associated with
our operating environment, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.

The decline of certain global economies, including Europe, and the possible contagion effect, cast
uncertainty regarding the timing and strength of an economic recovery, which negatively affected
our operating environment in 2011. Continued high unemployment, lower family income, lower business
investment and lower consumer spending in most geographic markets we serve have adversely affected
the demand for financial and insurance products, as well as their profitability in some cases. Our
results, financial condition and statutory capital remain sensitive to equity and credit market
performance and effects of interest rates and foreign currency, and we expect that market
conditions will put pressure on returns in our life and property and casualty investment portfolios
and that our hedging costs (in particular with respect to our variable annuities businesses) will
remain higher than historical levels. If global economies continue to decline, economic conditions
do not broadly improve and real estate valuations do not stabilize and over time increase, we would
expect to experience additional realized and unrealized investment losses, particularly in the real
estate and financial services sectors. Negative rating agency actions with respect to our
investments could also indirectly adversely affect our statutory capital and risk-based capital
(“RBC”) ratios, which could in turn have other negative consequences for our business and results.

The steps we have taken to realign our businesses and strengthen our capital position may not be
adequate if economic conditions do not continue to improve in line with our forecasts. These steps
include ongoing initiatives, particularly the execution risk relating to the continued
repositioning of our investment portfolios and the continuing refinement of our hedge programs for
our variable annuity businesses. If our actions are not adequate, our ability to support the scale
of our business and to absorb operating losses and liabilities under our customer contracts could
be impaired, which would in turn adversely affect our overall competitiveness and the capital
position of the Company.

Even if the measures we have taken (or take in the future) are effective to mitigate the risks
associated with our current operating environment, they may have unintended consequences. For
example, rebalancing our hedging program to protect economic value, while being mindful of
statutory surplus, may result in greater earnings volatility under generally accepted accounting
principles in the U.S. (“U.S. GAAP”). We could be required to consider actions to manage our
capital position and liquidity or further reduce our exposure to market and financial risks. We
may also be forced to sell assets on unfavorable terms that could cause us to incur charges or lose
the potential for market upside on those assets in a market recovery. We could also face other
pressures, such as employee recruitment and retention issues and potential loss of distribution for
our products. Additionally, if there was concern over the Company’s capital position that creates
an anticipation of the Company issuing additional common stock or equity linked instruments,
trading prices for our common stock could decline.





As a result of our ongoing evaluation of the Company’s strategy and business portfolio, we may
pursue one or more transactions or take other actions, which may include discontinuance or placing
in run-off certain lines of business and/or pursuing strategic acquisitions, divestitures or
restructurings, any of which could subject the Company to a number of challenges, uncertainties and
risks or negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.

As previously announced, we are evaluating our strategy and business portfolio with the goal of
delivering greater shareholder value. In particular, we noted that while we recognize there are
potential benefits to a separation of our P&C and life companies, there are challenges to
successfully executing such a separation.

We are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risk, including changes in interest
rates, credit spreads, equity prices, market volatility, foreign exchange rates and global real
estate market deterioration that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition, results of operations, and liquidity.

One important exposure to equity risk relates to the potential for lower earnings associated with
certain of our businesses in Wealth Management and Runoff Operations, such as U.S. and
international variable annuities, where fee income is earned based upon the fair value of the
assets under management. Should equity markets decline from current levels, assets under
management and related fee income will be reduced. Such a decline would also place greater stress
on the variable annuities businesses, which requires significant allocated capital due to rating
agencies and regulatory requirements, including with respect to stress scenarios. Furthermore,
certain of our products offer guaranteed benefits that increase our potential obligation and
statutory capital exposure should equity markets continue to decline. Sustained declines in equity
markets may result in the need to devote significant additional capital to support these products.
We are also exposed to interest rate and equity risk based upon the discount rate and expected
long-term rate of return assumptions associated with our pension and other post-retirement benefit
obligations. Prolonged low interest rates or market returns are likely to have a negative effect on
the funded status of these plans.





Our statutory surplus is also affected by widening credit spreads as a result of the accounting for
the assets and liabilities on our fixed market value adjusted (“MVA”) annuities. Statutory separate
account assets supporting the fixed MVA annuities are recorded at fair value. In determining the
statutory reserve for the fixed MVA annuities we are required to use current crediting rates in the
U.S. and Japanese LIBOR in Japan. In many capital market scenarios, current crediting rates in the
U.S. are highly correlated with market rates implicit in the fair value of statutory separate
account assets. As a result, the change in the statutory reserve from period to period will likely
substantially offset the change in the fair value of the statutory separate account assets.
However, in periods of volatile credit markets, actual credit spreads on investment assets may
increase sharply for certain sub-sectors of the overall credit market, resulting in statutory
separate account asset market value losses. As actual credit spreads are not fully reflected in
current crediting rates in the U.S. or Japanese LIBOR in Japan, the calculation of statutory
reserves will not substantially offset the change in fair value of the statutory separate account
assets resulting in reductions in statutory surplus. This has resulted and may continue to result
in the need to devote significant additional capital to support the fixed MVA product.

Our primary foreign currency exchange risk is related to certain guaranteed benefits associated
with the Japan and U.K. variable annuities. The strengthening of the yen compared with other
currencies will substantially increase our exposure to pay yen-denominated obligations. In
addition, our foreign currency exchange risk relates to net income from foreign operations,
non-U.S. dollar denominated investments, investments in foreign subsidiaries, and our
yen-denominated individual fixed annuity product. In general, the weakening of foreign currencies
versus the U.S. dollar will unfavorably affect net income from foreign operations, the value of
non-U.S. dollar denominated investments, investments in foreign subsidiaries and realized gains or
losses on the yen denominated annuity products. A strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to
foreign currencies will increase our exposure to the U.S. variable annuity guarantee benefits where
policyholders have elected to invest in international funds, generating losses and statutory
surplus strain.

Our real estate market exposure includes investments in commercial mortgage-backed securities,
residential mortgage-backed securities, commercial real estate collateralized debt obligations,
mortgage and real estate partnerships, and mortgage loans. Significant deterioration in the real
estate market in the recent past has adversely affected our business and results of operations.
Further deterioration in the real estate market, including increases in property vacancy rates,
delinquencies and foreclosures, could have a negative impact on property values and sources of
refinancing resulting in reduced market liquidity and higher risk premiums. This could result in
impairments of real estate backed securities, a reduction in net investment income associated with
real estate partnerships, and increases in our valuation allowance for mortgage loans.

Significant declines in equity prices, changes in U.S. interest rates, changes in credit spreads,
inflation, the strengthening or weakening of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar, or global
real estate market deterioration, individually or in combination, could have a material adverse
effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.

Concentration of our investment portfolio in any particular segment of the economy may have adverse
effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.

The concentration of our investment portfolios in any particular industry, collateral type, group
of related industries or geographic sector could have an adverse effect on our investment
portfolios and consequently on our business, financial condition, results of operations and
liquidity. Events or developments that have a negative impact on any particular industry, group of
related industries or geographic region may have a greater adverse effect on our investment
portfolio to the extent that the portfolio is concentrated rather than diversified.

Our adjustment of our risk management program relating to products we offer with guaranteed
benefits to emphasize protection of statutory surplus and cash flows will likely result in greater
U.S. GAAP volatility in our earnings and potentially material charges to net income in periods of
rising equity market pricing levels.





The amount of statutory capital that we have, and the amount of statutory capital that we must hold
to maintain our financial strength and credit ratings and meet other requirements, can vary
significantly from time to time and is sensitive to a number of factors outside of our control,
including equity market, credit market, interest rate and foreign currency conditions, changes in
policyholder behavior and changes in rating agency models.

We conduct the vast majority of our business through licensed insurance company subsidiaries.
Accounting standards and statutory capital and reserve requirements for these entities are
prescribed by the applicable insurance regulators and the National Association of Insurance
Commissioners (“NAIC”). Insurance regulators have established regulations that provide minimum
capitalization requirements based on RBC formulas for both life and property and casualty
companies. The RBC formula for life companies establishes capital requirements relating to
insurance, business, asset and interest rate risks, including equity, interest rate and expense
recovery risks associated with variable annuities and group annuities that contain death benefits
or certain living benefits. The RBC formula for property and casualty companies adjusts statutory
surplus levels for certain underwriting, asset, credit and off-balance sheet risks. Our
international operations are subject to regulation in the relevant jurisdiction in which they
operate, which in many ways is similar to the state regulation outlined above, with similar related
restrictions and obligations.

Downgrades in our financial strength or credit ratings, which may make our products less
attractive, could increase our cost of capital and inhibit our ability to refinance our debt, which
would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations
and liquidity.

Financial strength and credit ratings, including commercial paper ratings, are important in
establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. Rating agencies assign ratings based
upon several factors. While most of the factors relate to the rated company, some of the factors
relate to the views of the rating agency, general economic conditions, and circumstances outside
the rated company’s control. In addition, rating agencies may employ different models and formulas
to assess the financial strength of a rated company, and from time to time rating agencies have, at
their discretion, altered these models. Changes to the models, general economic conditions, or
circumstances outside our control could impact a rating agency’s judgment of its rating and the
rating it assigns us. We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we
may take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which may adversely affect us.

Our financial strength ratings, which are intended to measure our ability to meet policyholder
obligations, are an important factor affecting public confidence in most of our products and, as a
result, our competitiveness. A downgrade or a potential downgrade in the rating of our financial
strength or of one of our principal insurance subsidiaries could affect our competitive position
and reduce future sales of our products.

Our credit ratings also affect our cost of capital. A downgrade or a potential downgrade of our
credit ratings could make it more difficult or costly to refinance maturing debt obligations, to
support business growth at our insurance subsidiaries and to maintain or improve the financial
strength ratings of our principal insurance subsidiaries. Downgrades could begin to trigger
potentially material collateral calls on certain of our derivative instruments and counterparty
rights to terminate derivative relationships, both of which could limit our ability to purchase
additional derivative instruments. These events could materially adversely affect our business,
financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.





Our valuations of many of our financial instruments include methodologies, estimations and
assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment
valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.

The following financial instruments are carried at fair value in the Company’s consolidated
financial statements: fixed maturities, equity securities, freestanding and embedded derivatives,
and separate account assets. The determination of fair values is made at a specific point in time,
based on available market information and judgments about financial instruments, including
estimates of the timing and amounts of expected future cash flows and the credit standing of the
issuer or counterparty. The use of different methodologies and assumptions may have a material
effect on the estimated fair value amounts.

During periods of market disruption, including periods of rapidly widening credit spreads or
illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less
frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be certain asset classes that were
in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the financial
environment. In such cases, securities may require more subjectivity and management judgment in
determining their fair values and those fair values may differ materially from the value at which
the investments may be ultimately sold. Further, rapidly changing or unprecedented credit and
equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities and the
period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly. Decreases in value could have a
material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.

Evaluation of available-for-sale securities for other-than-temporary impairment involves subjective
determinations and could materially impact our results of operations.

The evaluation of impairments is a quantitative and qualitative process, which is subject to risks
and uncertainties and is intended to determine whether a credit and/or non-credit impairment exists
and whether an impairment should be recognized in current period earnings or in other comprehensive
income. The risks and uncertainties include changes in general economic conditions, the issuer’s
financial condition or future recovery prospects, the effects of changes in interest rates or
credit spreads and the expected recovery period. For securitized financial assets with contractual
cash flows, the Company currently uses its best estimate of cash flows over the life of the
security. In addition, estimating future cash flows involves incorporating information received
from third-party sources and making internal assumptions and judgments regarding the future
performance of the underlying collateral and assessing the probability that an adverse change in
future cash flows has occurred. The determination of the amount of other-than-temporary
impairments is based upon our quarterly evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks
associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as
conditions change and new information becomes available.

Additionally, our management considers a wide range of factors about the security issuer and uses
their best judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the
security and in assessing the prospects for recovery. Inherent in management’s evaluation of the
security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings
potential. Considerations in the impairment evaluation process include, but are not limited to:

•the length of time and the extent to which the fair value has been less than cost or
amortized cost;



•changes in the financial condition, credit rating and near-term prospects of the issuer;



•whether the issuer is current on contractually obligated interest and principal
payments;



•changes in the financial condition of the security’s underlying collateral;



•the payment structure of the security;



•the potential for impairments in an entire industry sector or sub-sector;



•the potential for impairments in certain economically depressed geographic locations;



•the potential for impairments of securities where the issuer, series of issuers or
industry has suffered a catastrophic type of loss or has exhausted natural resources;



•unfavorable changes in forecasted cash flows on mortgage-backed and asset-backed
securities;



•for mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, commercial and residential property
value declines that vary by property type and location and average cumulative collateral
loss rates that vary by vintage year;



•other subjective factors, including concentrations and information obtained from
regulators and rating agencies;



•our intent to sell a debt or an equity security with debt-like characteristics
(collectively, “debt security”) or whether it is more likely than not that the Company will
be required to sell the debt security before its anticipated recovery; and



•our intent and ability to retain an equity security without debt-like characteristics
for a period of time sufficient to allow for the recovery of its value.

Impairment losses in earnings could materially adversely affect our results of operation and
financial condition.





Losses due to nonperformance or defaults by others, including issuers of investment securities
(which include structured securities such as commercial mortgage backed securities and residential
mortgage backed securities, European private and sovereign issuers, or other high yielding bonds)
mortgage loans or reinsurance and derivative instrument counterparties, could have a material
adverse effect on the value of our investments, business, financial condition, results of
operations and liquidity.

Issuers or borrowers whose securities or loans we hold, customers, trading counterparties,
counterparties under swaps and other derivative contracts, reinsurers, clearing agents, exchanges,
clearing houses and other financial intermediaries and guarantors may default on their obligations
to us due to bankruptcy, insolvency, lack of liquidity, adverse economic conditions, operational
failure, fraud, government intervention or other reasons. Such defaults could have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.
Additionally, the underlying assets supporting our structured securities or loans may deteriorate
causing these securities or loans to incur losses.

Our investment portfolio includes securities backed by real estate assets the value of which have
been adversely impacted by the recent recessionary period, high unemployment rates and the
associated property value declines, ultimately resulting in a reduction in expected future cash
flows for certain securities. The Company also has exposure to European based issuers of
securities and providers of reinsurance, as well as indirect European exposure resulting from the
variable annuity products that it has sold in Japan and the United Kingdom. Further details of the
European private and sovereign issuers held within the investment portfolio and indirect variable
annuity exposures can be found in Part II, Item 7, MD&A — Enterprise Risk Management — Investment
Portfolio Risks and Risk Management. The Company’s European based reinsurance arrangements are
further described in Part II, Item 7, MD&A — Enterprise Risk Management — Investment Portfolio
Risks and Risk Management — European Exposure.

Further property value declines and loss rates that exceed our current estimates, as outlined in
Part II, Item 7, MD&A — Enterprise Risk Management — Other-Than-Temporary Impairments, a
worsening of general economic conditions, including the European financial crisis, could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.

To the extent the investment portfolio is not adequately diversified, concentrations of credit risk
may exist which could negatively impact the Company if significant adverse events or developments
occur in any particular industry, group of related industries or geographic regions. The Company
is not exposed to any credit concentration risk of a single issuer greater than 10% of the
Company’s stockholders’ equity other than U.S. government and U.S. government agencies backed by
the full faith and credit of the U.S. government. However, if issuers of securities or loans we
hold are acquired, merge or otherwise consolidate with other issuers of securities or loans held by
the Company, the Company’s credit concentration risk could increase above the 10% threshold, for a
period of time, until the Company is able to sell securities to get back in compliance with the
established investment credit policies.

If assumptions used in estimating future gross profits differ from actual experience, we may be
required to accelerate the amortization of DAC and increase reserves for guaranteed minimum death
and income benefits, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and
financial condition.

If our businesses do not perform well, we may be required to recognize an impairment of our
goodwill or to establish a valuation allowance against the deferred income tax asset, which could
have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.

Goodwill represents the excess of the amounts we paid to acquire subsidiaries and other businesses
over the fair value of their net assets at the date of acquisition. We test goodwill at least
annually for impairment. Impairment testing is performed based upon estimates of the fair value of
the “reporting unit” to which the goodwill relates. The reporting unit is the operating segment or
a business one level below that operating segment if discrete financial information is prepared and
regularly reviewed by management at that level. The fair value of the reporting unit is impacted by
the performance of the business and could be adversely impacted by any efforts made by the Company
to limit risk. If it is determined that the goodwill has been impaired, the Company must write
down the goodwill by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding charge to net income. These
write downs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial
condition.





Deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax basis of
assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if
they are realizable. Factors in management’s determination include the performance of the business
including the ability to generate capital gains, to offset previously recognized capital losses,
from a variety of sources and tax planning strategies. If based on available information, it is
more likely than not that we are unable to recognize a full tax benefit on realized capital losses,
then a valuation allowance will be established with a corresponding charge to net income. Charges
to increase our valuation allowance could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations and financial condition. As previously announced, we are evaluating our strategy and
business portfolios with the goal of delivering greater shareholder value. Certain strategic
transactions may adversely affect our ability to realize our deferred tax assets.

The occurrence of one or more terrorist attacks in the geographic areas we serve or the threat of
terrorism in general may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition,
results of operations and liquidity.

Our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity may be materially adversely
affected by unfavorable loss development.





It is difficult for us to predict our potential exposure for asbestos and environmental claims, and
our ultimate liability may exceed our currently recorded reserves, which may have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.

We are particularly vulnerable to losses from catastrophes, both natural and man-made, which could
materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and
liquidity.

Our liquidity could be constrained by a catastrophe, or multiple catastrophes, which could result
in extraordinary losses. In addition, in part because accounting rules do not permit insurers to
reserve for such catastrophic events until they occur, claims from catastrophic events could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.
To the extent that loss experience unfolds or models improve, we will seek to reflect any increased
risk in the design and pricing of our products. However, the Company may be exposed to regulatory
or legislative actions that prevent a full accounting of loss expectations in the design or pricing
of our products or result in additional risk-shifting to the insurance industry.

We may incur losses due to our reinsurers’ unwillingness or inability to meet their obligations
under reinsurance contracts and the availability, pricing and adequacy of reinsurance may not be
sufficient to protect us against losses.





Competitive activity may adversely affect our market share and financial results, which could have
a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

The insurance industry is highly competitive. Our competitors include other insurers and, because
many of our products include an investment component, securities firms, investment advisers, mutual
funds, banks and other financial institutions. These competitors compete with us for producers
such as brokers and independent agents and for our employees. Larger competitors may have lower
operating costs and an ability to absorb greater risk while maintaining their financial strength
ratings, thereby allowing them to price their products more competitively. These highly
competitive pressures could result in increased pricing pressures on a number of our products and
services and may harm our ability to maintain or increase our profitability. Because of the highly
competitive nature of the insurance industry, there can be no assurance that we will continue to
effectively compete with our industry rivals, or that competitive pressure will not have a material
adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

We may experience difficulty in marketing, distributing and providing investment advisory services
in relation to our products through current and future distribution channels and advisory firms.

We distribute our annuity, life, property and casualty insurance products and mutual funds through
a variety of distribution channels, including brokers, independent agents, broker-dealers, banks,
wholesalers, affinity partners, our own internal sales force and other third-party organizations.
In some areas of our business, we generate a significant portion of our business through or in
connection with individual third-party arrangements. For example, we market our Consumer Markets
products in part through an exclusive licensing arrangement with AARP that continues through
January 2020. Our ability to distribute products through affinity partners may be adversely
impacted by membership levels and the pace of membership growth. In addition, we work with a
number of key investment advisers in managing our products and mutual funds. In December 2011, for
example, we entered into a 5-year agreement with Wellington Management Company as the preferred
sub-advisor for The Hartford Mutual Funds. We periodically negotiate provisions and renewals of
these relationships, and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to us or
such third parties. An interruption in our continuing relationship with certain of these third
parties, including potentially as a result of a strategic transaction, could materially affect our
ability to market our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition, results of operations and liquidity.

The impact of regulatory initiatives, including the enactment of The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform
and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), could have a material adverse impact on
our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.

Regulatory developments relating to the recent financial crisis may significantly affect our
operations and prospects in ways that we cannot predict. U.S. and overseas governmental and
regulatory authorities, including the SEC, The Federal Reserve, the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation (“FDIC”), the New York Stock Exchange and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
are considering enhanced or new regulatory requirements intended to prevent future crises or
otherwise stabilize the institutions under their supervision. Such measures are likely to lead to
stricter regulation of financial institutions generally, and heightened prudential requirements for
systemically important companies in particular. Such measures could include taxation of financial
transactions and restrictions on employee compensation.

The Dodd-Frank Act was enacted on July 21, 2010, mandating changes to the regulation of the
financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act may affect our operations and governance in ways
that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.

Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will require central clearing of, and/or impose new margin
and capital requirements on, derivatives transactions, which we expect will increase the costs of
our hedging program. Other provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that may impact us include: a new
“Federal Insurance Office” within Treasury; discretionary authority for the SEC to impose a
harmonized standard of care for investment advisers and broker-dealers who provide personalized
advice about securities to retail customers; possible adverse impact on the pricing and liquidity of the
securities in which we invest resulting from the proprietary trading and market making limitation of the Volcker Rule; possible prohibition of certain asset-backed
securities transactions that could adversely impact our ability to offer insurance-linked
securities; and enhancements to corporate governance, especially regarding risk management.

In particular, the Dodd-Frank Act vests a newly created Financial Services Oversight Council
(“FSOC”) with the power to designate “systemically important” institutions, which will be subject
to special regulatory supervision and other provisions intended to prevent, or mitigate the impact
of, future disruptions in the U.S. financial system. Systemically important institutions are
limited to large bank holding companies and nonbank financial companies that are so important that
their potential failure could “pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States.” The
FSOC released a second notice of proposed rulemaking setting forth the process they propose to
follow when designating systemically important nonbank financial companies in October 2011, but has
not yet released a final rule or indicated when the FSOC will begin designating systemically
important nonbank financial companies.





We may experience unfavorable judicial or legislative developments involving claim litigation that
could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations
and liquidity.

Our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity may be adversely affected by
the emergence of unexpected and unintended claim and coverage issues.

As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change,
unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may
either extend coverage beyond our underwriting intent or increase the frequency or severity of
claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until some time after we have
issued insurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of
liability under our insurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued,
and this liability may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results
of operations and liquidity at the time it becomes known.

Potential changes in domestic and foreign regulation may increase our business costs and required
capital levels, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition,
results of operations and liquidity.

We are subject to extensive U.S. and non-U.S. laws and regulations that are complex, subject to
change and often conflicting in their approach or intended outcomes. Compliance with these laws
and regulations is costly and can affect our strategy, as well as the demand for and profitability
of the products we offer.

State insurance laws regulate most aspects of our U.S. insurance businesses, and our insurance
subsidiaries are regulated by the insurance departments of the states in which they are domiciled,
licensed or authorized to conduct business. U.S. state laws grant insurance regulatory authorities
broad administrative powers with respect to, among other things:

•licensing companies and agents to transact business;•calculating the value of assets to determine compliance with statutory requirements;•mandating certain insurance benefits;•regulating certain premium rates;•reviewing and approving policy forms;•regulating unfair trade and claims practices, including through the imposition of
restrictions on marketing and sales practices, distribution arrangements and payment of
inducements;•protecting privacy;•establishing statutory capital and reserve requirements and solvency standards;•fixing maximum interest rates on insurance policy loans and minimum rates for guaranteed
crediting rates on life insurance policies and annuity contracts;•approving changes in control of insurance companies;•approving acquisitions, divestitures and similar transactions;•restricting the payment of dividends to the parent company and other transactions
between affiliates;•establishing assessments and surcharges for guaranty funds, second-injury funds and
other mandatory pooling arrangements;•requiring insurers to dividend any excess profits to policy holders; and•regulating the types, amounts and valuation of investments.







.

Furthermore, our international operations are subject to regulation in the relevant jurisdictions
in which they operate (primarily the Japan Financial Services Agency and the United Kingdom Financial Services Authority), which in many ways is similar to the state regulation outlined above, with
similar related restrictions and obligations. Our asset management businesses are also subject to
extensive regulation in the various jurisdictions where they operate.

In addition, future regulatory initiatives could be adopted at the federal or state level that
could impact the profitability of our businesses.

These laws and regulations are primarily intended to protect investors in the securities markets or
investment advisory clients and generally grant supervisory authorities broad administrative
powers. Compliance with these laws and regulations is costly, time consuming and personnel
intensive, and may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of
operations and liquidity. See the risk factor, “The impact of regulatory initiatives, including the enactment of
The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), could
have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and
liquidity.”

Our ability to declare and pay dividends is subject to limitations.

The payment of future dividends on our capital stock is subject to the discretion of our board of
directors, which considers, among other factors, our operating results, overall financial
condition, credit-risk considerations and capital requirements, as well as general business and
market conditions.

Moreover, as a holding company that is separate and distinct from our insurance subsidiaries, we
have no significant business operations of our own. Therefore, we rely on dividends from our
insurance company subsidiaries and other subsidiaries as the principal source of cash flow to meet
our obligations. These obligations include payments on our debt securities and the payment of
dividends on our capital stock. The Connecticut insurance holding company laws limit the payment of
dividends by Connecticut-domiciled insurers. In addition, these laws require notice to and approval
by the state insurance commissioner for the declaration or payment by those subsidiaries of any
dividend which, together with other dividends or distributions made within the preceding 12 months,
exceeds the greater of:

•10% of the insurer’s policyholder surplus as of December 31 of the preceding year, or

•net income, or net gain from operations if the subsidiary is a life insurance company,
for the previous calendar year, in each case determined under statutory insurance
accounting principles.

In addition, if any dividend of a Connecticut-domiciled insurer exceeds the insurer’s earned
surplus, it requires the prior approval of the Connecticut Insurance Commissioner.

The insurance holding company laws of the other jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries
are incorporated, or deemed commercially domiciled, generally contain similar, and in some
instances more restrictive, limitations on the payment of dividends. Dividends paid to us by our
insurance subsidiaries are further dependent on their cash requirements. For further discussion on
dividends from insurance subsidiaries, see Part II, Item 7, MD&A — Capital Resources & Liquidity.

Our rights to participate in any distribution of the assets of any of our subsidiaries, for
example, upon their liquidation or reorganization, and the ability of holders of our common stock
to benefit indirectly from a distribution, are subject to the prior claims of creditors of the
applicable subsidiary, except to the extent that we may be a creditor of that subsidiary. Claims on
these subsidiaries by persons other than us include, as of December, 2011, claims by policyholders
for benefits payable amounting to $117.1 billion, claims by separate account holders of $143.9
billion, and other liabilities including claims of trade creditors, claims from guaranty
associations and claims from holders of debt obligations, amounting to $13.0 billion.

Holders of our capital stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors
may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Moreover, our common stockholders are
subject to the prior dividend rights of any holders of our preferred stock or depositary shares
representing such preferred stock then outstanding. As of December 31, 2011, there were 575,000
shares of
our Series F Preferred Stock issued and outstanding. Under the terms of the Series F Preferred
Stock, our ability to declare and pay dividends on or repurchase our common stock will be subject
to restrictions in the event we fail to declare and pay (or set aside for payment) full dividends
on the Series F Preferred Stock.





The terms of our outstanding junior subordinated debt securities also prohibit us from declaring or
paying any dividends or distributions on our capital stock or purchasing, acquiring, or making a
liquidation payment on such stock, if we have given notice of our election to defer interest
payments but the related deferral period has not yet commenced or a deferral period is continuing.

As a property and casualty insurer, the premium rates we are able to charge and the profits we are
able to obtain are affected by the actions of state insurance departments that regulate our
business, the cyclical nature of the business in which we compete and our ability to adequately
price the risks we underwrite, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition, results of operations and liquidity.

Pricing adequacy depends on a number of factors, including the ability to obtain regulatory
approval for rate changes, proper evaluation of underwriting risks, the ability to project future
loss cost frequency and severity based on historical loss experience adjusted for known trends, our
response to rate actions taken by competitors, and expectations about regulatory and legal
developments and expense levels. We seek to price our property and casualty insurance policies
such that insurance premiums and future net investment income earned on premiums received will
provide for an acceptable profit in excess of underwriting expenses and the cost of paying claims.

State insurance departments that regulate us often propose premium rate changes for the benefit of
the consumer at the expense of the insurer and may not allow us to reach targeted levels of
profitability. In addition to regulating rates, certain states have enacted laws that require a
property and casualty insurer conducting business in that state to participate in assigned risk
plans, reinsurance facilities, joint underwriting associations and other residual market plans, or
to offer coverage to all consumers and often restrict an insurer’s ability to charge the price it
might otherwise charge. In these markets, we may be compelled to underwrite significant amounts of
business at lower than desired rates, participate in the operating losses of residual market plans
or pay assessments to fund operating deficits of state-sponsored funds, possibly leading to
unacceptable returns on equity. The laws and regulations of many states also limit an insurer’s
ability to withdraw from one or more lines of insurance in the state, except pursuant to a plan
that is approved by the state’s insurance department. Additionally, certain states require
insurers to participate in guaranty funds for impaired or insolvent insurance companies. These
funds periodically assess losses against all insurance companies doing business in the state. Any
of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results
of operations and liquidity.

Additionally, the property and casualty insurance market is historically cyclical, experiencing
periods characterized by relatively high levels of price competition, less restrictive underwriting
standards and relatively low premium rates, followed by periods of relatively low levels of
competition, more selective underwriting standards and relatively high premium rates. Prices tend
to increase for a particular line of business when insurance carriers have incurred significant
losses in that line of business in the recent past or when the industry as a whole commits less of
its capital to writing exposures in that line of business. Prices tend to decrease when recent
loss experience has been favorable or when competition among insurance carriers increases. In all
of our property and casualty insurance product lines and states, there is a risk that the premium
we charge may ultimately prove to be inadequate as reported losses emerge. In addition, there is a
risk that regulatory constraints, price competition or incorrect pricing assumptions could prevent
us from achieving targeted returns. Inadequate pricing could have a material adverse effect on our
results of operations.

If we are unable to maintain the availability of our systems and safeguard the security of our data
due to the occurrence of disasters or a cyber or other information security incident, our ability
to conduct business may be compromised, we may incur substantial costs and suffer other negative
consequences, all of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition,
results of operations and liquidity.

We use computer systems to process, store, retrieve, evaluate and utilize customer and company data
and information. Our computer, information technology and telecommunications systems, in turn,
interface with and rely upon third-party systems. Our business is highly dependent on our ability,
and the ability of certain third parties, to access these systems to perform necessary business
functions, including, without limitation, conducting our financial reporting and analysis,
providing insurance quotes, processing premium payments, making changes to existing policies,
filing and paying claims, administering variable annuity products and mutual funds, providing
customer support and managing our investment portfolios and hedging programs. Systems failures or
outages could compromise our ability to perform these functions in a timely manner, which could
harm our ability to conduct business and hurt our relationships with our business partners and
customers. In the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, a pandemic, an industrial
accident, a blackout, a terrorist attack or war, systems upon which we rely may be inaccessible to
our employees, customers or business partners for an extended period of time. Even if our
employees and business partners are able to report to work, they may be unable to perform their
duties for an extended period of time if our data or systems used to conduct our business are
disabled or destroyed.

Moreover, our systems may be subject to a computer virus or other malicious code, unauthorized
access, a cyber-attack or other computer related violation. Such an event could compromise our
confidential information as well as that of our clients and third parties with whom we interact,
impede or interrupt our business operations and may result in other negative consequences,
including remediation costs, loss of revenue, additional regulatory scrutiny and litigation and
reputational damage.

In addition, we routinely transmit, receive and store personal, confidential and proprietary
information by email and other electronic means. Although we attempt to keep such information
confidential, we may be unable to utilize such capabilities in all events, especially with clients,
vendors, service providers, counterparties and other third parties who may not have or use
appropriate controls to protect confidential information. Furthermore, certain of our businesses
are subject to compliance with regulations enacted by U.S. federal and state governments, the
European Union, Japan or other jurisdictions or enacted by various regulatory organizations or
exchanges relating to the privacy of the information of clients, employees or others. A misuse or
mishandling of confidential or proprietary information being sent to or received from an employee
or third party could result in legal liability, regulatory action and reputational harm.





Third parties to whom we outsource certain of our functions are also subject to the risks outlined
above, any one of which may result in our incurring substantial costs and other negative
consequences, including a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of
operations and liquidity.

Our framework for managing business risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to us
that could adversely affect our businesses.

Our business performance is highly dependent on our ability to manage risks that arise from a large
number of day-to-day business activities, including insurance underwriting, claims processing,
servicing, investment, financial and tax reporting, compliance with regulatory requirements and
other activities, many of which are very complex and for some of which we rely on third parties. We
seek to monitor and control our exposure to risks arising out of these activities through a risk
control framework encompassing a variety of reporting systems, internal controls, management review
processes and other mechanisms. We cannot be completely confident that these processes and
procedures will effectively control all known risks or effectively identify unforeseen risks, or
that our employees and third-party agents will effectively implement them. Management of business
risks can fail for a number of reasons, including design failure, systems failure, failures to
perform, cyber security attacks or unlawful activities on the part of employees or third parties.
In the event that our controls are not effective or not properly implemented, we could suffer
financial or other loss, disruption of our businesses, regulatory sanctions or damage to our
reputation. Losses resulting from these failures can vary significantly in size, scope and scale
and may have material adverse effects on our financial condition or results of operations.

If we experience difficulties arising from outsourcing relationships, our ability to conduct
business may be compromised.

We outsource certain technology and business functions to third parties and expect to do so
selectively in the future. If we do not effectively develop and implement our outsourcing
strategy, third-party providers do not perform as anticipated, or we experience problems with a
transition, we may experience operational difficulties, inability to meet obligations, including,
but not limited to, policyholder obligations, increased costs and a loss of business that may have
a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For other risks associated with our
outsourcing of certain functions, see the risk factor, “If we are unable to maintain the
availability of our systems and safeguard the security of our data due to the occurrence of
disasters or a cyber or other information security incident, our ability to conduct business may be
compromised, we may incur substantial costs and suffer other negative consequences, all of which
may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and
liquidity.”

Potential changes in federal or state tax laws, including changes impacting the availability of the
separate account dividend received deduction, could adversely affect our business, financial
condition, results of operations and liquidity.

Many of the products that the Company sells benefit from one or more forms of tax-favored status
under current federal and state income tax regimes. For example, the Company sells life insurance
policies that benefit from the deferral or elimination of taxation on earnings accrued under the
policy, as well as permanent exclusion of certain death benefits that may be paid to policyholders’
beneficiaries. We also sell annuity contracts that allow the policyholders to defer the recognition
of taxable income earned within the contract. Other products that the Company sells also enjoy
similar, as well as other, types of tax advantages. The Company also benefits from certain tax
items, including but not limited to, tax-exempt bond interest, dividends-received deductions, tax
credits (such as foreign tax credits), and insurance reserve deductions.

Due in large part to the recent financial crisis that has affected many governments, there is an
increasing risk that federal and/or state tax legislation could be enacted that would result in
higher taxes on insurance companies and/or their policyholders. For example, on February 13, 2012,
the Obama Administration released its “FY 2013, Budget of the United States Government” that
includes proposals which, if enacted, would adversely affect the Company’s sale of variable
annuities and variable life products and its profits on corporate owned life insurance policies.
Although the specific form of any such potential legislation is uncertain, it could include
lessening or eliminating some or all of the tax advantages currently benefiting the Company or its
policyholders including, but not limited to, those mentioned above. This could occur in the context
of deficit reduction or other tax reforms. The effects of any such changes could have a material
adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition, and could result in materially lower
product sales, lapses of policies currently held, and/or our incurrence of materially higher
corporate taxes.

Changes in accounting principles and financial reporting requirements could result in material
changes to our reported results and financial condition.

U.S. GAAP and related financial reporting requirements are complex, continually evolving and may be
subject to varied interpretation by the relevant authoritative bodies. Such varied interpretations
could result from differing views related to specific facts and circumstances. Changes in U.S.
GAAP and financial reporting requirements, or in the interpretation of U.S. GAAP or those
requirements, could result in material changes to our reported results and financial condition.
Moreover, the SEC is currently evaluating International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) to
determine whether IFRS should be incorporated into the financial reporting system for U.S. issuers.
Certain of these standards could result in material changes to our reported results of operation.





We may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims.

We rely on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret
laws to establish and protect our intellectual property. Although we use a broad range of measures
to protect our intellectual property rights, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our
intellectual property. We may have to litigate to enforce and protect our copyrights, trademarks,
patents, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability, which
represents a diversion of resources that may be significant in amount and may not prove successful.
The loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to secure or enforce the protection
of our intellectual property assets could have a material adverse effect on our business and our
ability to compete.

We also may be subject to costly litigation in the event that another party alleges our operations
or activities infringe upon another party’s intellectual property rights. Third parties may have,
or may eventually be issued, patents that could be infringed by our products, methods, processes or
services. Any party that holds such a patent could make a claim of infringement against us. We may
also be subject to claims by third parties for breach of copyright, trademark, trade secret or
license usage rights. Any such claims and any resulting litigation could result in significant
liability for damages. If we were found to have infringed a third-party patent or other
intellectual property rights, we could incur substantial liability, and in some circumstances could
be enjoined from providing certain products or services to our customers or utilizing and
benefiting from certain methods, processes, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licenses, or
alternatively could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third parties, all
of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial
condition.



