10-K


z02267e10vk.htm

ANNUAL REPORT FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005

e10vk


United States Securities and Exchange Commission

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005.

Commission file number 1-10706

COMERICA INCORPORATED

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)

Delaware

38-1998421

(State or other Jurisdiction of Incorporation)

(IRS Employer Identification Number)

Comerica Tower at Detroit Center

500 Woodward Avenue, MC 3391

Detroit, Michigan 48226

(Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code)

(248) 371-5000

(Registrant’s Telephone Number, Including Area Code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act:

Ÿ

Common Stock, $5 par value

Ÿ

Rights to acquire Series D Preferred Stock, no par value

These securities are registered on the New York Stock Exchange.

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act:

Ÿ

7 1/4% Subordinated Notes due in 2007

Ÿ

9.98% Series B Capital Securities of Imperial Capital Trust I due 2026*

Ÿ

7.60% Trust Preferred of Comerica Capital Trust I due 2050

*

The registrant has reporting obligations for these
securities, which were acquired in connection with the merger of Imperial
Bancorp with and into Comerica Holdings Incorporated, a wholly-owned subsidiary
of the registrant. As a result of the merger, Imperial Capital Trust I became a
wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of the registrant .

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule
405 of the Securities Act.

þ

Yes

o

No

Indicate by check mark if registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
Section 15(d) of the Act.

o

Yes

þ

No

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

þ

Yes

o

No

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K
(§229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in
Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

o

Yes

þ

No

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of
the Exchange Act).

þ

Yes

o

No

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act).

o

Yes

þ

No

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer,
or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of “accelerated filer and large accelerated filer” in
Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated filer

þ

Accelerated filer

o

Non-accelerated filer

o

At June 30, 2005 (the last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal
quarter), the registrant’s common stock, $5 par value, held by non-affiliates had an aggregate
market value of $9,310,183,263 based on the closing price on the New York Stock Exchange on that
date of $57.80 per share and 161,075,835 shares of common stock held by non-affiliates. For
purposes of this Form 10-K only, it has been assumed that all common shares Comerica’s Trust
Department holds for Comerica and Comerica’s employee plans, and all common shares the registrant’s
directors and executive officers hold, are held by affiliates.

At
February 24, 2006, the registrant had outstanding 162,781,289 shares of its common stock,
$5 par value.

Documents Incorporated by Reference:

1. Parts I and II:

Items 1, 6-8 and 9A—Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2005.

2. Part III:

Items 10-14—Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 16, 2006.



PART I

Item 1. Business.

GENERAL

Comerica Incorporated (“Comerica”) is a financial services company, incorporated under the laws of
the State of Delaware, and headquartered in Detroit, Michigan. As of December 31, 2005, it was
among the 21 largest commercial banking companies in the United States. Comerica was formed in
1973 to acquire the outstanding common stock of Comerica Bank (formerly Comerica Bank-Detroit), one
of Michigan’s oldest banks (“Comerica Bank”). As of December 31, 2005, Comerica owned directly or
indirectly all the outstanding common stock of 3 active banking and 48 non-banking subsidiaries.
At December 31, 2005, Comerica had total assets of approximately $53.0 billion, total deposits of
approximately $42.4 billion, total loans (net of unearned income) of approximately $43.2 billion
and common shareholders’ equity of approximately $5.1 billion.

BUSINESS STRATEGY

Comerica has strategically aligned its operations into 3 major lines of business: The Business
Bank, The Retail Bank (formerly known as Small Business & Personal Financial Services), and Wealth
& Institutional Management. In addition to the three major lines of business, the Finance Division
is also reported as a segment.

The Business Bank is primarily comprised of the following businesses: middle market, commercial
real estate, national dealer services, global finance, large corporate, leasing, financial
services, and technology and life sciences. This business segment meets the needs of medium-size
businesses, multinational corporations and governmental entities by offering various products and
services, including commercial loans and lines of credit, deposits, cash management, capital market
products, international trade finance, letters of credit, foreign exchange management services and
loan syndication services.

The Retail Bank includes small business banking (entities with annual sales under $10 million) and
personal financial services, consisting of consumer lending, consumer deposit gathering and
mortgage loan origination. In addition to a full range of financial services provided to small
businesses and their owners, this business segment offers a variety of consumer products, including
deposit accounts, installment loans, credit and debit cards, student loans, home equity loans and
lines of credit, and residential mortgage loans.

Wealth & Institutional Management offers products and services consisting of personal trust, which
is designed to meet the personal financial needs of affluent individuals (as defined by individual
net income or wealth), private banking, institutional trust, retirement services, investment
management and advisory services (including Munder Capital Management), investment banking, and
discount securities brokerage
services. This business segment also offers the sale of mutual funds and annuity products, as well
as life, disability and long-term care insurance products.

The Finance segment includes Comerica’s securities portfolio and asset and liability management
activities. This segment is responsible for managing Comerica’s funding, liquidity and capital
needs,



performing interest sensitivity analysis, and executing various strategies to manage
Comerica’s exposure to liquidity, interest rate risk, and foreign exchange risk.

In addition, Comerica has positioned itself to deliver financial services in its four primary
geographic markets: Midwest & Other Markets, Western, Texas, and Florida. Midwest & Other Markets
includes all markets in which Comerica has operations, except for the Western, Texas and Florida
markets. Substantially all of Comerica’s international operations are included in the Midwest &
Other Markets segment. Currently, Michigan operations represent the significant majority of the
Midwest & Other Markets geographic market.

The Western market consists of the states of California, Arizona, Nevada, Colorado and Washington.
Currently, California operations represent the significant majority of the Western market.

The Texas and Florida markets consist of the states of Texas and Florida, respectively.

We provide financial information for our segments and information about our non-U.S. revenues and
long-lived assets: (1) under the caption, “Strategic Lines of Business” on pages 35 through 37 of
Comerica’s Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2005, which pages are
hereby incorporated by reference; and (2) in Note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements located on pages 107 through 111 of Comerica’s Annual Report to Shareholders for the
year ended December 31, 2005, which pages are hereby incorporated by reference.

We provide information about the net interest income and noninterest income we received from our
various classes of products and services: (1) under the caption, “Table 2: Analysis of Net Interest
Income — Fully Taxable Equivalent (FTE)” on page 24 of Comerica’s Annual Report to Shareholders for
the year ended December 31, 2005, which page is hereby incorporated by reference; and (2) under the
caption “Noninterest Income” on pages 30 through 32 of Comerica’s Annual Report to Shareholders for
the year ended December 31, 2005, which pages are hereby incorporated by reference.

We provide information on risks attendant to foreign operations under the caption, “Provision and
Allowance for Credit Losses” on pages 28 through 30 of Comerica’s Annual Report to Shareholders for
the year ended December 31, 2005, which pages are hereby incorporated by reference.

COMPETITION

The financial services business is highly competitive. Comerica’s banking subsidiaries compete
primarily with banks based in its primary areas of operations in the United States for loans,
deposits and trust accounts. Through its offices in Arizona, California, Colorado, Delaware,
Florida, Illinois, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, North Carolina, Nevada, New Jersey, New
York, Ohio, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia
and Washington, Comerica competes with other financial institutions for various deposits, loans and
other products and services.

Based on the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 (the “Interstate
Act”) and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act as described below, Comerica believes that the level of
competition in all geographic markets will increase in the future. In addition to banks,
Comerica’s banking subsidiaries also face competition from other financial intermediaries,
including savings and



loan associations, consumer finance companies, leasing companies, credit
unions, investment banks, insurance companies and securities firms.

SUPERVISION AND REGULATION

Banks, bank holding companies and financial institutions are highly regulated at both the state and
federal level. Comerica is subject to supervision and regulation at the federal level by the Board
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“FRB”) under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as
amended.

The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act expanded the activities in which a bank holding company registered as a
financial holding company can engage. The conditions to be a financial holding company include,
among others, the requirement that each depository institution subsidiary of the holding company be
well capitalized and well managed.

Comerica became a financial holding company in 2000. As a financial holding company, Comerica may
affiliate with securities firms and insurance companies and engage in activities that are financial
in nature. Activities that are “financial in nature” include, but are not limited to: securities
underwriting; securities dealing and market making; sponsoring mutual funds and investment
companies; insurance underwriting and agency; merchant banking; travel agent services; and
activities that the FRB has determined to be financial in nature or incidental or complementary to
a financial activity, provided that it does not pose a substantial risk to the safety or soundness
of the depository institution or the financial system generally. A bank holding company that is
not also a financial holding company is limited to engaging in banking and other activities
previously determined by the FRB to be closely related to banking.

Comerica Bank is chartered by the State of Michigan and at this level is primarily supervised and
regulated by the Division of Financial Institutions, Office of Financial and Insurance Services of
the Michigan Department of Labor and Economic Growth. Comerica Bank & Trust, National Association
is chartered under federal law and subject to supervision and regulation by the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”). Comerica Bank and Comerica Bank & Trust, National
Association, are members of the Federal Reserve System (“FRS”). The deposits of both the foregoing
banks are insured by the Bank Insurance Fund of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”)
to the extent provided by law. Comerica Bank Mexico, S.A. is chartered under the laws of Mexico
and is supervised and regulated by the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, the Bank of Mexico,
and the Mexican National Banking Commission.

The FRB supervises non-banking activities conducted by companies directly and indirectly owned by
Comerica Incorporated. In addition, Comerica’s non-banking subsidiaries are subject to supervision
and regulation by various state, federal and self-regulatory agencies, including, but not limited
to, the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (in the case of Comerica Securities, Inc.
and Comerica Capital
Markets Corporation), the Department of Insurance of the State of Michigan (in the case of Comerica
Insurance Services, Inc.), and the Securities and Exchange Commission (in the case of Comerica
Securities, Inc., Comerica Capital Markets Corporation, and Munder
Capital Management).

In most cases, no FRB approval is required for Comerica to acquire a company engaged in activities
that are financial in nature or incidental to activities that are financial in nature, as
determined by the



FRB. Prior FRB approval, however, is required before Comerica may acquire the
beneficial ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares or substantially all of the
assets of a bank holding company or bank. If any subsidiary bank of Comerica were to receive a
rating under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 of less than “satisfactory”, Comerica would be
prohibited from engaging in certain activities. If any subsidiary bank of Comerica were to cease
being “well capitalized” or “well managed” under applicable regulatory standards, the FRB could
place limitations on Comerica’s ability to conduct the broader financial activities permissible for
financial holding companies or impose limitations or conditions on the conduct or activities of
Comerica or its affiliates. If the deficiencies persisted, the FRB could order Comerica to divest
any subsidiary bank or to cease engaging in any activities permissible for financial holding
companies that are not permissible for bank holding companies, or Comerica could elect to conform
its non-banking activities to those permissible for a bank holding company that is not also a
financial holding company.

Various governmental requirements, including Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and
Regulation W of the FRB, limit borrowings by Comerica and its nonbank subsidiaries from its
affiliate insured depository institutions, and also limit various other transactions between
Comerica and its nonbank subsidiaries, on the one hand, and its affiliate insured depository
institutions, on the other. For example, Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act limits the
aggregate outstanding amount of any insured depository institution’s loans and other “covered
transactions” with any particular nonbank affiliate to no more than 10% of the institution’s total
capital and limits the aggregate outstanding amount of any insured depository institution’s covered
transactions with all of its nonbank affiliates to no more than 20% of its total capital. Section
23A of the Federal Reserve Act also generally requires that an insured depository institution’s
loans to its nonbank affiliates be, at a minimum, 100% secured, and Section 23B of the Federal
Reserve Act generally requires that an insured depository institution’s transactions with its
nonbank affiliates be on arms-length terms.

Set forth below are summaries of selected laws and regulations applicable to Comerica and its
domestic banks and other subsidiaries. The summaries are not complete, are qualified in their
entirety by references to the particular statutes and regulations, and are not intended as legal
advice. A change in applicable law or regulation could have a material effect on the business of
Comerica.

Interstate Banking and Branching

Pursuant to the Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act (the “Interstate Act”), a bank
holding company may acquire banks in states other than its home state, without regard to the
permissibility of such acquisition under state law, but subject to any state requirement that the
bank has been organized and operating for a minimum period of time, not to exceed five years, and
the requirement that the bank holding company, prior to and following the proposed acquisition,
control no more than 10% of the total amount of
deposits of insured depository institutions in the United States and no more than 30% of such
deposits in that state (or such amount as established by state law if such amount is lower than
30%).

The Interstate Act also authorizes banks to acquire branch offices outside their home states by
merging with out-of-state banks, purchasing branches in other states and establishing de novo
branches in other states, thereby creating interstate branching, provided that, in the case of
purchasing branches and establishing new branches in a state in which it does not already have
banking operations, such state must have “opted-in” to the Interstate Act by enacting a law



permitting such branch purchases or de novo branching and, in the case of mergers, such state must
not have “opted-out” of that portion of the Interstate Act.

As permitted by the Interstate Act, Comerica has consolidated most of its banking business into one
bank, Comerica Bank, with branches in Michigan, California, Texas, Florida, and Arizona.

Dividends

Comerica is a legal entity separate and distinct from its banking and other subsidiaries. Most of
Comerica’s revenues result from dividends its bank subsidiaries pay it. There are statutory and
regulatory requirements applicable to the payment of dividends by subsidiary banks to Comerica, as
well as by Comerica to its shareholders. Certain, but not all, of these requirements are discussed
below.

Comerica Bank and Comerica Bank & Trust, National Association are required by federal law to obtain
the prior approval of the FRB or the OCC, as the case may be, for the declaration and payment of
dividends, if the total of all dividends declared by the board of directors of such bank in any
calendar year will exceed the total of (i) such bank’s retained net income (as defined and
interpreted by regulation) for that year plus (ii) the retained net income (as defined and
interpreted by regulation) for the preceding two years, less any required transfers to surplus or
to fund the retirement of preferred stock. Further, federal regulatory agencies can prohibit a
banking institution or bank holding company from engaging in unsafe and unsound business practices
and could prohibit the payment of dividends under circumstances in which such payment could be
deemed an unsafe and unsound banking practice. In addition, Comerica Bank is also subject to
limitations under state law regarding the amount of earnings that may be paid out as dividends, and
require prior approval for payments of dividends that exceed certain levels.

At January 1, 2006, Comerica’s subsidiary banks, without obtaining prior governmental approvals,
could declare aggregate dividends of approximately $240 million from retained net profits of the
preceding two years, plus an amount approximately equal to the retained net profits (as measured
under current regulations), if any, earned for the period from January 1, 2006 through the date of
declaration. Comerica’s subsidiary banks declared dividends of $793 million in 2005, $691 million
in 2004 and $354 million in 2003 without the need for prior governmental approvals.

Source of Strength

FRB regulations require that bank holding companies serve as a source of strength to each
subsidiary bank and commit resources to support each subsidiary bank. This support may be required
at times when a bank holding company may not be able to provide such support without adversely
affecting its ability to meet other obligations. Similarly, under the cross-guarantee provisions
of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, in
the event of a loss suffered or anticipated by the FDIC (either as a result of the failure of a
banking or thrift subsidiary or related to FDIC assistance provided to such a subsidiary in danger
of failure), the other banking subsidiaries may be assessed for the FDIC’s loss, subject to certain
exceptions.

FDICIA

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act (“FDICIA”) requires, among other



things, the federal banking agencies to take “prompt corrective action” in respect of depository
institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. FDICIA establishes five capital tiers:
“well capitalized,” “adequately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized”
and “critically undercapitalized.” A depository institution’s capital tier will depend upon where
its capital levels are in relation to various relevant capital measures, which, among others,
include a Tier 1 and total risk-based capital measure and a leverage ratio capital measure.

Regulations establishing the specific capital tiers provide that, for a depository institution to
be well capitalized, it must have a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10% and a Tier 1
risk-based capital ratio of at least 6%, a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 5% and not be subject
to any specific capital order or directive. For an institution to be adequately capitalized, it
must have a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 8%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at
least 4%, and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 4% (and in some cases 3%). Under certain
circumstances, the appropriate banking agency may treat a well capitalized, adequately capitalized
or undercapitalized institution as if the institution were in the next lower capital category.

As of
December 31, 2005, Comerica and its U.S. banking subsidiaries exceeded the ratios required
for an institution to be considered “well capitalized” under these regulations.

FDICIA generally prohibits a depository institution from making any capital distribution (including
payment of a dividend) or paying any management fee to its holding company if the depository
institution would thereafter be undercapitalized. Undercapitalized depository institutions are
subject to limitations on growth and certain activities and are required to submit an acceptable
capital restoration plan. The federal banking agencies may not accept a capital plan without
determining, among other things, that the plan is based on realistic assumptions and is likely to
succeed in restoring the depository institution’s capital. In addition, for a capital restoration
plan to be acceptable, the depository institution’s parent holding company must guarantee for a
specific time period that the institution will comply with such capital restoration plan. The
aggregate liability of the parent holding company under the guaranty is limited to the lesser of
(i) an amount equal to 5% of the depository institution’s total assets at the time it became
undercapitalized, or (ii) the amount that is necessary (or would have been necessary) to bring the
institution into compliance with all capital standards applicable with respect to such institution
as of the time it fails to comply with the plan. If a depository institution fails to submit or
implement an acceptable plan, it is treated as if it is significantly undercapitalized.

Significantly undercapitalized depository institutions are subject to a number of requirements and
restrictions. Specifically, such a depository institution may be required to do one or more of the
following, among other
things: sell sufficient voting stock to become adequately capitalized, reduce the interest rates
it pays on deposits, reduce its rate of asset growth, dismiss certain senior executive officers or
directors, or stop accepting deposits from correspondent banks. Critically undercapitalized
institutions are subject to the appointment of a receiver or conservator or such other action as
the FDIC and the applicable federal banking agency shall determine appropriate.

FDICIA also contains a variety of other provisions that may affect the operations of depository
institutions including reporting requirements, regulatory standards for real estate lending, “truth
in savings” provisions, the requirement that a depository institution give 90 days prior notice to



customers and regulatory authorities before closing any branch, and a prohibition on the acceptance
or renewal of brokered deposits by depository institutions that are not well capitalized or are
adequately capitalized and have not received a waiver from the FDIC.

Capital Requirements

Comerica and its bank subsidiaries are subject to risk-based capital requirements and guidelines
imposed by the FRB and/or the OCC.

For this purpose, a depository institution’s or holding company’s assets and certain specified
off-balance sheet commitments are assigned to four risk categories, each weighted differently based
on the level of credit risk that is ascribed to such assets or commitments. A depository
institution’s or holding company’s capital, in turn, is divided into two tiers: core (“Tier 1”)
capital, which includes common equity, non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock, and a limited
amount of cumulative perpetual preferred stock and related surplus (excluding auction rate issues)
and minority interests in equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries, less goodwill, certain
identifiable intangible assets and certain other assets; and supplementary (“Tier 2”) capital,
which includes, among other items, perpetual preferred stock not meeting the Tier 1 definition,
mandatory convertible securities, subordinated debt, and allowances for loan and lease losses,
subject to certain limitations, less certain required deductions.

Comerica, like other bank holding companies, currently is required to maintain Tier 1 and “total
capital” (the sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital) equal to at least 4% and 8% of its total
risk-weighted assets (including certain off-balance-sheet items, such as standby letters of
credit), respectively. At December 31, 2005, Comerica met both requirements, with Tier 1 and total
capital equal to 8.46% and 11.75% of its total risk-weighted assets.

Comerica is also required to maintain a minimum “leverage ratio” (Tier 1 capital to adjusted total
assets) of 3% to 5%, depending upon criteria defined and assessed by the FRB. Comerica’s leverage
ratio of 9.99% at December 31, 2005 reflects the nature of Comerica’s balance sheet and
demonstrates a commitment to capital adequacy.

As an additional means to identify problems in the financial management of depository institutions,
FDICIA requires federal bank regulatory agencies to establish certain non-capital safety and
soundness standards for institutions any such agency supervises. The standards relate generally
to, among others, earnings, liquidity, operations and management, asset quality, various risk and
management exposures (

e.g.

, credit,
operational, market, interest rate, etc.) and executive compensation. The agencies are authorized
to take action against institutions that fail to meet such standards.



FDIC Insurance Assessments

Comerica’s subsidiary banks are subject to FDIC deposit insurance assessments to maintain the Bank
Insurance Fund (“BIF”) and the Savings Insurance Fund (the “SAIF”). As of December 31, 2005,
Comerica’s banking subsidiaries held approximately $39.9 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively, of
BIF- and SAIF-assessable deposits. Comerica currently pays no deposit insurance assessments on the
BIF- or SAIF-assessable deposits under the FDIC’s risk related assessment system but paid the FDIC
$5.6 million in the year ended December 31, 2005 on the BIF- and SAIF-assessable deposits under a
separate assessment program.

Enforcement Powers of Federal Banking Agencies

The FRB and other federal banking agencies have broad enforcement powers, including the power to
terminate deposit insurance, impose substantial fines and other civil penalties and appoint a
conservator or receiver. Failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could subject
Comerica or its banking subsidiaries, as well as officers and directors of these organizations, to
administrative sanctions and potentially substantial civil and criminal penalties.

Future Legislation

Changes to the laws of the states and countries in which Comerica and its subsidiaries do business
could affect the operating environment of bank holding companies and their subsidiaries in
substantial and unpredictable ways. Comerica cannot accurately predict whether such changes will
occur or, if they occur, the ultimate effect they would have upon the financial condition or
results of operations of Comerica.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2005, Comerica and its subsidiaries had 10,207 full-time and 1,136 part-time
employees.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Comerica maintains an Internet website at www.comerica.com where the Annual Report on Form 10-K,
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports are
available without charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after those reports are filed with or
furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
for Employees, the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Members of the Board of Directors and
the Senior Financial Officer Code of Ethics adopted by Comerica are also available on the Internet
website and are available in print to any shareholder who requests them. Such requests should be
made in writing to the Corporate Secretary at Comerica Incorporated, Comerica Tower at Detroit
Center, 500 Woodward Avenue, MC 3381, Detroit, Michigan 48226.

Item 1A. Risk Factors.

This Report includes forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. In addition, Comerica may make other written and oral communications from



time to time that contain such statements. All statements regarding Comerica’s expected financial position,
strategies and growth prospects and general economic conditions Comerica expects to exist in the
future are forward-looking statements. The words, “anticipates,” “believes,” “feels,” “expects,”
“estimates,” “seeks,” “strives,” “plans,” “intends,” “outlook,” “forecast,” “position,” “target,”
“mission,” “assume,” “achievable,” “potential,” “strategy,” “goal,” “aspiration,” “outcome,”
“continue,” “remain,” “maintain,” “trend,” “objective” and variations of such words and similar
expressions, or future or conditional verbs such as “will,” “would,” “should,” “could,” “might,”
“can,” “may” or similar expressions, as they relate to Comerica or its management, are intended to
identify forward-looking statements.

Comerica cautions that forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and
uncertainties, which change over time. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the
statement is made, and Comerica does not undertake to update forward-looking statements to reflect
facts, circumstances, assumptions or events that occur after the date the forward-looking
statements are made. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in
forward-looking statements, and future results could differ materially from historical performance.

In addition to factors mentioned elsewhere in this Report or previously disclosed in Comerica’s SEC
reports (accessible on the SEC’s website at

www.sec.gov

or on Comerica’s website at

www.comerica.com

), the factors contained below, among others, could cause actual results to
differ materially from forward-looking statements, and future results could differ materially from
historical performance.

•

General political, economic or industry conditions, either domestically or
internationally, may be less favorable than expected.

Local, domestic, and international economic, political and industry-specific conditions, and
governmental monetary and fiscal policies affect the financial services industry, directly
and indirectly. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, volatile interest
rates, tight money supply, real estate values, international conflicts and other factors
outside of Comerica’s control may adversely affect Comerica. Economic downturns could
result in the delinquency of outstanding loans, which could have a material adverse impact
on Comerica’s earnings.

•

Unfavorable developments concerning credit quality could affect Comerica’s financial
results.

Although Comerica regularly reviews credit exposure related to its customers and various
industry sectors in which it has business relationships, default risk may arise from events
or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. Under such circumstances,
Comerica could experience an increase in the level of provision for credit losses,
nonperforming assets, net charge-offs and reserve for credit losses.









floods. These types of natural
disasters at times have disrupted the local economy, Comerica’s business and customers and
have posed physical risks to Comerica’s property. A significant natural disaster could
materially affect Comerica’s operating results.

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.

None.

Item 2. Properties.

The executive offices of Comerica are located in the Comerica Tower at Detroit Center, 500 Woodward
Avenue, Detroit, Michigan 48226. Comerica and its subsidiaries occupy 15 floors of the building,
which is leased through Comerica Bank from an unaffiliated third party. The leases at this
building extend through January 2012. As of December 31, 2005, Comerica, through its banking
affiliates, operated a total of 434 banking centers, trust services locations, and loan production
or other financial services offices, primarily in the States of Michigan, California, Texas and
Florida. Of these offices, 232 were owned and 202 were leased.  As of
December 31, 2005, affiliates also operated from
leased spaces in Mesa and Phoenix, Arizona; Denver, Colorado; Wilmington, Delaware; Barrington,
Chicago and Oakbrook Terrace, Illinois; Boston, Massachusetts; Minneapolis, Minnesota; Princeton
and Sea Girt, New Jersey; Las Vegas, Nevada; New York, New York; Rocky Mount, North Carolina;
Cleveland and West Chester, Ohio; Memphis, Tennessee; Reston, Virginia; Bellevue, Washington; Sao
Paulo, Brazil; Guadalajara, Mexico; Mexico City, Mexico; Monterey, Mexico; Queretaro, Mexico;
Wanchai, Hong Kong; Toronto, Ontario, Canada and Windsor, Ontario, Canada.

Comerica and its subsidiaries own, among other properties, a check processing center in Livonia,
Michigan, a 10-story building in the central business district of Detroit that houses certain
departments of Comerica and Comerica Bank, and two buildings in Auburn Hills, Michigan, used mainly
for lending functions and operations.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings.

Comerica and certain of its subsidiaries are subject to various pending and threatened legal
proceedings arising out of the normal course of business or operations. In view of the inherent
difficulty of predicting the outcome of such matters, Comerica cannot state what the eventual
outcome of any such matters will be; however, based on current knowledge and after consultation
with legal counsel, management believes that current reserves, determined in accordance with SFAS
No. 5, “Accounting for Contingencies,” are adequate and the amount of any incremental liability
arising from these matters is not expected to have a material adverse effect on Comerica’s
consolidated financial condition or results of operations.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

Comerica did not submit any matters for a shareholders’ vote in the fourth quarter of 2005.



PART II

Item 5.

Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of
Equity Securities.

Market Information and Holders of Common Stock

The common stock of Comerica Incorporated is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE Trading
Symbol: CMA). At February 24, 2006, there were approximately
14,770 record holders of
Comerica’s common stock.

Sales Prices and Dividends

Quarterly cash dividends were declared during 2005 and 2004 totaling $2.20 and $2.08 per common
share per year, respectively. The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high
and low sale prices per share of Comerica’s common stock as reported on the NYSE Composite
Transactions Tape for all quarters of 2005 and 2004, as well as dividend information.

Dividends

Dividend*

Quarter

High

Low

Per Share

Yield


Fourth

$

60.25

$

53.60

$

0.55

3.9

%

Third

63.38

56.80

0.55

3.7

Second

59.29

53.17

0.55

3.9

First

61.40

53.70

0.55

3.8


Fourth

$

63.80

$

57.81

$

0.52

3.4

%

Third

61.48

53.00

0.52

3.6

Second

56.99

50.45

0.52

3.9

First

59.23

52.30

0.52

3.7

*

Dividend yield is calculated by annualizing the
quarterly dividend per share and dividing by an
average of the high and low price in the quarter.



Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans

As of December 31, 2005

Number of

securities

remaining

Number of

available for

securities to be

Weighted-

future issuance

issued upon

average

under equity

exercise of

exercise price

compensation

outstanding

of outstanding

plans (excluding

options,

options,

securities

warrants and

warrants and

reflected in

rights

rights

column (a))

Plan Category

(a)

(b)

(c)

Equity compensation
plans approved by
security holders

(1)

18,000,629

$

53.65

5,024,123

(2)(3)

Equity compensation
plans not approved
by security holders

(4)

290,286

53.25

—

Total

18,290,915

$

53.64

5,024,123

(1)

Consists of options to acquire shares of common stock, par value $5.00 per
share, issued under Comerica’s Amended and Restated 1997 Long-Term Incentive Plan, the 1991
Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Stock Option Plan for
Non-Employee Directors, the Imperial Bank Stock Option Plan (assumed by Comerica in connection with
its acquisition of Imperial Bank), and the Metrobank 1988 Stock Option Plan (assumed by Comerica in
connection with its acquisition of Metrobank). Does not include 15,166 restricted stock units
equivalent to shares of common stock issued under the Comerica Incorporated Incentive Plan for
Non-Employee Directors and outstanding as of December 31, 2005, or 837,910 shares of restricted
stock issued under Comerica’s Amended and Restated 1997 Long-Term Incentive Plan and outstanding as
of December 31, 2005. There are no shares available for future issuances under any of these plans
other than the Comerica Incorporated Incentive Plan for Non-Employee Directors and Comerica’s
Amended and Restated 1997 Long-Term Incentive Plan. The Comerica Incorporated Incentive Plan for
Non-Employee Directors was approved by the shareholders on May 18, 2004. The Amended and Restated
1997 Long-Term Incentive Plan was initially approved by the shareholders on May 16, 1997, with the
most recent amendments to the plan that required shareholder approval approved on May 22, 2001.

(2)

Does not include shares of common stock purchased by employees under the Amended and
Restated Employee Stock Purchase Plan, or contributed by Comerica on behalf of the employees. The
Amended and Restated Employee Stock Purchase Plan was ratified and approved by the shareholders on
May 18, 2004. Five million shares of Comerica’s common stock have been registered for sale or
awards to employees under the Amended and Restated Employee Stock Purchase Plan. As of December
31, 2005, 1,162,830 shares had been purchased by or contributed on behalf of employees, leaving
3,837,170 shares available for future sale or awards. If these shares available for future sale or
awards under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan were included, the number shown in column (c) would
be 8,861,293.

(3)

These shares are available for future issuance under Comerica’s Amended and Restated
1997 Long-Term Incentive Plan in the form of options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock
or other performance or non-performance related awards
and under the Incentive Plan for Non-Employee Directors in the form of options, stock appreciation
rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units or other equity-based awards. Under the Long-Term
Incentive Plan, not more than



a total of 2.4 million shares may be used for restricted stock awards
and not more than 2 million shares are available for issuance pursuant to the exercise of incentive
stock options. Further, no eligible individual during any calendar year may receive more than the
lesser of (i) 15% of the shares available for awards during such calendar year, or (ii) 350,000
shares.

(4)

Consists of options to acquire shares of common stock, par value $5.00 per share,
issued under the Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee
Directors of Comerica Bank and Affiliated Banks (terminated March 2004).

Most of the equity awards made by Comerica are granted under the shareholder-approved Amended
and Restated 1997 Long-Term Incentive Plan. Plans not approved by Comerica’s shareholders include:

Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors of
Comerica Bank and Affiliated Banks (Terminated March 2004)

— Under the plan, Comerica granted
options to acquire up to 450,000 shares of common stock, subject to equitable adjustment upon the
occurrence of events such as stock splits, stock dividends or recapitalizations. After each annual
meeting of shareholders, each member of the Board of Directors of a subsidiary bank of Comerica who
was not an employee of Comerica or of any of its subsidiaries nor a director of Comerica (the
“Eligible Directors”) automatically was granted an option to purchase 2,500 shares of the common
stock of Comerica. Option grants under the plan were in addition to annual retainers, meeting fees
and other compensation payable to Eligible Directors in connection with their services as
directors. The plan is administered by a committee of the Board of Directors. With respect to the
automatic grants, the Committee does not and did not have discretion as to matters such as the
selection of directors to whom options will be granted, the timing of grants, the number of shares
to become subject to each option grant, the exercise price of options, or the periods of time
during which any option may be exercised. In addition to the automatic grants, the committee could
grant options to the Eligible Directors in its discretion. The exercise price of each option
granted was the fair market value of each share of common stock subject to the option on the date
the option was granted. The exercise price is payable in full upon exercise of the option and may
be paid in cash or by delivery of previously owned shares. The committee may change the option
price per share following a corporate reorganization or recapitalization so that the aggregate
option price for all shares subject to each outstanding option prior to the change is equivalent to
the aggregate option price for all shares or other securities into which option shares have been
converted or which have been substituted for option shares. The term of each option cannot be more
than ten years. This plan was terminated by the Board of Directors on March 23, 2004.
Accordingly, no new options may be granted under this plan.

Director
Deferred Compensation Plans

— Comerica maintains two deferred compensation plans
for non-employee directors of Comerica, its subsidiaries and its advisory boards: the Amended and
Restated Comerica Incorporated Common Stock Non-Employee Director Fee Deferral Plan (the “Common
Stock Deferral Plan”) and the Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Non-Employee Director Fee
Deferral Plan (the “Director Fee Deferral Plan”). The Common Stock Deferral Plan allows directors
to invest in units that correlate to, and are functionally equivalent to, shares of common stock of
Comerica, while the Director Fee Deferral Plan allows directors to invest in units that correlate
to, and are functionally equivalent to, the shares of certain mutual funds offered under such plan.
The Common Stock Deferral Plan previously provided for the mandatory deferral



of 50% of the annual retainer of each director of Comerica into shares of common stock of Comerica,
but currently has no mandatory deferral. Until the mandatory deferral requirement was
discontinued, directors could voluntarily defer the remaining 50% of their director fees (and all
other non-employee directors of Comerica’s subsidiaries could choose to defer up to 100% of their
director fees) under the Common Stock Deferral Plan or the Director Fee Deferral Plan, or a
combination of the two plans. Currently, all eligible non-employee directors may defer any portion
or none of their director fees under the Common Stock Deferral Plan or the Director Fee Deferral
Plan, or a combination of the two plans.

The directors’ accounts under the Common Stock Deferral Plan are increased to the extent of
dividends paid on Comerica common stock to reflect the number of additional shares of Comerica’s
common stock that could have been purchased had the dividends been paid on each share of common
stock underlying then-outstanding stock units in the directors’ accounts. Similarly, the
directors’ accounts under the Director Fee Deferral Plan are increased in connection with the
payment of dividends paid on the mutual fund shares to reflect the number of additional shares of
mutual fund shares that could have been purchased had the dividends or other distributions been
paid on each share of stock underlying then-outstanding mutual fund units in the directors’
accounts. Following the applicable deferral period, the distribution of a participant’s Comerica
stock unit account under the Common Stock Deferral Plan is made in Comerica’s common stock (with
fractional shares being paid in cash), while the distribution of a participant’s mutual fund
account under the Director Fee Deferral Plan is made in cash.

Employee Deferred Compensation Plans

— Comerica maintains two deferred compensation plans
for eligible employees of Comerica and its subsidiaries: the 1999 Comerica Incorporated Amended
and Restated Common Stock Deferred Incentive Award Plan (the “Employee Common Stock Deferral Plan”)
and the 1999 Comerica Incorporated Deferred Compensation Plan (the “Employee Deferral Plan”).
Under the Employee Common Stock Deferral Plan, eligible employees may defer specified portions of
their incentive awards into units that correlate to, and are functionally equivalent to, shares of
common stock of Comerica. The employees’ accounts under the Employee Common Stock Deferral Plan
are increased in connection with the payment of dividends paid on Comerica’s common stock to
reflect the number of additional shares of Comerica’s common stock that could have been purchased
had the dividends been paid on each share of common stock underlying then-outstanding stock units
in the employees’ accounts. The deferred compensation under the Employee Common Stock Deferral Plan
is payable in shares of Comerica’s common stock following termination of service as an employee.

Similarly, under the Employee Deferral Plan, eligible employees may defer specified portions of
their compensation, including salary, bonus and incentive awards, into units that correlate to, and
are functionally equivalent to, shares of funds offered under the Employee Deferral Plan.
Beginning in 1999, no such funds are Comerica stock funds. The employees’ accounts under the
Employee Deferral Plan are increased in connection with the payment of dividends paid on the fund
shares to reflect the number of additional shares of the fund stock that could have been purchased
had the dividends been paid on each share of fund stock underlying then-outstanding stock units in
the employees’ accounts. The deferred compensation under the Employee Deferral Plan is payable in
cash following termination of service as an employee.



For additional information regarding Comerica’s equity compensation plans, please refer to Note 15
on pages 88 through 93 of the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Comerica’s Annual
Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2005.

Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers

The Board of Directors of the Corporation (the “Board”) authorized the purchase of up to 10 million
shares of Comerica Incorporated outstanding common stock on
March 23, 2004, and again on July 26,
2005. Substantially all shares purchased as part of Comerica’s publicly announced repurchase
program were transacted in the open market and were within the scope of Rule 10b-18, which provides
a safe harbor for purchases in a given day if an issuer of equity securities satisfies the manner,
timing, price and volume conditions of the rule when purchasing its own common shares in the open
market. There is no expiration date for Comerica’s share repurchase program. The following table
summarizes Comerica’s share repurchase activity for the quarter ended December 31, 2005.

Maximum

Number of

Total Number of

Shares that May

Shares Purchased as

Yet Be

(Shares in millions)

Part of Publicly

Purchased under

Total Number of

Average Price Paid

Announced Plans or

the Plans or

Month Ended

Shares Purchased

Per Share

Programs

Programs

October 31, 2005

—

$

—

—

11.7

November 30, 2005

1.3

58.71

1.3

10.4

December 31, 2005

1.2

57.40

1.2

9.2

Total

2.5

$

58.09

2.5

9.2

For additional information regarding Comerica’s share repurchase program, please refer to Note
11 on pages 82 through 83 of the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Comerica’s Annual
Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2005.

Item 6.      Selected Financial Data.

The response to this item is included on page 20 of Comerica’s Annual Report to Shareholders for
the year ended December 31, 2005, which page is hereby incorporated by reference.

Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

The response to this item is included on pages 21 through 62 of Comerica’s Annual Report to
Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2005, which pages are hereby incorporated by
reference.



Item 7A.      Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

The
response to this item is included on pages 48 through 55 of Comerica’s Annual Report to
Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2005, which pages are hereby incorporated by
reference.

Item 8.      Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

The response to this item is included on pages 63 through 123 of Comerica’s Annual Report to
Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2005, and in the Statistical Disclosure by Bank
Holding Companies on pages 24 through 51 and 75 through 80 of Comerica’s Annual Report to
Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2005, which pages are hereby incorporated by
reference.

Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure.

None.

Item 9A.       Controls and Procedures.

Disclosure Controls and Procedures

As required by Rule 13a-15(b) of the Exchange Act, management, including the Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer, conducted an evaluation as of the end of the period covered by
this Annual Report on Form 10-K, of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as
defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e). Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer concluded that Comerica’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective
as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Management’s annual report on internal control over financial reporting and the related attestation
report of Comerica’s registered public accounting firm are included on pages 119 through 120 of
Comerica’s Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2005, which pages are
hereby incorporated by reference.

As required by Rule 13a-15(d), management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer, conducted an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting to
determine whether any changes occurred during the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K
that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, Comerica’s internal
control over financial reporting. Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer concluded that there has been no such change during the last quarter of the
fiscal year covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, Comerica’s internal control over financial reporting.



Item 9B.      Other Information.

None.

PART III

Item 10.

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.

Comerica has a Senior Financial Officer Code of Ethics that applies to the Chief Executive Officer,
Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer, and Treasurer of Comerica. The Senior Financial
Officer Code of Ethics is available on Comerica’s website at www.comerica.com.

The remainder of the response to this item will be included under the sections captioned
“Information About Nominees and Incumbent Directors,” “Committees and Meetings of Directors,”
“Committee Assignments,” “Executive Officers” and “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance” of Comerica’s definitive Proxy Statement relating to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders
to be held on May 16, 2006, which sections are hereby incorporated by reference.

Item 11.

Executive Compensation.

The response to this item will be included under the sections captioned “Compensation Committee
Interlocks and Insider Participation,” “Compensation of Directors” and “Compensation of Executive
Officers” of Comerica’s definitive Proxy Statement relating to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders
to be held on May 16, 2006, which sections are hereby incorporated by reference.

Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters.

The information called for by this item with respect to securities authorized for issuance under
equity compensation plans is included under Part II, Item 5 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

The response to the remaining requirements of this item will be included under the sections
captioned “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners” and “Security Ownership of Management”
of Comerica’s definitive Proxy Statement relating to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held
on May 16, 2006, which sections are hereby incorporated by reference.

Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.

The response to this item will be included under the sections captioned “Director Independence and
Transactions of Directors with Comerica,” “Transactions of Executive Officers with Comerica” and
“Information about Nominees and Incumbent Directors” of Comerica’s definitive Proxy Statement
relating to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 16, 2006, which sections are
hereby incorporated by reference.



Item 14.

Principal Accountant Fees and Services.

The response to this item will be included under the section captioned “Independent Auditors” of
Comerica’s definitive Proxy Statement relating to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on
May 16, 2006, which section is hereby incorporated by reference.



Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries

FORM 10-K CROSS-REFERENCE INDEX

Certain information required to be

The following cross-reference index

All other sections of the 2005 Annual

included in this Form 10-K is

shows the page location in the 2005

Report to Shareholders or the 2006

Included in the 2005 Annual Report

Annual Report to Shareholders or the

Proxy Statement are not required in

to
Shareholders or in the 2006 Proxy

section of the 2006 Proxy Statement

this Form 10-K and are not to be

Statement used in connection with

of only that information which is to

considered a part of this Form 10-K.

the 2006 Annual Meeting of

be incorporated by reference into this

Shareholders to be held on May 16,

Form 10-K.

2006.

Page Number of 2005 Annual

Report to Shareholders or

Section of 2006 Proxy Statement

PART I

ITEM 1.

Business

24; 28-32; 35-37; 107-111

ITEM 1A.

Risk Factors

Included herein

ITEM 1B.

Unresolved Staff Comments

Included herein

ITEM 2.

Properties

Included herein

ITEM 3.

Legal Proceedings

Included herein

ITEM 4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

Included herein

PART II

ITEM 5.

Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

Included herein

ITEM 6.

Selected Financial Data


ITEM 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

21-62

ITEM 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

48-55

ITEM 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data:

63-123

Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Consolidated Balance Sheets


Consolidated Statements of Income


Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

67-117

Report of Management


Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm


Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting


Attestation Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm


Statistical Disclosure by Bank Holding Companies:

Analysis of Net Interest Income — Fully Taxable Equivalent


Rate-Volume Analysis — Fully Taxable Equivalent


Analysis of the Allowance for Loan Losses


Allocation of the Allowance for Loan Losses


Analysis of Investment Securities and Loans


Loan Maturities and Interest Rate Sensitivity


Analysis of Investment Securities Portfolio — Fully Taxable Equivalent


International Cross-Border Outstandings


Summary of Nonperforming Assets and Past Due Loans

44, 75-77

Remaining Expected Maturity of Risk Management Interest Rate Swaps


Deposits — Maturity Distribution of Domestic Certificates of Deposit of $100,000 and Over


Short-Term Borrowings

79-80

ITEM 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

Included herein



ITEM 9A.

Controls and Procedures:

Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting


Attestation Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm


Other information called for by this item

Included herein

ITEM 9B.

Other Information

Included herein

PART III

ITEM 10.

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant:

Information about Senior Financial Officer Code of Ethics

Included herein

Other information called for by this item

Information About Nominees and Incumbent

Directors, Committees and Meetings of

Directors, Committee Assignments,

Executive Officers and Section 16(a)

Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance

ITEM 11.

Executive Compensation

Compensation Committee Interlocks
and Insider Participation, Compensation of
Directors and Compensation of Executive
Officers

ITEM 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and

Management and Related Stockholder Matters:

Information about securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans

Included herein

Other information called for by this item

Security Ownership of Certain

Beneficial Owners and Security

Ownership of Management

ITEM 13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

Director Independence and Transactions of

Directors with Comerica, Transactions

of Executive Officers with Comerica

and Information about Nominees

and Incumbent Directors

ITEM 14.

Principal Accountant Fees and Services

Independent Auditors



PART IV

Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

The following documents are filed as a part of this report:

1. Financial Statements: The financial statements that are filed as part of this report are listed
under Item 8 in the Form 10-K Cross-Reference Index on pages 24-25.

2. All of the schedules for which provision is made in the applicable accounting regulations of the
Securities and Exchange Commission are either not required under the related instruction, the
required information is contained elsewhere in the Form 10-K, or the schedules are inapplicable and
therefore have been omitted.

3. Exhibits:

Exhibit Number


(not applicable)

3.1(a)

Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Comerica Incorporated (as
amended)

(1)

3.1(b)

Certificate of Amendment to Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Comerica
Incorporated

(2)

3.2

Amended and Restated Bylaws of Comerica Incorporated (amended and
restated January 25, 2005)

(3)


(not applicable) [Note: In accordance with Regulation S-K Item No.
601(b)(4)(iii), the registrant is not filing copies of instruments defining the
rights of holders of long-term debt because none of those instruments authorizes
debt in excess of 10% of the total consolidated assets of the registrant and its
consolidated subsidiaries. The registrant hereby agrees to furnish a copy of any
such instrument to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.]


(not applicable)

10.1

Rights Agreement between Comerica Incorporated and Comerica
Bank

(4)

10.2†

Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated 1997 Long-Term Incentive
Plan (amended and restated May 22, 2001)

(5)

10.3†

Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Management Incentive Plan
(amended and restated May 22, 2001)

(6)

10.4†

Benefit Equalization Plan for Employees of Comerica
Incorporated

(7)

10.5†

Comerica Incorporated Amended and Restated Employee Stock Purchase
Plan (amended and restated effective June 30, 2003)

(8)

10.6†

1986 Stock Option Plan of Imperial Bancorp (as amended)

(9)



10.7†

Form of Standard Comerica Incorporated Non-Qualified Stock Option
Agreement under the Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated 1997 Long-Term
Incentive Plan

(10)

10.8†

Form of Standard Comerica Incorporated Restricted Stock Award
Agreement (Cliff Vesting) under the Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated 1997
Long-Term Incentive Plan

(11)

10.9†

Form of Standard Comerica Incorporated Restricted Stock Award
Agreement (Non-Cliff Vesting) under the Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated
1997 Long-Term Incentive Plan

(12)

10.10†

Form of Standard Comerica Incorporated No Sale Agreement under the Amended and
Restated Comerica Incorporated Management Incentive Plan

(13)

10.11†

Form of Employment Agreement (Executive Vice President)

(14)

10.12†

Form of Employment Agreement (Senior Vice President)

(15)

10.13†

Form of Director Indemnification Agreement between Comerica Incorporated and its
directors

(16)

10.14†

Supplemental Benefit Agreement with Eugene A. Miller

(17)

10.15†

Employment Agreement with Ralph W. Babb, Jr.

(18)

10.16†

Supplemental Pension and Retiree Medical Agreement with Ralph W. Babb
Jr.

(19)

10.17†

1999 Comerica Incorporated Deferred Compensation Plan (effective January 1,
1999)

(20)

10.18†

1999 Comerica Incorporated Amended and Restated Deferred Compensation Plan
(amended and restated January 25, 2005)

10.19†

1999 Comerica Incorporated Amended and Restated Common Stock Deferred Incentive
Award Plan (amended and restated January 25, 2005)

10.20†

Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Stock Option Plan For Non-Employee
Directors (amended and restated

May 22, 2001)

(21)

10.21†

Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Stock Option Plan For Non-Employee
Directors of Comerica Bank and Affiliated Banks (amended and restated May 22,
2001)

(22)

10.22†

Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Non-Employee Director Fee Deferral
Plan (amended and restated January 27,
2004)

(23)

10.23†

Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Common Stock Non-Employee Director Fee
Deferral Plan (amended and restated January 27,
2004)

(24)

10.24†

Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Incentive Plan for Non-Employee
Directors (amended and restated

July 26,
2005)

(25)



10.25†

Form of Standard Comerica Incorporated Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock
Unit Agreement under the Comerica Incorporated Incentive Plan for Non-Employee
Directors

(26)

10.26

Implementation Agreement dated July 28, 2005 between Framlington
Holdings Limited, Guarantors as named in the Agreement and AXA Investment Managers
SA (restated to reflect amendments on September 7,
2005)

(27)

10.27

Second Amendment Agreement dated October 31, 2005 in relation to an
Implementation Agreement dated July 28, 2005 (as amended on September 7,
2005)

(28)

10.28

Cash Offer dated July 27, 2005 by AXA Investment Managers S.A.

(29)

10.29

Form of Acceptance relating to the Cash Offer by AXA Investment
Managers S.A. for the Entire Issued Share Capital of Framlington Group Limited

(30)

10.30†

Form of Employment Agreement
(Executive Vice President — Version 2)


Statement regarding Computation of
Net Income Per Common Share

(31)


(not applicable)


Incorporated Sections of Registrant’s 2005 Annual Report to
Shareholders


(not applicable)


(not applicable)


(not applicable)


Subsidiaries of Registrant


(not applicable)


Consent of Ernst & Young LLP


(not applicable)

31.1

Chairman, President and CEO Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of
Periodic Report (pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002)

31.2

Executive Vice President, CFO and Treasurer Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a)
Certification of Periodic Report (pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
of 2002)


Section 1350 Certification of Periodic Report (pursuant to Section 906
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002)


(not applicable)


(not applicable)


(not applicable)


(not applicable)


(not applicable)

(1)

Filed as Exhibit 3.1 to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 1996, and incorporated herein by reference.

(2)

Filed as Exhibit 3.2 to Registrant’s Registrant Statement on Form S-4, filed
December 1, 2000, File No. 333-51042, and incorporated herein by reference.



(3)

Filed as Exhibit 3 to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 24,
2005, regarding the Registrant’s Bylaws, and incorporated herein by reference.

(4)

Filed as Exhibit 4 to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 18, 1996,
regarding the Registrant’s Rights Agreement with Comerica Bank, and incorporated herein by
reference.

(5)

Filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2001, and incorporated herein by reference.

(6)

Filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2001, and incorporated herein by reference.

(7)

Filed as Exhibit 10.4 to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 1996, and incorporated herein by reference.

(8)

Filed as Exhibit 10.6 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2004, and incorporated herein by reference.

(9)

Filed as Exhibit 10.23 to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2001, and incorporated herein by reference.

(10)

Filed as Exhibit 10.4 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2004, and incorporated herein by reference.

(11)

Filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2004, and incorporated herein by reference.

(12)

Filed as Exhibit 10.3 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2004, and incorporated herein by reference.

(13)

Filed as Exhibit 10.5 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2004, and incorporated herein by reference.

(14)

Filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2005, and incorporated herein by reference.

(15)

Filed as Exhibit 10.3 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2005, and incorporated herein by reference.

(16)

Filed as Exhibit 10.6 to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2002, and incorporated herein by reference.

(17)

Filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2002, and incorporated herein by reference.

(18)

Filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended June 30, 1998, and incorporated herein by reference.

(19)

Filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended June 30, 1998, and incorporated herein by reference.

(20)

Filed as Exhibit 10.18 to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 1999, and incorporated herein by reference.

(21)

Filed as Exhibit 10.12 to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2002, and incorporated herein by reference.

(22)

Filed as Exhibit 10.13 to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2002, and incorporated herein by reference.

(23)

Filed as Exhibit 10.14 to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2003, and incorporated herein by reference.



(24)

Filed as Exhibit 10.15 to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2003, and incorporated herein by reference.

(25)

Filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2005, and incorporated herein by reference.

(26)

Filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended June 30, 2005, and incorporated herein by reference.

(27)

Filed as Exhibit 10.4 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2005, and incorporated herein by reference.

(28)

Filed as Exhibit 10.5 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2005, and incorporated herein by reference.

(29)

Filed as Exhibit 10.6 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2005, and incorporated herein by reference.

(30)

Filed as Exhibit 10.7 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2005, and incorporated herein by reference.

(31)

Incorporated by reference from Note 13 on page 84 of Registrant’s 2005 Annual
Report to Shareholders attached hereto as Exhibit 13.

†

Management compensation plan.

File No. for all filings under Exchange Act: 1-10706.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized as of the 3rd day of March, 2006.

COMERICA INCORPORATED

By:

/s/ Ralph W. Babb, Jr.

Ralph W. Babb, Jr.

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed by
the following persons on behalf of the registrant in the capacities
indicated as of the 3rd day of
March, 2006.

/s/ Ralph W. Babb, Jr.

Ralph W. Babb, Jr.

Chairman, President and Chief Executive

Officer and Director

(Principal Executive Officer)

/s/ Elizabeth S. Acton

Elizabeth S. Acton

Executive Vice President and

Chief Financial Officer

(Principal Financial Officer)

/s/ Marvin J. Elenbaas

Marvin J. Elenbaas

Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer

(Principal Accounting Officer)

/s/ Lillian Bauder

Lillian Bauder

Director

/s/ Joseph J. Buttigieg, III

Joseph J. Buttigieg, III

Director

/s/ James F. Cordes

James F. Cordes

Director

/s/ Peter D. Cummings

Peter D. Cummings

Director



/s/ J. Philip DiNapoli

J. Philip DiNapoli

Director

/s/ Anthony F. Earley, Jr.

Anthony F. Earley, Jr.

Director

/s/ Roger Fridholm

Roger Fridholm

Director

/s/ Todd W. Herrick

Todd W. Herrick

Director

/s/ Alfred A. Piergallini

Alfred A. Piergallini

Director

/s/ Robert S. Taubman

Robert S. Taubman

Director

/s/ Reginald M. Turner, Jr.

Reginald M. Turner, Jr.

Director

/s/ William P. Vititoe

William P. Vititoe

Director

/s/ Patricia M. Wallington

Patricia M. Wallington

Director

/s/ Gail L. Warden

Gail L. Warden

Director

/s/ Kenneth L. Way

Kenneth L. Way

Director



Exhibit
Index

Exhibit

No.

Description


(not applicable)

3.1(a)

Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Comerica Incorporated (as
amended)

(1)

3.1(b)

Certificate of Amendment to Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Comerica
Incorporated

(2)

3.2

Amended and Restated Bylaws of Comerica Incorporated (amended and
restated January 25, 2005)

(3)


(not applicable) [Note: In accordance with Regulation S-K Item No.
601(b)(4)(iii), the registrant is not filing copies of instruments defining the
rights of holders of long-term debt because none of those instruments authorizes
debt in excess of 10% of the total consolidated assets of the registrant and its
consolidated subsidiaries. The registrant hereby agrees to furnish a copy of any
such instrument to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.]


(not applicable)

10.1

Rights Agreement between Comerica Incorporated and Comerica
Bank

(4)

10.2†

Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated 1997 Long-Term Incentive
Plan (amended and restated May 22, 2001)

(5)

10.3†

Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Management Incentive Plan
(amended and restated May 22, 2001)

(6)

10.4†

Benefit Equalization Plan for Employees of Comerica
Incorporated

(7)

10.5†

Comerica Incorporated Amended and Restated Employee Stock Purchase
Plan (amended and restated effective June 30, 2003)

(8)

10.6†

1986 Stock Option Plan of Imperial Bancorp (as amended)

(9)

10.7†

Form of Standard Comerica Incorporated Non-Qualified Stock Option
Agreement under the Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated 1997 Long-Term
Incentive Plan

(10)

10.8†

Form of Standard Comerica Incorporated Restricted Stock Award
Agreement (Cliff Vesting) under the Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated 1997
Long-Term Incentive Plan

(11)

10.9†

Form of Standard Comerica Incorporated Restricted Stock Award
Agreement (Non-Cliff Vesting) under the Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated
1997 Long-Term Incentive Plan

(12)

10.10†

Form of Standard Comerica Incorporated No Sale Agreement under the Amended and
Restated Comerica Incorporated Management Incentive Plan

(13)

10.11†

Form of Employment Agreement (Executive Vice President)

(14)

10.12†

Form of Employment Agreement (Senior Vice President)

(15)

10.13†

Form of Director Indemnification Agreement between Comerica Incorporated and its
directors

(16)

10.14†

Supplemental Benefit Agreement with Eugene A. Miller

(17)

10.15†

Employment Agreement with Ralph W. Babb, Jr.

(18)

10.16†

Supplemental Pension and Retiree Medical Agreement with Ralph W. Babb
Jr.

(19)

10.17†

1999 Comerica Incorporated Deferred Compensation Plan (effective January 1,
1999)

(20)

10.18†

1999 Comerica Incorporated Amended and Restated Deferred Compensation Plan
(amended and restated January 25, 2005)

10.19†

1999 Comerica Incorporated Amended and Restated Common Stock Deferred Incentive
Award Plan (amended and restated January 25, 2005)

10.20†

Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Stock Option Plan For Non-Employee
Directors (amended and restated

May 22, 2001)

(21)

10.21†

Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Stock Option Plan For Non-Employee
Directors of Comerica Bank and Affiliated Banks (amended and restated May 22,
2001)

(22)

10.22†

Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Non-Employee Director Fee Deferral
Plan (amended and restated January 27, 2004)

(23)

10.23†

Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Common Stock Non-Employee Director Fee
Deferral Plan (amended and restated January 27,
2004)

(24)

10.24†

Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Incentive Plan for Non-Employee
Directors (amended and restated

July 26,
2005)

(25)

10.25†

Form of Standard Comerica Incorporated Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock
Unit Agreement under the Comerica Incorporated Incentive Plan for Non-Employee
Directors

(26)

10.26

Implementation Agreement dated July 28, 2005 between Framlington
Holdings Limited, Guarantors as named in the Agreement and AXA Investment Managers
SA (restated to reflect amendments on September 7,
2005)

(27)

10.27

Second Amendment Agreement dated October 31, 2005 in relation to an
Implementation Agreement dated July 28, 2005 (as amended on September 7,
2005)

(28)

10.28

Cash Offer dated July 27, 2005 by AXA Investment Managers S.A.

(29)

10.29

Form of Acceptance relating to the Cash Offer by AXA Investment
Managers S.A. for the Entire Issued Share Capital of Framlington Group Limited

(30)

10.30†

Form of Employment Agreement
(Executive Vice President — Version 2)


Statement regarding Computation of
Net Income Per Common Share

(31)


(not applicable)


Incorporated Sections of Registrant’s 2005 Annual Report to
Shareholders


(not applicable)


(not applicable)


(not applicable)


Subsidiaries of Registrant


(not applicable)


Consent of Ernst & Young LLP


(not applicable)

31.1

Chairman, President and CEO Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of
Periodic Report (pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002)

31.2

Executive Vice President, CFO and Treasurer Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a)
Certification of Periodic Report (pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
of 2002)


Section 1350 Certification of Periodic Report (pursuant to Section 906
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002)


(not applicable)


(not applicable)


(not applicable)


(not applicable)


(not applicable)

(1)

Filed as Exhibit 3.1 to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 1996, and incorporated herein by reference.

(2)

Filed as Exhibit 3.2 to Registrant’s Registrant Statement on Form S-4, filed
December 1, 2000, File No. 333-51042, and incorporated herein by reference.

(3)

Filed as Exhibit 3 to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 24,
2005, regarding the Registrant’s Bylaws, and incorporated herein by reference.

(4)

Filed as Exhibit 4 to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 18, 1996,
regarding the Registrant’s Rights Agreement with Comerica Bank, and incorporated herein by
reference.

(5)

Filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2001, and incorporated herein by reference.

(6)

Filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2001, and incorporated herein by reference.

(7)

Filed as Exhibit 10.4 to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 1996, and incorporated herein by reference.

(8)

Filed as Exhibit 10.6 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2004, and incorporated herein by reference.

(9)

Filed as Exhibit 10.23 to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2001, and incorporated herein by reference.

(10)

Filed as Exhibit 10.4 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2004, and incorporated herein by reference.

(11)

Filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2004, and incorporated herein by reference.

(12)

Filed as Exhibit 10.3 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2004, and incorporated herein by reference.

(13)

Filed as Exhibit 10.5 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2004, and incorporated herein by reference.

(14)

Filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2005, and incorporated herein by reference.

(15)

Filed as Exhibit 10.3 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2005, and incorporated herein by reference.

(16)

Filed as Exhibit 10.6 to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2002, and incorporated herein by reference.

(17)

Filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2002, and incorporated herein by reference.

(18)

Filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended June 30, 1998, and incorporated herein by reference.

(19)

Filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended June 30, 1998, and incorporated herein by reference.

(20)

Filed as Exhibit 10.18 to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 1999, and incorporated herein by reference.

(21)

Filed as Exhibit 10.12 to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2002, and incorporated herein by reference.

(22)

Filed as Exhibit 10.13 to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2002, and incorporated herein by reference.

(23)

Filed as Exhibit 10.14 to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2003, and incorporated herein by reference.

(24)

Filed as Exhibit 10.15 to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2003, and incorporated herein by reference.

(25)

Filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2005, and incorporated herein by reference.

(26)

Filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended June 30, 2005, and incorporated herein by reference.

(27)

Filed as Exhibit 10.4 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2005, and incorporated herein by reference.

(28)

Filed as Exhibit 10.5 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2005, and incorporated herein by reference.

(29)

Filed as Exhibit 10.6 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2005, and incorporated herein by reference.

(30)

Filed as Exhibit 10.7 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2005, and incorporated herein by reference.

(31)

Incorporated by reference from Note 13 on page 84 of Registrant’s 2005 Annual
Report to Shareholders attached hereto as Exhibit 13.

†

Management compensation plan.

File No. for all filings under Exchange Act: 1-10706.