10-K


k83434e10vk.htm

ANNUAL REPORT FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED 12/31/2003

e10vk


United States

Securities and Exchange Commission

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934,

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003.

Commission file number 1-10706

Comerica Incorporated

Incorporated in the State of Delaware

IRS Employer Identification No. 38-1998421.

Comerica Tower at Detroit Center

500 Woodward Avenue, MC 3391

Detroit, Michigan 48226

1-800-521-1190

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

•Common Stock, $5 par value

•Rights to acquire Series D Preferred Stock, no par value

These securities are registered on the New York Stock Exchange.

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

•7 1/4% Subordinated Notes due in 2007.

•9.98% Series B Capital Securities of Imperial Capital Trust I due 2026.*

•7.60% Trust Preferred of Comerica Capital Trust I due 2050.

The registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or
for such shorter period that the registrant

*The registrant has reporting obligations for these securities which were
acquired in connection with the merger of Imperial Bancorp with and into
Comerica Holdings Incorporated, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the registrant.
As a result of the merger, Imperial Capital Trust became a wholly-owned
indirect subsidiary of the registrant.



was required to file such reports),
and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best knowledge of the registrant, in the definitive proxy statement
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K. Yes [x]  No [  ]

The registrant is an accelerated filer as defined in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2.

At March 1, 2004, the registrant’s common stock, $5 par value, held by
nonaffiliates had an aggregate market value of $9,485,319,938 based on the
closing price on the New York Stock Exchange on that date of $57.36 per share
and 165,364,713 shares of common stock held by nonaffiliates. For purposes
of this Form 10-K only, it has been assumed that all common shares Comerica’s
Trust Department holds for Comerica and Comerica’s employee plans, and all
common shares the registrant’s directors and executive officers hold, are held
by affiliates.

At March 1, 2004, the registrant had outstanding 174,462,245 shares of
its common stock, $5 par value.

Documents Incorporated

by Reference:

1. Parts I and II:

Items 6-8–Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2003.

2. Part III:

Items 10-13–Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held
May 18, 2004.

PART I

Item 1. Business

GENERAL

Comerica Incorporated (“Comerica” or the “Corporation”) is a financial services
company, incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware, headquartered in
Detroit, Michigan. Based on assets as of December 31, 2003, it was among the
20 largest banking companies in the United States and the largest bank holding
company headquartered in Michigan in terms of both total assets and total
deposits. Comerica was formed in 1973 to acquire the outstanding common stock
of Comerica Bank (formerly Comerica Bank-Detroit), one of Michigan’s oldest
banks (“Comerica Bank”). As of December 31, 2003, Comerica owned directly or
indirectly all the outstanding common stock of three active banking and 48
non-banking subsidiaries. At December 31, 2003, Comerica had total assets of
approximately $52.6 billion, total deposits of
approximately $41.5 billion, total loans (net of unearned


income) of
approximately $40.3 billion and common shareholders’ equity of approximately
$5.1 billion.

BUSINESS STRATEGY

Comerica has strategically aligned its operations into three major lines of
business: the Business Bank, Small Business and Personal Financial Services,
and Wealth and Institutional Management.

The Business Bank is comprised of middle market, commercial real estate,
national dealer services, global finance, large corporate, leasing, financial
services group and technology and life sciences lending. This line of business
meets the needs of medium-size businesses, multinational corporations and
governmental entities by offering various products and services, including
commercial loans and lines of credit, deposits, cash management, capital market
products, international trade finance, letters of credit, foreign exchange
management services and loan syndication services.

Small Business and Personal Financial Services includes small business banking
(annual sales under $10 million) and personal financial services, consisting of
consumer lending, consumer deposit gathering and mortgage loan origination.
This line of business offers a variety of consumer products, including deposit
accounts, installment loans, credit cards, student loans, home equity lines of
credit and residential mortgage loans. In addition, a full range of financial
services is provided to small businesses and municipalities.

Wealth and Institutional Management is responsible for private banking,
personal and institutional trust, retirement plans, and asset management
(including Munder Capital Management, investment adviser to the Munder funds,
and Wilson Kemp & Associates). This division also includes Comerica
Securities, which offers institutional, retail and discount brokerage, and
investment banking services, as well as Comerica Insurance, which is a full
line insurance agency.

Comerica has positioned itself to deliver financial services in its four
primary geographic markets: Michigan, California, Texas, and Florida, with
operations in numerous other states, Canada and Mexico.

In addition to the three major lines of business, the Finance division is also
reported as a segment.

The Finance segment includes Comerica’s securities portfolio and asset and
liability management activities. This segment is responsible for managing
Comerica’s funding, liquidity and capital needs, performing interest
sensitivity gap and earnings simulation analysis and executing various
strategies to manage Comerica’s exposure to liquidity, interest rate risk and
foreign exchange risk.



SUPERVISION AND REGULATION

Banks, bank holding companies and financial institutions are highly regulated
at both the state and federal level. Comerica is subject to supervision and
regulation by the Board of Governors of Federal Reserve Board (“FRB”) under the
Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the “Act”).

The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 expanded the activities in which a bank
holding company registered as a financial holding company can engage. The
conditions to be a financial holding company, among others, include the
requirement that each depository institution subsidiary of the holding company
be well capitalized and well managed.

Comerica became a financial holding company in 2000. As a financial holding
company, in addition to bank holding company powers, Comerica may affiliate
with securities firms and insurance companies and engage in activities that are
financial in nature. Activities that are “financial in nature” include, but
are not limited to: securities underwriting; dealing and market making;
sponsoring mutual funds and investment companies; insurance underwriting and
agency; merchant banking; travel agent services; and activities that the FRB
has determined to be financial in nature or incidental or complementary to a
financial activity, provided that it does not pose a substantial risk to the
safety or soundness of the depository institution or the financial system
generally. A bank holding company that is not also a financial holding company
is limited to engaging in banking and other activities previously determined by
the FRB to be closely related to banking.

Comerica Bank is chartered by the State of Michigan and is primarily supervised
and regulated by the Division of Financial Institutions, Office of Financial
and Insurance Services of the State of Michigan and the FRB. Comerica Bank &
Trust, National Association is chartered under federal law and subject to
supervision and regulation by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
(“OCC”). Comerica Bank and Comerica Bank & Trust, National Association, are
members of the Federal Reserve System (“FRS”). The deposits of all the
foregoing banks are insured by the Bank Insurance Fund (“BIF”) of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) to the extent provided by law. Comerica
Bank-Mexico, S.A. is chartered under the laws of Mexico and is supervised and
regulated by the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, the Bank of Mexico, and
the Mexican National Banking Commission. Comerica Bank-Canada (which is in the
winding up process, with active operations conducted by the Canadian branch of
Comerica Bank) is chartered under the laws of Ontario, Canada and is supervised
and regulated by the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions
Canada and the Canada Deposit Insurance Corporation.

The FRB supervises non-banking activities conducted by companies owned by
Comerica Bank. In addition, Comerica’s non-banking subsidiaries are subject to
supervision and regulation by various state, federal and self-regulatory
agencies, including, but not limited to, the National Association of Securities
Dealers, Inc. (in the case of Comerica Securities, Inc. and Comerica Capital
Markets Corporation), the Department of Insurance of the State of Michigan (in
the case of Comerica Insurance



Services, Inc.), and the Securities and Exchange
Commission (in the case of Munder Capital Management, the Corporation’s
investment advisory subsidiary).

In most cases, no FRB approval is required for Comerica to acquire a company,
other than a bank holding company or insured depository institution, engaged in
activities that are financial in nature or incidental to activities that are
financial in nature, as determined by the FRB. Prior FRB approval is required
before Comerica may acquire the beneficial ownership or control of more than 5%
of the voting shares or substantially all of the assets of a bank holding
company or bank. If any subsidiary bank of Comerica ceases to be “well
capitalized” or “well managed” under applicable regulatory standards, the FRB
may place limitations on the Corporation’s ability to conduct the broader
financial activities permissible for financial holding companies or impose any
limitations or conditions on the conduct or activities of the Corporation or
any of its affiliates as the FRB finds appropriate and consistent with the
purpose of the Bank Holding Company Act. If the deficiencies persist, the FRB
may order Comerica to divest any subsidiary bank or cease to engage in any
activities permissible for financial holding companies that are not permissible
for bank holding companies. Alternatively, Comerica may elect to conform its
non-banking activities to those permissible for a bank holding company that is
not also a financial holding company. If any subsidiary bank of Comerica
receives a rating under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 of less than
satisfactory, Comerica will be prohibited from engaging in new activities not
permissible for non-financial holding companies/bank holding companies or
acquiring companies other than bank holding companies or banks.

Various governmental requirements, including Sections 23A and 23B of the
Federal Reserve Act and Regulation W, limit borrowings by Comerica and its
nonbank subsidiaries from its affiliate insured depository institutions, and
also limit various other transactions between Comerica and its nonbank
subsidiaries, on the one hand, and its affiliate insured depository
institutions, on the other. For example, Section 23A of the Federal Reserve
Act limits to no more than 10% of its total capital, the aggregate outstanding
amount of any insured depository institution’s loans and other “covered
transactions” with any particular nonbank affiliate, and limits to no more than
20% of its total capital, the aggregate outstanding amount of any insured
depository institution’s covered transactions with all of its nonbank
affiliates. Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act also generally requires
that an insured depository institution’s loans to its nonbank affiliates be, at
a minimum, 100% secured, and Section 23B of the Federal Reserve Act generally
requires that an insured depository institution’s transactions with its nonbank
affiliates be on arms-length terms.

Set forth below are summaries of selected laws and regulations applicable to
Comerica and its subsidiaries. The summaries are not complete and are
qualified in their entirety by references to the particular statutes and
regulations, and are not intended as legal advice that should be relied upon
for any reason. A change in applicable law or regulation could have a material
effect on the business of Comerica.



Interstate Banking and Branching

Pursuant to the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of
1994 (the “Interstate Act”), a bank holding company may acquire banks in states
other than its home state, without regard to the permissibility of such
acquisition under state law, but subject to any state requirement that the bank
has been organized and operating for a minimum period of time, not to
exceed five years, and the requirement that the bank holding company, prior to
and following the proposed acquisition, control no more than ten percent of the
total amount of deposits of insured depository institutions in the United
States and no more than thirty percent of such deposits in that state (or such
amount as established by state law if such amount is lower than thirty
percent).

The Interstate Act also authorizes banks to acquire branch offices outside
their home states by merging with out-of-state banks, purchasing branches in
other states and establishing de novo branches in other states, thereby
creating interstate branching, provided that in the case of purchasing branches
and establishing new branches in a state in which it does not already have
banking operations in such state, such state must have “opted-in” to the Act by
enacting a law permitting such de novo branching and, in the case of mergers,
such state must not have “opted-out” of that portion of the Act.

Since the provision permitting interstate bank acquisitions became effective,
Comerica has had enhanced opportunities to acquire banks in any state, subject
to approval by the appropriate federal and state regulatory agencies. Under
the Interstate Act, Comerica has the opportunity to consolidate its affiliate
banks to create one bank with branches in more than one state, or to establish
branches in different states, subject to any state “opt-in” and “opt-out”
provisions. On June 30, 2003, Comerica merged its California and Texas banking
subsidiaries into its Michigan banking subsidiary to create one bank, with
branches in Michigan, California, Texas and Florida.

Dividends

Comerica is a legal entity separate and distinct from its banking and other
subsidiaries. Most of Comerica’s revenues result from dividends its bank
subsidiaries pay it. There are statutory and regulatory requirements
applicable to the payment of dividends by subsidiary banks to Comerica as well
as by Comerica to its shareholders. Certain, but not all, of these requirements
are discussed below.

Each state bank subsidiary that is a member of the FRS and each national
banking association is required by federal law to obtain the prior approval of
the FRB or the OCC, as the case may be, for the declaration and payment of
dividends, if the total of all dividends declared by the board of directors of
such bank in any calendar year will exceed the total of (i) such bank’s
retained net income (as defined and interpreted by regulation) for that year
plus (ii) the retained net income (as defined and interpreted by regulation)
for the preceding two years, less any required transfers to surplus or to fund
the retirement of preferred stock. Further, federal regulatory agencies can
prohibit a banking institution or bank holding company from engaging in unsafe
and unsound business practices and could prohibit the payment of dividends
under circumstances in which such payment could be deemed an unsafe and unsound
banking practice. In addition, Comerica’s state bank subsidiaries are also
subject to limitations



under state law regarding the amount of earnings that
may be paid out as dividends, and require prior approval for payments of
dividends that exceed certain levels.

At January 1, 2004, Comerica’s subsidiary banks, without obtaining prior
governmental approvals, could declare aggregate dividends of approximately $209
million from retained net
profits of the preceding two years, plus an amount approximately equal to the
net profits (as measured under current regulations), if any, earned for the
period from January 1, 2004 through the date of declaration. Comerica’s
subsidiary banks declared dividends of $354 million in 2003, $647 million in 2002,
and $578 million in 2001, without the need for prior governmental approvals.

Source of Strength

FRB regulations require that bank holding companies serve as a source of
strength to each subsidiary bank and commit resources to support each
subsidiary bank. This support may be required at times when a bank holding
company may not be able to provide such support, without adversely affecting
its ability to meet other obligations. Similarly, under the cross-guarantee
provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, in the event of a loss
suffered or anticipated by the FDIC (either as a result of the failure of a
banking or thrift subsidiary or related to FDIC assistance provided to a
subsidiary in danger of failure) the other banking subsidiaries may be assessed
for the FDIC’s loss, subject to certain exceptions.

FDICIA

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act (“FDICIA”) requires,
among other things, the federal banking agencies to take “prompt corrective
action” in respect of depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital
requirements. FDICIA establishes five capital tiers: “well capitalized,”
“adequately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized”
and “critically undercapitalized.” A depository institution’s capital tier will
depend upon where its capital levels are in relation to various relevant
capital measures, which, among others, include a Tier 1 and total risk-based
capital measure and a leverage ratio capital measure, and certain other
factors.

Regulations establishing the specific capital tiers provide that, for a
depository institution to be well capitalized it must have a total risk-based
capital ratio of at least 10 percent, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at
least 6 percent, a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 5 percent and not be
subject to any specific capital order or directive. For an institution to be
adequately capitalized it must have a total risk-based capital ratio of at
least 8 percent, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 4 percent and a
Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 4 percent (and in some cases 3 percent).
Under certain circumstances, the appropriate banking agency may treat a well
capitalized, adequately capitalized or undercapitalized institution as if the
institution were in the next lower capital category. As of December 31, 2003,
the



Corporation and all of its banking subsidiaries exceeded the ratios
required for an institution to be considered “well capitalized” under these
regulations.

FDICIA generally prohibits a depository institution from making any capital
distribution (including payment of a dividend) or paying any management fee to
its holding company if the
depository institution would thereafter be undercapitalized. Undercapitalized
depository institutions are subject to limitations on growth and certain
activities and are required to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan.
The federal banking agencies may not accept a capital plan without determining,
among other things, that the plan is based on realistic assumptions and is
likely to succeed in restoring the depository institution’s capital. In
addition, for a capital restoration plan to be acceptable, the depository
institution’s parent holding company must guarantee for a specific time period
that the institution will comply with such capital restoration plan. The
aggregate liability of the parent holding company under the guaranty is limited
to the lesser of (i) an amount equal to 5 percent of the depository
institution’s total assets at the time it became undercapitalized, or (ii) the
amount that is necessary (or would have been necessary) to bring the
institution into compliance with all capital standards applicable with respect
to such institution as of the time it fails to comply with the plan. If a
depository institution fails to submit or implement an acceptable plan, it is
treated as if it is significantly undercapitalized.

Significantly undercapitalized depository institutions are subject to a number
of requirements and restrictions. Specifically, such a depository institution
may be required to do one or more of the following, among other things: sell
sufficient voting stock to become adequately capitalized, reduce the interest
rates it pays on deposits, reduce its rate of asset growth, dismiss certain
senior executive officers or directors, and stop accepting deposits from
correspondent banks. Critically undercapitalized institutions are subject to
the appointment of a receiver or conservator or such other action as the FDIC
and the applicable federal banking agency shall determine appropriate.

FDICIA also contains a variety of other provisions that may affect the
operations of depository institutions including reporting requirements,
regulatory standards for real estate lending, “truth in savings” provisions,
the requirement that a depository institution give 90 days prior notice to
customers and regulatory authorities before closing any branch, and a
prohibition on the acceptance or renewal of brokered deposits by depository
institutions that are not well capitalized or are adequately capitalized and
have not received a waiver from the FDIC. Comerica’s subsidiary banks are all
well-capitalized and may accept brokered deposits, as permitted by their
charters.

Capital Requirements

The FRB imposes on Comerica and other banks, risk-based capital requirements
and guidelines, which are substantially similar to the capital requirements and
guidelines imposed by the OCC and the FDIC on depository institutions under
their jurisdictions.



For this purpose, a depository institution’s or holding company’s assets and
certain specified off-balance sheet commitments are assigned to four risk
categories, each weighted differently based on the level of credit risk that is
ascribed to such assets or commitments. A depository institution’s or holding
company’s capital, in turn, is divided into two tiers: core (“Tier 1”) capital,
which includes common equity, non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock ,and a
limited amount of cumulative perpetual preferred stock and related surplus
(excluding auction rate issues) and a limited amount of cumulative perpetual
stock and minority interests in equity
accounts of consolidated subsidiaries, less goodwill, certain identifiable
intangible assets and certain other assets; and supplementary (“Tier 2”)
capital, which includes, among other items, perpetual preferred stock not
meeting the Tier 1 definition, mandatory convertible securities, subordinated
debt, and allowances for loan and lease losses, subject to certain limitations,
less certain required deductions.

The Corporation, like other bank holding companies, currently is required to
maintain Tier 1 and “total capital’ (the sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital)
equal to at least 4% and 8% of its total risk-weighted assets (including
certain off-balance-sheet items, such as standby letters of credit),
respectively. At December 31, 2003, the Corporation met both requirements,
with Tier 1 and total capital equal to 8.72% and 12.71% of its total
risk-weighted assets.

The FRB, FDIC and OCC rules require Comerica to incorporate market and interest
rate risk components into their risk-based capital standards. Under the market
risk requirements, capital is allocated to support the amount of market risk
related to a financial institution’s ongoing trading activities. The FRB also
requires bank holding companies to maintain a minimum “leverage ratio” (Tier 1
capital to adjusted total assets) of 3% if the holding company has the highest
regulatory rating and meets certain other requirements, or of 3% plus an
additional cushion of at least 100 to 200 basis points if the holding company
does not meet these requirements. At December 31, 2003, the Corporation’s
leverage ratio was 10.13%.

As an additional means to identify problems in the financial management of
depository institutions, FDICIA requires federal bank regulatory agencies to
establish certain non-capital safety and soundness standards for institutions
they supervise. The standards relate generally to, among others, earnings,
liquidity, operations and management, asset quality, various risk and
management exposures (e.g. credit, operational, market, interest rate, etc.)
and executive compensation. The agencies are authorized to take action against
institutions that fail to meet such standards.

FDIC Insurance Assessments

Comerica’s subsidiary banks are subject to FDIC deposit insurance assessments
to maintain the Bank Insurance Fund (the “BIF”) and the Savings Insurance Fund
(the “SAIF”). As of December 31, 2003, the Corporation’s banking subsidiaries
held approximately $38.6 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively, of BIF- and
SAIF- assessable deposits. The Corporation currently pays no deposit insurance
assessments on these deposits under the FDIC’s risk related assessment system.



Enforcement Powers of Federal Banking Agencies

The FRB and other federal banking agencies have broad enforcement powers,
including the power to terminate deposit insurance, impose substantial fines
and other civil and criminal penalties and appoint a conservator or receiver.
Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and supervisory agreements
could subject Comerica or its banking subsidiaries, as well as officers and
directors of these organizations, to administrative sanctions and potentially
substantial civil penalties.

Future Legislation

Changes to the laws of the states and countries in which the Corporation and
its subsidiaries do business can affect the operating environment of bank
holding companies and their subsidiaries in substantial and unpredictable ways.
Comerica cannot accurately predict whether such changes will occur or, if they
occur, the ultimate effect they would have upon the financial condition or
results of operations of the Corporation.

COMPETITION

Financial service provision is a highly competitive business. The Corporation’s
banking subsidiaries compete primarily with banks based in its primary areas of
operations in the United States for loans, deposits and trust accounts. Through
its offices in Arizona, Colorado, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Louisiana,
Massachusetts, Minnesota, North Carolina, New Jersey, Nevada, New York, Ohio,
Oregon, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Virginia and Washington, Comerica competes
with other financial institutions for various deposits, loans and other
products and services.

At year-end 2003, Comerica was the largest financial holding company
headquartered in Michigan in terms of total assets and deposits. Based on the
Interstate Act as described above and the Gramm-Leach Bliley Act, Comerica
believes that the level of competition in all geographic markets will increase
in the future. Comerica’s banking subsidiaries also face competition from other
financial intermediaries, including savings and loan associations, consumer
finance companies, leasing companies, credit unions, banks, insurance companies
and securities firms.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2003, Comerica and its subsidiaries had 10,627 full-time and
1,227 part-time employees.



AVAILABLE INFORMATION

The Corporation maintains an Internet website at www.comerica.com where the
Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on
Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports are available without charge, as
soon as reasonably practicable after those reports are filed with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
adopted by the Corporation is also available on the Internet website.

Item 2. Properties

The executive offices of the Corporation are located in the Comerica Tower at
Detroit Center, 500 Woodward Avenue, Detroit, Michigan 48226. Comerica and its
subsidiaries occupy 14 floors of the building, which is leased through Comerica
Bank from an unaffiliated third party. This lease extends through January 2007.
As of December 31, 2003, Comerica, through its banking affiliates, operates a
total of 506 banking branches, trust services locations, and loan production or
other financial services offices, primarily in the States of Michigan,
California, Texas and Florida. Of these offices, 231 were owned and 275 were
leased. Affiliates also operate from leased spaces in Phoenix, Arizona; Denver,
Colorado; Darien, Connecticut; Atlanta, Georgia; Barrington, Chicago and
Oakbrook Terrace, Illinois; Indianapolis, Indiana; Boston, Massachusetts;
Minneapolis, Minnesota; Durham, North Carolina; Princeton and Sea Girt, New
Jersey; Las Vegas, Nevada; New York, New York; Beachwood, West Chester and
Westlake, Ohio; Portland, Oregon; King of Prussia, Pennsylvania; Memphis,
Tennessee; Reston, Virginia; Kirkland and Bellevue, Washington; Sao Paulo,
Brazil; Guadalajara, Mexico; Mexico City, Mexico; Queretaro, Mexico; Monterey,
Mexico; Wanchai, Hong Kong; Toronto, Ontario, Canada and Windsor, Ontario,
Canada.

The Corporation owns a check processing center in Livonia, Michigan, a
ten-story building in the central business district of Detroit that houses
certain departments of the Corporation and Comerica Bank, and a building in
Auburn Hills, Michigan, used mainly for lending functions and operations.

In 1983, Comerica entered into a sale/leaseback agreement with an unaffiliated
party covering an operations center which was built in Auburn Hills, Michigan,
and now is occupied by various departments of the Corporation and Comerica
Bank.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

The Corporation and certain of its subsidiaries are subject to various pending
and threatened legal proceedings, including certain purported class actions,
arising out of the normal course of business or operations. In view of the
inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of such matters, the Corporation
cannot state what the eventual outcome of any such matters will be; however,
based on current knowledge and after consultation with legal counsel,
management does not believe that the amount of any resulting liability arising
from these matters will have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s
consolidated financial position or results from operations.



Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

The Corporation did not submit any matters for a shareholders’ vote in the
fourth quarter of 2003.

PART II

Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

Market Information

The common stock of Comerica Incorporated is traded on the New York Stock
Exchange (NYSE Trading Symbol: CMA). At March 1, 2004, there were
approximately 16,010 record holders of the Corporation’s common stock.

Quarterly cash dividends were declared during 2003 and 2002, totaling $2.00 and
$1.92 per common share per year, respectively. The following table sets forth,
for the periods indicated, the high and low sale prices per share of the
Corporation’s common stock as reported on the NYSE Composite Transactions Tape
for all quarters of 2003 and 2002.

Dividends

Dividend*

Quarter

High

Low

Per Share

Yield


Fourth

$

56.34

$

46.38

$

0.50

3.9

%

Third

49.75

45.28

0.50

4.2

Second

53.58

37.79

0.50

4.4

First

46.74

37.10

0.50

4.8


Fourth

$

50.30

$

35.20

$

0.48

4.5

%

Third

63.80

47.00

0.48

3.5

Second

66.09

59.70

0.48

3.1

First

64.85

52.75

0.48

3.3

*

Dividend yield is calculated by annualizing the quarterly
dividend per share and dividing by an average of the high
and low price in the quarter.



Equity Compensation Plan Information

Number of

securities

Number of

Weighted-

remaining available

securities to be

average exercise

for future issuance

issued upon

price of

under equity

exercise of

outstanding

compensation

outstanding

options,

plans (excluding

options, warrants

warrants and

securities reflected

Plan Category

and rights

rights

in column (a))

(a)

(b)

(c)

Equity compensation
plans

(1)

approved
by security holders

16,338,793

(2)

$

50.09

10,104,558

(2)(3)

Equity compensation
plans not approved
by security holders

(4)

344,286

$

51.20

55,500

Total

16,683,079

$

50.12

10,160,058

(1)

Consists of options to acquire shares of common stock, par value $5.00 per
share, issued under the Corporation’s Amended and Restated 1997 Long-Term
Incentive Plan, the 1991 Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Amended and Restated
Comerica Incorporated Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors, the
Imperial Bank Stock Option Plan (assumed by the Corporation in connection with
its acquisition of Imperial Bank), and the Metrobank 1988 Stock Option Plan
(assumed by the Corporation in connection with its acquisition of Metrobank).
Does not include 464,841 shares of restricted stock outstanding as of December
31, 2003. There are no shares available for future issuances under any of
these plans other than the Corporation’s Amended and Restated 1997 Long-Term
Incentive Plan and the Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Stock Option
Plan for Non-Employee Directors. The Amended and Restated 1997 Long-Term
Incentive Plan was initially approved by the shareholders on May 16, 1997, with
the most recent amendments to the plan, which required shareholder approval,
approved on May 22, 2001.

(2)

Does not include shares of common stock purchased by employees under the
Corporation’s Employee Stock Purchase Plan, or contributed by the Corporation
on behalf of the employees.

(3)

These shares are available for future issuance under the Corporation’s
Amended and Restated 1997 Long-Term Incentive Plan in the form of options,
restricted stock, and other performance or non-performance related
awards and under the Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Stock
Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors in the form of options. Under
the Long-Term Incentive Plan, not more than a total of 2.4 million shares may be used for restricted stock awards
and not more than 2 million are available for issuance pursuant to the
exercise of incentive stock options. Further, no eligible individual during any calendar
year may receive more than the lesser of (i) 15% of the shares available for
awards during such calendar year, or (ii) 350,000 shares.



(4)

Consists of options to acquire shares of common stock, par value
$5.00 per share, issued under the Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated
Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Comerica Bank and Affiliated
Banks.

Most of the equity awards made by the Corporation are granted under the
shareholder approved Amended and Restated 1997 Long-Term Incentive Plan. Plans
not approved by the Corporation’s shareholders include:

Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee
Directors of Comerica Bank and Affiliated Banks – Under this plan, the
Corporation may grant options to acquire up to 450,000 shares of common stock,
subject to equitable adjustment upon the occurrence of events such as stock
splits, stock dividends or recapitalizations. After each annual meeting of
shareholders, each member of the Board of Directors of a subsidiary bank of the
Corporation who is not an employee of the Corporation or of any of its
subsidiaries nor a director of the Corporation (the “Eligible Directors”)
automatically will be granted an option to purchase 2,500 shares of the common
stock of the Corporation. Option grants under the plan are in addition to
annual retainers, meeting fees and other compensation payable to Eligible
Directors in connection with their services as directors. The plan is
administered by a committee of the Board of Directors. With respect to the
automatic grants, the Committee does not have discretion with respect to
matters such as the selection of directors to whom options will be granted, the
timing of grants, the number of shares to become subject to each option grant,
the exercise price of options, or the periods of time during which any option
may be exercised. In addition to the automatic grants, the committee may grant
options to the Eligible Directors in its discretion. The exercise price of each
option granted is the fair market value of each share of common stock subject
to the option on the date the option is granted. The exercise price is payable
in full upon exercise of the option and may be paid in cash or by delivery of
previously owned shares. The committee may change the option price per share
following a corporate reorganization or recapitalization so that the aggregate
option price for all shares subject to each outstanding option prior to the

change is equivalent to the aggregate option price for all shares or other
securities into which option shares have been converted or which have been
substituted for option shares. The term of each option cannot be more than ten
years. No options may be granted under this plan after the Corporation’s 2004
annual meeting of shareholders.

Employee Stock Purchase Plan – Under the Corporation’s Employee Stock Purchase
Plan (the “ESPP”), a total of 1.6 million shares of the Corporation’s common
stock are available for sale or awards to eligible Corporation employees. The
ESPP provides participating employees a convenient and affordable way to
purchase shares of Corporation common stock without being charged a brokerage
fee. Employees may contribute to the plan through regular after-tax payroll
deductions, or they may make after-tax lump sum contributions during two window
periods during the year. The



Corporation provides a matching contribution
equal to 15% of the contributions made during the previous quarter, provided
there have been no withdrawals during that quarter. The Corporation also
provides a matching contribution equal to 5% of the contributions made during
the first of the previous two plan years, provided there have been no
withdrawals during the previous two plan years and the participant is still
employed on the last day of the second plan year. No matches are made on
contributions exceeding $25,000 per year. Following a contribution, the plan
administrator purchases shares of stock for a participant’s account. Such
purchases are generally made on the open market at the current market price as
soon as practicable under the plan.

The Corporation has amended the ESPP, subject to shareholder approval, to
increase the number of shares under the plan to 5 million. The ESPP has also
been amended to provide that, under the ESPP, the Corporation may, in its
discretion, make service award contributions to the accounts of those employees
whom it wishes to recognize for service to the Corporation. Such service award
contributions are used to purchase shares of Corporation stock at the current
market price. The Corporation uses this program to recognize and reward
employees for attaining specified years of service. From 1993 to December 31,
2003, the Corporation issued 54,499 shares of common stock under its service
award program. Each year, the Corporation authorizes the awards of shares to
employees who attain the requisite years of service. Currently under the
program, employees receive 4, 5, 7 and 10 shares of common stock for attaining
ten, fifteen, twenty and twenty-five years of service, respectively. The number
of shares awarded each year depends on the employees who attain the requisite
years of service. For the year-to-date 2004, the Corporation has issued,
through the ESPP, 2,310 shares of common stock under the service award program.

Director Deferred Compensation Plans  –  The Corporation maintains two deferred
compensation plans for non-employee directors of the Corporation, its
subsidiaries and its advisory boards: the Amended and Restated Comerica
Incorporated Common Stock Non-Employee Director Fee Deferral Plan (the “Common
Stock Deferral Plan”) and the Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated
Non-Employee Director Fee Deferral Plan (the “Director Fee Deferral Plan”).
The Common Stock Deferral Plan allows directors to invest in units that are
equivalent to shares of common stock of the Corporation, while the Director Fee
Deferral Plan allows directors to invest in units that are equivalent to the
shares of certain mutual funds offered under such plan. The
Common Stock Deferral Plan previously provided for the mandatory deferral of
50% of the annual retainer of each director of the Corporation into shares of
common stock of the Corporation, but currently has no mandatory deferral.
Until the mandatory deferral requirement was discontinued, directors could
voluntarily defer the remaining 50% of their director fees (and all other
non-employee directors of the Corporation’s subsidiaries could choose to defer
up to 100% of their director fees) under the Common Stock



Deferral Plan or the
Director Fee Deferral Plan, or a combination of the two plans. Currently, all
eligible non-employee directors may defer any portion or none of their director
fees under the Common Stock Deferral Plan or the Director Fee Deferral Plan, or
a combination of the two plans.

The directors’ accounts under the Common Stock Deferral Plan are increased to
the extent of dividends paid on the Corporation common stock to reflect the
number of additional shares of Corporation common stock that could have been
purchased had the dividends been paid on each share of common stock underlying
then outstanding stock units in the directors’ accounts. Similarly, the
directors’ accounts under the Director Fee Deferral Plan are increased in
connection with the payment of dividends paid on the mutual fund shares to
reflect the number of additional shares of mutual fund shares that could have
been purchased had the dividends or other distributions been paid on each share
of stock underlying then outstanding mutual fund units in the directors’
accounts. Following the applicable deferral period, the distribution of a
participant’s Corporation stock unit account under the Common Stock Deferral
Plan is made in Corporation common stock (with fractional shares being paid in
cash), while the distribution of a participant’s mutual fund account under the
Director Fee Deferral Plan is made in cash.

Employee Deferred Compensation Plans – The Corporation maintains two deferred
compensation plans for eligible employees of the Corporation and its
subsidiaries: the 1999 Comerica Incorporated Amended and Restated Common Stock
Deferred Incentive Award Plan (the “Employee Common Stock Deferral Plan”) and
the 1999 Comerica Incorporated Deferred Compensation Plan (the “Employee
Deferral Plan”). Under the Employee Common Stock Deferral Plan, eligible
employees may defer specified portions of their incentive awards into units
equivalent to shares of common stock of the Corporation. The employees’
accounts under the Employee Common Stock Deferral Plan are increased in
connection with the payment of dividends paid on the Corporation’s common stock
to reflect the number of additional shares of the Corporation’s common stock
that could have been purchased had the dividends been paid on each share of
common stock underlying then outstanding stock units in the employees’
accounts. The deferred compensation under the Employee Common Stock Deferral
Plan is payable in shares of the Corporation’s common stock following
termination of service as an employee.

Similarly, under the Employee Deferral Plan, eligible employees may defer
specified portions of their compensation, including salary and bonus (but not
certain incentive awards), into units
equivalent to shares of funds offered under the Employee Deferral Plan.
Beginning in 1999, no such funds include Corporation stock. The employees’
accounts under the Employee Deferral Plan are increased in connection with the
payment of dividends paid on the fund shares to reflect the number of
additional shares of the fund stock that could have been purchased had the
dividends been paid on each share of



fund stock underlying then outstanding
stock units in the employees’ accounts. The deferred compensation under the
Employee Deferral Plan is payable in cash following termination of service as
an employee.

For additional information regarding the Corporation’s equity compensation
plans, please refer to Note 16 on page 80 of the Consolidated Financial
Statements contained in the Corporation’s Annual Report to Shareholders for the
year ended December 31, 2003.

Item 6. Selected Financial Data

The response to this item is included on page 24 of the Corporation’s Annual
Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2003, which page is
hereby incorporated by reference.

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The response to this item is included under the caption “Financial Review and
Reports” on pages 25 through 57 of the Corporation’s Annual Report to
Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2003, which pages are hereby
incorporated by reference.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

The response to this item is included on pages 46 through 52 of the
Corporation’s Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31,
2003, which pages are hereby incorporated by reference.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The response to this item is included on pages 58 through 110 of the
Corporation’s Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31,
2003, and in the Statistical Disclosure
by Bank Holding Companies on pages 27 through 48, which pages are hereby
incorporated by reference.

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.



Item 9A. Controls and Procedures

As required by Rule 13a-15(b) of the Exchange Act, management, including the
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, conducted an evaluation as
of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report, of the effectiveness of
our disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Exchange Act Rule
13a-15(e). Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer concluded that the Corporation’s disclosure controls and
procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this Annual
Report. As required by Rule 13a-15(d), management, including the Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, also conducted an evaluation of
our internal control over financial reporting to determine whether any changes
occurred during period covered by this Annual Report that have materially
affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Corporation’s
internal control over financial reporting. Based on that evaluation, the Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that there has been no
such change during the period covered by this Annual Report that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Corporation’s
internal control over financial reporting.



PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

The response to this item will be included under the sections captioned
“Information About Nominees and Incumbent Directors,”
“Committees and Meetings of Directors,”
“Committee Assignments,”
“Executive Officers” and
“Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” of the Corporation’s
definitive Proxy Statement relating to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be
held on May 18, 2004, which sections are hereby incorporated by reference.

Item 11. Executive Compensation

The response to this item will be included under the sections captioned
“Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation,”
“Compensation of Directors” and “Compensation of Executive Officers” of the
Corporation’s definitive Proxy Statement relating to the Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held on May 18, 2004, which sections are hereby incorporated
by reference.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

The response to this item will be included under the sections captioned
“Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners” and “Security Ownership of
Management” of the Corporation’s definitive Proxy Statement relating to the
Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 18, 2004, which sections are
hereby incorporated by reference.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

The response to this item will be included under the sections captioned
“Director Independence and Transactions of Directors with
Comerica,” “Transactions of Executive Officers with Comerica” and
“Information about Nominees and Incumbent Directors” of the Corporation’s
definitive Proxy Statement relating to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be
held on May 18, 2004, which sections are hereby incorporated by reference.

Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services

The response to this item will be included under the section captioned
“Independent Auditors” of the Corporation’s definitive Proxy Statement
relating to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 18, 2004,
which section is hereby incorporated by reference.



FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

This Report contains statements that are considered “forward-looking
statements” as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In addition, the Corporation may make other written and oral communications
from time to time that contain such statements. Forward-looking statements,
including statements as to industry trends, future expectations of the
Corporation and other matters that do not relate strictly to historical facts,
are based on certain assumptions by management. Forward-looking statements are
often identified by words or phrases such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “expect,”
“intend,” “seek,” “plan,” “objective,” “seek,” “trend” and “goal.”
Forward-looking statements are subject to various assumptions, risks and
uncertainties, which change over time. Forward-looking statements speak only
as of the date they are made, and the Corporation undertakes no obligation to
update any forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially
from those anticipated in forward-looking statements and future results could
differ materially from historical performance.

In addition to factors mentioned elsewhere in this report or previously
disclosed in the Corporation’s SEC reports (accessible on the SEC’s website at
www.sec.gov or on the Corporation’s website at www.comerica.com), the following
factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from
forward-looking statements and future results could differ materially from
historical performance:





Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries

FORM 10-K CROSS-REFERENCE INDEX

Certain information required to be included in this Form 10-K is included in
the 2003 Annual Report to Shareholders or in the 2004 Proxy Statement used in
connection with the 2004 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 18,
2004.

The following cross-reference index shows the page location in the 2003 Annual
Report or the section of the 2004 Proxy Statement of only that information
which is to be incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K.

All other sections of the 2003 Annual Report or the 2004 Proxy Statement are
not required in this Form 10-K and are not to be considered a part of this Form
10-K.

Page Number of 2003

Annual Report or Section

of 2004 Proxy Statement

PART I

ITEM 1.

Business

Included herein

ITEM 2.

Properties

Included herein

ITEM 3.

Legal Proceedings

Included herein

ITEM 4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders -- The

Corporation did not submit any
matters for the shareholders’ vote in the

fourth quarter of 2003.

PART II

ITEM 5.

Market for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Security Holder Matters

Included herein

ITEM 6.

Selected Financial Data


ITEM 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

25-57

ITEM 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

46-52

ITEM 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data:

Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Consolidated Balance Sheets


Consolidated Statements of Income


Consolidated
Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

62-105

Report of Management


Report of Independent Auditors


Statistical Disclosure by Bank Holding Companies:

Analysis of Net Interest Income - Fully Taxable Equivalent


Rate-Volume Analysis - Fully Taxable Equivalent


Analysis of the Allowance for Loan Losses


Allocation of the Allowance for Loan Losses


Analysis of Investment Securities and Loans


Loan Maturities and Interest Rate Sensitivity


Analysis of Investment Securities Portfolio - Fully Taxable Equivalent


International Cross-Border Outstandings




Page Number of 2003

Annual Report or Section

of 2004 Proxy Statement

Summary of Nonperforming Assets and Past Due Loans


Remaining Expected Maturity of Risk Management Interest Rate Swaps


Deposits - Maturity Distribution of Domestic Certificates of Deposit of  $100,000 and Over


ITEM 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure - None.

ITEM 9A.

Controls and Procedures

Included herein

PART III

ITEM 10.

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Information About Nominees and
Incumbent Directors, Committee and Meetings of Directors, Committee
Assignments, Executive
Officers of the Corporation and  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance

ITEM 11.

Executive Compensation

Compensation Committee Interlocks
and Insider Participation, Compensation of Directors and Compensation of Executive Officers

ITEM 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Security
Ownership of Management

ITEM 13.

Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions

Director Independence and
Transactions of Directors with Comerica, Transactions of Executive Officers with Comerica
and Information about Nominees and Incumbent Directors

ITEM 14.

Principal Accounting Fees and Services

Independent Auditors



PART IV

Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)

The following documents are filed as a part of this
report:

1.

Financial Statements: The financial statements
that are filed as part of this report are listed under Item 8
in the Form 10-K Cross-Reference Index on page 21.

2.

All of the schedules for which provision is made
in the applicable accounting regulations of the Securities and
Exchange Commission are either not required under the related
instruction, the required information is contained elsewhere
in the Form 10-K, or the schedules are inapplicable and
therefore have been omitted.

Exhibits:

Exhibit Document Number*

3.1(a)

Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Comerica
Incorporated, as amended

(1)

3.1(b)

Certificate of Amendment to Restated Certificate of
Incorporation of Comerica Incorporated

(2)

3.2

Amended and restated bylaws of Comerica
Incorporated

(3)


Rights Agreement between Comerica Incorporated and
Comerica Bank

(4)

10.1†

Comerica Incorporated Amended and Restated 1997
Long-Term Incentive Plan (restated 2001)

(5)

10.2†

Comerica Incorporated Amended and Restated Management
Incentive Plan (restated 2001)

(5)

10.3†

Comerica Incorporated Director Fee Deferral Plan

(6)

10.4†

Benefit Equalization Plan for Employees of Comerica
Incorporated

(6)

10.5†

Form of Employment Agreement (Exec. Off.)

10.6†

Form of Director Indemnification Agreement between
Comerica Incorporated and its directors

(7)

10.7†

Supplemental Benefit Agreement with Eugene A.
Miller

(8)

10.8†

Employment Agreement with Ralph W.
Babb, Jr.

(9)

10.9†

Supplemental Pension and Retiree Medical Agreement
with Ralph W. Babb Jr.

(10)



10.10†

1999 Comerica Incorporated Deferred Compensation
Plan, January 1, 1999

(11)

10.11†

Comerica Incorporated Common Stock Deferred Incentive
Award Plan, (Restated November 24, 2003)

10.12†

Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Stock
Option Plan For Non-Employee Directors (Amended and
Restated May 22, 2001)

(7)

10.13†

Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Stock
Option Plan For Non-Employee Directors of Comerica
Bank and Affiliated Banks (Amended and Restated May
22, 2001)

(7)

10.14†

Comerica Incorporated Non-Employee Director Fee
Deferral Plan, (Amended and Restated January 27,
2004)

10.15†

Comerica Incorporated Common Stock Non-Employee
Director Fee Deferral Plan, (Amended and Restated
January 27, 2004)

10.16†

Imperial Bancorp 1986 Stock Option
Plan (as amended)

(12)


Statement regarding Computation of
Net Income Per Common Share

(13)


Incorporated Sections of Registrant’s 2003 Annual
Report to Shareholders


Subsidiaries of Registrant


Consent of Ernst & Young LLP

31.1

Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as
adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002

31.2

Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as
adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002


Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as
adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002

(1)

Filed as Exhibit 3.1 to Registrant’s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996, and
incorporated herein by reference.

(2)

Filed as Exhibit 3.1 to Registrant’s Registrant Statement
on Form S-4, No. 333-51042, and incorporated herein by reference.

(3)

Filed as Exhibit 3.1 to Registrant’s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2002,
and incorporated herein by reference.

(4)

Filed as Exhibit 4 to Registrant’s Current Report
on Form 8-K dated June 18, 1996, regarding the Registrant’s
Rights Agreement with Comerica Bank, and incorporated herein
by reference.



(5)

Filed as the same exhibit number to Registrant’s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2001.

(6)

Filed as the same exhibit number to Registrant’s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
1996, and incorporated herein by reference.

(7)

Filed as the same exhibit number to Registrant’s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002, and
incorporated herein by reference.

(8)

Filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant’s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2002,
and incorporated herein by reference.

(9)

Filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant’s Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended June 30, 1998 and incorporated herein by
reference.

(10)

Filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended June 30, 1998 and incorporated herein by reference.

(11)

Filed as Exhibit 10.18 to the Registrant’s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1999, and
incorporated herein by reference.

(12)

Filed as Exhibit 10.23 to Registrant’s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001, and
incorporated herein by reference.

(13)

Incorporated by reference from Note 15 on page 80
of Registrant’s 2003 Annual Report to Shareholders attached
hereto as Exhibit 13.

†

Management compensation plan.

(b)

Reports on Form 8-K

1.

A report on Form 8-K, dated October 15, 2003, was
submitted under items 9 and 11, announcing the Corporation’s
earnings for the quarter ended September 30, 2003.

2.

A report on Form 8-K, dated November 18, 2003, was
submitted under item 9, announcing the Corporation’s investor
conference to be held on November 18, 2003.

3.

A report on Form 8-K, dated December 1, 2003, was
submitted under item 9, announcing the Corporation’s resumption of
its stock repurchase program.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized in the City of Detroit,
State of Michigan on the 8th day of March, 2004.

COMERICA INCORPORATED

/s/ Ralph W. Babb, Jr.

Ralph W. Babb, Jr.

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

/s/ Elizabeth S. Acton

Elizabeth S. Acton

Executive Vice President and

Chief Financial Officer

/s/ Marvin J. Elenbaas

Marvin J. Elenbaas

Senior Vice President and Controller

(Chief Accounting Officer)

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed by the following persons in the capacities indicated on
the 8th day of March, 2004.

By Directors

/s/ Ralph W. Babb, Jr.

Ralph W. Babb, Jr.

/s/ Lillian Bauder

Lillian Bauder

/s/ Joseph J. Buttigieg, III

Joseph J. Buttigieg, III

/s/ James F. Cordes

James F. Cordes

/s/ Peter D. Cummings

Peter D. Cummings

/s/ J. Philip DiNapoli

J. Philip DiNapoli



/s/ Anthony F. Earley, Jr.

Anthony F. Earley, Jr.

/s/ Max M. Fisher

Max M. Fisher

/s/ Roger Fridholm

Roger Fridholm

/s/ Todd W. Herrick

Todd W. Herrick

/s/ David Baker Lewis

David Baker Lewis

/s/ Alfred A. Piergallini

Alfred A. Piergallini

/s/ Howard F. Sims

Howard F. Sims

/s/ Robert S. Taubman

Robert S. Taubman

/s/ William P. Vititoe

William P. Vititoe

/s/ Patricia M. Wallington

Patricia M. Wallington

/s/ Gail L. Warden

Gail L. Warden

/s/ Kenneth L. Way

Kenneth L. Way



Exhibit Index

Exhibit No.

Description

3.1(a)

Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Comerica
Incorporated, as amended

(1)

3.1(b)

Certificate of Amendment to Restated Certificate of
Incorporation of Comerica Incorporated

(2)

3.2

Amended and restated bylaws of Comerica
Incorporated

(3)


Rights Agreement between Comerica Incorporated and
Comerica Bank

(4)

10.1†

Comerica Incorporated Amended and Restated 1997
Long-Term Incentive Plan (restated 2001)

(5)

10.2†

Comerica Incorporated Amended and Restated Management
Incentive Plan (restated 2001)

(5)

10.3†

Comerica Incorporated Director Fee Deferral Plan

(6)

10.4†

Benefit Equalization Plan for Employees of Comerica
Incorporated

(6)

10.5†

Form of Employment Agreement (Exec. Off.)

10.6†

Form of Director Indemnification Agreement between
Comerica Incorporated and its directors

(7)

10.7†

Supplemental Benefit Agreement with Eugene A.
Miller

(8)

10.8†

Employment Agreement with Ralph W.
Babb, Jr.

(9)

10.9†

Supplemental Pension and Retiree Medical Agreement
with Ralph W. Babb Jr.

(10)

10.10†

1999 Comerica Incorporated Deferred Compensation
Plan, January 1, 1999

(11)

10.11†

Comerica Incorporated Common Stock Deferred Incentive
Award Plan, (Restated November 24, 2003)

10.12†

Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Stock
Option Plan For Non-Employee Directors (Amended and
Restated May 22, 2001)

(7)

10.13†

Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Stock
Option Plan For Non-Employee Directors of Comerica
Bank and Affiliated Banks (Amended and Restated May
22, 2001)

(7)

10.14†

Comerica Incorporated Non-Employee Director Fee
Deferral Plan, (Amended and Restated January 27,
2004)

10.15†

Comerica Incorporated Common Stock Non-Employee
Director Fee Deferral Plan, (Amended and Restated
January 27, 2004)

10.16†

Imperial Bancorp 1986 Stock Option
Plan (as amended)

(12)


Statement regarding Computation of
Net Income Per Common Share

(13)


Exhibit Index

Exhibit No.

Description


Incorporated Sections of Registrant’s 2003 Annual
Report to Shareholders


Subsidiaries of Registrant


Consent of Ernst & Young LLP

31.1

Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as
adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002

31.2

Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as
adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002


Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as
adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002

(1)

Filed as Exhibit 3.1 to Registrant’s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996, and

incorporated herein by reference.

(2)

Filed as Exhibit 3.1 to Registrant’s Registrant Statement
on Form S-4, No. 333-51042, and incorporated herein by reference.

(3)

Filed as Exhibit 3.1 to Registrant’s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2002,
and incorporated herein by reference.

(4)

Filed as Exhibit 4 to Registrant’s Current Report
on Form 8-K dated June 18, 1996, regarding the Registrant’s
Rights Agreement with Comerica Bank, and incorporated herein
by reference.

(5)

Filed as the same exhibit number to Registrant’s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2001.

(6)

Filed as the same exhibit number to Registrant’s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
1996, and incorporated herein by reference.

(7)

Filed as the same exhibit number to the Registrant’s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002, and
incorporated herein by reference.

(8)

Filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant’s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2002,
and incorporated herein by reference.

(9)

Filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant’s Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended June 30, 1998 and incorporated herein by
reference.

(10)

Filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the

quarter ended June 30, 1998 and incorporated herein by reference.

(11)

Filed as Exhibit 10.18 to the Registrant’s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1999, and
incorporated herein by reference.

(12)

Filed as Exhibit 10.23 to Registrant’s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001, and
incorporated herein by reference.

(13)

Incorporated by reference from Note 15 on page 80
of Registrant’s 2003 Annual Report to Shareholders attached
hereto as Exhibit 13.

†

Management compensation plan.