10-K


k92690e10vk.htm

ANNUAL REPORT FOR YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004

e10vk


United States

Securities and Exchange Commission

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”)

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004.

Commission file number 1-10706

COMERICA INCORPORATED

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)

Delaware

(State or other Jurisdiction of Incorporation)

38-1998421

(IRS Employer Identification Number)

Comerica Tower at Detroit Center

500 Woodward Avenue, MC 3391

Detroit, Michigan 48226

(Address of Principal Executive Offices)(Zip Code)

(248) 371-5000

(Registrant’s Telephone Number, Including Area Code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act:

·

Common Stock, $5 par value

·

Rights to acquire Series D Preferred Stock, no par value

These securities are registered on the New York Stock Exchange.

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act:

·

7 1/4% Subordinated Notes due in 2007

·

9.98% Series B Capital Securities of Imperial Capital Trust I due 2026*

·

7.60% Trust Preferred of Comerica Capital Trust I due 2050

*

The registrant has reporting obligations for these
securities, which were acquired in connection with the merger of Imperial
Bancorp with and into Comerica Holdings Incorporated, a wholly-owned subsidiary
of the registrant. As a result of the merger, Imperial Capital Trust I became a
wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of the registrant.

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed
by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or
for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

þ

Yes

o

No

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of
the Exchange Act).

þ

Yes

o

No

At June 30, 2004 (the last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal
quarter), the registrant’s common stock, $5 par value, held by non-affiliates had an aggregate
market value of $8,915,533,034 based on the closing price on the New York Stock Exchange on that
date of $54.88 per share and 162,455,048 shares of common stock held by non-affiliates. For
purposes of this Form 10-K only, it has been assumed that all common shares Comerica’s Trust
Department holds for Comerica and Comerica’s employee plans, and all common shares the registrant’s
directors and executive officers hold, are held by affiliates.

At February 25, 2005,
the registrant had outstanding  170,197,221 shares of its common stock, $5 par
value.

Documents Incorporated

by Reference:

1.     Parts I and II:

Items 1, 6-8 and 9A—Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2004.

2.     Part III:

Items 10-14—Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 17, 2005.



PART I

Item 1. Business

GENERAL

Comerica Incorporated (“Comerica” or the “Corporation”) is a financial services company,
incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware, and headquartered in Detroit, Michigan. As
of December 31, 2004, it was among the 20 largest commercial banking companies in the United States
and the largest financial holding company headquartered in Michigan in terms of both total assets
and total deposits. Comerica was formed in 1973 to acquire the outstanding common stock of
Comerica Bank (formerly Comerica Bank-Detroit), one of Michigan’s oldest banks (“Comerica Bank”).
As of December 31, 2004, Comerica owned directly or indirectly all the outstanding common stock of
three active banking and 49 non-banking subsidiaries. At December 31, 2004, Comerica had total
assets of approximately $51.8 billion, total deposits of approximately $40.9 billion, total loans (net of unearned income) of approximately $40.8 billion
and common shareholders’ equity of approximately $5.1 billion.



BUSINESS STRATEGY

Comerica has strategically aligned its operations into three major lines of business: the Business
Bank, Small Business and Personal Financial Services, and Wealth and Institutional Management. In
addition to the three major lines of business, the Finance Division is also reported as a segment.

The Business Bank is primarily comprised of the following business units: middle market,
commercial real estate, national dealer services, global finance, large corporate, leasing,
financial services group, and technology and life sciences. This line of business meets the needs
of medium-size businesses, multinational corporations and governmental entities by offering a
variety of financial products and services, including commercial loans and lines of credit,
deposits, cash management, capital market products, international trade finance, letters of credit,
foreign exchange management services and loan syndication services.

Small Business and Personal Financial Services includes small business banking (entities with
annual sales under $10 million) and personal financial services, consisting of consumer lending,
consumer deposit gathering and mortgage loan origination. In addition to a full range of financial
services provided to small business customers, this line of business offers a variety of consumer
products, including deposit accounts, installment loans, credit cards, student loans, home equity
lines of credit, and residential mortgage loans.

Wealth and Institutional Management offers products and services consisting of personal trust,
which is designed to meet the personal financial needs of affluent individuals (as defined by
individual net income or wealth), private lending, institutional trust, retirement services,
investment management and advisory services (including Munder Capital Management), investment
banking, and discount securities brokerage services. This line of business also offers the sale of
mutual fund and annuity products, as well as life, disability and long-term care insurance
products.

The Finance segment includes the Corporation’s securities portfolio and asset and liability
management activities. This segment is responsible for managing the Corporation’s funding,
liquidity and capital needs, performing interest sensitivity gap and earnings simulation analysis,
and executing various strategies to manage the Corporation’s exposure to liquidity, interest rate
risk, and foreign exchange risk.

In addition, Comerica has positioned itself to deliver financial services in its four primary
geographic regions: Midwest and Other Markets, Western, Texas, and Florida. Midwest and Other
Markets includes all markets in which the Corporation has operations except for the Western, Texas
and Florida regions, as described below. Substantially all of the Corporation’s international
operations are included in the Midwest and Other Markets segment. Currently, Michigan operations
represent the significant majority of the Midwest and Other Markets geographic region.



The Western region consists of the states of California, Arizona, Nevada, Colorado and Washington.
Currently, California operations represent the significant majority of the Western region.

The Texas and Florida regions consist of the states of Texas and Florida, respectively.

We provide financial information for our segments: (1) under the caption, “Strategic Lines of
Business” on pages 35 through 37 of the Corporation’s Annual Report to Shareholders for the year
ended December 31, 2004, which pages are hereby incorporated by reference; and (2) in Note 24 of
the Notes to Financial Statements located on pages 104 through 108 of the Corporation’s Annual
Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2004, which pages are hereby incorporated by
reference.

We provide information about the net interest income and noninterest income we received from our
various classes of products and services: (1) under the caption, “Table 2: Analysis of Net Interest
Income” on page 25 of the Corporation’s Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December
31, 2004, which page is hereby incorporated by reference; and (2) under the caption “Noninterest
Income” on pages 31 through 33 of the Corporation’s Annual Report to Shareholders for the year
ended December 31, 2004, which pages are hereby incorporated by reference.

We provide information on risks attendant to foreign operations under the caption, “Provision and
Allowance for Loan Losses” on pages 29 through 31 of the Corporation’s Annual Report to
Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2004, which pages are hereby incorporated by
reference.

COMPETITION

The financial services business is highly competitive. The Corporation’s banking subsidiaries
compete primarily with banks based in its primary areas of operations in the United States for
loans, deposits and trust accounts. Through its offices in Arizona, California, Colorado,
Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota,
North Carolina,  Nevada, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Texas,
Virginia and Washington, Comerica competes with other financial institutions for various deposits,
loans and other products and services.

At year-end 2004, Comerica was the largest financial holding company headquartered in Michigan in
terms of total assets and deposits. Based on the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching
Efficiency Act of 1994 (the “Interstate Act”) and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act as described below,
Comerica believes that the level of competition in all geographic markets will increase in the
future. In addition to banks, Comerica’s banking subsidiaries also face competition from other
financial intermediaries, including savings and loan associations, consumer finance companies,
leasing companies, credit unions, insurance companies and securities firms.



SUPERVISION AND REGULATION

Banks, bank holding companies and financial institutions are highly regulated at both the state and
federal level. Comerica is subject to supervision and regulation at the federal level by the Board
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“FRB”) under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as
amended.

The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act expanded the activities in which a bank holding company registered as a
financial holding company can engage. The conditions to be a financial holding company include,
among others, the requirement that each depository institution subsidiary of the holding company be
well capitalized and well managed.

Comerica became a financial holding company in 2000. As a financial holding company, Comerica may
affiliate with securities firms and insurance companies and engage in activities that are financial
in nature. Activities that are “financial in nature” include, but are not limited to: securities
underwriting; securities dealing and market making; sponsoring mutual funds and investment
companies; insurance underwriting and agency; merchant banking; travel agent services; and
activities that the FRB has determined to be financial in nature or incidental or complementary to
a financial activity, provided that it does not pose a substantial risk to the safety or soundness
of the depository institution or the financial system generally. A bank holding company that is
not also a financial holding company is limited to engaging in banking and other activities
previously determined by the FRB to be closely related to banking.

Comerica Bank is chartered by the State of Michigan and at this level is primarily supervised and
regulated by the Division of Financial Institutions, Office of Financial and Insurance Services of
the Michigan Department of Labor and Economic Growth. Comerica Bank & Trust, National Association
is chartered under federal law and subject to supervision and regulation by the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”). Comerica Bank and Comerica Bank & Trust, National
Association, are members of the Federal Reserve System
(“FRS”). The deposits of both the foregoing
banks are insured by the Bank Insurance Fund of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”)
to the extent provided by law. Comerica Bank-Mexico, S.A. is chartered under the laws of Mexico
and is supervised and regulated by the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, the Bank of Mexico,
and the Mexican National Banking Commission.

The FRB supervises non-banking activities conducted by companies directly and indirectly owned by
Comerica Incorporated. In addition, Comerica’s non-banking subsidiaries are subject to supervision
and regulation by various state, federal and self-regulatory agencies, including, but not limited
to, the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (in the case of Comerica Securities, Inc.
and Comerica Capital Markets Corporation), the Department of Insurance of the State of Michigan (in
the case of Comerica Insurance Services, Inc.), and the Securities and Exchange Commission (in the
case of Comerica Securities, Inc., Comerica Capital Markets Corporation, and Munder Capital
Management, the Corporation’s investment advisory subsidiary).

In most cases, no FRB approval is required for Comerica to acquire a company engaged in activities
that are financial in nature or incidental to activities that are financial in nature, as
determined by the FRB. Prior FRB approval, however, is required before Comerica may acquire the
beneficial ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares or substantially all of



the assets of a bank holding company or bank. If any subsidiary bank of Comerica were to receive a
rating under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 of less than satisfactory, Comerica would be
prohibited from engaging in certain activities. If any subsidiary bank of Comerica were to cease
being “well capitalized” or “well managed” under applicable regulatory standards, the FRB could
place limitations on the Corporation’s ability to conduct the broader financial activities
permissible for financial holding companies or impose limitations or conditions on the conduct or
activities of the Corporation or its affiliates. If the deficiencies persisted, the FRB could
order Comerica to divest any subsidiary bank or to cease engaging in any activities permissible for
financial holding companies that are not permissible for bank holding companies, or Comerica could
elect to conform its non-banking activities to those permissible for a bank holding company that is
not also a financial holding company.

Various governmental requirements, including Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and
Regulation W of the FRB, limit borrowings by Comerica and its nonbank subsidiaries from its
affiliate insured depository institutions, and also limit various other transactions between
Comerica and its nonbank subsidiaries, on the one hand, and its affiliate insured depository
institutions, on the other. For example, Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act limits the
aggregate outstanding amount of any insured depository institution’s loans and other “covered
transactions” with any particular nonbank affiliate to no more than 10% of the institution’s total
capital and limits the aggregate outstanding amount of any insured depository institution’s covered
transactions with all of its nonbank affiliates to no more than 20% of its total capital. Section
23A of the Federal Reserve Act also generally requires that an insured depository institution’s
loans to its nonbank affiliates be, at a minimum, 100% secured, and Section 23B of the Federal
Reserve Act generally requires that an insured depository institution’s transactions with its
nonbank affiliates be on arms-length terms.

Set forth below are summaries of selected laws and regulations applicable to Comerica and its
domestic banks and other subsidiaries. The summaries are not complete, are qualified in their
entirety by references to the particular statutes and regulations, and are not intended as legal
advice. A change in applicable law or regulation could have a material effect on the business of
Comerica.

Interstate Banking and Branching

Pursuant to the Interstate Act, a bank holding company may acquire banks in states other than its
home state, without regard to the permissibility of such acquisition under state law, but subject
to any state requirement that the bank has been organized and operating for a minimum period of
time, not to exceed five years, and the requirement that the bank holding company, prior to and
following the proposed acquisition, control no more than 10% of the total amount of deposits of
insured depository institutions in the United States and no more than 30% of such deposits in that
state (or such amount as established by state law if such amount is lower than 30%).

The Interstate Act also authorizes banks to acquire branch offices outside their home states by
merging with out-of-state banks, purchasing branches in other states and establishing de novo
branches in other states, thereby creating interstate branching, provided that in the case of
purchasing branches and establishing new branches in a state in which it does not already have
banking operations, such state must have “opted-in” to the Interstate Act by enacting a law



permitting such branch purchases or de novo branching and, in the case of mergers, such state must
not have “opted-out” of that portion of the Interstate Act.

As permitted by the Interstate Act, Comerica has consolidated most of its banking business into one
bank, Comerica Bank, with branches in Michigan, California, Texas, Florida, and Arizona.

Dividends

Comerica is a legal entity separate and distinct from its banking and other subsidiaries. Most of
Comerica’s revenues result from dividends its bank subsidiaries pay it. There are statutory and
regulatory requirements applicable to the payment of dividends by subsidiary banks to Comerica, as
well as by Comerica to its shareholders. Certain, but not all, of these requirements are discussed
below.

Comerica Bank and Comerica Bank & Trust, National Association are required by federal law to obtain
the prior approval of the FRB or the OCC, as the case may be, for the declaration and payment of
dividends, if the total of all dividends declared by the board of directors of such bank in any
calendar year will exceed the total of (i) such bank’s retained net income (as defined and
interpreted by regulation) for that year plus (ii) the retained net income (as defined and
interpreted by regulation) for the preceding two years, less any required transfers to surplus or
to fund the retirement of preferred stock. Further, federal regulatory agencies can prohibit a
banking institution or bank holding company from engaging in unsafe and unsound business practices
and could prohibit the payment of dividends under circumstances in which such payment could be
deemed an unsafe and unsound banking practice. In addition, Comerica Bank is also subject to
limitations under state law regarding the amount of earnings that may be paid out as dividends, and
require prior approval for payments of dividends that exceed certain levels.

At January 1, 2005, Comerica’s subsidiary banks, without obtaining prior governmental approvals,
could declare aggregate dividends of approximately $470 million from retained net profits of the
preceding two years, plus an amount approximately equal to the retained net profits (as measured
under current regulations), if any, earned for the period from January 1, 2005 through the date of
declaration. Comerica’s subsidiary banks declared dividends of $691 million in 2004, $354 million
in 2003 and $647 million in 2002 without the need for prior governmental approvals.

Source of Strength

FRB regulations require that bank holding companies serve as a source of strength to each
subsidiary bank and commit resources to support each subsidiary bank. This support may be required
at times when a bank holding company may not be able to provide such support, without adversely
affecting its ability to meet other obligations. Similarly, under the cross-guarantee provisions
of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, in the event of a loss suffered or anticipated by the FDIC
(either as a result of the failure of a banking or thrift subsidiary or related to FDIC assistance
provided to a subsidiary in danger of failure) the other banking subsidiaries may be assessed for
the FDIC’s loss, subject to certain exceptions.



FDICIA

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act (“FDICIA”) requires, among other things,
the federal banking agencies to take “prompt corrective action” in respect of depository
institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. FDICIA establishes five capital tiers:
“well capitalized,” “adequately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized”
and “critically undercapitalized.” A depository institution’s capital tier will depend upon where
its capital levels are in relation to various relevant capital measures, which, among others,
include a Tier 1 and total risk-based capital measure and a leverage ratio capital measure.

Regulations establishing the specific capital tiers provide that, for a depository institution to
be well capitalized, it must have a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10% and a Tier 1
risk-based capital ratio of at least 6%, a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 5% and not be subject
to any specific capital order or directive. For an institution to be adequately capitalized, it
must have a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 8%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at
least 4%, and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 4% (and in some cases 3%). Under certain
circumstances, the appropriate banking agency may treat a well capitalized, adequately capitalized
or undercapitalized institution as if the institution were in the next lower capital category.

As of December 31, 2004, the Corporation and all of its banking subsidiaries exceeded the ratios
required for an institution to be considered “well capitalized” under these regulations.

FDICIA generally prohibits a depository institution from making any capital distribution (including
payment of a dividend) or paying any management fee to its holding company if the depository
institution would thereafter be undercapitalized. Undercapitalized depository institutions are
subject to limitations on growth and certain activities and are required to submit an acceptable
capital restoration plan. The federal banking agencies may not accept a capital plan without
determining, among other things, that the plan is based on realistic assumptions and is likely to
succeed in restoring the depository institution’s capital. In addition, for a capital restoration
plan to be acceptable, the depository institution’s parent holding company must guarantee for a
specific time period that the institution will comply with such capital restoration plan. The
aggregate liability of the parent holding company under the guaranty is limited to the lesser of
(i) an amount equal to 5% of the depository institution’s total assets at the time it became
undercapitalized, or (ii) the amount that is necessary (or would have been necessary) to bring the
institution into compliance with all capital standards applicable with respect to such institution
as of the time it fails to comply with the plan. If a depository institution fails to submit or
implement an acceptable plan, it is treated as if it is significantly undercapitalized.

Significantly undercapitalized depository institutions are subject to a number of requirements and
restrictions. Specifically, such a depository institution may be required to do one or more of the
following, among other things: sell sufficient voting stock to become adequately capitalized,
reduce the interest rates it pays on deposits, reduce its rate of asset growth, dismiss certain
senior executive officers or directors, or stop accepting deposits from correspondent banks.
Critically undercapitalized institutions are subject to the appointment of a receiver or
conservator or such other action as the FDIC and the applicable federal banking agency shall
determine appropriate.



FDICIA also contains a variety of other provisions that may affect the operations of depository
institutions including reporting requirements, regulatory standards for real estate lending, “truth
in savings” provisions, the requirement that a depository institution give 90 days prior notice to
customers and regulatory authorities before closing any branch, and a prohibition on the acceptance
or renewal of brokered deposits by depository institutions that are not well capitalized or are
adequately capitalized and have not received a waiver from the FDIC.

Comerica’s subsidiary banks are all well-capitalized and may accept brokered deposits, as permitted
by their charters.

Capital Requirements

Comerica and its bank subsidiaries are subject to risk-based capital requirements and guidelines
imposed by the FRB and/or the OCC.

For this purpose, a depository institution’s or holding company’s assets and certain specified
off-balance sheet commitments are assigned to four risk categories, each weighted differently based
on the level of credit risk that is ascribed to such assets or commitments. A depository
institution’s or holding company’s capital, in turn, is divided into two tiers: core (“Tier 1”)
capital, which includes common equity, non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock, and a limited
amount of cumulative perpetual preferred stock and related surplus (excluding auction rate issues)
and a limited amount of cumulative perpetual stock and minority interests in equity accounts of
consolidated subsidiaries, less goodwill, certain identifiable intangible assets and certain other
assets; and supplementary (“Tier 2”) capital, which includes, among other items, perpetual
preferred stock not meeting the Tier 1 definition, mandatory convertible securities, subordinated
debt, and allowances for loan and lease losses, subject to certain limitations, less certain
required deductions.

The Corporation, like other bank holding companies, currently is required to maintain Tier 1 and
“total capital” (the sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital) equal to at least 4% and 8% of its total
risk-weighted assets (including certain off-balance-sheet items, such as standby letters of
credit), respectively. At December 31, 2004, the Corporation met both requirements, with Tier 1
and total capital equal to 8.77% and 12.75% of its total risk-weighted assets.

The Corporation is also required to maintain a minimum “leverage ratio” (Tier 1 capital to adjusted
total assets) of 3% to 5%, depending upon criteria defined and assessed by the FRB. The
Corporation’s leverage ratio of 10.37% at December 31, 2004 reflects the nature of the
Corporation’s balance sheet and demonstrates a commitment to capital adequacy.

As an additional means to identify problems in the financial management of depository institutions,
FDICIA requires federal bank regulatory agencies to establish certain non-capital safety and
soundness standards for institutions any such agency supervises. The standards relate generally
to, among others, earnings, liquidity, operations and management, asset quality, various risk and
management exposures (

e.g.

, credit, operational, market, interest rate, etc.) and executive
compensation. The agencies are authorized to take action against institutions that fail to meet
such standards.



FDIC Insurance Assessments

Comerica’s subsidiary banks are subject to FDIC deposit insurance assessments to maintain the Bank
Insurance Fund (“BIF”) and the Savings Insurance Fund (the “SAIF”). As of December 31, 2004, the
Corporation’s banking subsidiaries held approximately $38.4 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively,
of BIF- and SAIF-assessable deposits. The Corporation currently pays no deposit insurance
assessments on the BIF- or SAIF-assessable deposits under the FDIC’s risk related assessment system
but paid the FDIC $6.2 million in the year ended December 31, 2004 on the BIF- and SAIF-assessable
deposits under a separate assessment program.

Enforcement Powers of Federal Banking Agencies

The FRB and other federal banking agencies have broad enforcement powers, including the power to
terminate deposit insurance, impose substantial fines and other civil and criminal penalties and
appoint a conservator or receiver. Failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could
subject Comerica or its banking subsidiaries, as well as officers and directors of these
organizations, to administrative sanctions and potentially substantial civil penalties.

Future Legislation

Changes to the laws of the states and countries in which the Corporation and its subsidiaries do
business could affect the operating environment of bank holding companies and their subsidiaries in
substantial and unpredictable ways. Comerica cannot accurately predict whether such changes will
occur or, if they occur, the ultimate effect they would have upon the financial condition or
results of operations of the Corporation.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2004, Comerica and its subsidiaries had 10,275 full-time and 1,239 part-time
employees.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

The Corporation maintains an Internet website at www.comerica.com where the Annual Report
on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to
those reports are available without charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after those reports
are filed with or furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The Code of Business
Conduct and Ethics and the Senior Financial Officer Code of Ethics adopted by the Corporation are
also available on the Internet website and are available in print to any shareholder who requests
them. Such requests should be made in writing to the Corporate Secretary at Comerica Incorporated,
Comerica Tower at Detroit Center, 500 Woodward Avenue, MC 3381, Detroit, Michigan 48226.



Item 2. Properties

The executive offices of the Corporation are located in the Comerica Tower at Detroit Center, 500
Woodward Avenue, Detroit, Michigan 48226. Comerica and its subsidiaries occupy 14 floors of the
building, which is leased through Comerica Bank from an unaffiliated third party. The leases at
this building extend through January 2007. As of December 31, 2004, Comerica, through its banking
affiliates, operated a total of 435 banking branches, trust services locations, and loan production
or other financial services offices, primarily in the States of Michigan, California, Texas and
Florida. Of these offices, 222 were owned and 213 were leased. Affiliates also operate from
leased spaces in Phoenix, Arizona; Denver, Colorado; Darien, Connecticut; Wilmington, Delaware;
Atlanta, Georgia; Barrington, Chicago and Oakbrook Terrace, Illinois; Indianapolis, Indiana;
Boston, Massachusetts; Minneapolis, Minnesota; Durham, North Carolina; Princeton and Sea Girt, New
Jersey; Las Vegas, Nevada; New York, New York; Beachwood and West Chester, Ohio; Portland, Oregon;
King of Prussia, Pennsylvania; Memphis, Tennessee; Reston, Virginia; Bellevue, Washington; Sao
Paulo, Brazil; Guadalajara, Mexico; Mexico City, Mexico; Queretaro, Mexico; Monterey, Mexico;
Wanchai, Hong Kong; Toronto, Ontario, Canada and Windsor, Ontario, Canada.

The Corporation and its subsidiaries own, among other properties, a check processing center in
Livonia, Michigan, a ten-story building in the central business district of Detroit that houses
certain departments of the Corporation and Comerica Bank, and a building in Auburn Hills, Michigan,
used mainly for lending functions and operations.

An unaffiliated third party holds title to Comerica’s operations center building in Auburn Hills,
Michigan under a sale/leaseback agreement, though Comerica has entered into an agreement with such
third party to purchase the operations center building. The operations center is occupied by
various departments of the Corporation and Comerica Bank.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

The Corporation and certain of its subsidiaries are subject to various pending and threatened legal
proceedings arising out of the normal course of business or operations. In view of the inherent
difficulty of predicting the outcome of such matters, the Corporation cannot state what the
eventual outcome of any such matters will be; however, based on current knowledge and after
consultation with legal counsel, management believes that current reserves, determined in
accordance with SFAS No. 5, “Accounting for Contingencies,” are adequate and the amount of any
incremental liability arising from these matters is not expected to have a material adverse effect
on the Corporation’s consolidated financial condition or results of operations.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

The Corporation did not submit any matters for a shareholders’ vote in the fourth quarter of 2004.



PART II

Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

Market Information and Holders of Common Stock

The common stock of Comerica Incorporated is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE Trading
Symbol: CMA). At February 25, 2005, there were approximately 15,376 record holders of the
Corporation’s common stock.

Sales Prices and Dividends

Quarterly cash dividends were declared during 2004 and 2003 totaling $2.08 and $2.00 per common
share per year, respectively. The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high
and low sale prices per share of the Corporation’s common stock as reported on the NYSE Composite
Transactions Tape for all quarters of 2004 and 2003, as well as dividend information.

Dividends

Dividend*

Quarter

High

Low

Per Share

Yield


Fourth

$

63.80

$

57.81

$

0.52

3.4

%

Third

61.48

53.00

0.52

3.6

Second

56.99

50.45

0.52

3.9

First

59.23

52.30

0.52

3.7


Fourth

$

56.34

$

46.38

$

0.50

3.9

%

Third

49.75

45.28

0.50

4.2

Second

53.58

37.79

0.50

4.4

First

46.74

37.10

0.50

4.8

*

Dividend yield is calculated by annualizing
the quarterly dividend per share and dividing by an
average of the high and low price in the quarter.



Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans

As of December 31, 2004

Number of

securities to be

Number of securities

issued upon

Weighted-average

remaining available for

exercise of

exercise price of

future issuance under

outstanding

outstanding

equity compensation plans

options, warrants

options, warrants

(excluding securities

Plan Category

and rights

and rights

reflected in column (a))

(a)

(b)

(c)

Equity compensation
plans
approved by
security holders

(1)

16,769,614

$

52.03

7,882,393

(2)(3)

Equity compensation
plans not approved
by security holders

(4)

304,286

$

52.37


Total

17,073,900

$

52.04

7,882,393

(1)

Consists of options to acquire shares of common stock, par value $5.00 per
share, issued under the Corporation’s Amended and Restated 1997 Long-Term Incentive Plan, the 1991
Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Stock Option Plan for
Non-Employee Directors, the Imperial Bank Stock Option Plan (assumed by the Corporation in
connection with its acquisition of Imperial Bank), and the Metrobank 1988 Stock Option Plan
(assumed by the Corporation in connection with its acquisition of Metrobank). Does not include
4,472 restricted stock units equivalent to shares of common stock issued under the Comerica
Incorporated Incentive Plan for Non-Employee Directors and outstanding as of December 31, 2004, or
630,267 shares of restricted stock issued under the Corporation’s Amended and Restated 1997
Long-Term Incentive Plan and outstanding as of December 31, 2004. There are no shares available
for future issuances under any of these plans other than the Comerica Incorporated Incentive Plan
for Non-Employee Directors and the Corporation’s Amended and Restated 1997 Long-Term Incentive
Plan. The Comerica Incorporated Incentive Plan for Non-Employee Directors was approved by the
shareholders on May 18, 2004. The Amended and Restated 1997 Long-Term Incentive Plan was initially
approved by the shareholders on May 16, 1997, with the most recent amendments to the plan that
required shareholder approval approved on May 22, 2001.

(2)

Does not include shares of common stock purchased by employees under the Amended and
Restated Employee Stock Purchase Plan, or contributed by Comerica on behalf of the employees. The
Amended and Restated Employee Stock Purchase Plan was ratified and approved by the shareholders on
May 18, 2004. Five million shares of Comerica’s common stock have been registered for sale or
awards to employees under the Amended and Restated Employee Stock Purchase Plan. As of December
31, 2004, 1,044,163 shares had been purchased by or contributed on behalf of employees, leaving
3,955,837 shares available for future sale or awards. If these shares available for future sale or
awards under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan were included, the number shown in column (c) would
be 11,838,230.

(3)

These shares are available for future issuance under the Corporation’s Amended and
Restated 1997 Long-Term Incentive Plan in the form of options, stock appreciation rights,
restricted stock or other performance or non-



performance related awards and under the Incentive Plan for Non-Employee Directors in the form of
options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units or other equity-based
awards. Under the Long-Term Incentive Plan, not more than a total of 2.4 million shares may be
used for restricted stock awards and not more than 2 million shares are available for issuance
pursuant to the exercise of incentive stock options. Further, no eligible individual during any
calendar year may receive more than the lesser of (i) 15% of the shares available for awards during
such calendar year, or (ii) 350,000 shares.

(4)

Consists of options to acquire shares of common stock, par value $5.00 per
share, issued under the Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Stock Option Plan for
Non-Employee Directors of Comerica Bank and Affiliated Banks. This plan was terminated on March
23, 2004, and consequently, no shares are available for future issuance.

Most
of the equity awards made by the Corporation are granted under the shareholder-approved
Amended and Restated 1997 Long-Term Incentive Plan. Plans not approved by the Corporation’s
shareholders include:

Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors of
Comerica Bank and Affiliated Banks (Terminated March 2004)

— Under the plan, the Corporation
granted options to acquire up to 450,000 shares of common stock, subject to equitable adjustment
upon the occurrence of events such as stock splits, stock dividends or recapitalizations. After
each annual meeting of shareholders, each member of the Board of Directors of a subsidiary bank of
the Corporation who was not an employee of the Corporation or of any of its subsidiaries nor a
director of the Corporation (the “Eligible Directors”) automatically was granted an option to
purchase 2,500 shares of the common stock of the Corporation. Option grants under the plan were in
addition to annual retainers, meeting fees and other compensation payable to Eligible Directors in
connection with their services as directors. The plan is administered by a committee of the Board
of Directors. With respect to the automatic grants, the Committee does not and did not have
discretion as to matters such as the selection of directors to whom options will be granted, the
timing of grants, the number of shares to become subject to each option grant, the exercise price
of options, or the periods of time during which any option may be exercised. In addition to the
automatic grants, the committee could grant options to the Eligible Directors in its discretion.
The exercise price of each option granted was the fair market value of each share of common stock
subject to the option on the date the option was granted. The exercise price is payable in full
upon exercise of the option and may be paid in cash or by delivery of previously owned shares. The
committee may change the option price per share following a corporate reorganization or
recapitalization so that the aggregate option price for all shares subject to each outstanding
option prior to the change is equivalent to the aggregate option price for all shares or other
securities into which option shares have been converted or which have been substituted for option
shares. The term of each option cannot be more than ten years. This plan was terminated by the
Board of Directors on March 23, 2004. Accordingly, no new options may be granted under this plan.

Director Deferred Compensation Plans

—  The Corporation maintains two deferred
compensation plans for non-employee directors of the Corporation, its subsidiaries and its advisory
boards: the Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Common Stock Non-Employee Director Fee
Deferral Plan (the “Common Stock Deferral Plan”) and the Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated
Non-Employee Director Fee Deferral Plan (the “Director Fee Deferral Plan”). The Common Stock
Deferral Plan allows directors to invest in units that are equivalent to shares of



common stock of the Corporation, while the Director Fee Deferral Plan allows directors to invest in
units that are equivalent to the shares of certain mutual funds offered under such plan. The
Common Stock Deferral Plan previously provided for the mandatory deferral of 50% of the annual
retainer of each director of the Corporation into shares of common stock of the Corporation, but
currently has no mandatory deferral. Until the mandatory deferral requirement was discontinued,
directors could voluntarily defer the remaining 50% of their director fees (and all other
non-employee directors of the Corporation’s subsidiaries could choose to defer up to 100% of their
director fees) under the Common Stock Deferral Plan or the Director Fee Deferral Plan, or a
combination of the two plans. Currently, all eligible non-employee directors may defer any portion
or none of their director fees under the Common Stock Deferral Plan or the Director Fee Deferral
Plan, or a combination of the two plans.

The directors’ accounts under the Common Stock Deferral Plan are increased to the extent of
dividends paid on the Corporation common stock to reflect the number of additional shares of
Corporation common stock that could have been purchased had the dividends been paid on each share
of common stock underlying then-outstanding stock units in the directors’ accounts. Similarly, the
directors’ accounts under the Director Fee Deferral Plan are increased in connection with the
payment of dividends paid on the mutual fund shares to reflect the number of additional shares of
mutual fund shares that could have been purchased had the dividends or other distributions been
paid on each share of stock underlying then-outstanding mutual fund units in the directors’
accounts. Following the applicable deferral period, the distribution of a participant’s
Corporation stock unit account under the Common Stock Deferral Plan is made in Corporation common
stock (with fractional shares being paid in cash), while the distribution of a participant’s mutual
fund account under the Director Fee Deferral Plan is made in cash.

Employee Deferred Compensation Plans

— The Corporation maintains two deferred compensation
plans for eligible employees of the Corporation and its subsidiaries: the 1999 Comerica
Incorporated Amended and Restated Common Stock Deferred Incentive Award Plan (the “Employee Common
Stock Deferral Plan”) and the 1999 Comerica Incorporated Deferred Compensation Plan (the “Employee
Deferral Plan”). Under the Employee Common Stock Deferral Plan, eligible employees may defer
specified portions of their incentive awards into units equivalent to shares of common stock of the
Corporation. The employees’ accounts under the Employee Common Stock Deferral Plan are increased
in connection with the payment of dividends paid on the Corporation’s common stock to reflect the
number of additional shares of the Corporation’s common stock that could have been purchased had
the dividends been paid on each share of common stock underlying then-outstanding stock units in
the employees’ accounts. The deferred compensation under the Employee Common Stock Deferral Plan is
payable in shares of the Corporation’s common stock following termination of service as an
employee.

Similarly, under the Employee Deferral Plan, eligible employees may defer specified portions of
their compensation, including salary, bonus and incentive awards, into units equivalent to shares
of funds offered under the Employee Deferral Plan. Beginning in 1999, no such funds include
Corporation stock. The employees’ accounts under the Employee Deferral Plan are increased in
connection with the payment of dividends paid on the fund shares to reflect the number of
additional shares of the fund stock that could have been purchased had the dividends been paid



on
each share of fund stock underlying then-outstanding stock units in the employees’ accounts.
The deferred compensation under the Employee Deferral Plan is payable in cash following termination
of service as an employee.

For additional information regarding the Corporation’s equity compensation plans, please refer to
Note 15 on pages 83 through 85 of the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in the
Corporation’s Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2004.

Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers

On December 1, 2003, the Corporation announced it would resume its share repurchase program
pursuant to its August 16, 2001 Board of Directors’ resolutions, authorizing the repurchase of up
to 10 million shares of the Corporation’s outstanding common stock. On March 23, 2004, the Board
of Directors of the Corporation authorized the additional purchase of up to 10 million shares of
Comerica Incorporated outstanding common stock. Substantially all shares purchased as part of the
Corporation’s publicly announced repurchase program were transacted in the open market and were
within the scope of Rule 10b-18, which provides a safe harbor for purchases in a given day if an
issuer of equity securities satisfies the manner, timing, price and volume conditions of the rule
when purchasing its own common shares in the open market. The Corporation’s share repurchase
program has no expiration date. The following table summarizes the Corporation’s share repurchase
activity for the quarter ended December 31, 2004.

Maximum

Number of

Total

Total Number of Shares

Shares that May

Number of

Purchased as Part of

Yet be Purchased

(shares in millions)

Shares

Average Price

Publicly Announced Plans

under the Plans

Month Ended

Purchased

(1)

Paid Per Share

or Programs

or Programs

October 31, 2004

0.1

$

60.29

0.1

8.6

November 30, 2004

0.4

62.28

0.4

8.2

December 31, 2004

—

—

—

8.2

Total

0.5

$

61.74

0.5

8.2

(1)

The Corporation purchased a nominal number of shares from an employee under
the terms of an employee stock-based compensation plan.

For additional information regarding the Corporation’s share repurchase program, please refer to
Note 12 on pages 80 through 81 of the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in the
Corporation’s Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2004.

Item 6. Selected Financial Data

The response to this item is included on page 22 of the Corporation’s Annual Report to Shareholders
for the year ended December 31, 2004, which page is hereby incorporated by reference.



Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The response to this item is included on pages 23 through 59 of the Corporation’s Annual Report to
Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2004, which pages are hereby incorporated by
reference.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

The response to this item is included on pages 47 through 54 of the Corporation’s Annual Report to
Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2004, which pages are hereby incorporated by
reference.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The response to this item is included on pages 60 through 119 of the Corporation’s Annual Report to
Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2004, and in the Statistical Disclosure by Bank
Holding Companies on pages 25 through 48 and 73 through 77 of the Corporation’s Annual Report to Shareholders for the
year ended December 31, 2004, which pages are hereby incorporated by reference.

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures

Disclosure Controls and Procedures

As required by Rule 13a-15(b) of the Exchange Act, management, including the Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer, conducted an evaluation as of the end of the period covered by
this Annual Report on Form 10-K, of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as
defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e). Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer concluded that the Corporation’s disclosure controls and procedures were
effective as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Management’s annual report on internal control over financial reporting and the related attestation
report of the Corporation’s registered public accounting firm are included on pages 114 through 115
of the Corporation’s Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2004, which
pages are hereby incorporated by reference.



As required by Rule 13a-15(d), management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer, conducted an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting to
determine whether any changes occurred during the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K
that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Corporation’s
internal control over financial reporting. Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer
and Chief Financial Officer concluded that there has been no such change during the last quarter of
the fiscal year covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the Corporation’s internal control over financial
reporting.

Item 9B. Other Information

None.

PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Comerica has a Senior Financial Officer Code of Ethics that applies to the Chief Executive Officer,
Chief Financial Officer, Controller, and Treasurer of Comerica. The Senior Financial Officer Code
of Ethics is available on Comerica’s website at www.comerica.com.

The remainder of the response to this item will be included under the sections captioned
“Information About Nominees and Incumbent Directors,” “Committees and Meetings of Directors,”
“Committee Assignments,” “Executive Officers” and “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance” of the Corporation’s definitive Proxy Statement relating to the Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held on May 17, 2005, which sections are hereby incorporated by reference.

Item 11. Executive Compensation

The response to this item will be included under the sections captioned “Compensation Committee
Interlocks and Insider Participation,” “Compensation of Directors” and “Compensation of Executive
Officers” of the Corporation’s definitive Proxy Statement relating to the Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held on May 17, 2005, which sections are hereby incorporated by reference.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

The information called for by this item with respect to securities authorized for issuance under
equity compensation plans is included under Part II, Item 5 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

The response to the remaining requirements of this item will be included under the sections
captioned “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners” and “Security Ownership of



Management” of the Corporation’s definitive Proxy Statement relating to the Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held on May 17, 2005, which sections are hereby incorporated by reference.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

The response to this item will be included under the sections captioned “Director Independence and
Transactions of Directors with Comerica,” “Transactions of Executive Officers with Comerica” and
“Information about Nominees and Incumbent Directors” of the Corporation’s definitive Proxy
Statement relating to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 17, 2005, which sections
are hereby incorporated by reference.

Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services

The response to this item will be included under the section captioned “Independent Auditors” of
the Corporation’s definitive Proxy Statement relating to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be
held on May 17, 2005, which section is hereby incorporated by reference.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

This Report includes forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. In addition, the Corporation may make other written and oral communications
from time to time that contain such statements. All statements regarding the Corporation’s
expected financial position, strategies and growth prospects and general economic conditions
expected to exist in the future are forward-looking statements. The words, “anticipates,”
“believes,” “feels,” “expects,” “estimates,” “seeks,” “strives,” “plans,” “intends,” “outlook,”
“forecast,” “position,” “target,” “mission,” “assume,” “achievable,” “potential,” “strategy,”
“goal,” “aspiration,” “outcome,” “continue,” “remain,” “maintain,” “trend,” “objective” and
variations of such words and similar expressions, or future or conditional verbs such as “will,”
“would,” “should,” “could,” “might,” “can,” “may” or similar expressions, as they relate to the
Corporation or its management, are intended to identify forward-looking statements.

The Corporation cautions that forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks
and uncertainties, which change over time. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date
the statement is made, and the Corporation does not undertake to update forward-looking statements
to reflect facts, circumstances, assumptions or events that occur after the date the
forward-looking statements are made. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated
in forward-looking statements, and future results could differ materially from historical
performance.

In addition to factors mentioned elsewhere in this Report or previously disclosed in the
Corporation’s SEC reports (accessible on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov or on the
Corporation’s website at www.comerica.com), the following factors, among others, could
cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements, and future results could
differ materially from historical performance. The Corporation cautions that these factors are not
exclusive.



§

general political, economic or industry conditions, either
domestically or internationally, may be less favorable than
expected;

§

developments concerning credit quality in various industry sectors
may result in an increase in the level of the Corporation’s
provision for credit losses, nonperforming assets, net charge-offs
and reserve for credit losses;

§

industries in which the Corporation has lending concentrations,
including, but not limited to, the automotive industry, could
suffer a significant decline which could adversely affect the
Corporation;

§

demand for commercial loans and investment advisory products may
not accelerate as expected;

§

the mix of interest rates and maturities of the Corporation’s
interest earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities
(primarily loans and deposits) may be less favorable than
expected;

§

interest rate margin changes may be greater than expected;

§

there could be fluctuations in inflation or interest rates;

§

there could be changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies,
including, but not limited to, the interest rate policies of the
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System;

§

customer borrowing, repayment, investment and deposit practices
generally may be different than anticipated;

§

management’s ability to maintain and expand customer relationships
may differ from expectations;

§

the introductions, withdrawal, success and timing of business
initiatives and strategies, including, but not limited to, the
opening of new branches or private banking offices, and plans to
grow personal financial services and wealth management, may be
less successful or may be different than anticipated;

§

competitive product and pricing pressures among financial
institutions within the Corporation’s markets may change;

§

legal and regulatory proceedings and related matters with respect
to the financial services industry, including those directly
involving the Corporation and its subsidiaries, could adversely
affect the Corporation or the financial services industry
generally;

§

instruments, systems and strategies used to hedge or otherwise
manage exposure to various types of credit, market and liquidity,
operational, compliance, business risk and enterprise-



wide risk could be less effective than anticipated, and the Corporation may not be able to
effectively mitigate its risk exposures in particular market environments or against
particular types of risk;

§

there could be terrorist activities or other hostilities, which
may adversely affect the general economy, financial and capital
markets, specific industries, and the Corporation;

§

there could be changes in applicable laws and regulations,
including, but not limited to, those concerning taxes, banking,
securities, and insurance; and

§

there could be adverse conditions in the stock market.



Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries

FORM 10-K CROSS-REFERENCE INDEX

Certain information required to be included in this Form 10-K is included in the 2004 Annual Report
to Shareholders or in the 2005 Proxy Statement used in connection with the 2005 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held on May 17, 2005.

The following cross-reference index shows the page location in the 2004 Annual Report to
Shareholders or the section of the 2005 Proxy Statement of only that information which is to be
incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K.

All other sections of the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders or the 2005 Proxy Statement are not
required in this Form 10-K and are not to be considered a part of this Form 10-K.

Page Number of 2004 Annual

Report to Shareholders or

Section of 2005 Proxy Statement

PART I

ITEM 1.

Business

25; 29-33; 35-37; 104-108

ITEM 2.

Properties

Included herein

ITEM 3.

Legal Proceedings

Included herein

ITEM 4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

Included herein

PART II

ITEM 5.

Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

Included herein

ITEM 6.

Selected Financial Data


ITEM 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

23-59

ITEM 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

47-54

ITEM 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data:

60-119

Comerica
Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Consolidated Balance Sheets


Consolidated Statements of Income


Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows


Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements

64-113

Report
of Management


Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm


Management’s
Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting


Attestation
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm


Statistical Disclosure by Bank Holding Companies:

Analysis
of Net Interest Income — Fully Taxable Equivalent


Rate-Volume
Analysis — Fully Taxable Equivalent


Analysis
of the Allowance for Loan Losses


Allocation
of the Allowance for Loan Losses


Analysis
of Investment Securities and Loans


Loan
Maturities and Interest Rate Sensitivity


Analysis
of Investment Securities Portfolio — Fully Taxable
Equivalent


International
Cross-Border Outstandings


Summary
of Nonperforming Assets and Past Due Loans


Remaining
Expected Maturity of Risk Management Interest Rate Swaps

48, 73

Deposits
— Maturity Distribution of Domestic Certificates of Deposit
of $100,000 and Over


Short-Term Borrowings


ITEM 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

Included herein

ITEM 9A.

Controls and Procedures:

Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting


Attestation Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm




Other information called for by this item

Included herein

ITEM 9B.

Other Information

Included herein

PART III

ITEM 10.

Directors and Executive Officers of
the Registrant:

Information about Senior Financial Officer Code of Ethics

Included herein

Other information called for by this item

Information About Nominees and Incumbent

Directors, Committees and Meetings of

Directors, Committee Assignments,

Executive Officers and Section 16(a)

Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance

ITEM 11.

Executive Compensation

Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider

Participation, Compensation of Directors and

Compensation of Executive Officers

ITEM 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and

Management and Related Stockholder Matters:

Information about securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans

Included herein

Other information called for by this item

Security Ownership of Certain

Beneficial Owners and Security

Ownership of Management

ITEM 13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

Director Independence and Transactions of

Directors with Comerica, Transactions

of Executive Officers with Comerica

and Information about Nominees

and Incumbent Directors

ITEM 14.

Principal Accountant Fees and Services

Independent Auditors

PART IV

ITEM 15.

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

(a) The following documents are filed as a part of this report:

1.

Financial Statements: The financial statements that are filed
as part of this report are listed under Item 8 in the Form 10-K Cross-Reference
Index on pages 21-22.

2.

All of the schedules for which provision is made in the
applicable accounting regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission are
either not required under the related instruction, the required information is
contained elsewhere in the Form 10-K, or the schedules are inapplicable and
therefore have been omitted.



Exhibits:

Exhibit Document Number


(not applicable)

3.1(a)

Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Comerica Incorporated (as
amended)

(1)

3.1(b)

Certificate of Amendment to Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Comerica
Incorporated

(2)

3.2

Amended and Restated Bylaws of Comerica Incorporated (amended
and restated January 25, 2005)

(3)


(not applicable)


(not applicable)

10.1

Rights Agreement between Comerica Incorporated and Comerica
Bank

(4)

10.2†

Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated 1997 Long-Term
Incentive Plan (amended and restated May 22, 2001)

(5)

10.3†

Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Management
Incentive Plan (amended and restated May 22, 2001)

(6)

10.4†

Benefit Equalization Plan for Employees of Comerica
Incorporated

(7)

10.5†

Comerica Incorporated Amended and Restated Employee Stock
Purchase Plan (amended and restated effective June 30, 2003)

(8)

10.6†

1986 Stock Option Plan of Imperial Bancorp (as amended)

(9)

10.7†

Form of Standard Comerica Incorporated Non-Qualified Stock
Option Agreement under the Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated 1997
Long-Term Incentive Plan

(10)

10.8†

Form of Standard Comerica Incorporated Restricted Stock Award
Agreement (Cliff Vesting) under the Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated
1997 Long-Term Incentive Plan

(11)

10.9†

Form of Standard Comerica Incorporated Restricted Stock Award
Agreement (Non-Cliff Vesting) under the Amended and Restated Comerica
Incorporated 1997 Long-Term Incentive Plan

(12)

10.10†

Form of Standard Comerica Incorporated No Sale Agreement under the Amended
and Restated Comerica Incorporated Management Incentive Plan

(13)

10.11†

Form of Employment Agreement (Exec. Off.)

(14)

10.12†

Form of Director Indemnification Agreement between Comerica Incorporated and
its directors

(15)

10.13†

Supplemental Benefit Agreement with Eugene A. Miller

(16)

10.14†

Employment Agreement with Ralph W. Babb, Jr.

(17)



10.15†

Supplemental Pension and Retiree Medical Agreement with Ralph W. Babb
Jr.

(18)

10.16†

1999 Comerica Incorporated Deferred Compensation Plan (effective January 1,
1999)

(19)

10.17†

1999 Comerica Incorporated Amended and Restated Deferred Compensation Plan
(amended and restated January 25, 2005)

10.18†

1999 Comerica Incorporated Amended and Restated Common Stock Deferred
Incentive Award Plan (amended and restated January 25, 2005)

10.19†

Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Stock Option Plan For Non-Employee
Directors (amended and restated May 22, 2001)

(20)

10.20†

Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Stock Option Plan For Non-Employee
Directors of Comerica Bank and Affiliated Banks (amended and restated May 22,
2001)

(21)

10.21†

Comerica Incorporated Director Fee Deferral Plan (1997 Amendment and
Restatement)

(22)

10.22†

Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Non-Employee Director Fee Deferral
Plan (amended and restated January 27, 2004)

(23)

10.23†

Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Common Stock Non-Employee Director
Fee Deferral Plan (amended and restated January 27, 2004)

(24)

10.24†

Comerica Incorporated Incentive Plan for Non-Employee
Directors

(25)

10.25†

Form of Standard Comerica Incorporated Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock
Unit Agreement under the Comerica Incorporated Incentive Plan for Non-Employee
Directors

(26)


Statement regarding Computation of Net Income Per Common
Share

(27)


(not applicable)


Incorporated Sections of Registrant’s 2004 Annual Report to
Shareholders


(not applicable)


(not applicable)


(not applicable)


Subsidiaries of Registrant


(not applicable)


Consent of Ernst & Young LLP


(not applicable)



31.1

Chairman, President and CEO Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a)
Certification of Periodic Report (pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002)

31.2

Executive Vice President, CFO and Treasurer Rule
13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Periodic Report (pursuant to Section 302
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002)


Section 1350 Certification of Periodic Report (pursuant to
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002)


(not applicable)



File No. for all filings under Exchange Act: 1-10706.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized as of the 3rd day of March, 2005.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed by
the following persons on behalf of the registrant in the capacities indicated as of the 3rd day of
March, 2005.

/s/ Ralph W. Babb, Jr.

Ralph W. Babb, Jr.

Chairman, President and Chief Executive

Officer and Director

(Principal Executive Officer)

/s/ Elizabeth S. Acton

Elizabeth S. Acton

Executive Vice President,

Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer

(Principal Financial Officer)

/s/ Marvin J. Elenbaas

Marvin J. Elenbaas

Senior Vice President and Controller

(Principal Accounting Officer)

/s/ Lillian Bauder

Lillian Bauder

Director

/s/ Joseph J. Buttigieg, III

Joseph J. Buttigieg, III

Director

/s/ James F. Cordes

James F. Cordes

Director



/s/ Peter D. Cummings

Peter D. Cummings

Director

/s/ J. Philip DiNapoli

J. Philip DiNapoli

Director

/s/ Anthony F. Earley, Jr.

Anthony F. Earley, Jr.

Director

Max M. Fisher

Director

/s/ Roger T. Fridholm

Roger T. Fridholm

Director

/s/ Todd W. Herrick

Todd W. Herrick

Director

/s/ Alfred A. Piergallini

Alfred A. Piergallini

Director

/s/ Robert S. Taubman

Robert S. Taubman

Director

/s/ Reginald M. Turner, Jr.

Reginald M. Turner, Jr.

Director

/s/ William P. Vititoe

William P. Vititoe

Director

/s/ Patricia M. Wallington

Patricia M. Wallington

Director



/s/ Gail L. Warden

Gail L. Warden

Director

/s/ Kenneth L. Way

Kenneth L. Way

Director



EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit No.

Description


(not applicable)

3.1(a)

Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Comerica Incorporated (as
amended)

(1)

3.1(b)

Certificate of Amendment to Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Comerica
Incorporated

(2)

3.2

Amended and Restated Bylaws of Comerica Incorporated (amended and restated
January 25, 2005)

(3)


(not applicable)


(not applicable)

10.1

Rights Agreement between Comerica Incorporated and Comerica Bank

(4)

10.2†

Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated 1997 Long-Term
Incentive Plan (amended and restated May 22, 2001)

(5)

10.3†

Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Management Incentive Plan (amended
and restated May 22, 2001)

(6)

10.4†

Benefit Equalization Plan for Employees of Comerica Incorporated

(7)

10.5†

Comerica Incorporated Amended and Restated Employee Stock Purchase Plan
(amended and restated effective June 30, 2003)

(8)

10.6†

1986 Stock Option Plan of Imperial Bancorp (as amended)

(9)

10.7†

Form of Standard Comerica Incorporated Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement
under the Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated 1997 Long-Term Incentive
Plan

(10)

10.8†

Form of Standard Comerica Incorporated Restricted Stock Award Agreement (Cliff
Vesting) under the Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated 1997 Long-Term
Incentive Plan

(11)

10.9†

Form of Standard Comerica Incorporated Restricted Stock Award Agreement
(Non-Cliff Vesting) under the Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated 1997
Long-Term Incentive Plan

(12)

10.10†

Form of Standard Comerica Incorporated No Sale Agreement under the Amended and
Restated Comerica Incorporated Management Incentive Plan

(13)

10.11†

Form of Employment Agreement (Exec. Off.)

(14)

10.12†

Form of Director Indemnification Agreement between Comerica Incorporated and
its directors

(15)

10.13†

Supplemental Benefit Agreement with Eugene A. Miller

(16)

10.14†

Employment Agreement with Ralph W. Babb, Jr.

(17)


Exhibit No.

Description

10.15†

Supplemental Pension and Retiree Medical Agreement with Ralph W. Babb
Jr.

(18)

10.16†

1999 Comerica Incorporated Deferred Compensation Plan (effective January 1,
1999)

(19)

10.17†

1999 Comerica Incorporated Amended and Restated Deferred Compensation Plan
(amended and restated January 25, 2005)

10.18†

1999 Comerica Incorporated Amended and Restated Common Stock Deferred
Incentive Award Plan (amended and restated January 25, 2005)

10.19†

Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Stock Option Plan For Non-Employee
Directors (amended and restated May 22, 2001)

(20)

10.20†

Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Stock Option Plan For Non-Employee
Directors of Comerica Bank and Affiliated Banks (amended and restated May 22,
2001)

(21)

10.21†

Comerica Incorporated Director Fee Deferral Plan (1997 Amendment and
Restatement)

(22)

10.22†

Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Non-Employee Director Fee Deferral
Plan (amended and restated January 27, 2004)

(23)

10.23†

Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Common Stock Non- Employee
Director Fee Deferral Plan (amended and restated January 27,
2004)

(24)

10.24†

Comerica Incorporated Incentive Plan for Non-Employee Directors

(25)

10.25†

Form of Standard Comerica Incorporated Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock
Unit Agreement under the Comerica Incorporated Incentive Plan for
Non-Employee Directors

(26)


Statement regarding Computation of Net Income Per Common Share

(27)


(not applicable)


Incorporated Sections of Registrant’s 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders


(not applicable)


(not applicable)


(not applicable)


Subsidiaries of Registrant


(not applicable)


Consent of Ernst & Young LLP


(not applicable)


Exhibit No.

Description

31.1

Chairman, President and CEO Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a)
Certification of Periodic Report (pursuant to Section 302 of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
of 2002)

31.2

Executive Vice President, CFO and Treasurer Rule
13a-14(a)/15d- 14(a) Certification of Periodic Report
(pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002)


Section 1350 Certification of Periodic Report (pursuant to
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002)


(not applicable)


File No. for all filings under Exchange Act: 1-10706.