
10-K405
WABTEC FORM 10-K




- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K

MARK ONE

[X]  Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Act of 1934
                  For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 1999

                                       or

[ ]  Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
     Exchange Act of 1934 For the transition period from        to

                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-13782

                             WESTINGHOUSE AIR BRAKE
                            TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
            (FORMERLY REGISTERED AS WESTINGHOUSE AIR BRAKE COMPANY)



          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:



        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
at least the past 90 days.  Yes   X    No _____

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ X ]

As of March 21, 2000, 51,791,767 shares of Common Stock of the registrant were
issued and outstanding, of which 8,319,396 shares were unallocated ESOP shares.
The registrant estimates that as of this date, the aggregate market value of the
voting shares held by non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately $353.2
million based on the closing price on the New York Stock Exchange for such
stock.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:

Portions of the Proxy Statement for the registrant's Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held on May 24, 2000 are incorporated by reference into Part
III of this Form 10-K.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                               




                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

GENERAL

On November 19, 1999 Westinghouse Air Brake Company (WABCO) completed its merger
with MotivePower Industries, Inc. WABCO was one of North America's largest
manufacturers of value-added equipment for locomotives, railway freight cars and
passenger transit vehicles. MotivePower Industries (MotivePower) was a leader in
the manufacturing and distribution of products for rail and other power related
industries, also providing a variety of related contract services.

We believe the merger resulted in North America's largest providers of
value-added, technology-based products and services for the rail industry. The
combined company, Westinghouse Air Brake Technologies Corporation, does business
as Wabtec Corporation. All references to "we", "our", "us", the "Company" and
"Wabtec" refer to Westinghouse Air Brake Technologies Corporation, a Delaware
corporation, and its subsidiaries. The merger was accounted for as a
"pooling-of-interests." Accordingly, the consolidated financial statements have
been restated giving effect to this transaction as if it had occurred as of the
beginning of the earliest period presented. The discussions that follow are
based on the combined companies for each year.

We believe that we maintain a market share in North America in excess of 50% for
our primary braking-related equipment and a significant market share in North
America for our other principal products. We also sell our products in Europe,
Africa, Australia, South America and Asia. Our major products are intended to
enhance safety, improve productivity and reduce maintenance costs for our
customers. Our major product offerings include electronic controls and monitors,
air brakes, traction motors, cooling equipment, turbochargers, low-horsepower
locomotives, couplers, door controls, draft gears and brake shoes. We
aggressively pursue technological advances with respect to both new product
development and product enhancements. The Company has its headquarters in
Wilmerding, Pennsylvania and has approximately 6,500 employees at facilities
throughout the world.

INDUSTRY OVERVIEW

The Company's operating results are strongly influenced by general economic
conditions, and the financial conditions and level of activity of the global
railroad industry. In 1999, favorable conditions generally prevailed in the
North American economy. As a result, U.S. railroads carried a record 1.4
trillion revenue ton-miles (defined as weight times distance traveled by Class I
railroads), the main indicator of activity in the industry, up 1.8 % from the
prior year. There can be no assurance that these favorable conditions will
continue. Rail traffic, in terms of both freight and passengers, is a key factor
underlying the demand for the Company's products. Government investment in
public rail transportation also plays a significant role. Additionally,
railroads continuously seek to increase the efficiency and productivity of their
rail operations in order to improve profitability. We design an array of
products to meet this goal and believe that through our products and service
offerings, we are well positioned to contribute to and benefit from the railroad
industry's drive to improve efficiency and productivity.

Demand for locomotive and freight car products was strong in 1999 due to
continued growth in revenue ton-miles, continued strong delivery of new
locomotives and freight cars, and the age of the industry's fleet of rolling
stock.

Currently, the active locomotive fleet in the North American market numbers
about 33,000 units, which include heavy-haul freight locomotives, commuter
locomotives and lower-horsepower, short-haul and terminal locomotives.
Deliveries of new, heavy-haul locomotives reached about 1,400 in 1999 as
railroads invested in modernizing a portion of their fleets. In 2000, the
Company expects the industry to deliver approximately 1,100 new locomotives.
Historically, the components, parts and maintenance, and overhaul segments of
the railroad industry, while still subject to the impact of rail traffic
fluctuations and capital investment cycles, have been more stable and less
cyclical than the new locomotive segment.

There are approximately 6,000 low-horsepower locomotives operating in
switcher/short-haul service in the U.S. and Canada, with an average age of 30
years. Demand for new state-of-the-art, low-horsepower locomotives has been
minimal since the early 1980s because the railroads have focused instead on
modernizing, rationalizing and downsizing their higher-horsepower freight
locomotive fleets. The Company believes that railroads may now begin to invest
in



lower-horsepower locomotives with advanced technology that can achieve higher
levels of productivity and efficiency. The Company has formed a strategic
alliance with an original equipment manufacturer (OEM) locomotive supplier to
market these locomotives, and it is currently building 50 of these units for a
specific customer.

Currently, the active freight car fleet in North America numbers about 1.3
million units. Deliveries of new freight cars reached a 20-year high of 75,685
units in 1998 and remained strong in 1999 with 74,223 as railroads and shippers
invested in modernizing their fleets. In 2000, the Company expects the industry
to deliver approximately 50,000 new freight cars, which would be approximately
the average delivery rate of the past 10 years.

Demand for fleet maintenance services is driven by the railroads' focus on cost
reduction and productivity improvements as the industry has consolidated over
recent decades, and as railroads consider outsourcing non-transportation
functions. When possible, the Company supplies its own component parts for use
in overhaul and maintenance under these contracts. In this manner, the
locomotive fleet maintenance contracts provide additional opportunities for
sales of component parts.

Demand for passenger transit original equipment manufacturer (OEM) and
aftermarket (i.e. replacement parts) products is driven by the replacement,
building and/or expansion programs of transit authorities. These programs are
funded in part by federal and state government programs, such as TEA-21
(Intermodal Surface Transportation and Efficiency Act), which is expected to
provide up to $42 billion nationally, subject to appropriations for
transit-related infrastructure through 2003.

Since the deregulation of the U.S. railroad industry in 1980, freight railroads
have reduced their equipment base, consolidated operations, and reduced
suppliers to reduce operating costs and improve their competitive position
compared to trucking companies, which compete with the railroad industry. In
addition, they have been consolidating and merging, hoping to achieve additional
operating and financial efficiencies that will allow them to compete more
effectively. The Company believes these consolidations offer opportunities to
increase business with the surviving railroads as these railroads seek operating
efficiencies through such means as outsourcing locomotive fleet maintenance and
components repair. In addition, the supplier base has been consolidating, and
the Company is a primary consolidator. The Company operates in a highly
competitive environment, and there can be no assurance that increased rail
traffic, higher fleet utilization, or other economically favorable industry
conditions will benefit the Company.

BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND PRODUCTS

Approximately 60% of our net sales in 1999 were derived from the sale of
aftermarket replacement parts, repair services and overhaul work purchased by
operators of rail vehicles such as railroads, transit authorities, utilities and
leasing companies (collectively, "end users" or the "aftermarket"). The balance
of our sales was directly to North American OEMs of locomotives, railway freight
cars and passenger transit vehicles. We believe that our substantial installed
base of OEM products is a significant competitive advantage for providing
products and services to the aftermarket because end-users often look to
purchase replacement parts from the OEM when they are safety and performance
related products. We believe that we are less adversely affected than our
competitors by fluctuations in domestic demand for new railroad vehicles because
of our substantial aftermarket and international sales.

Our products and services are delivered through two principal business segments,
the Freight Group and Transit Group. Financial information for these segments
has been restated in conjunction with the operational realignment of our
organization pursuant to the merger of WABCO and MotivePower. Within each group,
our new product development programs provide us with an array of product
upgrades that strengthen our OEM and aftermarket sales. Our products and
services, by business segment, include:

FREIGHT GROUP -- Includes products geared to the production of freight cars and
locomotives, including braking control and train coupler equipment. Revenues are
derived principally from OEM and aftermarket sales and to a lesser extent,
repairs and services. Revenues from these products, as a percentage of total net
sales, was 79%, 80% and 78% in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

Specific product lines within the Freight Group are:

 --  FREIGHT CAR -- We manufacture, sell and service air brake equipment, draft
     gears, hand brakes and slack adjusters for the OEM freight car market and
     to the aftermarket in the form of component parts and repair services. Net
     sales per typical freight car can vary considerably based upon the type and


     purpose of the freight platform, with articulated or intermodal cars
     generally having the highest Wabtec product content. The Company's
     traditional freight products include the ABDX Freight Brake Valve, the Mark
     Series draft gears, hand brakes and slack adjusters, and SAC-1(TM)
     Articulated Coupler.

 --  LOCOMOTIVE -- We manufacture, sell and service air brake equipment,
     traction motors, generators, alternators, turbochargers, cooling equipment,
     gearing, diesel engines, compressors, air dryers, slack adjusters, brake
     cylinders, and monitoring and control equipment for the locomotive OEM and
     aftermarket.

We also provide fleet maintenance, overhauling and remanufacturing of
locomotives and diesel engines, and manufacturing of environmentally friendly
switcher, commuter and mid-range, DC and AC traction, diesel-electric and
liquefied natural gas locomotives up to 4,000 horsepower. The Locomotive product
line also includes manufacturing and distribution of replacement, new and
remanufactured components and parts for freight and passenger railroads,
including every Class I railroad in North America, metropolitan transit and
commuter rail authorities, industrial power-related markets and, to a lesser
extent, OEMs. Wabtec provides aftermarket components for locomotives
manufactured by the Electro-Motive Division of General Motors Corporation
("EMD"), certain components for locomotives made by the GE Transportation
Systems unit of General Electric Company ("GE") and certain components for Alco
locomotives.

Wabtec believes it is the leading independent supplier in North America of many
aftermarket locomotive components.

Demand for components is influenced by rail traffic activity. As traffic
increases, the railroads seek to maximize locomotive availability and capacity,
which can increase the frequency of necessary repairs and maintenance. This
business is highly competitive, as the Company faces competition from EMD, GE
and numerous smaller, independent manufacturers and distributors. EMD and GE
accounted for virtually 100% of the new high-horsepower locomotives delivered in
the United States in the past five years and, as OEMs, are the principal
suppliers of original parts for their locomotives.

 --  ELECTRONICS -- We manufacture, sell and service high-quality electronics
     for the railroads in the form of on-board systems and braking for
     locomotives and freight cars. We are an industry leader in insulating or
     "hardening" electronic components to protect them from severe conditions,
     including extreme temperatures and high/shock vibration environments. Our
     new product development effort has focused on electronic technology for
     brakes and controls, and over the past several years, we introduced a
     number of significant new products including the EPIC(R)Electronic Brake,
     PowerLink(TM), compressor aftercoolers, Train Trax(TM), Trainlink(TM),
     Train Sentry III(R), Fuellink(TM) and Armadillo(TM).

TRANSIT GROUP -- Includes products for passenger transit vehicles (typically
subways and buses). Revenues are derived primarily from OEM and aftermarket
component part(s) sales. Revenues from these products, as a percentage of total
net sales, were 21%, 20% and 22% in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

We manufacture, sell and service electronic brake equipment, pneumatic control
equipment, air compressors, tread brakes and disc brakes, couplers, collection
equipment, overhead electrification, monitoring systems, wheels, climate control
and door equipment and other components for passenger transit vehicles. With the
1996 acquisition of Vapor, Inc., this group is a large supplier of door control
equipment for mass transit vehicles. In 1997, we received contracts valued at
$150 million to provide equipment for 1,080 passenger transit cars for the
Metropolitan Transportation Authority/New York City Transit (the "MTA").
Deliveries of equipment have begun and are expected to continue in 2000.

Substantially all of our principal passenger transit products are engineered to
customer specifications. Consequently, there is less standardization among these
products than with the Freight Group products. Because the market for OEM orders
has been at a cyclical low during the past several years, we believe the OEM
market presents an opportunity for improved growth during the next several
years.

For additional information on our business segments, see Note 16 to "Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements" included in Part II, Item 8 of this report.

STRATEGY

We are committed to building shareholder value by capitalizing on the synergies
of our merger with MotivePower Industries and by enhancing our position as a
producer of value-added equipment for the



rail industry. Building on our leading market shares, strong aftermarket
presence and technological leadership, we are pursuing a strategy with five key
elements:

Expand Technology-Driven New Product Development and Product Lines

We plan to continue to emphasize research and development to create new and
improved products to increase our market share and profitability. We are
focusing on technological advances, especially in the areas of electronics,
braking products and other on-board systems, as a means of new product growth.
The Company believes that this strategy has been successfully executed by the
former Westinghouse Air Brake Company operations, and that it can improve the
ability of the former MotivePower Industries operations to be successful as
well.

Increase Repair and Upgrade Services

By continuing to leverage our broad product offering and our large installed
product base, we intend to expand our presence in the repair and upgrade
services market. We believe our services are more cost-effective than, and offer
product upgrades not available in, most independent repair shops. To capitalize
on the growing aftermarket and the railroads' desire to outsource
non-transportation functions, we are developing and marketing retrofit and
upgrade products that serve as a platform for offering additional installation,
replacement parts and repair services to customers.

Grow International Presence

We believe that international sales represent a significant opportunity for
further growth. Our net sales outside of the United States comprised
approximately 26%, 27% and 24% in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively (see Note 16
to "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" included in Part II, Item 8 of
this report). We intend to increase our existing international sales by
acquisitions, direct sales of products through our subsidiaries and licensees,
and joint ventures with railway suppliers having a strong presence in their
local markets.

Pursue Strategic Acquisitions and Alliances

We intend to pursue strategic acquisitions and alliances that expand our product
lines, increase our aftermarket business, increase international sales and
increase our technical capabilities. An integral component of our acquisition
strategy is to realize revenue growth and cost savings through the integration
of the acquired business.

Further Improve Manufacturing Efficiency and Quality

We intend to build on what we consider to be a leading position as a low-cost
producer in the industry while maintaining world-class product quality,
technology and customer responsiveness. Through the Wabtec Quality and
Performance System, we are dedicated to "lean manufacturing" principles and
continuous improvement across all phases of our business. Our QPS includes
employee-directed initiatives through Kaizen, a Japanese-developed team concept
used to continuously improve quality, lead time and productivity, and to reduce
costs. Our QPS tools also include Statistical Engineering and Value Stream
Analysis. These efforts enable us to streamline processes, improve product
quality and customer satisfaction, reduce product cycle times and respond more
rapidly to market developments. We believe our management and employees are
appropriately incentivized to carry out our strategy. Management and insiders
own approximately 25% of our Common Stock, and our employees own Common Stock
through an Employee Stock Ownership Plan ("ESOP") and other plans.

BACKLOG

The backlog as of December 31, 1999, and December 31, 1998, and the expected
year of recognition is as follows:



The Company's contracts are subject to standard industry cancellation
provisions, including cancellations on short notice or upon completion of
designated stages, including, without limitation, contracts



relating to the MTA. Substantial scope-of-work adjustments are common. For these
and other reasons, work in the Company's backlog may be delayed or cancelled and
backlog should not be relied upon as an indicator of the Company's future
performance. The railroad industry, in general, has historically been subject to
fluctuations due to overall economic conditions and the level of use of
alternate modes of transportation. The Freight Group has significant multiple
year locomotive overhaul and fleet contracts that may provide some level of
assurance that additional component parts sales in support of overhauling
services will occur in the future.

With respect to OEM passenger transit products, there is a longer lead-time for
car deliveries and, accordingly, the Company carries a large backlog of orders.

Based upon widely available industry data concerning freight and locomotive OEM
backlog and projected 2000 deliveries (that indicate a decline from 1999
deliveries), the Company believes demand for its products will remain reasonably
strong for the foreseeable future.

ENGINEERING AND DEVELOPMENT

Consistent with its strategy of using technology to develop new products, the
Company is actively engaged in a variety of engineering and development
activities. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, the
Company incurred costs of approximately $34.5 million, $30.4 million, and $24.4
million, respectively, on product development and improvement activities
(exclusive of manufacturing support). Such expenditures represented
approximately 3.1%, 2.9%, and 2.8% of net sales for the same periods,
respectively. From time to time, the Company conducts specific research projects
in conjunction with universities, customers and other railroad product
suppliers.

The Company's engineering and development program is largely focused upon new
braking technologies, with an emphasis on the application of electronics to
traditional pneumatic equipment. Electronic actuation of braking has long been a
part of the Company's transit product line but interchangeability, connectivity
and durability have presented problems to the industry in establishing
electronics in freight railway applications. Efforts are under way to develop
the major components of both hard-wired and radio-activated braking equipment.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

The Company has numerous U.S. patents, patent applications pending and
trademarks as well as foreign patents and trademarks throughout the world. The
Company also relies on a combination of trade secrets and other intellectual
property laws, nondisclosure agreements and other protective measures to
establish and protect its proprietary rights in its intellectual property.

Certain trademarks, among them the name WABCO(R), were acquired or licensed by
the Company from American Standard Inc. in 1990 at the time of the Company's
acquisition of the North American operations of the Railway Products Group of
American Standard (the "1990 Acquisition").

The Company is a party, as licensor and licensee, to a variety of license
agreements. The Company does not believe that any single license agreement,
other than the SAB License discussed in the following paragraph, is of material
importance to its business as a whole.

The Company and SAB WABCO Holdings B.V. ("SAB WABCO") entered into a license
agreement (the "SAB License") on December 31, 1993, pursuant to which SAB WABCO
granted the Company a license to the intellectual property and know-how related
to the manufacturing and marketing of certain disc brakes, tread brakes and low
noise and resilient wheel products. SAB WABCO is a Swedish corporation that was
a former affiliate of the Company, both having been owned by the same parent in
the early 1990's.

The Company is authorized to manufacture and sell the licensed products in North
America (including to OEM manufacturers located outside North America if such
licensed products are incorporated into a final product to be sold in North
America). SAB WABCO has a right of first refusal to supply the Company with
bought-in components of the licensed products on commercially competitive terms.
To the extent SAB WABCO files additional patent or trademark applications, or
develops additional know-how in connection with the licensed products, such
additional intellectual property and know-how are also subject to the SAB
License. The Company may, at its expense, request the service of SAB WABCO in
manufacturing, installing, testing and maintaining the licensed products and
providing customer support. SAB WABCO is entitled to a free, nonexclusive
license of the use of any improvements to the licensed products developed by the
Company. If any such improve-



ments are patented by the Company, SAB WABCO has the right to request the
transfer of such patents upon payment of reasonable compensation therefor; in
such cases, the Company is entitled to a free, nonexclusive license to use the
patented product. Under the SAB license, the Company is required to pay a lump
sum fee for certain licensed products as well as royalties based on specified
percentages of sales. The SAB license expires December 31, 2003, but may be
renewed for additional one-year terms.

CUSTOMERS

A few customers within each business segment represent a significant portion of
the Company's net sales; however, no one customer represented more than 10% of
the Company's net sales in 1999. One customer represented 12% of Transit Group
sales. Nevertheless, the loss of a few key customers within the Company's
Freight and Transit Groups could have an adverse effect on the Company's
financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.

COMPETITION

The Company operates in a competitive marketplace. Price competition is strong
and the existence of cost-conscious purchasers of a limited number has
historically limited Wabtec's ability to increase prices. In addition to price,
competition is based on product performance and technological leadership,
quality, reliability of delivery and customer service and support. The Company's
principal competitors vary to some extent across its principal product lines.
However, within North America, New York Air Brake Company, a subsidiary of the
German air brake producer Knorr-Bremse AG (collectively, "NYAB/ Knorr"), is the
Company's principal overall OEM competitor along with the OEM's themselves. The
Company's competition for locomotive, freight and passenger transit service and
repair business is primarily from the railroads' and passenger transit
authorities' in-house operations, the in-house operations of EMD and GE, and
NYAB/Knorr.

EMPLOYEES

We employ approximately 6,500 employees, approximately 36% of whom were
unionized. Almost all of the employees subject to collective bargaining
agreements are within North America and these agreements are generally effective
through 2001 and 2002.

The Company considers its relations with its employees and union representation
to be good, but cannot assure that future contract negotiations will be
favorable to the Company.

REGULATION

In the course of its operations, the Company is subject to various regulations,
agencies and entities. In the United States, these include principally the
Federal Railroad Administration ("FRA") and the Association of American
Railroads ("AAR").

The FRA administers and enforces federal laws and regulations relating to
railroad safety. These regulations govern equipment and safety standards for
freight cars and other rail equipment used in interstate commerce.

The AAR promulgates a wide variety of rules and regulations governing safety and
design of equipment, relationships among railroads with respect to railcars in
interchange and other matters. The AAR also certifies railcar builders and
component manufacturers that provide equipment for use on railroads in the
United States. New products generally must undergo AAR testing and approval
processes.

As a result of these regulations and regulations in other countries in which the
Company derives its revenues, we must maintain certain certifications as a
component manufacturer and for products we sell.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

Information with respect to environmental matters is included in Note 15 to the
consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this report.

We believe that all statements other than statements of historical fact included
in this report, including certain statements here under "Business," may
constitute forward looking statements. For a complete discussion of the risks
associated with these forward looking statements, see page 19 of this report.



ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

The following table provides certain summary information with respect to the
principal facilities owned or leased by the Company. The Company believes that
its facilities and equipment are generally in good condition and that, together
with scheduled capital improvements, they are adequate for its present and
immediately projected needs. The Company's corporate headquarters are located in
the Wilmerding, PA site.







(1) Approximately 250,000 square feet are currently used in connection with the
    Company's corporate and manufacturing operations. The remainder is leased to
    third parties.

The above information does not include certain facilities previously announced
to be closed during 2000. Leases on the above facilities are long-term and
generally include options to renew.



ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Information with respect to legal proceedings is included in Note 15 to the
consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this report.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

On November 19, 1999, a special meeting of the WABCO stockholders was held for
consideration of and voting upon the proposal to approve and adopt the Amended
and Restated Agreement and Plan of Merger dated September 26, 1999, as amended,
between the Westinghouse Air Brake Company and MotivePower Industries, Inc. The
proposal was ultimately approved by the WABCO stockholders according to the
results of voting as follows:



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

The following table sets forth certain information with respect to executive
officers of the Company as of March 2000.



WILLIAM E. KASSLING has been a director, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of
the Company since 1990. Mr. Kassling was also President of WABCO from 1990
through February 1998. From 1984 until 1990 he headed the Railway Products Group
of American Standard Inc. Between 1980 and 1984 he headed American Standard's
Building Specialties Group and between 1978 and 1980 he headed Business Planning
for American Standard. Mr. Kassling is a director of Aearo Corporation,
Scientific Atlanta, Inc. and Commercial Intertech, Inc.

GREGORY T. H. DAVIES joined the Company in March 1998 as President and Chief
Operating Officer and in February 1999 became a director. Prior to March 1998
Mr. Davies had been with Danaher Corporation since 1988, where he was Vice
President and Group Executive responsible for its Jacobs Vehicle Systems, Delta
Consolidated Industries and A.L. Hyde Corporation operating units. Prior to
that, he held executive positions at Cummins Engine Company and Ford Motor
Company.

ROBERT J. BROOKS has been a director, Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer, Secretary of the Company since 1990. From 1986 until 1990 he
served as worldwide Vice President, Finance for the Railway Products Group of
American Standard. Mr. Brooks is a director of Crucible Materials Corp.

JOSEPH S. CRAWFORD, JR. has been Executive Vice President, Railroad since
November 1999. Mr. Crawford was Executive Vice President and Chief Operating
Officer of MotivePower Industries, Inc. from October 1998 until November 1999.
From December 1995 to October 1998, Mr. Crawford served as President of Boise
Locomotive Company, a subsidiary of MotivePower Industries, Inc. From September
1994 until December 1995, he served as Executive Vice President, Locomotive
Group of MotivePower Industries, Inc. and from May 1994 to September 1994 as
Senior Vice President, Operations and Maintenance of MotivePower Industries,
Inc.

JOHN M. MEISTER has been Vice President and General Manager of the Company's
Transit Unit since 1990. In 1997, he was appointed to the newly created position
of Executive Vice President, Transit Group. From 1985 until 1990 he was General
Manager of the passenger transit business unit for the Railway Products Group of
American Standard.

KEVIN P. CONNER has been Senior Vice President of Human Resources of the Company
since November 1999. Previously, Mr. Conner was Vice President



of Human Resources of the Company since 1990. From 1986 until 1990, Mr. Conner
was Vice President of Human Resources of the Railway Products Group of American
Standard.

ALVARO GARCIA-TUNON has been Senior Vice President, Finance of the Company since
November 1999. Mr. Garcia-Tunon was Vice President and Treasurer of the Company
from August 1995 until November 1999. From 1990 until August 1995, Mr. Garcia-
Tunon was Vice President of Business Development of Pulse Electronics, Inc.

DAVID L. BONVENUTO has been Vice President, Controller since November 1999.
Previously, Mr. Bonvenuto was Vice President, Controller and Principal
Accounting Officer of MotivePower Industries, Inc. from October 1998 until
November 1999. From 1997 until October 1998, he served as Assistant Corporate
Controller of MotivePower Industries, Inc. From 1990 to 1997, Mr. Bonvenuto was
employed at KPMG Peat Marwick LLP.

TIMOTHY J. LOGAN has been Vice President, International since August 1996. From
1987 until August 1996, Mr. Logan was Vice President, International Operations
for Ajax Magnethermic Corporation and from 1983 until 1987 he was President of
Ajax Magnethermic Canada, Ltd.

GEORGE A. SOCHER has been Vice President, Internal Audit and Taxation of the
Company since November 1999. Previously, from July 1995 until November 1999, Mr.
Socher was Vice President and Corporate Controller of the Company. From 1994
until June 1995, Mr. Socher was Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting
Officer of Sulcus Computer Corp. From 1988 until 1994 he was Corporate
Controller of Stuart Medical Inc.

TIMOTHY R. WESLEY has been Vice President, Investor Relations and Corporate
Communications since November 1999. Previously, Mr. Wesley was Vice President,
Investor and Public Relations of MotivePower Industries, Inc. from August 1996
until November 1999. From February 1995 until August 1996, he served as
Director, Investor and Public Relations of MotivePower Industries, Inc. From
1993 until February 1995, Mr. Wesley served as Director, Investor and Public
Relations of Michael Baker Corporation.

The executive officers are affirmed annually by the Board of Directors of the
Company.

                                    PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The Common Stock of the Company is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. As of
March 21, 2000, there were 51,791,767 shares of Common Stock outstanding held by
1,922 holders of record. The high and low sales price of the shares and
dividends declared per share were as follows:



The Company's credit agreement restricts the ability to make dividend payments.
See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" and see Note 6 to "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements"
included in Part II, Item 8 of this report.

At the close of business on March 21, 2000, the Company's Common Stock traded at
$10.50 per share.



ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The following table sets forth certain selected consolidated financial
information of the Company and has been derived from restated audited financial
statements. This financial information should be read in conjunction with, and
is qualified by reference to, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations" and the Consolidated Financial Statements
of the Company and the Notes thereto included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.





(1) In 1995, the Company had Unusual Items totaling $40.8 million related to
    exiting the high-horsepower locomotive business, the impairment of the
    Mountaintop facility and the locomotive lease fleet, the disposition of one
    of the Company's Australian operations and other charges. The effect on
    diluted earnings per share was a charge of $0.58. Without the effect of this
    charge, 1995 earnings would have been $0.43 per diluted share.

(2) In 1999, the Company recorded $50.1 million, of which $43.6 million is the
    operating expense component and $5.2 million, the charge to gross profit;
    for a merger and restructuring charge pursuant to a plan that involves the
    elimination of duplicate facilities and excess capacity, operational
    realignment and related workforce reductions, and the evaluation of certain
    assets as to their perceived ongoing benefit to the Company. The effect on
    diluted earnings per share was a charge of $0.91. Without the effect of this
    charge, 1999 earnings would have been $1.74 per diluted share.

(3) In 1998, the Company sold its Argentine investment in Trenes de Buenos Aires
    S.A. and recognized an investment gain of $8.4 million. The effect on
    diluted earnings per share was a gain of $0.12. Without the effect of this
    gain, 1998 earnings would have been $1.55 per diluted share.



ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND
        ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
        CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
        OPERATIONS

OVERVIEW

Net income in 1999 was $36.6 million, or $0.83 per diluted share, as compared to
$73.9 million or $1.67 per diluted share, in 1998. Excluding the merger and
restructuring charge discussed below, Wabtec set financial records in 1999 with
net income of $77 million, earnings per diluted share of $1.74 and net sales of
$1.1 billion. Net sales increased 8.2% in 1999 including the sales from
companies acquired in late 1998 and 1999.

Gross margin in 1999 was 29.6% compared to 29% in 1998. After excluding the cost
of sales component of the merger and restructuring charge, gross margins would
have increased to 30.1%.

Operating margins in 1999 decreased to 10.3% as compared to 14% in 1998. After
excluding the merger and restructuring charges that effect operating income,
operating margins increased to 14.7% compared to that of the prior year.

MERGER AND RESTRUCTURING PLAN

The Company announced a merger and restructuring plan that is anticipated to
yield synergies of $15 million pre-tax in 2000 and produce an ongoing annualized
benefit of $25 million, pre-tax, by year-end 2000. The Company expects the
benefits to be realized through reduced cost of sales and reduced selling,
general and administrative expenses. The merger and restructuring plan involves
the elimination of duplicate facilities and excess capacity, operational
realignment and related workforce reductions, and the evaluation of certain
assets as to their perceived ongoing benefit to the Company. The Company
estimates the charges to complete the merger and restructuring plan will total
$70 million pre-tax with approximately $50 million of the charge being expensed
in the fourth quarter of 1999. The $50 million charge was recorded as follows:
$5.2 million in cost of sales; $43.6 million as a separate line item in
operating expenses and $1.3 million ($850,000 net of tax) as an extraordinary
item. The cash and non-cash portion of the $50 million charge are estimated to
be $38 million ($29 million has been spent through the end of 1999) and $12
million, respectively. Of the $20 million charge left to be incurred, the
Company expects the majority of this charge to occur in the second and third
quarter of 2000 with the cash portion being approximately $12 million to $13
million of the charge.

The $50 million charge included the following announced actions:

 --  Costs associated with the transaction for items such as investment bankers,
     legal fees, accountant fees, SEC fees, etc.

 --  Consolidation of the corporate headquarters to Wilmerding, PA and the
     elimination of duplicate corporate functions.

 --  Closing and moving of Young Radiators' Centerville, IA plant and
     consolidating the Young administrative offices into the Company's Jackson,
     TN facility.

 --  Closing of G&G Locotronic's plant in Itasca, IL and moving its production
     into the nearby Elk Grove Village, IL facility and to San Luis Potosi,
     Mexico.

 --  Implementing a national sales force and eliminating duplicate sales
     functions.

As of December 31, 1999, $8.7 million of the $50 million merger and
restructuring-related charge was still remaining as accrued on the balance
sheet. The accrual on the balance sheet is discussed in greater detail in Note
19 to "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" included in Part II, Item 8
of this report.



RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following table sets forth Wabtec's Consolidated Statements of Income for
the years indicated. The 1999 adjusted column represents the 1999 income
statement excluding the effects of the merger and restructuring charge.



                             1999 COMPARED TO 1998

Net sales increased 8.2% to $1.1 billion in 1999 from $1 billion in 1998. The
increase was driven by acquisitions, primarily within the Freight Group, which
contributed $113 million of sales in 1999. Incremental revenue from the
acquisitions, along with an increase in Transit Group sales, were partially
offset by a slowdown in the locomotive overhaul market and in U.S. freight car
deliveries which decreased slightly in 1999 to 74,223 from 75,685 in 1998. In
2000, the Company expects the OEM freight car and locomotive industries to
deliver approximately 50,000 and 1,100 new freight cars and locomotives,
respectively.

Cost of sales increased 7.3% to $789.1 million in 1999 from $735.6 million in
1998. Gross margin increased to 29.6% as compared to 29% in 1998. After
excluding the cost of sales component of the merger and restructuring charge,
gross margin would have increased to 30.1%. The increase is attributed to volume
and a favorable product mix in the Freight Group component companies, and from
the increased volume of the Transit Group.

Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 7.4% to $122 million from
$113.6 million in 1998. Cost reductions and lower incentive-related expenses
were offset by the operating expenses of acquired companies ($18 million).

Engineering expenses increased 13.4% to $34.5 million from $30.4 million
primarily as a result of the Rockwell acquisition in October 1998 and new
product development efforts.

Amortization expense increased 38% to $15.8 million in 1999 from $11.5 million
in 1998. The increase is primarily attributable to the acquisitions made late in
1998 (Rockwell Railroad Electronics division (Rockwell), October 1998 and Young
Radiator (Young), November 1998) and the acquisitions made early in 1999 (G&G
Locotronics and Q-Tron in January 1999 and AGC Technologies in February 1999).

Income from operations totaled $116 million in 1999 compared with $145 million
in 1998 with operating margins of 10.3% and 14%, respectively. After excluding
the operating expense component of the merger and restructuring charge,
operating income would have been $164.9 million and operating mar-



gins as a percentage of sales for 1999 increased to 14.7%, slightly higher than
14% in the prior year. Higher adjusted operating income resulted from higher
sales volume and related gross profit. Favorable aftermarket sales volume at
relatively strong operating margins in the Transit Group and the component
companies in the Freight Group were the primary reasons for the increase in
operating income (see Note 16 to "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements"
included in Part II, Item 8 of this report).

Interest expense increased 19.7% to $44.4 million in 1999 from $37.1 million in
1998. Debt, net of cash and equivalents, was $562 million as of December 31,
1999 versus $565 million as of December 31, 1998. The increase in interest
expense, even though the net debt balance decreased, is due to Wabtec carrying a
higher average debt balance in 1999 as a result of the late 1998 acquisitions
(Rockwell -- $80 million and Young -- $68 million) and the 1999 acquisitions of
G&G Locotronics, Q-Tron and AGC Technologies ($32 million). Wabtec also funded
cash transaction costs associated with the merger, which totaled about $29
million.

Investment income -- Argentina represents income recognized related to an
investment in Argentina which was sold in 1998 for cash and a secured note
receivable.

Other expense of $90,000 was recorded in 1999 versus other income of $3 million
in 1998. The fluctuation is due to foreign exchange gains/losses as a foreign
exchange loss virtually offsetting in 1999 compared to a foreign exchange gain
of $2 million in 1998.

The Company recorded income tax expense of $33.6 million as compared to $42.1
million in 1998. The effective tax rate for 1999 was 46.9% as compared to 34.7%
in 1998. After excluding the assumed tax benefit component of the merger and
restructuring charge, Wabtec incurred income tax expense of $43 million in 1999,
or an effective tax rate of 35.6%, as compared to 34.7% in 1998. The 1998 rate
was lower due to a non-recurring deferred tax liability reversal. Wabtec expects
the ongoing rate to be approximately 36%. The Company has consolidated Mexican
and United States federal net operating loss carryforwards of $5 million and $19
million expiring at various times through year 2005 and 2010, respectively.

In 1999, a $469,000 extraordinary loss, net of tax, was incurred on the
extinguishment of certain term debt as well as an $850,000 extraordinary loss,
net of tax, for the write-off of deferred financing fees on the refinancing of
the Company's principal credit facility in November 1999 in connection with the
merger. In 1998, Wabtec incurred a $5.3 million extraordinary loss, net of tax,
related to amending certain credit facilities.

                             1998 COMPARED TO 1997

Net sales increased 19% to $1 billion in 1998 from $870 million in 1997.
Incremental revenues from acquisitions contributed $85 million of the increase.
Increased sales in the Freight Group were also positively impacted by OEM
freight car deliveries increasing to 75,685 deliveries in 1998 from 50,396
deliveries in 1997, and an increase in locomotive overhauls and freight car work
in the United States and Mexico in 1998.

Cost of sales increased 20.3% to $735.6 million in 1998 from $611.9 million in
1997. Gross margin decreased to 29% in 1998 from 29.7% in 1997. The primary
reason for the decrease was because the incremental gross margin from the 1998
acquisitions was at a lower margin than the other subsidiaries.

Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 16% to $113.6 million in
1998 from $97.9 million in 1997. Operating expenses of acquisitions accounted
for $14 million of the increase while costs associated with preparing for year
2000 compliance were about $3 million.

Engineering expenses increased 24.8% to $30.4 million in 1998 from $24.4 million
in 1997. The increase was attributed to new product development in 1998.

Income from operations totaled $145 million in 1998 compared with $124.6 million
in 1997. Higher operating income resulted from higher sales volume and related
higher gross profit. As a percentage of sales, 1998 operating income was 14% and
is slightly lower than 14.3% in the prior year. Favorable OEM sales volume at
generally weaker operating margins in both the Freight and Transit Groups was
the primary reason (see Note 16 to "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements"
included in Part II, Item 8 of this report).

Interest expense increased 6.4% to $37.1 million in 1998 from $34.9 million in
1997. Debt, net of cash and equivalents was $565 million as of December 31, 1998
versus $398 million as of December 31, 1997. The increase is attributed to the
late 1998 acquisitions of Rockwell and Young.



Investment income--Argentina represents income recognized related to an
investment in Argentina and was $10 million in 1998 versus $2 million in 1997.
The increase is due to Wabtec selling its investment in Argentina for cash and a
secured note receivable during 1998.

Other income of $3 million was recorded in 1998 compared to other income of
$875,000 in 1997. The fluctuation is primarily due to a foreign exchange gain of
$2 million being recorded in 1998.

The Company recorded income tax expense of $42.1 million in 1998 versus $35
million in 1997. The effective income tax rate was 34.7% in 1998 compared to
37.8% in 1997. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily the result
of the utilization of a Foreign Sales Corporation and a non-recurring reversal
of a deferred tax liability in 1998.

In 1998, Wabtec incurred a $5.3 million extraordinary loss, net of tax, related
to the amending of certain credit facilities in the first and second quarter of
1998, and the repayment of our higher-rate Mexican facility in the fourth
quarter of 1998.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Liquidity is provided primarily by operating cash flow and borrowings under the
Company's credit facilities with a consortium of commercial banks ("Credit
Agreement"). The following is a summary of selected cash flow information and
other relevant data.



Operating cash flow in 1999 was $77.4 million as compared to $73.4 million in
the same period a year ago. During 1999, cash outlays for merger and
restructuring activities were approximately $29 million and are reported as a
reduction to cash provided by operating activities. Excluding these cash
outlays, cash provided by operating activities would have been approximately
$106.7 million, compared to $73.4 million in 1998. This increase was primarily
the result of improved working capital management. However, within the Freight
Group, inventory levels increased due to strategic purchases of locomotive and
parts cores used in exchange and overhaul programs and additionally within the
Transit Group, production continues for anticipated future product deliveries
related to the Metropolitan Transit Authority/New York City Transit project.
Adjusted EBITDA, excluding the merger and restructuring charge, would have been
$207 million in 1999 as compared to $182 million in 1998.

Cash used for investing activities declined in 1999 to $66.4 million from $243.8
million a year ago. In 1999, 1998 and 1997, the Company used $32.2 million,
$180.2 million and $24.8 million, respectively, for certain business
acquisitions. Capital expenditures were $30.8 million, $57.8 million and $44.2
million in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. The majority of capital
expenditures for these periods relates to upgrades to existing equipment,
replacement of existing equipment and purchases of new equipment due to
expansion of Wabtec's operations, where the Company believes overall cost
savings can be achieved through increasing efficiencies. The Company expects
2000 capital expenditures for equipment purchased for similar purposes to
approximate $40-$45 million.

Cash used for financing activities was $11.7 million in 1999 versus cash
provided by financing activities of $161.9 million in 1998. As described below,
the Company refinanced the pre-existing credit facilities of WABCO and
MotivePower immediately following the merger in November 1999. Additionally, the
Company issued $75 million of senior notes in the first quarter of 1999 and used
the proceeds to repay amounts outstanding on certain unsecured bank term debt
and repaid a portion of the Company's previous revolving credit facility.
Historically, the Company has financed the purchase of significant businesses
utilizing the amounts available under its credit facilities.

The Company estimates the charges to complete the merger and restructuring plan
will total $70 million pre-tax with approximately $50 million of the charge
being expensed in the fourth quarter of 1999. The cash and non-cash portion of
the 1999 $50 million charge were $38 million and $12 million, respectively. Of
the $20 million charge yet to be incurred, the Company expects the majority of
this charge to occur in the second and third quarter of 2000 with the



cash portion being approximately $12-$13 million of the charge.

Based on anticipated cash flow provided by operations, forecasted results and
credit available under the credit agreement, the Company believes it will be
able to make planned capital expenditures and required debt payments over the
next twelve months.

The following table sets forth the Company's outstanding indebtedness and
average interest rates at December 31, 1999. The revolving credit note and other
term loan interest rates are variable and dependent on market conditions.
Interest on the Pulse note can vary with prime.



Credit Agreement

In November 1999, in connection with the merger, WABCO terminated its then
existing credit agreement and refinanced the then existing MotivePower credit
agreement with a consortium of commercial banks. The credit agreement provides
for a $275 million five-year revolving credit facility and a 364-day $275
million convertible revolving credit facility. At December 31, 1999, the Company
had available borrowing capacity, net of letters of credit, of approximately
$158 million.

Under the credit agreement, the Company may elect a base rate, an interest rate
based on the London Interbank Offered Rates of Interest ("LIBOR"), a cost of
funds rate and a bid rate. The base rate is the greater of ABN AMRO Bank N.V.'s
prime rate or the federal funds effective rate plus 0.5% per annum. The LIBOR
rate is based on LIBOR plus a margin that ranges from 62.5 to 175 basis points
depending on the Company's consolidated total indebtedness to cash flow ratios.
The cost of funds rate is a fluctuating interest rate based on ABN AMRO Bank
N.V.'s then cost of funds. Under the bid rate option, any participating bank may
propose the interest rate at which it will lend funds, which rate may either be
a fixed rate or a floating rate based on LIBOR.

The credit agreement limits the Company's ability to declare or pay cash
dividends and prohibits the Company from declaring or making other
distributions, subject to certain exceptions, whether in cash, property,
securities or a combination thereof. One exception to this restriction is that
the Company may make repurchases and redemptions, and pay dividends (net of
dividends on unallocated shares of Common Stock of the Company that are returned
to the Company) in an aggregate amount not to exceed 50% of the Company's
accumulated consolidated net income for that fiscal year. The credit agreement
contains various other covenants and restrictions including, without limitation,
the following: a limitation on the incurrence of additional indebtedness; a
limitation on mergers, consolidations and sales of assets and acquisitions; a
limitation on liens; a limitation on sale and leasebacks; a limitation on
investments, loans and advances; a limitation on certain debt payments; a
limitation on capital expenditures; a minimum interest expense coverage ratio;
and a maximum debt to cash flow ratio.

The credit agreement contains customary events of default, including payment
defaults, failure of representations or warranties to be true in any material
respect, covenant defaults, defaults with respect to other indebtedness of the
Company, bankruptcy, certain judgments against the Company, ERISA defaults and
"change of control" of the Company.

Credit agreement borrowings bear variable interest rates indexed to common
indexes such as LIBOR. The weighted-average contractual interest rate on credit
agreement borrowings was 7.36% at December 31, 1999. To reduce the impact of
interest rate changes on a portion of this variable-rate debt, the Company
entered into interest rate swaps which effectively convert a portion of the debt
from variable to fixed-rate borrowings during the term of the swap contracts. On
December 31, 1999, the notional value of interest rate swaps outstanding totaled
$50 million and effectively changed the Company's interest rate from a variable
rate to a fixed rate of 7.33%. The interest rate swap agreements mature in 2000
and



2001. The Company is exposed to credit risk in the event of nonperformance by
the counterparties. However, since only the cash interest payments are
exchanged, exposure is significantly less than the notional amount. The
counterparties are large financial institutions and the Company does not
anticipate nonperformance.

9 3/8% Senior Notes Due June 2005

In June 1995, the Company issued $100 million of 9 3/8% Senior Notes due in 2005
(the "1995 Notes"). In January 1999, the Company issued an additional $75
million of 9 3/8% Senior Notes which are due in 2005 (the "1999 Notes"; the 1995
Notes and the 1999 Notes are collectively, the "Notes"). The 1999 Notes were
issued at a premium resulting in an effective rate of 8.5%. The terms of the
1995 Notes and the 1999 Notes are substantially the same, and the 1995 Notes and
the 1999 Notes were issued pursuant to indentures that are substantially the
same. The issuance of the 1999 Notes improved the Company's financial liquidity
by i) using a portion of the proceeds to repay $30 million of debt associated
with the Rockwell acquisition that bore interest at 9.56%; ii) using a portion
of the proceeds to repay variable-rate revolving credit borrowings thereby
increasing amounts available under the revolving credit facility; and iii)
repaying the remaining unpaid principal of $10.2 million from the Comet
acquisition.

The Notes are senior unsecured obligations of the Company and rank pari passu in
right of payment with all existing and future indebtedness under (i) capitalized
lease obligations, (ii) the Credit Agreement, (iii) indebtedness of the Company
for money borrowed and (iv) indebtedness evidenced by notes, debentures, bonds
or other similar instruments for the payment of which the Company is responsible
or liable unless, in the case of clause (iii) or (iv), in the instrument
creating or evidencing the same or pursuant to which the same is outstanding, it
is provided that such obligations are subordinate in right of payment to the
Notes.

Unsecured Credit Facility

In October 1998, the Company obtained a $30 million unsecured credit facility
from a group of commercial banks for the purpose of financing the Rockwell
acquisition. In January 1999, this facility was repaid with proceeds of the 1999
Notes offering.

Pulse Note

As partial payment for the Pulse acquisition, the Company issued a $17 million
note due January 31, 2004, with interest at 9.5%. In January 2000, this note was
repaid with our revolving credit facility.

Comet Notes

In connection with the Comet acquisition, the Company issued notes totaling
$12.2 million, of which unsecured notes totaling $6.2 million were delivered by
the Company and a note in the amount of $6 million was delivered by a subsidiary
of the Company and secured by the acquired assets. These notes were repaid in
January 1999 with proceeds of the 1999 Notes offering.

Industrial Revenue Bond

In July 1998, a subsidiary of the Company entered into a 10-year $7.5 million
debt obligation that bears an interest rate of 5.5% to provide financing for the
purchase of a building used in the Company's operations.

Principal repayments of outstanding loan balances are due at various intervals
until maturity. See Note 6 to "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements"
included in Part II, Item 8 of this report.

ESOP

In connection with the establishment of the ESOP in January 1995, the Company
made a $140 million loan to the ESOP (the "ESOP Loan"), which was used to
purchase 9,336,000 shares of the Company's outstanding common stock. The ESOP
Loan had an original term of 50 years, with annual payments of principal and
interest of approximately $12 million. The ESOP Loan bears interest at 8.5% per
annum. The ESOP will repay the ESOP Loan using contributions from the Company.
The Company is obligated to contribute amounts sufficient to repay the ESOP
Loan. The net effect of the ESOP is that the Company's Common Stock is allocated
to employees in lieu of a retirement plan that was previously a cash-based
defined benefit plan and, accordingly, results in reduced annual cash outlays by
an estimated $3 million to $4 million.

Management believes, based upon current levels of operations and forecasted
earnings, that cash flow from operations, together with borrowings under the
credit agreement, will be adequate to make payments of principal and interest on
debt, including the Notes,



to make required contributions to the ESOP, to permit anticipated capital
expenditures, and to fund working capital requirements and other cash needs for
the foreseeable future, including 2001. Overall, increases in financial
liquidity was primarily the result of changing the base available for borrowing
under the November 1999 refinanced Credit Agreement. The issuance of 1999 Notes
also increased the Company's liquidity by reducing its outstanding revolving
credit borrowings and thereby increasing its available borrowing capacity.

Nevertheless, the Company will remain leveraged to a significant extent and its
debt service obligations will continue to be substantial. The debt of the
Company requires the dedication of a substantial portion of future cash flows to
the payment of principal and interest on indebtedness, thereby reducing funds
available for capital expenditures and future business opportunities that the
Company believes are available. Cash flow and liquidity will be sufficient to
meet its debt service requirements. If the Company's sources of funds were to
fail to satisfy the Company's cash requirements, the Company may need to
refinance its existing debt or obtain additional financing. There is no
assurance that such new financing alternatives would be available, and, in any
case, such new financing, if available, would be expected to be more costly and
burdensome than the debt agreements currently in place.

EFFECTS OF YEAR 2000

The Company has information system improvement initiatives in process that
include both new computer hardware and software applications. The new system is
substantially operational and is Year 2000 compliant. The cost of the project
will be approximately $17 million with the majority of costs previously
incurred.

Based on information available to date, Wabtec has not experienced any
significant events attributable to Year 2000 issues. The Company will continue
to monitor for potential issues at Wabtec, its customers and suppliers, in order
to permit a rapid response should any issues arise. The impact of Year 2000
issues will continue to depend on the way the issues have been addressed by
third parties that provide products and services to us. The Company believes
that if any Year 2000 issues were to arise, they would not have a significant
impact on its operations.

Wabtec does not expect to incur significant direct costs related to the Year
2000 issue during the current year.

EFFECTS OF INFLATION; SEASONALITY

General price inflation has not had a material impact on the Company's results
of operations. Some of the Company's labor contracts contain negotiated salary
and benefit increases and others contain cost of living adjustment clauses,
which would cause the Company's cost automatically to increase if inflation were
to become significant. The Company's business is not seasonal, although the
third quarter results may be impacted by vacation and plant shut-downs at
several of its major customers during this period.

CONVERSION TO THE EURO CURRENCY

On January 1, 1999, certain members of the European Union established fixed
conversion rates between their existing currencies and the European Union's
common currency (the "Euro"). The Company conducts business in member countries.
The transition period for the introduction of the Euro is from January 1, 1999
through June 30, 2002. The Company is assessing the issues involved with the
introduction of the Euro; however, it does not expect conversion to the Euro to
have a material impact on its operations or financial results.

FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS

We believe that all statements other than statements of historical facts
included in this report, including certain statements under "Business" and
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations," may constitute forward-looking statements. We have based these
forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about
future events. Although we believe that our assumptions made in connection with
the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot assure you that our
assumptions and expectations are correct.

These forward-looking statements are subject to various risks, uncertainties and
assumptions about us, including, among other things:

     Economic and Industry Conditions

     -- materially adverse changes in economic or industry conditions generally
        or in the markets served by us, including North America, South America,
        Europe, Australia and Asia;



     -- demand for services in the freight and passenger rail industry;

     -- consolidations in the rail industry;

     -- demand for our products and services;

     -- continued outsourcing by our customers;

     -- demand for freight cars, locomotives, passenger transit cars and buses;

     -- industry demand for faster and more efficient braking equipment;

     -- fluctuations in interest rates;

     Operating Factors

     -- supply disruptions;

     -- technical difficulties;

     -- changes in operating conditions and costs;

     -- successful introduction of new products;

     -- labor relations;

     -- completion and integration of additional acquisitions;

     -- the development and use of new technology;

     -- year 2000 disruptions;

     Competitive Factors

     -- the actions of competitors;

     Political/Governmental Factors

     -- political stability in relevant areas of the world;

     -- future regulation/deregulation of our customers and/or the rail
        industry;

     -- governmental funding for some of our customers;

     -- political developments and laws and regulations, such as forced
        divestiture of assets, restrictions on production, imports or exports,
        price controls, tax increases and retroactive tax claims, expropriation
        of property, cancellation of contract rights, and environmental
        regulations;

     Transaction or Commercial Factors

     -- the outcome of negotiations with partners, governments, suppliers,
        customers or others; and

     -- our ability to complete the integration of the Westinghouse Air Brake
        and MotivePower businesses so as to achieve the stated synergies.

The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any
forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future
events or otherwise.

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities In June 1998, Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activity", was issued. SFAS No. 133, as amended by SFAS
No. 137, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities -
Deferral of Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 133 - an amendment of FASB
Statement No. 133" is effective for financial statements for fiscal quarters of
fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2000. The Company has not yet determined
the effect of this standard on its financial statements.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

INTEREST RATE RISK

In the ordinary course of business, Wabtec is exposed to risks that increases in
interest rates may adversely affect funding costs associated with $320 million
of variable-rate debt (including the effects of interest rate swaps), which
represents 56% of total long-term debt at December 31, 1999. Management has
entered into pay-fixed, receive-variable interest rate swap contracts that
partially mitigate the impact of variable-rate debt interest rate increases (see
Note 6 to "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" included in Part II, Item
8 of this report). At December 31, 1999, an instantaneous 100 basis point
increase in interest rates would reduce the Company's annual earnings by $2.1
million, assuming no additional intervention strategies by management.

FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RISK

The Company routinely enters into several types of financial instruments for the
purpose of managing its exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations
in countries in which the Company has significant operations. As of December 31,
1999, the Company had no such instruments outstanding.



Wabtec is also subject to certain risks associated with changes in foreign
currency exchange rates to the extent its operations are conducted in currencies
other than the U.S. dollar. At December 31, 1999, approximately 74% of Wabtec's
net sales are in the United States, 9% in Canada, 7% in Mexico, and 10% in other
international locations, primarily Europe. (See Note 16 to "Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements" included in Part II, Item 8 of this report).
At December 31, 1999, the Company does not believe changes in foreign currency
exchange rates represent a material risk to results of operations, financial
position, or liquidity.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND
        SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Financial statements and supplementary data are set forth in Item 14, of Part IV
hereof.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS
        WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
        ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL
        DISCLOSURE

None.

                                    PART III

ITEMS 10 THROUGH 13.

In accordance with the provisions of General Instruction G to Form 10-K, the
information required by Item 10 (Directors and Executive Officers of the
Registrant), Item 11 (Executive Compensation), Item 12 (Security Ownership of
Certain Beneficial Owners and Management) and Item 13 (Certain Relationships and
Related Transactions) is incorporated herein by reference to the Company's
definitive Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on
May 24, 2000. The definitive Proxy Statement will be filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission not later than 120 days after December 31, 1999.
Information relating to the executive officers of the Company is set forth in
Part I.



                                    PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

The financial statements, financial statement schedules and exhibits listed
below are filed as part of this annual report:



















                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND SHAREHOLDERS OF
WESTINGHOUSE AIR BRAKE TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Westinghouse Air
Brake Technologies Corporation (a Delaware corporation) and subsidiaries as of
December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the related consolidated statements of
operations, shareholders' equity and cashflows for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 1999. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. For the years ended
December 31, 1998 and 1997, we did not audit the consolidated financial
statements of MotivePower Industries, Inc., a company acquired during 1999 in a
transaction accounted for as a pooling-of-interests, as discussed in Note 4.
Such statements are included in the consolidated financial statements of
Westinghouse Air Brake Technologies Corporation and reflect total assets and
total revenues of 38 percent and 35 percent in 1998, and 41 percent and 35
percent in 1997, respectively, of the related consolidated totals. Those
statements were audited by other auditors whose report has been furnished to us
and our opinion, insofar as it relates to amounts included for MotivePower
Industries, Inc, is based solely upon the report of the other auditors.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted
in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free
of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits and the report of other auditors
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, based on our audits and the report of the other auditors, the
financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects,
the financial position of Westinghouse Air Brake Technologies Corporation and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 1999 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in
the United States.

/s/ ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
February 15, 2000



                          INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT

TO THE STOCKHOLDERS AND BOARD OF
DIRECTORS OF MOTIVEPOWER INDUSTRIES, INC.:

We have audited the consolidated balance sheets of MotivePower Industries, Inc.
and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1998 and the related consolidated statements
of income, cash flows and stockholders' equity for each of the two years in the
period ended December 31,1998, not separately presented herein. These financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of MotivePower Industries, Inc. and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 1998, and the results of their operations and
their cash flows for each of the two years in the period ended December 31, 1998
in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

/s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
February 11, 1999 (March 2, 1999 as to Note 18)



                WESTINGHOUSE AIR BRAKE TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.


                WESTINGHOUSE AIR BRAKE TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS



        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.


                WESTINGHOUSE AIR BRAKE TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.


                WESTINGHOUSE AIR BRAKE TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION
                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY


        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements


                WESTINGHOUSE AIR BRAKE TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. BUSINESS

Westinghouse Air Brake Technologies Corporation (the "Company") is one of North
America's largest manufacturers of value-added equipment for locomotives,
railway freight cars and passenger transit vehicles. The Company was formed in
November 1999 from the merger of Westinghouse Air Brake Company and MotivePower
Industries, Inc. Our major products are intended to enhance safety, improve
productivity and reduce maintenance costs for our customers. Our major product
offerings include electronic controls and monitors, air brakes, traction motors,
cooling equipment, turbochargers, low-horsepower locomotives, couplers, door
controls, draft gears and brake shoes. We aggressively pursue technological
advances with respect to both new product development and product enhancements.
The Company has its headquarters in Wilmerding, Pennsylvania and has
approximately 6,500 employees at facilities throughout the world.

A portion of the Company's Freight Group's operations and revenue base is
generally dependent on the capital replacement cycles for locomotives and
freight cars of the large North American-based railroad companies. The Company's
Passenger Transit Group's operations are dependent on the budgeting and
expenditure appropriation process of federal, state and local governmental units
for mass transit needs established by public policy.

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION The consolidated financial statements include the
accounts of the Company and its majority owned subsidiaries. Such statements
have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Sales between the subsidiaries are billed at prices consistent with sales to
third parties and are eliminated in consolidation. All prior period financial
statements and footnote disclosures have been restated in accordance with
Accounting Principles Board Number 16 "Business Combinations" related to the
merger between WABCO and MotivePower accounted for as a pooling-of-interests
(See Note 4).

Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified, where necessary, to conform
to the current year presentation

USE OF ESTIMATES The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires the Company to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at
the date of the financial statements and reported amounts of revenues and
expenses during the reporting period. Actual amounts could differ from the
estimates. On an ongoing basis, management reviews its estimates based on
currently available information. Changes in facts and circumstances may result
in revised estimates.

INVENTORIES Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is
determined under the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. Inventory costs include
material, labor and overhead. Cores inventory is defined as inventory units
designated for unit exchange programs. The components of inventory, net of
reserves, were:



In conjunction with the merger between WABCO and MotivePower, companies that
previously utilized the last-in first-out method in determining inventory cost
adopted the FIFO method. The effect on the current year consolidated financial
statements was not significant to the consolidated financial statements taken as
a whole.

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Property, plant and equipment additions are stated
at cost. Expenditures for renewals and betterments are capitalized. Expenditures
for ordinary maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred. The Company
provides for book depreciation principally on the straight-line method over the
following estimated useful lives of plant, property and equipment.





Accelerated depreciation methods are utilized for income tax purposes. The major
classes of depreciable assets are as follows:



INTANGIBLE ASSETS Goodwill is amortized on a straight-line basis over 40 years.
Other intangibles are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated
economic lives. Goodwill and other intangible assets, including patents and
tradenames, are periodically reviewed for impairment based on an assessment of
future operations (see Note 5).

REVENUE RECOGNITION Revenue is recognized when products have been shipped to the
respective customers and the price for the product has been determined.

The Company recognizes revenues on long-term contracts based on the percentage
of completion method of accounting. Contract revenues and cost estimates are
reviewed and revised at a minimum quarterly and adjustments are reflected in the
accounting period as known. Provisions are made currently for estimated losses
on uncompleted contracts.

Costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings ("underbillings") and
billings in excess of costs and estimated earnings ("overbillings") on the
contract in progress are recorded on the balance sheet and are classified as
non-current (see Note 20).

STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION The Company accounts for stock-based compensation,
including stock options and employee stock purchases, under APB Opinion No. 25,
"Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" (see Note 11 for related pro forma
disclosures).

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Research and development costs are charged to expense
as incurred. For the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, the Company
incurred costs of approximately $34.5 million, $30.4 million, and $24.4 million,
respectively.

WARRANTY COSTS Warranty costs are accrued based on management's estimates of
repair or upgrade costs per unit and historical experience. In recent years, the
Company has introduced several new products. The Company does not have the same
level of historical warranty experience for these new products as it does for
its continuing products. Therefore, warranty reserves have been established for
these new products based upon management's estimates. Actual future results may
vary from such estimates. Warranty expense was $10.8 million, $14 million and
$14.1 million for 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. Warranty reserves were
$26.8 million and $23 million at December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

FINANCIAL DERIVATIVES The Company periodically enters into interest rate swap
agreements to reduce the impact of interest rate changes on its variable rate
borrowings. Interest rate swaps are agreements with a counterparty to exchange
periodic interest payments (such as pay fixed, receive variable) calculated on a
notional principal amount. The interest rate differential to be paid or received
is accrued to interest expense (see Notes 6 and 17).

In addition, the Company periodically enters into foreign exchange forward
contracts. These contracts are legal agreements between two parties to purchase
and sell a foreign currency for a specified price at the contract date, with
delivery and settlement in the future. The Company uses such contracts to hedge
the risk of foreign currency exchange rates associated with certain assets and
obligations. Changes in the market value of the forward contracts are recognized
in income when the related changes in the price of the hedged item are
recognized.

INCOME TAXES Income taxes are accounted for under the liability method. Deferred
tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between financial
reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using the
enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when the differences are
expected to reverse. The provision for income taxes includes federal, state and
foreign income taxes (see Note 9).

FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION Assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries,
except for the Company's Mexican operations whose functional currency is the
U.S. Dollar, are translated at the rate of exchange in effect on the balance
sheet date while income and



expenses are translated at the average rates of exchange prevailing during the
year. Foreign currency gains and losses resulting from transactions, and the
translation of financial statements are recorded in the Company's consolidated
financial statements based upon the provisions of Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 52, "Foreign Currency Translation." The
effects of currency exchange rate changes on intercompany transactions of a
long-term investment nature are accumulated and carried as a component of
shareholders' equity. The effects of currency exchange rate changes on
intercompany transactions that are non U.S. dollar amounts are charged or
credited to earnings.

EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic earnings per common share are computed by dividing net
income applicable to common shareholders by the weighted-average number of
shares of common stock outstanding during the year. Diluted earnings per common
share are computed by dividing net income applicable to common shareholders by
the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding adjusted for
the assumed conversion of all dilutive securities (such as employee stock
options). See Note 10.

OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME In 1998, the Company adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income" which
established standards for reporting and displaying comprehensive income and its
components in financial statements. Comprehensive income is defined as net
income and all other nonowner changes in shareholders' equity. The Company's
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) consists entirely of foreign
currency translation adjustments.

SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMERS AND CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT RISK The Company's trade
receivables are primarily from rail and transit industry original equipment
manufacturers, Class I railroads, and railroad carriers and commercial companies
that utilize rail cars in their operations, such as utility and chemical
companies. No one customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company's
consolidated net sales in 1999, 1998 or 1997. The allowance for doubtful
accounts was $4 million and $3.5 million as of December 31, 1999 and 1998,
respectively.

EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 1999, approximately 36% of the Company's workforce
was covered by collective bargaining agreements. These agreements are generally
effective through 2001 and 2002.

DEFERRED COMPENSATION AGREEMENTS In May 1998, a consensus on Emerging Issues
Task Force Issue No. 97-14, "Accounting for Deferred Compensation Arrangements
Where Amounts Earned Are Held in a Rabbi Trust and Invested" ("EITF 97-14"), was
issued. The adoption of EITF 97-14 required the Company to record as treasury
stock the historical value of the Company's stock maintained in its deferred
compensation plans.

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS In June 1998, Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards ("SFAS") No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activity", was issued. SFAS No. 133, as amended by SFAS No. 137, "Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities -- Deferral of Effective Date of
FASB Statement No. 133 -- an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133" is effective
for financial statements for fiscal quarters of fiscal years beginning after
June 15, 2000. The Company has not yet determined the effect of this standard on
its financial statements.



3. SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW DISCLOSURES



4. MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS

On November 19, 1999, WABCO completed its merger with MotivePower Industries,
Inc. a leading manufacturer and supplier of locomotive components, fleet
overhauls and related services. The Company issued approximately 18 million
shares of the Company's Common Stock to former MotivePower shareholders and
reserved for the contingent exercise of stock options approximately 2 million
shares, valued at approximately $354 million in a transaction that was accounted
for by the pooling-of-interests accounting method. Accordingly, the consolidated
financial statements have been restated giving effect to this transaction as if
it had occurred as of the beginning of the earliest period presented.

The combined results of the Company and separate results of WABCO and
MotivePower for the periods preceding the merger are as follows:









During 1999, the Company completed the following acquisitions:

 i) In January 1999, the Company acquired certain assets of G&G Locotronics, a
    privately held designer of high voltage electrical cabinets and control
    stands for locomotives, for total consideration of $17.8 million. In 1998,
    G&G Locotronics had sales of approximately $22 million.

 ii) In January 1999, the Company acquired 100% of the Common Stock of Q-Tron,
     Ltd., a privately held designer and manufacturer of locomotive electronics
     equipment, for total consideration of $14.9 million. In 1998, Q-Tron had
     sales of $10 million.

iii) In February 1999, the Company acquired the mass transit electrical inverter
     and converter product line of AGC System & Technologies, Inc. of Canada for
     approximately $960,000.

The 1999 acquisitions were accounted for under the purchase method. Accordingly,
the results of operations of the applicable acquisition are included in the
Company's financial statements prospectively from the acquisition date. The
excess of the purchase price over the fair value of identifiable net assets of
$25 million was allocated to goodwill and is being amortized on a straight-line
basis over 40 years.

On October 5, 1998, the Company purchased the railway electronics business,
Rockwell Railroad Electronics, (Rockwell) of Rockwell Collins, Inc., a wholly
owned subsidiary of Rockwell International Corporation, for $80 million in cash.
Rockwell was a manufacturer and supplier of mobile electronics (display and
positioning equipment), data communications, and electronic braking equipment
for the railroad industry. The acquisition has been accounted for by the
purchase method of accounting, and accordingly, the results of operations of
Rockwell have been included in the Company's consolidated financial statements
from the date of acquisition. The $70 million excess of the purchase price over
the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired has been recorded as
goodwill and is being amortized on a straight-line basis over 40 years.

On November 18, 1998, the Company acquired 100% of the common stock of Young
Radiator Company, a manufacturer of radiators, air coolers and heat exchange
equipment for rail and industrial power-related markets, for $67.7 million, net
of cash and marketable securities acquired. The acquisition has been accounted
for by the purchase method of accounting, and accordingly, the results of
operations of Young have been included in the Company's consolidated financial
statements from the date of acquisition. The $43 million excess of the purchase
price over the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired has been
recorded as goodwill and is being amortized on a straight-line basis over 40
years.

The following unaudited pro forma results of operations, including the effects
of pro forma adjustments related to the acquisition of Rockwell and Young have
been prepared as if these transactions occurred at the beginning of 1997:



The pro forma financial information above does not purport to present what the
Company's results of operations would have been if these two acquisitions had
actually occurred on January 1, 1997, or to project the Company's results of
operations for any future period, and does not reflect anticipated cost savings
through the combination of these operations.



5. INTANGIBLES

Intangible assets of the Company, other than goodwill, consist of the following:



At December 31, 1999 and 1998, goodwill, totaled $233.8 million and $211.4
million, net of accumulated amortization of $23.4 million and $15.3 million,
respectively.

6. LONG-TERM DEBT

Long-term debt consisted of the following:



Credit Agreement

In November 1999, in connection with the merger, WABCO terminated its then
existing credit agreement and refinanced the then existing MotivePower credit
agreement with a consortium of commercial banks. The credit agreement provides
for a $275 million five-year revolving loan and a 364-day $275 million
convertible revolving credit facility. In connection with the establishment of
the two new revolving facilities, the Company wrote off previously deferred
financing costs of approximately $850,000, net of tax ($.02 per diluted share),
which has been reported as an extraordinary item in the accompanying financial
statements. At December 31, 1999, the Company had available borrowing capacity,
net of letters of credit, of approximately $158 million.

Under the credit agreement, the Company may elect a base rate, an interest rate
based on the London Interbank Offered Rates of Interest ("LIBOR"), a cost of
funds rate and a bid rate. The base rate is the greater of ABN AMRO Bank N.V.'s
prime rate or the federal funds effective rate plus 0.5% per annum. The LIBOR
rate is based on LIBOR plus a margin that ranges from 62.5 to 175 basis points
depending on the Company's consolidated total indebtedness to cash flow ratios.
The cost of funds rate is a fluctuating interest rate based on ABN AMRO Bank
N.V.'s then cost of funds. Under the bid rate option, any participating bank may
propose the interest rate at which it will lend funds, which rate may either be
a fixed rate or a floating rate based on LIBOR.

The credit agreement limits the Company's ability to declare or pay cash
dividends and prohibits the Company from declaring or making other
distributions, subject to certain exceptions, whether in cash, property,
securities or a combination thereof. One exception to this restriction is that
the Company may make repurchases and redemptions and pay dividends (net of
dividends on unallocated shares of Common Stock of the Company that are returned
to the Company) in aggregate amount not to exceed 50% of the Company's
accumulated consolidated net income for that fiscal year. The credit agreement
contains various other covenants and restrictions including, without limitation,
the following: a limitation on the incurrence of additional indebtedness; a
limitation on mergers, consolidations and sales of assets and acquisitions; a
limitation on liens; a limitation on sale and leasebacks; a limitation on
investments, loans and advances; a limitation on certain debt payments; a
limitation on capital expenditures; a minimum interest expense coverage ratio;
and a maximum debt to cash flow ratio.

The credit agreement contains customary events of default, including payment
defaults, failure of representations or warranties to be true in any material
respect, covenant defaults, defaults with respect to other indebtedness of the
Company, bankruptcy, certain judgments against the Company, ERISA defaults and
"change of control" of the Company.

Credit agreement borrowings bear variable interest rates indexed to common
indexes such as LIBOR. The weighted-average contractual interest rate on



credit agreement borrowings was 7.36% at December 31, 1999. To reduce the impact
of interest rate changes on a portion of this variable-rate debt, the Company
has entered into interest rate swaps which effectively convert a portion of the
debt from variable to fixed-rate borrowings during the term of the swap
contracts. On December 31, 1999, the notional value of interest rate swaps
outstanding totaled $50 million and effectively changed the Company's interest
rate from a variable rate to a fixed rate of 7.33%. The interest rate swap
agreements mature in 2000 and 2001. The Company is exposed to credit risk in the
event of nonperformance by the counterparties. However, since only the cash
interest payments are exchanged, exposure is significantly less than the
notional amount. The counterparties are large financial institutions and the
Company does not anticipate nonperformance.

9 3/8% Senior Notes Due June 2005

In June 1995, the Company issued $100 million of 9 3/8% Senior Notes due in 2005
(the "1995 Notes"). In January 1999, the Company issued an additional $75
million of 9 3/8% Senior Notes which are due in 2005 (the "1999 Notes"; the 1995
Notes and the 1999 Notes are collectively, the "Notes"). The 1999 Notes were
issued at a premium resulting in an effective rate of 8.5%. The terms of the
1995 Notes and the 1999 Notes are substantially the same, and the 1995 Notes and
the 1999 Notes were issued pursuant to indentures that are substantially the
same. The issuance of the 1999 Notes improved the Company's financial liquidity
by i) using a portion of the proceeds to repay $30 million of debt associated
with the Rockwell acquisition that bore interest at 9.56%; ii) using a portion
of the proceeds to repay variable-rate revolving credit borrowings thereby
increasing amounts available under the revolving credit facility; and iii)
repaying the remaining unpaid principal of $10.2 million from the Comet
acquisition. As result of this issuance, the Company wrote off previously
capitalized debt issuance costs of $469,000, net of tax, or approximately $.01
per diluted share, in the first quarter of 1999.

The Notes are senior unsecured obligations of the Company and rank pari passu in
right of payment with all existing and future indebtedness under (i) capitalized
lease obligations, (ii) the Credit Agreement, (iii) indebtedness of the Company
for money borrowed and (iv) indebtedness evidenced by notes, debentures, bonds
or other similar instruments for the payment of which the Company is responsible
or liable unless, in the case of clause (iii) or (iv), in the instrument
creating or evidencing the same or pursuant to which the same is outstanding, it
is provided that such obligations are subordinate in right of payment to the
Notes.

Unsecured Credit Facility

In October 1998, the Company obtained a $30 million unsecured credit facility
from a group of commercial banks for the purpose of financing the Rockwell
acquisition. In January 1999, this facility was repaid with proceeds of the 1999
Notes offering.

Pulse Note

As partial payment for the Pulse acquisition, the Company issued a $17 million
note due January 31, 2004, with interest at 9.5%. In January 2000, this note was
repaid with our revolving credit facility.

Comet Notes

In connection with the Comet acquisition, the Company issued notes totaling
$12.2 million, of which unsecured notes totaling $6.2 million were delivered by
the Company and a note in the amount of $6 million was delivered by a subsidiary
of the Company and secured by the acquired assets. These notes were repaid in
January 1999 with proceeds of the 1999 Notes offering.

Industrial Revenue Bond

In July 1998, a subsidiary of the Company entered into a 10 year $7.5 million
debt obligation that bears an interest rate of 5.5% to provide financing for the
purchase of a building used in the Company's operations.

Scheduled principal repayments of outstanding loan balances required as of
December 31, 1999 are as follows:





7. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS





A 1% change in the assumed health care cost trend rate will change the amount of
expense recognized for the postretirement plans by approximately $200,000 for
each future year, and change the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation
by approximately $2 million.



DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PLANS

Costs recognized under multi-employer and other defined contribution plans are
summarized as follows:



The Company sponsors defined benefit pension plans that cover certain U.S. and
Canadian employees and provide benefits of stated amounts for each year of
service of the employee. In connection with the establishment of the ESOP (see
Note 8) in January 1995, the pension plan for U.S. salaried employees was
modified to eliminate any credit (or accrual) for current service costs for any
future periods, effective March 31, 1995.

In connection with the acquisition of Young Radiator Company in November 1998,
the Company assumed liability for Young's defined benefit pension plan (the
"Young Plan"), covering substantially all of the employees of Young. The
benefits under the Young Plan are based on years of service. The Company
suspended future benefits accruing under this plan as of April 1, 1999, and is
proceeding with merging the Young Plan into an existing Company defined benefit
plan.

The Company's funding methods, which are primarily based on the ERISA
requirements, differ from those used to recognize pension expense, which is
primarily based on the projected unit credit method applied in the accompanying
financial statements.

In addition to providing pension benefits, the Company has provided certain
unfunded postretirement health care and life insurance benefits for
substantially all U.S. employees. In conjunction with the establishment of the
ESOP in January 1995 (see Note 8), the postretirement health care and life
insurance benefits for salaried employees were modified to discontinue benefits
for employees who had not attained the age of 50 by March 31, 1995. The Company
is not obligated to pay health care and life insurance benefits to individuals
who had retired prior to 1990.

The Company also participates in a variety of defined contribution 401(k), ESOP
and multiemployer pension, health and welfare plans. With regard to the 401(k)
savings and the ESOP, during 1999 the Company match was substantially in the
form of Wabtec Common Stock and cash. Additionally, the Company has stock option
based and other plans further described in Note 11.

8. EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLAN AND TRUST (ESOP)

Effective January 31, 1995, the Company established the ESOP to enable
participating employees to obtain ownership interests in the Company. Employees
eligible to participate in the ESOP primarily include the salaried U.S.
employees and, as described in Note 7, the ESOP contributions are intended to
supplement or replace other salaried employee benefit plans.

In connection with the establishment of the ESOP, the Company made a $140
million loan to the ESOP, which was used to purchase 9,336,000 shares of the
Company's outstanding common stock. The ESOP loan initially had a term of 50
years with interest at 8.5% and was collateralized by the shares purchased by
the ESOP. Company contributions to the ESOP will be used to repay the ESOP
loan's annual debt service requirements of approximately $12 million. The
Company is obligated to contribute amounts sufficient to repay the ESOP loan.
The ESOP uses such Company contributions to repay the ESOP loan. Approximately
187,000 shares were to be allocated annually to participants over a 50-year
period. These transactions occur simultaneously and, for accounting purposes,
offset each other. Unearned ESOP shares of $125.5 million at December 31, 1999,
is reflected as a reduction in shareholders' equity in the accompanying
financial statements and will be amortized to compensation expense coterminous
with the ESOP loan. Allocated ESOP shares at December 31, 1999 and 1998 were
approximately 970,000 and 771,000 shares, respectively.



9. INCOME TAXES

The provision for income taxes consisted of the following:



The 1999 and 1998 provision excludes $0.8 and $2.0 million income tax effect on
the extraordinary loss (See Note 6).

The components of income before taxes for U.S. and foreign operations were $38.7
million and $32.8 million, respectively, for 1999, $81.2 million and $40.1
million, respectively, for 1998, and $69.0 million and $23.6 million,
respectively, for 1997.

A reconciliation of the United States federal statutory income tax rate to the
effective income tax rate is provided below:



Components of deferred tax assets and liabilities were as follows:



A valuation allowance is provided when it is more likely than not that some
portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The Company has
established a valuation allowance for certain net operating loss carryforwards
and for losses anticipated to produce no tax benefit. Although realization of
the net deferred tax asset is not assured, management believes that it is more
likely than not that the net deferred tax asset will be realized.

The Company's net operating loss carryforward for the year ended December 31,
1999 is $24 million. The net operating losses expire in various amounts, as
follows:





10. EARNINGS PER SHARE

The computation of earnings per share is as follows:



Options to purchase approximately 700,000, 200,000 and 500,000 shares of Common
Stock were outstanding in 1999, 1998, and 1997, respectively, but were not
included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the options'
exercise price exceeded the average market price of the common shares.

11. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS

STOCK OPTIONS Under the 1995 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended in 1998, the
Company may grant options to employees of the former Westinghouse Air Brake
Company and MotivePower Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries for up to 6.5 million
shares of Common Stock. Options to purchase approximately 5.8 million shares of
Common Stock under the plans have been granted to employees at, or in excess of,
fair market value at the date of grant. Generally, the options become
exercisable over three and five-year vesting periods and expire ten years from
the date of grant.

As part of a long-term incentive program, in 1998 and 1996 the Company granted
options to purchase up to 500,020 and 684,206 shares, respectively, to certain
executives under the 1995 Stock Incentive Plan. The option price per share is
the greater of the market value of the stock on the date of grant or $20 and
$14, respectively. The options vest 100% after eight years and are subject to
accelerated vesting after three years if the Company achieves certain earnings
targets as established by the compensation committee of the board of directors.

The Company also has a non-employee directors stock option plan under which
100,000 shares of common stock are reserved for issuance. Through year-end 1999,
the Company granted nonstatutory stock options to non-employee directors to
purchase a total of 40,000 shares.

EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN In 1998, the Company adopted an employee stock
purchase plan (ESPP). The ESPP had 500,000 shares available for issuance.
Participants purchased the Company's Common Stock at 85% of the lesser of fair
market value on the first or last day of each offering period. This plan was
suspended during 1999 and will be reinstated starting April 2000.

The Company applies APB 25 and related interpretations in accounting for its
stock-based compensation plans. Accordingly, no compensation expense has been
recognized under these plans. Had compensation expense for these plans been
determined based on the fair value at the grant dates for awards, the Company's
net income and earnings per share would be as set forth in the following table.
For purposes of pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value is amortized to
expense over the options' vesting period.



Since compensation expense associated with option grants would be recognized
over the vesting period, the initial impact of applying SFAS No. 123 on pro
forma net income is not representative of the potential impact on pro forma net
income in future years.


In each subsequent year, pro forma compensation expense would include the effect
of recognizing a portion of compensation expense from multiple awards.

For purposes of presenting pro forma results, the fair value of each option
grant is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing
model with the following weighted-average assumptions:



The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use in estimating
fair value of traded options, which are significantly different than employee
stock options. Although this valuation model is an acceptable method for use in
presenting pro forma information, because of the differences in traded options
and employee stock options, the Black-Scholes model does not necessarily provide
a single measure of the fair value of employee stock options.

A summary of the Company's stock option activity and related information for the
years indicated follows:



The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at
December 31, 1999:



RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD In 1998, the Company granted 15,000 shares of restricted
Common Stock to an officer. The shares vest according to a vesting schedule over
a three-year period. The grant date market value totaled $372,000 and is being
amortized to expense over the vesting period. Unamortized compensation is
recorded as a component of shareholders' equity.

EXECUTIVE RETIREMENT PLAN Under the 1997 Executive Retirement Plan, the Company
may award its



Common Stock to certain employees including certain executives who do not
participate in the ESOP. Through December 31, 1999, 35,556 shares have been
awarded with a fair market value of approximately $704,000.

With respect to the Restricted Stock Award and the Executive Retirement Plan,
compensation expense is recognized in the consolidated statement of operations.

12. OPERATING LEASES

The Company leases office and manufacturing facilities under operating leases
with terms ranging from one to fifteen years, excluding renewal options.

The Company has sold remanufactured locomotives to various financial
institutions and leased them back under operating leases with terms from five to
20 years.

Total net rental expense charged to operations in 1999, 1998 and 1997 was $8.6
million, $6.2 million and $6.1 million, respectively. Certain of the Company's
equipment rental obligations under operating leases pertain to locomotives,
which are subleased to customers under both short-term and long-term agreements.
The amounts above are shown net of sublease rentals of $5.7 million, $7.6
million and $7.2 million for the years 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

Future minimum rental payments under operating leases with remaining
noncancelable terms in excess of one year are as follows:



13. STOCKHOLDERS' AND VOTING TRUST
    AGREEMENTS

As of December 31, 1999, the approximate ownership interests in the Company's
Common Stock are held by management (14%), the ESOP (22%), the investors
consisting of Vestar Equity Partners, L.P., Harvard Private Capital Holdings,
Inc., American Industrial Partners Capital Fund II, L.P. (13%), and all others
including public shareholders (51%).

A Stockholders Agreement exists between management and the investors referred to
above that provides for, among other things, the composition of the Board of
Directors as long as certain minimum stock ownership percentages are maintained,
restrictions on the disposition of shares and rights to request the registration
of the shares.

The active original management owners have entered into an Amended Voting
Trust/Disposition Agreement effective December 13, 1995, as amended. The
agreement provided for, among other matters, the stock to be voted as one block
and restrictions on the sale or transfer of such stock. The agreement expired on
January 1, 2000. Individual stockholders now vote their own shares.

The shares held by the ESOP (established January 31, 1995) are subject to the
terms of the related ESOP Loan Agreement, Employee Stock Ownership Trust
Agreement, Employee Stock Ownership Plan and the Pledge Agreement. The ESOP is
further described in Note 8.

14. PREFERRED STOCK

The Company's authorized capital stock includes 1,000,000 shares of preferred
stock. The Board of Directors has the authority to issue the preferred stock and
to fix the designations, powers, preferences and rights of the shares of each
such class or series, including dividend rates, conversion rights, voting
rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, without any further
vote or action by the Company's shareholders. The rights and preferences of the
preferred stock would be superior to those of the common stock. At December 31,
1999 and 1998 there was no preferred stock issued or outstanding.

15. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

The Company is subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations
governing discharges to air and water, the handling, storage and disposal of
hazardous or solid waste materials and the remediation of contamination
associated with releases of hazardous substances. The Company believes its
operations currently comply in all material respects with all of the various
environmental laws and regulations applicable to our business; however, there
can be no assurance that environmental requirements will not change



in the future or that we will not incur significant costs to comply with such
requirements.

Under the terms of the purchase agreement and related documents for the 1990
Acquisition, American Standard, Inc. ("ASI"), has indemnified the Company for
certain items including, among others, environmental claims. The indemnification
provisions of the agreement expire at various dates through 2000, except those
claims which are timely asserted continue until resolved. If ASI was unable to
honor or meet these indemnifications, the Company would be responsible for such
items. In the opinion of management, ASI currently has the ability to meet its
indemnification obligations.

The Company, through one of its operating subsidiaries, has been named, along
with other parties, as a Potentially Responsible Party (PRP) under the North
Carolina Inactive Sites Response Act because of an alleged release or threat of
release of hazardous substances at the "Old James Landfill" site in North
Carolina. The Company believes that any costs associated with the cleanup
activities at this site which it may be held responsible for, if any, are
covered by (a) the ASI indemnification referred to above, as ASI previously
owned 50% of the subsidiary and (b) a related insurance policy which expires
January 2002 for environmental claims provided by the other former 50% owner of
the involved operating subsidiary. Active claims for conditions existing prior
to July 1992 will continue to be covered beyond such date. The Company has
submitted a claim and has received recoveries under the policy for any costs of
clean up imposed on or incurred by the Company in connection with the "Old James
Landfill" and Rocky Mountain International Insurance, Ltd. has acknowledged
coverage and has made payments under the policy, subject to the stated policy
exclusions. Claims made before the expiration date of the policy will continue
to be covered beyond the policy expiration date. In addition, management
believes that such costs, if any, attributable to the Company will not be
material and, therefore, has not established a reserve for such costs.

The Company's operations do not use and its products do not contain any
asbestos. Asbestos actions have been filed against the Company, RFPC and Vapor
Corporation. These cases involve products manufactured prior to the time the
Company acquired the RFPC stocks and Vapor assets and while the Company was
under prior ownership. With respect to the actions filed against the Company,
ASI is responsible for administering, defending and paying any liability
associated with the claims. With respect to the actions filed against RFPC, the
claims are covered by insurance. With respect to the actions filed against Vapor
Corporation, the Company seeks indemnity for liability and defense costs from
the prior owner of the Vapor assets. The Company is not involved with, nor has
it incurred any costs related to, these asbestos claims, other than minimal
processing costs. Management believes that these claims are not related to the
Company and will not be material; the financial statements accordingly do not
reflect any costs or reserves for such claims.

BOISE, IDAHO

The Company is subject to a RCRA Part B Closure Permit ("the Permit") issued by
the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Idaho Department of Health and
Welfare, Division of Environmental Quality relating to the monitoring and
treatment of groundwater contamination on, and adjacent to, the Boise Locomotive
Company facility. In compliance with the Permit, the Company has drilled wells
onsite to retrieve and treat contaminated groundwater, and onsite and offsite to
monitor the amount of hazardous constituents. The Company has estimated the
expected aggregate discounted liability at December 31, 1999, using a discount
rate of 6%, to be approximately $4 million, which has been accrued. The Company
was in compliance with the Permit at December 31, 1999.

MOUNTAINTOP, PENNSYLVANIA

Foster Wheeler Energy Corporation ("FWEC") is named as a potentially responsible
party with respect to the Company's Mountaintop, Pennsylvania plant, which has
been listed by the EPA in its database of potential hazardous substances. FWEC,
the seller of the Mountaintop property to the Company's predecessor in 1989,
agreed to indemnify the Company's predecessor against certain identified
liabilities for which FWEC executed a Consent Order Agreement with the
Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (PADEP) and EPA. Management
believes that this indemnification arrangement is enforceable for the benefit of
the Company and that FWEC has the financial resources to honor its obligations
under this indemnification arrangement.



MATTOON, ILLINOIS

Prior to the acquisition of Young Radiator, Young agreed to clean up alleged
contamination on a prior production site in Mattoon, IL. The Company has accrued
$1 million for this matter as management's best estimate of the restoration
costs.

RACINE, WISCONSIN

Young ceased manufacturing operations at its Racine facility in the early
1990's. Investigations prior to the acquisition of Young revealed some levels of
contamination on the Racine property. The Company is in the process of
determining the extent of contamination.

GE HARRIS

On February 12, 1999, GE Harris Railway Electronics, LLC and GE Harris Railway
Electronic Services, LLC (collectively, "GE Harris") brought suit against the
Company for alleged patent infringement and unfair competition related to a
communications system installed in one of the Company's products. GE Harris is
seeking to prohibit the Company from future infringement and is seeking an
unspecified amount of money damages to recover, in part, royalties. As this
lawsuit is in the early stages, the Company is unable to estimate the cost, if
any, of resolving litigation and thus, no costs have been provided for this
matter.

From time to time the Company is involved in litigation relating to claims
arising out of its operations in the ordinary course of business. As of the date
hereof, the Company is involved in no litigation that the Company believes will
have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations
or liquidity.

16. SEGMENT INFORMATION

Wabtec has two reportable segments -- the Freight Group and the Transit Group.
The key factors used to identify these reportable segments are the organization
and alignment of the Company's internal operations, the nature of the products
and services and customer type. Financial information for these segments has
been restated in conjunction with the operational realignment of our
organization pursuant to the merger of WABCO and MotivePower. The business
segments are:

FREIGHT GROUP manufactures products and services geared to the production and
operation of freight cars and locomotives, including braking control equipment,
engines, traction motors, on-board electronic systems and train coupler
equipment. Revenues are derived from OEM and locomotive overhauls, aftermarket
sales and from freight car repairs and services.

TRANSIT GROUP consists of products for passenger transit vehicles (typically
subways, rail and busses) that include braking and monitoring systems, climate
control and door equipment that are engineered to meet individual customer
specifications. Revenues are derived from OEM and aftermarket sales as well as
from repairs and services.

The Company evaluates its business segments' operating results based on income
from operations before merger and restructuring charges. Corporate activities
include general corporate expenses, elimination of intersegment transactions,
interest income and expense and other unallocated charges. Since certain
administrative and other operating expenses and other items have not been
allocated to business segments, the results in the below tables are not
necessarily a measure computed in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles and may not be comparable to other companies.



Segment financial information for 1999 is as follows:



Segment financial information for 1998 is as follows:



Segment financial information for 1997 is as follows:





The following geographic area data include net sales based on product shipment
destination. Long-lived assets consists of plant, property and equipment, net of
depreciation, that are resident in their respective countries.



Export sales from the Company's United States operations were $132.7 million,
$111.8 million and $86.8 million for the years ending December 31, 1999, 1998,
and 1997, respectively. The following data reflects income from operations,
including merger and restructuring related charges by major geographic area,
attributed to the Company's operations within each of the following countries or
regions.



17. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The estimated fair values of the Company's financial instruments approximate
their related carrying values, except for the following:



Fair values of the fixed rate obligations were estimated using discounted cash
flow analyses. The fair value of the Company's interest rate swaps (see Note 6)
were based on dealer quotes and represent the estimated amount the Company would
pay to the counterparty to terminate the swap agreements.



18. SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA



The amounts in the table above differ from those previously reported on Form
10-Q due to the merger of Westinghouse Air Brake Company and MotivePower
Industries, Inc. and the application of the pooling-of-interests accounting and
reporting method.

In the fourth quarter of 1999, the Company recorded merger and restructuring
costs of approximately $50 million or $0.92, net of tax, per diluted share.
Without the effect of this charge, the fourth quarter 1999 would have been $0.39
per diluted share. In the fourth quarter of 1998, the Company sold its entire
Argentine investment in Trenes de Buenos Aires S.A. and recognized a
non-recurring investment gain of $8.4 million or $0.12 net of tax, per diluted
share. Without the effect of this gain, the fourth quarter 1998 would have been
$0.35 per diluted share.

19. MERGER AND RESTRUCTURING
    CHARGES

The Company incurred merger and restructuring-related charges of approximately
$50 million in the fourth quarter of 1999 and expects to incur an additional $20
million of merger and restructuring-related expenses in 2000. The $50.1 million
charge is included in the income statement under the following items: $43.6
million of the charge is included as a separate line item on the income
statement as an operating expense; $5.2 million is included as a component of
cost of sales; and $1.3 million ($850,000, net of tax) is shown as an
extraordinary item.

The $50 million charge included the following announced actions:

 --  Costs associated with the transaction for items such as investment bankers,
     legal fees, accountant fees, SEC fees, etc.

 --  Consolidation of the corporate headquarters to Wilmerding, PA and the
     elimination of duplicate corporate functions.

 --  Closing and moving of Young Radiators' Centerville, IA plant and downsizing
     the Young administrative offices into the Company's Jackson, TN facility.

 --  Closing of G&G Locotronic's plant in Itasca, IL and moving its production
     into the nearby Elk Grove, IL facility and to San Luis Potosi, Mexico.

 --  Implementing a national sales force and eliminating duplicate sales
     functions.



As of December 31, 1999, $8.7 million of the $50 million merger and
restructuring-related charge was accrued on the balance sheet. The table below
identifies the significant components of the charge and shows the accrual
balance as of December 31, 1999.



The transaction, severance and termination benefits accrual is for approximately
183 employees, comprising both salaried and hourly personnel, at the various
locations noted above. The accrual represents the calculation of the severance
package based on the employee's salary and tenure with the Company. The lease
impairment charges and asset write downs are associated with the Company's
closing of the plants noted, the relocation of the corporate headquarters, and
the Company's evaluation of certain assets. The other category represents other
related costs that have been incurred and not yet paid as of December 31, 1999.

20. UNDERBILLINGS

The Company has a long-term contract to provide maintenance and other locomotive
services. Details relative to cumulative costs incurred and revenues recognized
were as follows:





                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                          WESTINGHOUSE AIR BRAKE TECHNOLOGIES
                                          CORPORATION

                                          By /s/ WILLIAM E. KASSLING
                                            ------------------------------------
                                              William E. Kassling, Chief
                                              Executive Officer
                                          Date: March 22, 2000

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Company in the
capacities indicated and on the dates indicated.





                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND SHAREHOLDERS OF
WESTINGHOUSE AIR BRAKE TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION:

We have audited, in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the
United States, the consolidated financial statements of Westinghouse Air Brake
Technologies Corporation included in this Form 10-K, and have issued our report
thereon dated February 15, 2000. Our audit was made for the purpose of forming
an opinion on the basic financial statements taken as a whole. The schedule
listed in the index in Item 14(a)2 of this Form 10-K is the responsibility of
the Company's management and is presented for purposes of complying with the
Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and is not part of the basic
financial statements. This schedule has been subjected to the auditing
procedures applied in the audit of the basic financial statements and, in our
opinion, fairly states in all material respects the financial data required to
be set forth therein in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a
whole.

/s/ ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
February 15, 2000



                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS















                                                                     SCHEDULE II

                WESTINGHOUSE AIR BRAKE TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION

                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                 FOR EACH OF THE THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31



(1) Reserves of acquired companies

(2) Actual disbursements and/or charges


