
10-K
WESTINGHOUSE AIR BRAKE COMPANY



 
================================================================================
 
                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
              ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997
 
                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-13782
 
                         WESTINGHOUSE AIR BRAKE COMPANY
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)
 

 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:
 

 
        SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT: None
 
     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for at least the past 90 days. Yes  X   No____.
 
     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of the registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. ____
 
     As of February 27, 1998, 33,704,200 shares of Common Stock of the
registrant were issued and outstanding, of which 8,751,531 shares were
unallocated ESOP shares. The registrant estimates that as of February 27, 1998,
the aggregate market value of the voting shares held by non-affiliates of the
registrant was approximately $329.1 million based on the closing price on the
New York Stock Exchange for such stock.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:
 
     Portions of the Proxy Statement for the registrant's Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held on May 26, 1998 are incorporated by reference into Part
III of this Form 10-K.
 
================================================================================

 
                                


 
                                     PART I
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
 
GENERAL
 
Westinghouse Air Brake Company ("WABCO" or the "Company") is North America's
largest manufacturer of value-added equipment for locomotives, railway freight
cars and passenger transit vehicles. WABCO is headquartered in Wilmerding,
Pennsylvania and operates subsidiaries primarily in the United States, Canada,
United Kingdom, France, Australia and Italy. The Company's products are sold to
the original equipment manufacturer (OEM) market and the aftermarket. Products
are intended to enhance safety, improve productivity and reduce maintenance
costs for its customers. The Company believes it maintains a market share for
its primary braking related equipment in excess of 50% in North America and a
significant market share for its other principal products. Because of its large
market share, breadth of product lines and 130-year history in the industry, the
Company believes its products are widely installed in locomotives, freight cars
and passenger transit vehicles throughout North America.
 
In addition to its product offerings, the Company believes it has a significant
presence in providing outsourced value-added services to the railroad and
passenger transit aftermarkets, operating ten service and upgrade sites in the
United States and Canada.
 
Demand for the Company's products and services is largely driven by use of
railroads as a mode of shipment as well as government spending and investment in
infrastructure for the passenger transit market.
 
STRATEGY
 
WABCO's strategy for growth is focused on using technological advancements to
develop new products, expanding the range of after-market products and services,
and penetrating international markets. In addition, management continually
evaluates acquisition opportunities that meet the Company's criteria and
complement WABCO's operating strategies and product offerings.
 
INDUSTRY OVERVIEW
 
Rail traffic is a key factor underlying the demand for the Company's products.
Overall, rail traffic is affected by growth in total intercity freight and
passenger traffic and by rail's share of that traffic. Intercity freight traffic
is a function of gross national product. Following World War II, rail's share of
intercity freight traffic began to fall. This decline accelerated with the
completion of the Interstate Highway System in the 1960s which, together with
increases in permitted truck weights and sizes, allowed interstate truckers to
compete much more effectively for manufactured goods and merchandise traffic. As
a result, railroads experienced major diversion losses to trucks in most of
their non-bulk segments. Increased demand for coal and export grain, two areas
with limited truck competition, partially offset these losses in the 1970s.
Reflecting the industry's efforts to stem these trends, merger activity in the
1980s generally involved railroads with parallel systems, with the intent of
achieving immediate cost reductions for the merged railroads by eliminating
overlapping capacity through the closing of branch lines and the reduction of
rolling stock.
 
The Staggers Rail Act and the National Transportation Act of 1987 deregulated
freight rates and services in the United States and Canada in 1980 and 1987,
respectively, resulting in steadily decreasing rail rates. This decrease in
rates caused rail traffic to grow significantly and spurred railroads to pursue
more aggressive programs to improve operating efficiency. Both of these trends
positively affected demand for the Company's products. Throughout the 1980s and
into the 1990s, many railroads pursued multi-year programs to consolidate,
streamline and strengthen their operations through equipment modernization,
higher asset utilization, reducing surplus employees, implementing
state-of-the-art technologies and systems and other improvements. The drive for
efficiency has prompted railroads to make substantial capital outlays for new
and upgraded equipment that can improve train performance and reduce labor
costs. Automation has become an integral part of railroads' cost reduction
programs, as evidenced by the use of end-of-train monitors, such as those
produced by the Company's electronic group, which have permitted railroads to
run trains without manned cabooses. Railroads, through the use of newer products
and technology, have the flexibility to run longer trains, thereby achieving
lower labor costs and higher worker productivity. Railroads' desire to achieve
efficiency has thus created a demand for more efficient and faster braking
equipment as well as for other products that can improve the reliability and
performance of locomotives and freight cars. Management believes the Company is
well positioned to play a significant role in this trend.
 
More recently, rail traffic has increased due to the growth in intermodal
traffic and strong demand for low sulfur coal from the western United States
prompted by the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990. In addition, labor agreements
and increased efficiencies have created a more competitive cost structure,
enabling the railroad industry to increase utilization of freight cars and
locomotives and to achieve market share gains in intercity freight shipments.
Revenue Ton-miles have increased from approximately 919 billion in 1980 to over
1.4 trillion in 1997. During recent years, railroad traffic in the United States
has increased significantly, particularly intermodal freight traffic, which grew
at

 
the rate of 8% to 14% per year through 1994. Intermodal traffic declined
slightly in 1995 but has increased modestly since that time.
 
Management believes that the railroads' share of intercity freight traffic will
continue to grow due to the factors discussed above as well as lower freight
rates following the industry deregulation, streamlined services, and a shift in
railroads' focus to capitalize on their economies of scale in the handling of
bulk commodities such as coal, grain, ores, lumber and chemicals. In addition,
in recent years, a nationwide shortage of truck drivers has caused trucking
companies to increase their use of railway intermodal services in order to meet
their shipping commitments.
 
In contrast to the railroads' 1980s merger activity, the goal of which was to
effect cost reductions, railroad merger activity in the 1990s has been
characterized by a focus on geographic expansion and growth. To build and
improve traffic, the industry has recently experienced a series of mergers,
restructurings and divestitures such as the combination of Union Pacific and
Southern Pacific as well as Burlington Northern and Santa Fe. The five major
Class I Railroads in the United States have concentrated on their core,
long-haul routes while divesting their low-density branch lines to smaller and
more cost-efficient regional freight operators. The resulting effect for both
the long-haul carriers and the regional operators has been higher traffic
density, permitting greater asset utilization, efficiency improvements through
investment in new and upgraded equipment, and more extensive use of intermodal
shipping to provide customers with a "seamless delivery" system combining both
rail and truck transport--all of which have a secondary effect of ultimately
reducing operating costs for the railroads.
 
The Company believes that increased demand for its products will also result
from expanding international sales. Prior to January 1995, the Company's sales
were largely restricted to the North America market under a pre-existing
agreement with an affiliated company. The Company is now placing an increased
emphasis on the international opportunities. Sales outside North America
represented approximately 12% of revenue in 1997 compared with 3% in 1994.
WABCO's products are sold internationally directly or through licensees or
agents in Japan, South America, Europe, South Africa, Korea, Taiwan, Thailand,
Malaysia, India, Pakistan, Australia and China. China in particular is viewed by
management as a potential growth market for the Company because of its rapidly
expanding economy, the attractiveness of railway as a primary transportation
mode for China's goods and people and the compatibility of China's railroads
with North American-type technology.
 
PRODUCTS AND MARKETS
 
The Company's products and services are delivered through the following five
broad divisions with sales as indicated:
 

 
Note: Prior year amounts have been reclassified, where necessary, to conform to
the current year presentation.
 
The Company's operating units consist of small strategic business units designed
to achieve maximum operating efficiency, flexibility and customer
responsiveness. These units generally have fewer than 400 employees and are
responsible for their own engineering, manufacturing and customer relationships.
Marketing, sales and certain administrative responsibilities are based at the
Company's headquarters in Wilmerding, Pennsylvania. The Company believes that
this decentralized operating structure enables it to provide timely,
individualized service to the segments of the railway market serviced by the
Company.
 
  ELECTRONICS
 
Pulse Electronics is the headquarters for the Company's electronics product
line. In anticipation of the trend towards merging pneumatic and electronically
controlled products, the Company created the Integrated Railway Products Group
in 1996. Through this group, WABCO delivers high-quality, hardened electronics
to the railroad industry in the form of on-board systems and braking for
locomotives and freight cars. The technologies have worldwide applications and
provide the flexibility to adapt to the specifications of a particular country.
 
Through acquisitions (most notably Pulse Electronics) and internal product
development, the Company has endeavored to reduce the adverse effect of a
possible downturn in new locomotive build orders and has taken advantage of the
trend of increasing the electronic content in each locomotive. The Company's
position as a market leader for traditional pneumatic braking equipment for new
locomotives over the past 5 to 10 years has also provided it with a large
installed base for spare parts, retrofit and upgrade sales.
 
The Company's new product development effort has focused on electronic
technology for brakes and controls, and over the past several years, WABCO has
introduced a number of significant new products including the EPIC(R)
 

 
Electronic Brake, PowerLink(TM), Compressor Aftercoolers, Train Trax(TM),
Trainlink(TM), Train Sentry III(R), Fuellink(TM) and Armadillo(TM).
 
As railroads replace older locomotives and continue to look for ways to be more
competitive with trucking in the freight hauling market, through new or upgraded
technologically advanced equipment, they have placed an increased emphasis on
productivity and efficiency. This emphasis has manifested itself in two
significant trends: (1) alternating current ("AC") locomotives, which are more
powerful than their direct current ("DC") predecessors, are rapidly gaining
industry acceptance, and (2) the electronic content per locomotive, including
electronic brakes, monitoring devices and diagnostics, is increasing. Two AC
locomotives are powerful enough to do the work of three DC locomotives (while
this implies a declining order rate for replacements, it is uncertain whether
this will take place); electronic devices improve reliability, safety and
productivity by performing work that would have otherwise been done more slowly
and at a greater cost by manual labor. The Company believes that with its
combined pneumatic and expanding electronic technology capabilities, it is
uniquely positioned for leadership in the next generation of
electronic-pneumatic technology in the locomotive market.
 
  FREIGHT CAR
 
The Company's freight car related production operations are located in Stoney
Creek, Ontario, and Chicago, Illinois. Net sales for typical freight cars can
vary considerably based upon the type and purpose of the freight platform with
articulated or intermodal cars generally having the highest WABCO content. Total
freight car product line sales in 1997 were $195.2 million.
 
The Company's freight car operations manufacture the following freight car
products: brake control valves and related components, truck mounted brakes,
empty load sensing equipment, draft gears, hand brakes, slack adjusters and
articulated car connectors. Approximately 60% of the OEM sales of freight car
products are air brake equipment, with draft gears accounting for 17%, and hand
brakes and slack adjusters accounting for 10%. Production of approximately 60%
of the Company's freight products takes place at the Stoney Creek facilities,
with the remainder produced primarily in Chicago. Rubber products and brake
shoes used in North American freight operations are manufactured in Greensburg,
PA and Laurinburg, NC, respectively.
 
The Company's traditional freight products include the ABDX Freight Brake Valve,
the Mark Series draft gears and hand brakes and slack adjusters. The Company
actively pursues the development of new freight products exemplified by the
Automated Single Car Tester, the first computerized freight air brake tester
designed to reduce time and cost. In addition, during the past several years the
Company has introduced ELX(TM) Empty Load Equipment, TMX(R) Truck Mounted Brake
Assembly, SAC-1(TM) Articulated Coupler, slackless drawbar and AP Cobra(R) Brake
Shoe.
 
The Company's new products development program provides it with a platform of
product upgrades which allows it to further increase its aftermarket presence.
Major upgrade product offerings for freight cars include ABDX Remanufactured
Control Valves and stabilization and vibration protection upgrades.
 
New car deliveries in 1997 were 50,396 compared with 57,877 in 1996; 1997 new
car orders totaled over 88,000, their highest level since 1978. The average age
of the existing fleet, at approximately 18 years, is at an all time high.
 
The Company operates five freight service centers located near major railroad
customers: Chicago, IL; Columbia, SC; Kansas City, KS; Vacaville, CA; and Stoney
Creek, Ontario. The railroads began significantly outsourcing repairs in 1985,
and the Company has been successfully aggressively pursuing repair business from
railroad customers. The Company expects that the potential for growth of this
business is substantial as railroads seek to outsource increasing amounts of
their repair work. Outsourcing provides a less expensive, more responsive
alternative to railroads' traditional in-house repair work. The Company's repair
facilities have been established with a minimum of fixed overhead costs in order
that they can be easily moved and/or expanded as necessary to match the new
demands from the railroads. Management believes that the current service center
network has substantial room for additional growth without significant capital
costs.
 
The Company provides replacement parts for all of its products and equipment and
believes end-users should replace broken or worn parts with parts from the
original equipment manufacturer due to the high potential liability risks
related to the critical nature of these products. The Company's rubber
components are widely used as replacement parts for brake valve repair in the
railroad industry. The Company's rubber diaphragms and gaskets are made from
unique rubber compounds providing superior durability and performance.
Historically, replacement parts and upgrades have accounted for approximately
40% of the Company's freight sales.
 
In the OEM market, the Company's freight products are sold to all major North
American freight car builders. Principal customers include Trinity Industries,
Inc., Union Tank Company, Johnstown America Corp., The Greenbrier Companies, ACF
Industries, Inc., Thrall Car Manufacturing Co. and National Steel Car, Ltd.
Replacement parts are sold primarily to railroads and other car owners for their

 
in-house maintenance programs. These customers include all major railroads in
North American and a number of private fleet owners including TTX Company and
GE. Virtually all fleet owners and OEM customers rely on the Company for supply
of products.
 
  PASSENGER TRANSIT
 
The Company's passenger transit operations produce various products for
passenger transit applications at its dedicated facilities in Spartanburg, SC,
Niles, IL, Montreal, Canada, the United Kingdom and Italy. Total passenger
transit product line sales in 1997 were $174.3 million. As part of the Company's
strategy to expand its passenger transit product offerings and international
sales, WABCO completed in 1997 the acquisitions of Stone Safety Service
Corporation and Stone U.K. Limited (collectively "Stone"), the heavy rail air
conditioning business of Thermo King Corporation ("Thermo King"), and H.P.
s.r.1. ("HP") of Italy. Stone and Thermo King provide significant presence in
the rail industry air conditioning business and HP is a leading supplier of door
controls for transit rail cars and buses in Italy.
 
Net sales in the passenger transit business increased primarily as a result of
the 1996 acquisition of Vapor Corporation, Vapor U.K. and Vapor Canada, Inc.
("Vapor") which significantly enhanced the Company's position in the passenger
transit market. Vapor is the leading North American supplier of passenger
transit door components for both rail and rubber tire transit vehicles and has
significantly increased the Company's dollar content per car. Additionally, the
Company believes that it will be able to increase significantly Vapor's
aftermarket sales that approximate 20% of sales. As the Company participates in
the cyclical upswing in the passenger transit market over the next 5 to 10
years, it will continue to benefit from its increasing installed base that will
provide a solid foundation for future replacement parts and upgrades.
 
In December 1997, WABCO secured contracts valued at approximately $150 million
for a 1,080 combined car order for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority/New
York City Transit Authority. WABCO will supply all braking, door activation,
coupling and certain other equipment for rapid transit cars. Product shipments
will commence with prototypes beginning in 1998 with scheduled contract
deliveries over the three-year period 1999 through 2001.
 
Substantially all of the Company's principal passenger transit products are
engineered to customer specifications. Consequently, there is less
standardization among the Company's transit products than there is with its
freight and locomotive products. The Company views its transit business as being
comprised of three distinct segments: aftermarket sales of replacement parts,
new products (upgrades) for existing vehicles and OEM sales. The first two
segments constituted more than 40% of the Company's traditional transit sales
with the remainder consisting of OEM sales. Because the market for OEM sales has
been at a cyclical low during the past several years, the Company expects that
the OEM sales market presents an opportunity for improved growth during the next
several years. The overall market for replacement parts and upgrades is
relatively stable because the installed passenger transit vehicle base in the
United States and Canada has remained constant at approximately 20,000 vehicles
(based on the Company's estimates). Currently, nearly 80% of the Company's
passenger transit division's total sales are in the brakes, brake controls,
couplers and door product lines.
 
The Company's principal transit products include electronic brake equipment,
pneumatic control equipment, air compressors, tread brakes and disc brakes,
couplers, collection equipment, overhead electrification, monitoring systems,
wheels, climate control and door equipment and components.
 
Replacement parts constitute the largest requirement to maintain a transit
fleet. The Company administers its replacement parts business from its
facilities in Spartanburg, SC; Niles, IL; Hackensack, NJ; Stoney Creek, Ontario,
Montreal, Quebec and Dartford, England. The replacement parts organization
offers advanced concepts in services, including the packaging of all parts
needed to perform an overhaul or "kitting." The Company's replacement parts are
sold primarily to in-house repair shops and transit authorities.
 
The Company's passenger transit and service centers are located near major
transportation centers, including Chicago, IL; Atlanta, GA; Sun Valley, CA;
Yonkers, NY; Stoney Creek, Ontario and Montreal, Quebec. Repair cycles for
passenger transit vehicles vary by transit authority. Most authorities, however,
have instituted preventative maintenance programs so that at fixed periods
within the life cycle of the equipment they perform major overhauls and renewal
of the equipment. The Company believes it has substantial opportunities to
increase sales to the passenger transit repair market as a result of increased
maintenance programs and more extensive outsourcing of repair work.
 
The Company's products are installed in virtually every major transit system in
North America including AMTRAK, Canada's Via Rail, and the transit systems
serving the greater New York City area, Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Los
Angeles, Philadelphia, San Francisco, Toronto and Washington, D.C. The Company's
OEM products are sold to the major worldwide passenger transit manufacturers
including Bombardier, Inc., Kawasaki Rail Car Inc., Hitachi Limited, Siemens AG,
GEC Alsthom and Adtranz.

 
  LOCOMOTIVE
 
WABCO's locomotive operations, based in Wilmerding, Pennsylvania, had sales of
$50.1 million in 1997. The Company's locomotive operations manufacture air brake
equipment, compressors (which are located on the locomotive and supply the air
needed to run the braking system throughout an entire train), air dryers, slack
adjusters, brake cylinders, and monitoring and control equipment used to control
the brakes and related equipment on each of the freight cars being pulled.
Historically, the Company's most significant locomotive products have been the
26-C and 30-A pneumatic control equipment and air-cooled compressors. These
braking components and related air-cooled compressors are used in virtually the
entire installed base of North American locomotives, and the Company currently
is the primary supplier of these components.
 
According to industry estimates, the outlook for the number of locomotive builds
over the next few years is expected to be relatively consistent. The average age
of the locomotive fleet has increased dramatically since 1980, and approximately
36% of the 19,000 locomotives in service are at least 20 years old. Industry
analysts estimate that an average locomotive has a life span of 20 to 30 years.
 
The Company has expanded its locomotive repair services in response to railroad
restructuring and gradual elimination of in-house repair services. Locomotive
service centers are operated in Wilmerding, PA; Kansas City, KS; Vacaville, CA;
and Columbia, SC. The Company believes demand for locomotive repair services
will continue to grow as more railroads choose to eliminate their own shops in
favor of services and proprietary product upgrades offered by the Company. In
addition, as new diagnostics, future enhancements and technological upgrades
become available for the control computers of the EPIC(R) 3102 Electronic Brakes
or the Pulse Armadillo(TM), the Company believes many of its customers will opt
to upgrade or add to their existing system.
 
The customers for the Company's locomotive OEM products are large North American
locomotive manufacturers, including General Electric Company ("GE") and General
Motors Corporation ("GM"), as well as all major Class I railroads. The Company's
brake systems are currently installed on new locomotives manufactured by both GE
and GM. The Company's compressors are currently installed on virtually all new
GE locomotives. The Company's aftermarket replacement parts are sold primarily
to the railroads.
 
  FRICTION AND OTHER
 
The Company's friction products operations are in Laurinburg, NC, Australia and
France in addition to joint ventures in India. Friction products are sold as
original equipment and as aftermarket brake shoe replacements primarily to the
Company's freight, transit and locomotive markets. The 1996 acquisition of
Futuris Industrial Products Pty of Australia ("Futuris") enabled the Company to
add a complementary product line of low- and medium-friction products.
 
WABCO's other operations consist primarily of the manufacture and sale of
industrial rubber products and iron foundry products and metal finishing. The
Company's rubber products are particularly well suited to industrial
applications requiring unique compounds, which perform well under harsh
conditions. The rubber products industry is fragmented, with numerous small to
medium-sized participants. Demand for industrial rubber products by third
parties amounted to one-third of output and has been increasing. In response,
the division opened a new plant in 1994 in Ball Ground, GA to supply the
increasing demand and expanded the plant's capacity in 1995. WABCO's iron
foundry located in Ontario, Canada manufactures complex ductile and grey iron
castings requiring numerous cores and precise alloy composition requirements.
The foundry also produces complex castings for non-railway applications,
including components for manufacturers such as Caterpillar, Inc. and Detroit
Diesel Corporation. The Company's Thermo Sealed division provides metal
finishing and processing services, principally to the automotive industry.
Thermo Sealed has perfected a thermal deburring technique for cleaning metal
parts.
 
  INTERNATIONAL
 
WABCO's products are sold through licensees and agents in Japan, South America,
Europe, South Africa, Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, Malaysia, India, Pakistan and The
Peoples' Republic of China. Other than Canada, the Company's international sales
currently comprise approximately 12% of net sales compared to 9% a year ago and
4% in 1995. In Japan, the Company has long-standing license relationships with
NABCO (formerly Nippon Air Brake Company) and Mitsubishi Electric Company and in
Australia with Westinghouse Brake Australia Limited. In Europe, the Company's
products are sold to a limited extent through SAB WABCO Holdings B.V. ("SAB
WABCO"), while friction products are sold directly through a subsidiary of the
Company. The Company believes that international sales represent a significant
opportunity for further growth.
 
The Company is seeking to expand its international sales in each of its
principal product lines through joint ventures with railway suppliers having a
strong presence in local
 

 
markets and through selected acquisitions. Due to differences in rail equipment
requirements and other factors, the Company believes that its best opportunities
for increased international sales currently are in areas of the world outside
Europe and Japan.
 
SAB WABCO has granted the Company a license to manufacture and sell certain
brake products in the United States, Canada and Mexico. The term of the license
extends to 2003. A component of the Company's long-term international strategy
is its right of first refusal, subject to certain exceptions, to purchase SAB
WABCO if prior to December 31, 1999 the current owner of SAB WABCO decides to
sell more than 50% of its interest in SAB WABCO to a third party. There can be
no assurance, however, that the Company will be able to acquire SAB WABCO.
 
Management believes that The People's Republic of China represents an especially
attractive market opportunity for the Company and has opened a sales office in
Beijing. This market is attractive, in part, because it utilizes North
American/AAR-type railroad technology. The Company's products are installed on
over 425 locomotives currently in use in China, giving it a base from which to
expand future sales. The Company believes that it will be able to sell specific
high technology braking products not available from Chinese manufacturers, such
as ELX Empty Load Equipment, DECELOSTAT(R) microprocessor based slip-slide
equipment and Mark Series draft gears.
 
Management believes that friction products represent an immediate opportunity
for substantial increased international sales. WABCO has developed composition
materials suitable for use on most rail systems worldwide. WABCO believes that
its technological advantage and overall cost competitiveness in this product
line should enable it to penetrate international markets. The Company intends to
expand its direct European sales of friction products through its subsidiary,
Cobra Europe, S.A., and to seek other outlets and distributors. Through the
acquisition of Futuris, the Company significantly expanded its sales to Pacific
Rim countries. In addition, in October 1996 WABCO, through Futuris, established
a manufacturing and distribution joint venture, Pioneer Friction Products, to
provide brake shoes for the Indian market. In the fourth quarter of 1997, WABCO
entered into a second joint venture located in India to produce low friction
brake shoes for the Indian Railways.
 
MANUFACTURING
 
Management believes strongly in its proven Kaizen (continuous improvement)
technique, which has been a major force in improving manufacturing processes
throughout the Company. Kaizens involve large-scale collaborative sessions of
shop floor employees, management, and, frequently, customers. Kaizens provide a
means for the Company, despite its decentralization and lean management
structure, to identify and implement the best manufacturing practices utilizing
demand-flow cell methodology and to promote a common corporate culture. Since
initiating the Kaizen approach in 1991, the Company has conducted regular
periodic formal Kaizens and over 400 projects resulting in manufacturing and
other functional improvements. The Company is continuing the Kaizen process on a
monthly basis, rotating through each of its plants. WABCO productivity measures
have benefited, in part, from Kaizen as evidenced in a more than 33% increase in
inventory turnover and an almost doubling of revenue per employee since 1990.
 
On a more regular basis than the Kaizens, the Company's Total Quality
Improvement Program ("TQIP") involves employees at all levels of the Company to
address quality problems as they arise and resolve them quickly. Management
believes that both the Kaizens and TQIP have and will continue to have a
significant positive impact on the quality of the Company's products, as well as
productivity and responsiveness to customer needs.
 
Most of the Company's manufacturing facilities are ISO 9001 certified
facilities. The ISO rating is an international standard developed to ensure that
engineering and manufacturing processes are at a high level of competency.
 
The Company has received numerous quality awards and certifications from its
customers, including the Union Pacific Total Supplier Quality Award, General
Motors Mark of Excellence, CSX Quality Management System Award, Conrail
Certified Quality Supplier Award, National Association of Purchasing Managers
Quality Assurance Program Award and annual TTX Excellent Supplier Awards.
 
The Company will continue its efforts to maintain its position as a low cost
producer through the increased utilization of demand-flow cells and continued
focus on increased productivity. Demand-flow cells, consisting of one or more
employees, operate in conjunction with other cells to manufacture products when
required by the customer. The production process is streamlined, inventory on
hand is minimized, work force availability is maximized, and quality control is
integrated into each major manufacturing step instead of limited to one final
inspection of the finished product. The Company's use of demand-flow cells has
led to improved customer service, increased inventory turnover rates, quickened
response to changing market needs, improved quality control, higher productivity
and reduced requirements for working capital and manufacturing and warehouse
space.
 
The Company's manufacturing processes also benefit from the internal production
of some of the key components

 
required for its products. The Company produces substantially all of its
requirements for rubber products and complex iron foundry products and also
utilizes Thermo Sealed for certain metal finishing work. This vertical
integration contributes to overall cost control, quality maintenance and
improvement and customer responsiveness. The Company believes that this vertical
integration also enables the Company to adjust capacity to correspond to product
development cycles more quickly and shortens new product cycle time.
 
ENGINEERING AND DEVELOPMENT
 
In furtherance of its strategy of using technology to develop new products, the
Company is actively engaged in a variety of engineering and development
activities. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, the
Company incurred costs of approximately $24.4 million, $18.2 million and $14.6
million on product development and improvement activities (exclusive of
manufacturing support). Such expenditures represented 4.3%, 4.0% and 3.4% of net
sales for the same periods, respectively. From time to time, WABCO conducts
specific research projects in conjunction with universities, customers and other
railroad product suppliers.
 
The Company's engineering and development program is largely focused upon new
braking technologies, with an emphasis on the application of electronics to
traditional pneumatic systems. Electronic actuation of braking has long been a
part of the Company's transit product line but interchangeability, connectivity
and durability have presented problems to the industry in establishing
electronics in freight railway applications. Efforts are under way to develop
both hard-wired and radio-activated braking systems. The Company is currently
developing electro-pneumatic braking equipment for freight cars that include
on-board electronics to monitor braking performance and communicate data to the
locomotive.
 
SALES AND MARKETING
 
In North America, the Company uses its sales force to market its products and
services directly to end-users (railroads, transit authorities, utilities and
leasing companies) and OEM locomotive and freight car builders. Although the
Company's marketing personnel are based primarily in Wilmerding, the Company
maintains regional sales offices throughout the United States and Canada. The
use of regional sales offices permits the Company's field sales force to
maintain close and frequent contact with customers. The Company supplements its
sales efforts with the technical support of its engineering staff with respect
to specific products, which advises on product design, cost estimation and bid
preparation. The sales force can also request the assistance and involvement of
the product managers for each major product line who can work directly with a
customer to address specific customers' needs. Certain members of senior
management also actively participate in marketing efforts which the Company
believes has resulted in the development of close relationships with the
purchasing managers, end-users of the products and senior management of many of
the Company's principal customers. Marketing efforts consist of ongoing personal
visits to customers' facilities, participation in industry and
customer-sponsored seminars and trade conventions, and traditional advertising
and public relations activities.
 
CUSTOMERS
 
In 1997, approximately 50% of the Company's net sales were generated from the
"aftermarket" sale of replacement parts, repair services and upgrade work
purchased by end-users of rail vehicles such as railroads, transit authorities,
utilities and leasing companies. The remaining sales are made directly to OEM
manufacturers of locomotives, freight cars and passenger transit vehicles.
 
The Company has developed and fostered long-term relationships with major
purchasers of air brakes and related products, particularly manufacturers of
locomotives, freight cars and passenger transit vehicles. The Company has also
fostered relationships with the end-users of its products, principally owners
and operators of locomotives, freight cars and passenger transit vehicles.
Long-term customers are particularly important, given the limited number of
buyers and purveyors of air brakes. Freight car end-users include railroads,
utilities, leasing companies and major industrial companies.
 
Although a small number of customers often represent a significant portion of
the Company's net sales, no one customer represented more than 10% of the
Company's sales in 1997. A significant portion of the Company's OEM locomotive
and freight car sales is the result of specifications by end-users. In the
passenger transit market, almost all OEM sales are the result of specifications
established by individual transit authorities and passenger railroads. In all
product lines, the Company vigorously endeavors to have end-users adopt
specifications that are compatible with the Company's products.
 
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
 
The Company applies for patent and trademark protection where it believes the
expense of doing so is justified. The Company has numerous U.S. patents, patent
applications pending and trademarks as well as foreign patents and trademarks
throughout the world. WABCO attempts to protect its intellectual property by
legal action in situations where it feels such action is warranted. The Company
also
 

 
relies on a combination of trade secrets and other intellectual property laws,
nondisclosure agreements and other protective measures to establish and protect
its proprietary rights in its intellectual property.
 
Certain trademarks, among them the name WABCO(R), were acquired or licensed by
the Company from American Standard Inc. in 1990 pursuant to its acquisition of
the North American operations of the Railway Products Group of American Standard
(the "1990 Acquisition"). The Company owns or has the right to use all
intellectual property rights in these trademarks to the extent such trademarks
are used in connection with products and fields of use (businesses) acquired in
the 1990 Acquisition. The intellectual property rights in the trademark WABCO
for use other than in railway related applications were retained by American
Standard.
 
The Company is a party, as licensor and licensee, to a variety of license
agreements. Although these license agreements collectively are valuable, and the
Company is very proud of having had licensing arrangements with Japanese
companies for 74 years, the Company does not believe that any single agreement,
other than the SAB WABCO agreement discussed in the following paragraph, is of
material importance to its business as a whole.
 
The Company and SAB WABCO entered into a license agreement (the "SAB License")
in December 1993, pursuant to which SAB WABCO granted the Company a license to
the intellectual property and know-how related to the manufacturing and
marketing of certain disc brakes, tread brakes and low noise and resilient wheel
products. The Company is authorized to manufacture and sell the licensed
products in North America (including to OEM manufacturers located outside North
America if such licensed products are incorporated into a final product to be
sold in North America). SAB WABCO has a right of first refusal to supply the
Company with bought-in components of the licensed products on commercially
competitive terms. To the extent SAB WABCO files additional patent or trademark
applications, or develops additional know-how in connection with the licensed
products, such additional intellectual property and know-how are also subject to
the SAB License. The Company may, at its expense, request the service of SAB
WABCO in manufacturing, installing, testing and maintaining the licensed
products and providing customer support. SAB WABCO is entitled to a free,
nonexclusive license of the use of any improvements to the licensed products
developed by the Company. If any such improvements are patented by the Company,
SAB WABCO has the right to request the transfer of such patents upon payment of
reasonable compensation therefor; in such cases, the Company is entitled to a
free, nonexclusive license to use the patented product. The Company is required
to pay a lump sum fee for certain licensed products as well as royalties based
on specified percentages of sales. The license expires December 31, 2003, but
may be renewed for additional one-year terms.
 
In connection with the Company's recapitalization in January, 1995, the Company
and SAB WABCO agreed (i) to use their best efforts to negotiate an agreement to
distribute each other's products, (ii) to explore the feasibility of a joint
venture to expand into regions where neither is currently represented, (iii)
that the SAB License will be amended to include additional disc brake and tread
brake technology, (iv) that SAB WABCO will in the future grant to the Company a
license for the manufacture and sale of electronic brake equipment that it
designs, (v) that SAB WABCO will grant to the Company the right to purchase SAB
WABCO's option on 40% of the shares in SAB WABCO de Brasil, and (vi) that the
Company will have a right of first refusal to purchase SAB WABCO if prior to
December 31, 1999 the current owner decides to sell more than 50% of its
interest in SAB WABCO to a third party, subject to certain exceptions. There is
no assurance that the Company and SAB WABCO will reach agreement on issues
relating to future cooperation or that the Company will be able to acquire SAB
WABCO. Accordingly, the Company and SAB WABCO could be competitors in
international markets.
 
COMPETITION
 
The Company operates in a competitive marketplace. Price competition is strong
and the existence of cost conscious purchasers of a limited number has
historically limited WABCO's ability to increase prices. In addition to price,
competition is based on product performance and technological leadership,
quality, reliability of delivery and customer service and support. The Company
believes that it is well positioned to succeed in its markets. The Company also
believes that many of its products provide customers with opportunities to
reduce existing maintenance costs and improve efficiency. The Company's
principal competitors vary to some extent across its principal product lines.
However, New York Air Brake Company, a subsidiary of the German air brake
producer Knorr-Bremse AG (collectively, "NYAB/Knorr"), is the Company's
principal overall OEM competitor. The Company's competition for locomotive,
freight and passenger transit repair business is primarily from the railroads'
and passenger transit authorities' in-house operations, as well as from Comet
Industries and NYAB/Knorr.
 

 
SUPPLIERS
 
The Company actively purchases from over 400 suppliers. The Company has
maintained an excellent relationship with its suppliers. In 1997, no single
supplier accounted for more than 10% of total purchases made by the Company.
 
Approximately 90% of the Company's iron casting needs are provided by its wholly
owned foundry in Canada, with the remainder provided by two other suppliers.
Most of the rubber products and all of the friction products required by the
Company are provided in-house by subsidiaries. The Company believes that its
integrated manufacturing facilities provide it with strategic and competitive
advantages.
 
BACKLOG
 
As of February 28, 1998, the Company had a total backlog of firm orders with an
aggregate sales price of approximately $400.1 million, compared to $376.3
million as of December 31, 1997. Of the year-end 1997 amount, $295.1 million was
attributable to passenger transit products and the balance was attributable to
railway and other products. Other than the transit market, backlog is not a
significant component of the Company's business, and management believes it is
not an important indicator of future business performance. Because of the
Company's quick turnaround time, the Company's locomotive and freight customers
tend to order products from the Company on an as-needed basis. Based upon
industry data concerning freight and locomotive OEM backlog, the Company
believes that demand for its products will remain reasonably strong. With
respect to OEM passenger transit products, there is a longer lead time for car
deliveries and, accordingly, the Company carries a larger backlog of orders.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
As of December 31, 1997, the Company had approximately 3,400 employees,
approximately 1,000 of whom were unionized. Approximately 310 employees at the
Freight Car facility in Ontario, Canada are represented by the National
Automotive, Aerospace, Transportation, and General Workers Union (CAW-Canada).
In March 1998, WABCO and CAW-Canada agreed to a three-year extension, through
April 2001, of their labor contract. Approximately 235 employees at the
Locomotive and Rubber Products division facilities in Wilmerding and Greensburg,
Pennsylvania are represented by the United Electrical, Radio and Machine Workers
of America. The union contract for these facilities extends through May 2001.
Approximately 325 employees at the Company's foundry in Ontario, Canada are
represented by the International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace and
Agricultural Implement Workers of America (U.A.W.). A five-year union contract
for this facility expiring in September 2002 was recently negotiated.
Approximately 38 employees at the Futuris Industrial Products facilities in
Australia are represented by Metal Trades Industry Association of Australia.
Approximately 90 employees at the Vapor facility in Montreal, Quebec, Canada are
represented by a local association. A five-year contract for this facility
expires in March 2002. No significant work stoppages or significant labor
problems have occurred since 1982. The Company considers its relationship with
its employees to be good. The majority of non-union employees in the United
States (approximately 1,400 employees) participate in the Company's Employee
Stock Ownership Plan ("ESOP").
 
REGULATION
 
The Federal Railroad Administration ("FRA") administers and enforces federal
laws and regulations relating to railroad safety. These regulations govern
equipment and safety appliance standards for freight cars and other rail
equipment used in interstate commerce. The Association of American Railroads
("AAR") also promulgates a wide variety of rules and regulations governing
safety and design of equipment, relationships among railroads with respect to
railcars in interchange and other matters. The AAR also certifies railcar
builders and component manufacturers that provide equipment for use on railroads
in the United States. New products generally must undergo AAR testing and
approval processes. As a result of these regulations, the Company must maintain
certain certifications with the AAR as a component manufacturer, and products
sold by the Company must meet AAR and FRA standards.
 
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
 
The Company is subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations
governing discharges to air and water, the handling, storage and disposal of
hazardous or solid waste materials and the remediation of contamination
associated with releases of hazardous substances. The Company believes that its
operations currently comply in all material respects with all of the various
environmental laws and regulations applicable to its business; however, there
can be no assurance that environmental requirements will not change in the
future or that the Company will not incur significant costs to comply with such
requirements.
 
Under the terms of the purchase agreement and related documents for the 1990
Acquisition, American Standard indemnified the Company for certain items
including environmental claims. American Standard has indemnified the Company
for any claims, losses, costs and expenses arising from (i) claims made in
connection with any of the environmental matters disclosed by American Standard
to the Company at the time of the 1990 Acquisition, (ii) any pollution or threat
to human health or the environment

 
related to American Standard's (or any previous owner's or operator's) ownership
or operation of the properties acquired by the Company in the 1990 Acquisition,
which pollution or threat was caused or arises out of conditions existing prior
to the 1990 Acquisition (limited to environmental laws in effect as of December
31, 1991), and (iii) any material claim ("Environmental Claim") alleging
potential liability for the release of pollutants or the violation of any
federal, state or local laws or regulations relating to pollution or protection
of human health or the environment, for which American Standard has retained
liability. Such indemnity covers investigatory costs only if the investigation
is undertaken pursuant to a larger Environmental Claim and to the extent of
American Standard's pro-rata liability for such larger Environmental Claim.
American Standard has no obligation to indemnify for investigatory costs
incurred by the Company independently or otherwise unrelated to an indemnifiable
event. American Standard's indemnification obligations are limited to aggregate
amounts in excess of $500,000. The Company has exceeded this deductible. In
addition, American Standard's indemnification obligation with respect to
friction product related claims only extends to 50% of the amount claimed, up to
a maximum of $14 million (provided liability is asserted directly and solely
against RFPC). The indemnification obligations with respect to third party
claims survive until 2000, except that claims which are timely asserted continue
until resolved. If American Standard should be unable to meet its obligations
under this indemnity, the Company will be responsible for such items. In the
opinion of management, American Standard has the present ability to meet its
indemnification obligations.
 
The Company, through RFPC, has been named, along with other parties, as a
potentially responsible party under the North Carolina Inactive Sites Response
Act because of an alleged release or threat of release of hazardous substances
at the "Old James Landfill" site in Laurinburg, NC. The Company believes that
any cleanup costs for which it may be held responsible are covered by (i) the
American Standard indemnity discussed above and (ii) an insurance policy for
environmental claims provided by Manville Corporation, the former 50% owner of
RFPC, in connection with WABCO's 1992 acquisition of Manville Corporation's
interest in RFPC. Pursuant to the terms of the purchase agreement for the
acquisition of Manville Corporation's interest in RFPC, Rocky Mountain
International Insurance, Ltd., an affiliate of Manville Corporation, provided an
insurance policy to cover any claims, losses, costs and expenses relating to,
among other things, environmental liabilities arising from conditions existing
at the former Manville site used by RFPC prior to the acquisition (limited to
environmental laws in effect as of July 1992). This insurance policy is the sole
remedy for the Company with respect to covered claims. The insurance policy
survives until July 2002. Active claims for conditions existing prior to July
1992 will continue to be covered beyond July 2002. The aggregate limit of
coverage under the insurance policy provided by Manville Corporation is $12.5
million. The Company has submitted a claim under the policy for any costs of
clean up imposed on or incurred by the Company in connection with the "Old James
Landfill" and Rocky Mountain has acknowledged coverage under the policy, subject
to the stated policy exclusions. In addition to the insurance policy provided by
Manville Corporation, American Standard's indemnification obligations described
above cover 50% of RFPC-related claims. The Company has received a demand from
Johns Manville in the amount of $161,000 which is alleged to represent the
Company's share for closure of certain wastewater ponds at the Laurinburg, NC
leased facility. The Company believes that this claim is also covered by the
insurance policy and has submitted a notice of claim to Rocky Mountain. In
January 1998, the Company discovered petroleum contaminated soils in the
vicinity of the oil-water separator at the Laurinburg leased facility. The
Company has filed a notice of claim requesting coverage under the insurance
policy for clean up costs associated with removal of the contaminated soils,
which the Company estimates will be less than $30,000.
 
The Company believes that the indemnification agreements and insurance policy
referred to above are adequate to cover any potential liabilities during their
respective terms arising in connection with the above-described environmental
conditions. None of the insurance or indemnification agreements is currently the
subject of any dispute.
 

 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
 
The following table provides certain summary information with respect to the
principal facilities owned or leased by WABCO. The Company believes that its
facilities and equipment are in good condition and that, together with scheduled
capital improvements, they are adequate for its present and immediately
projected needs. The Greensburg, PA, Germantown, MD, Niles, IL and Chicago, IL
properties are subject to mortgages to secure the Company's indebtedness under
the Credit Agreement. The Company's corporate headquarters are located in the
Wilmerding, PA site.
 

 
(1) Approximately 250,000 square feet currently are used in connection with
WABCO's operations.
 
     The leases on the manufacturing facilities are long-term and generally
include options to renew. The leases on the service centers are for three-year
terms with renewal options.
 

 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
There are various pending lawsuits and claims arising out of the conduct of the
Company's business. These include claims by employees of third parties who
allege they were exposed to asbestos while handling American Standard products
manufactured prior to the 1990 Acquisition. American Standard discontinued the
use of asbestos in its products in 1980. American Standard has indemnified the
Company against these claims and is defending them. Under the terms of the
purchase agreement and related documents for the 1990 Acquisition, American
Standard has indemnified the Company for any claims, losses, costs and expenses
arising from, among other things, product liability claims by third parties,
intellectual property infringement actions and any other claims or proceedings,
in each case to the extent they related to events occurring, products sold or
services rendered prior to the 1990 Acquisition and affect the properties
acquired by the Company. American Standard's indemnification obligations are
limited to aggregate amounts in excess of $500,000 and, as described in Item 1,
this deductible has already been exceeded. In addition, American Standard's
indemnification obligation with respect to RFPC-related claims only extends to
50% of the amount claimed, up to a maximum of $14 million (provided liability is
asserted directly and solely against RFPC). The indemnification obligations with
respect to third party claims survive until 2000. An insurance policy provided
by Manville Corporation, the former 50% owner of RFPC, covers the other 50% of
RFPC related claims up to a maximum of $12.5 million.
 
From time to time the Company is involved in litigation relating to claims
arising out of its operations in the ordinary course of business. As of the date
hereof, the Company is involved in no litigation which the Company believes will
have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of
operations. The Company historically has not been required to pay any material
liability claims.
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders of the Company during
the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 1997.
 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY
 
The following table sets forth certain information with respect to the nine
executive officers of the Company as of March 2, 1998.
 

 
WILLIAM E. KASSLING has been a director, President, Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer of the Company since the 1990 Acquisition. Mr. Kassling was also
President of WABCO from 1990 through February 1998. From 1984 until 1990 he
headed the Railway Products Group of American Standard Inc. Between 1980 and
1984 he headed American Standard's Building Specialties Group and between 1978
and 1980 he headed Business Planning for American Standard. Mr. Kassling is a
director of Dravo Corp., Scientific Atlanta, Inc. and Commercial Intertech, Inc.
 
GREGORY T. H. DAVIES joined WABCO in March 1998 as President and Chief Operating
Officer. Mr. Davies was formerly with Danaher Corporation since 1988, where he
was Vice President and Group Executive responsible for its Jacobs Vehicle
Systems, Delta Consolidated Industries and A.L. Hyde Corporation operating
units. Prior to that, he held executive positions at Cummins Engine Company and
Ford Motor Company.
 
ROBERT J. BROOKS has been a director and Chief Financial Officer of the Company
since the 1990 Acquisition. From 1986 until 1990 he served as worldwide Vice
President, Finance for the Railway Products Group of American Standard. Mr.
Brooks is a director of Crucible Materials Corp.
 

 
EMILIO A. FERNANDEZ was named Vice Chairman in March 1998. He has been a
Director and was Executive Vice President of the Company since the Company's
January 1995 acquisition of Pulse Electronics, Inc. which he co-founded in 1975.
From 1996 to February 1998 he was Executive Vice President--Integrated Railway
Systems. Mr. Fernandez is a director of PMI, Inc., a private corporation.
 
HOWARD J. BROMBERG has been Vice President and General Manager, Locomotive and
Molded Products since September 1995. From 1990 until September 1995, Mr.
Bromberg served as Vice President and General Manager of the Company's
Locomotive and Rubber Products Unit. From 1987 until 1990 he served as General
Manager of the Locomotive/Rubber Products group of the Railway Products Group of
American Standard.
 
JOHN M. MEISTER has been Vice President and General Manager of the Company's
Passenger Transit Unit since the 1990 Acquisition. In 1997, he was appointed to
the newly created position of Executive Vice President--Transit Products Group.
From 1985 until 1990 he was General Manager of the passenger transit business
unit for the Railway Products Group of American Standard.
 
MARK C. VAN CLEAVE has been Vice President and General Manager of the Company's
subsidiary, Cardwell Westinghouse, since September 1995. In March 1998, he was
named to the additional position of Senior Vice President--Freight Sales and
Marketing. From 1993 until September 1995 Mr. Van Cleave was Vice President,
Commuter and Coal Operations of Chicago & North Western Transportation Company.
From 1992 until 1993 he was Assistant Vice President of Commuter \Operations
thereof and from 1989 until 1992 he was General Superintendent of Maintenance
Operations thereof.
 
TIMOTHY J. LOGAN has been Vice President, International since August 1996.
Previously, from 1987 until August 1996, Mr. Logan was Vice President,
International Operations for Ajax Magnethermic Corporation and from 1983 until
1987 he was President of Ajax Magnethermic Canada, Ltd.
 
GEORGE A. SOCHER has been Vice President and Corporate Controller of the Company
since July 1995. From 1994 until June 1995, Mr. Socher was Corporate Controller
and Chief Accounting Officer of Sulcus Computer Corp. From 1988 until 1994 he
was Corporate Controller of Stuart Medical Inc.
 
KEVIN P. CONNER has been Vice President of Human Resources of the Company since
the 1990 Acquisition. From 1986 until 1990, Mr. Conner was Vice President of
Human Resources of the Railway Products Group of American Standard.
 
ALVARO GARCIA-TUNON has been Vice President of Corporate Planning and Investor
Relations of the Company since August 1995. From 1990 until August 1995 Mr.
Garcia-Tunon was Vice President of Business Development of Pulse Electronics,
Inc.
 
The executive officers are elected annually by the Board of Directors of the
Company at an organizational meeting, which is held immediately after each
Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S SHARES OF COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
        MATTERS
 
The Common Stock of the Company is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. As of
February 27, 1998, there were 33,704,200 shares of Common Stock outstanding held
by 269 holders of record. The high and low sales price of the shares and
dividends paid per share were as follows:
 

 

 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
     The following table sets forth certain selected consolidated financial
information of the Company and has been derived from financial statements
audited by Arthur Andersen LLP, independent public accountants. This operating
data should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified by reference to,
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" and the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company and the
Notes thereto included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.
 

 

 

 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS
 
  OVERVIEW
 
Westinghouse Air Brake Company is North America's largest manufacturer of
value-added equipment for locomotives, railway freight cars and passenger
transit vehicles. The Company's primary manufacturing operations are in the
United States and Canada and revenues have historically been predominantly from
North America. In recent years, the proportion of international sales has
increased.
 
The Company's customer base consists of freight transportation companies,
locomotive and freight car original equipment manufacturers, railroads and
transit car builders and public transit systems.
 
                                1997 VERSUS 1996
 
  SUMMARY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 

 
Net income for 1997 increased $4.6 million, or 14.1%, compared with 1996.
Earnings per share increased 23.5% to $1.42 per diluted share. Net sales for
1997 were $564.4 million, reflecting a 24.5% increase compared to the prior
year. The higher revenue base reflects the benefits associated with acquisitions
and new products. Operating income and earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization increased in the comparison primarily due to
revenue growth and related gross margins.
 
A number of significant events occurred in 1997 and 1996 that impacted the
Company's results of operations and financial condition:
 
- -- The Company completed several strategic acquisitions that complement and
   enhance the mix of existing products and markets. Revenues from operations
   acquired in 1997 and 1996 totaled $128.2 million in 1997 and accounted for
   $85.5 million of the overall 1997 sales increase. Following is a summary of
   acquisitions completed in the past two years:
 
  - In May 1997, the Company purchased Stone. Stone is located in New Jersey and
    England, and is one of the world's leading suppliers of air conditioning
    equipment for the transit industry with an established product base in North
    America, Europe and the Far East.
 
  - On June 27, 1997 the Company acquired the heavy rail air conditioning
    business of Thermo King.
 
    The aggregate purchase price for the Stone and Thermo King acquisitions was
    approximately $7.7 million and was financed by utilizing the Company's
    revolving line of credit.
 
  - During July 1997, the Company acquired 100% of the stock of HP for a total
    purchase price of $5.8 million, which included the assumption of $2.3
    million in debt. HP is a leading supplier of door controls for transit rail
    cars and buses in the Italian market.
 
  - In October 1997, WABCO purchased the rail products business and related
    assets of Sloan Valve Company for $2.5 million. The acquired products
    included slack adjusters, angle cocks and retainer valves.
 
  - In September 1996, the Company acquired Vapor, a passenger transit door
    manufacturer, for $63.9 million.
 
  - In January 1996, the Company acquired Futuris, an Australian friction
    products manufacturer, for a cash purchase price of $15 million.
 
- -- In March 1997, an agreement was reached with one of the Company's major
   shareholders, Scandinavian Incentive Holding B.V. ("SIH"), whereby the
   Company repurchased 4 million shares of its common stock held by SIH for $44
   million, or $11 per share, plus $2 million in fees. The Company and its bank
   group agreed to amend the Company's credit facility to increase the revolving
   credit availability from $125 million to $140 million and to waive the 1996
   mandatory term-loan principal payment from excess cash flow.
 
In conjunction with this transaction, SIH also sold its remaining 6 million
shares of the Company's common stock to a group of investors consisting of
Vestar Equity Partners, L.P., Harvard Private Capital Group, American Industrial
Partners Capital Fund II, L.P. and certain members of senior management.
 

 
The following table sets forth, for the period indicated, the Company's net
sales by market:
 

 
  NET SALES
 
Net sales for the year ended December 31, 1997 increased $110.9 million, or
24.5%, to $564.4 million. The acquisitions of Vapor, Stone, Thermo King and HP
contributed $85.5 million of the increase. In addition, increased volume in the
Electronics, Transit and Friction businesses favorably affected the comparison.
 
  GROSS PROFIT
 
Gross profit increased 21.4% to $186.1 million in 1997 compared to $153.3
million in 1996. Gross margin, as a percentage of sales, was 33.0% in 1997 and
33.8% in 1996. The effect of initially lower margins at the recently acquired
businesses was the primary factor for the change.
 
  OPERATING EXPENSES
 

 
Total operating expenses increased $22.5 million in the year-to-year comparison
primarily reflecting the effect of acquisitions completed in 1997 and 1996.
Incremental expenses from acquired businesses totaled $15.3 million. In
addition, higher operating expenses reflect costs associated with certain
strategic initiatives including expanded international marketing activities and
additional engineering efforts associated with new product development.
 
  INCOME FROM OPERATIONS
 
Operating income totaled $90.0 million in 1997 compared with $79.7 million a
year ago. Higher operating income reflects higher sales volume and related gross
profit.
 
  INTEREST EXPENSE
 
Interest expense increased $3.6 million to $29.7 million during 1997, primarily
due to funding costs associated with repurchases of common stock and
acquisitions, partially offset by debt repayments.
 
  INCOME TAXES
 
The provision for income taxes increased $2.4 million to $23.3 million in 1997
compared with $20.9 million in 1996. The effective tax rate declined to 38.5% in
1997 from 39.0% in 1996, due to the establishment of a Foreign Sales Corporation
in the latter part of 1996.
 
                                1996 VERSUS 1995
 
  SUMMARY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 

 
  NET INCOME
 
Net income for 1996 declined $1.0 million to $32.7 million compared with 1995.
The lower income was due to a change in product sales mix, including lower sales
in the freight market due to reduced OEM production and from increased spending
to support additional engineering and international sales staffing. The higher
operating costs more than offset revenue growth.
 
  NET SALES
 
Net sales increased $28.5 million to $453.5 million in 1996 from $425.0 million
in 1995. The increase was primarily due to the 1996 acquisitions of Vapor and
Futuris. Sales also benefited from a full year of the Pulse acquisition that was
completed in the first quarter of 1995. Partially offsetting these positive
factors were lower sales in the Company's freight car division due in part to a
5% decline in OEM production.
 
  GROSS PROFIT
 
Gross profit increased $7.3 million or 5%, to $153.3 million in 1996 primarily
due to higher sales volume. Gross margin, as a percentage of sales, declined
slightly in 1996 to
 

 
33.8% versus 34.4% in 1995 primarily as a result of changes in product mix.
 
  OPERATING EXPENSES
 

 
NM--not meaningful
 
  OPERATING EXPENSES
 
Total operating expenses increased $16.9 million in the comparison and totaled
$73.6 million in 1996. The higher expense level was primarily due to the Futuris
and Vapor acquisitions. In addition, expenses increased, in part, due to WABCO's
expanded new product development initiatives and international marketing
activities as well as increased corporate expenses for shareholder
communication, legal and insurance costs.
 
  INCOME FROM OPERATIONS
 
Operating income in 1996 was $79.7 million versus $89.3 million in 1995. The
decrease was primarily due to higher operating expenses and amortization which
more than offset the increased gross profit.
 
  INTEREST EXPENSE
 
Total interest expense for 1996 was $26.2 million, a decrease of $4.8 million
from 1995, primarily as a result of lower overall weighted average interest
rates in 1996 and the reduced debt levels from the proceeds of the Company's IPO
in June 1995.
 
  INCOME TAXES
 
The Company's overall effective income tax rate declined to 39.0% in 1996
compared to 40.0% in 1995 due to lower effective state tax rates and the benefit
of a Foreign Sales Corporation (FSC) established in 1996.
 
  LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
 
Liquidity is provided primarily by operating cash flow and long-term borrowings.
WABCO's operations generated cash flow totaling $67.0 million, $58.9 million and
$45.8 million in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively. Operating cash flow has been
increasing primarily due to a combination of earnings growth and improved asset
management. Gross capital expenditures were $29.6 million, $13.2 million, and
$16.2 million in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively. The majority of capital
expenditures reflect spending for replacement equipment and as well as increased
capacity and efficiency. In addition, in 1997 WABCO made significant investments
in a new electronics technology development center. The Company expects capital
expenditures in 1998 to approximate $28 million.
 
The following table sets forth outstanding indebtedness of WABCO:
 

 
The Company's revolving credit and term loan borrowings have been made pursuant
to a credit agreement, as amended (the Credit Agreement), with a consortium of
commercial banks. The Credit Agreement provides for up to $140 million of
revolving credit loans, including letters of credit, and provided $170.6 million
of term loans, of which $145.5 million was outstanding at December 31, 1997.
 
Credit Agreement borrowings bear variable interest rates indexed to common
indexes LIBOR. The weighted-average contractual interest rate on Credit
Agreement borrowings was 7.36% at year-end 1997. In order to reduce the impact
of interest rate changes on this variable rate debt, the Company entered into
interest rate swaps which effectively convert a portion of the debt from
variable to fixed-rate borrowings over the term of the swap contracts. The
interest rate swaps have an aggregate notional value of $100 million and mature
in 1998 through 2000. The interest rate swaps altered the weighted-average
interest rate paid on borrowings under the Credit Agreement from 7.36% to 7.67%
at year-end 1997.
 
Principal repayments of term loan borrowings are due in semi-annual installments
until maturity in January 2002.
 
The Credit Agreement limits the Company with respect to declaring or making cash
dividend payments and prohibits the declaration or making of other distributions
whether in cash, property, securities or a combination thereof, with respect to
any shares of the Company's capital stock. However, the Company is permitted to
pay $.01 per share quarterly dividends on the Common Stock, subject to certain
conditions. The Credit Agreement contains various
 

 
other covenants and restrictions including: a limitation on the incurrence of
additional indebtedness; a limitation on mergers, consolidations and sales of
assets and acquisitions; other than sales of assets in the ordinary course of
business; a limitation on liens; a limitation on certain debt payments; a
limitation on capital expenditures; a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio; a
minimum interest expense coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio.
 
The Company's senior notes, issued in June 1995, bear interest at the rate of
9.375% and mature in June 2005. The net proceeds of were used to prepay an
additional portion of the term loans outstanding under the existing credit
agreement. The notes are senior unsecured obligations of the Company and rank
pari passu in right of payment with all existing and future indebtedness under
(i) capitalized lease obligations, (ii) the Amended Credit Agreement, (iii)
indebtedness of the Company for money borrowed and (iv) indebtedness evidenced
by notes, debentures, bonds or other similar instruments for the payment of
which the Company is responsible or liable unless, in the case of clause (iii)
or (iv), in the instrument creating or evidencing the same or pursuant to which
the same is outstanding, it is provided that such obligations are subordinate in
right of payment to the notes.
 
The Company's indenture, pursuant to which the notes were issued, contains
certain restrictive covenants which, among other things, limit the ability of
the Company and certain of its subsidiaries to incur indebtedness, pay dividends
on and redeem capital stock, create restrictions on investments in unrestricted
subsidiaries, make distributions from certain subsidiaries, use proceeds from
the sale of assets and subsidiary stock, enter into transactions with
affiliates, create liens and enter into sale/leaseback transactions. The
Company's indenture also restricts, subject to certain exceptions, the Company's
ability to consolidate and merge with, or to transfer all or substantially all
of its assets to, another person.
 
As partial payment for the Pulse Acquisition, the Company issued the $17.0
million Long-Term Pulse Seller Note, due January 31, 2004. Interest is payable
semiannually and accrues until February 1, 1998 at the per annum rate of 9.5%;
from February 1, 1998 until January 31, 2001, interest will accrue at the prime
rate charged by Chase Manhattan Bank on December 31, 1997 plus 1%; and from
February 1, 2001 until January 31, 2004, interest will accrue at the prime rate
charged by Chase Manhattan Bank on December 31, 2000 plus 1%.
 
In 1997, WABCO completed the Stone, Thermo King and HP acquisitions for an
aggregate purchase price of $13.5 million in cash including $2.3 million of
assumed debt. In 1996, the Company acquired Vapor and Futuris for $63.9 million
and $15 million, respectively. These transactions utilized borrowings for the
purchase price. Also, in 1995 the Company acquired Pulse Electronics for $54.9
million, consisting of $20 million in bank borrowings, a $17.0 million note
payable and WABCO Common Stock valued at $17.9 million at the time of the
acquisition.
 
In March 1997, SIH sold its 10 million shares of WABCO Common Stock. The Company
purchased 4 million shares at $11 per share, and investors consisting of Vestar
Equity Partners, L.P., Harvard Private Capital Group, American Industrial
Partners Capital Fund II, L.P. and certain members of WABCO's management
acquired the remaining 6 million shares at the same price. The Company financed
the 4 million share repurchase through borrowings under its credit facility.
 
In connection with the establishment of the ESOP in January 1995, the Company
made a $140 million loan to the ESOP, which was used to purchase 9,336,000
shares of the Company's outstanding common stock. The ESOP Loan had an original
term of 50 years, with annual payments of principal and interest of
approximately $12 million. The ESOP Loan bears interest at 8.5% per annum. The
ESOP will repay the ESOP Loan using contributions from the Company. The Company
is obligated to contribute amounts sufficient to repay the ESOP Loan. The net
effect of the ESOP is that the Company's stock is allocated to employees in lieu
a retirement plan that was previously a cash-based defined benefit plan and,
accordingly, results in reduced annual cash outlays by an estimated $3 to $4
million.
 
Management believes, based upon current levels of operations and forecasted
earnings, that cash flow from operations, together with borrowings under the
Credit Agreement, will be adequate to make payments of principal and interest on
debt, including the Notes, to make required contributions to the ESOP, to permit
anticipated capital expenditures, and to fund working capital requirements and
other cash needs. Nevertheless, the Company will remain leveraged to a
significant extent and its debt service obligations will continue to be
substantial. If the Company's sources of funds were to fail to satisfy the
Company's cash requirements, the Company may need to refinance its existing debt
or obtain additional financing. There is no assurance that such new financing
alternatives would be available, and, in any case, such new financing, if
available, would be expected to be more costly and burdensome than the debt
agreements currently in place.
 

 
  EFFECT OF YEAR 2000
 
The Company has information system improvement initiatives under way which
include both new computer hardware and software applications. The new system is
expected to be operational by late 1998 and will be year 2000 compliant. The
majority of the expenditures incurred for hardware and purchased software
related to this project are capitalized and amortized over their estimated
useful lives. Other costs are expensed as incurred. These expenditures are not
expected to have a significant impact on the Company's future results of
operations or financial position.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
From time to time, in this report and in other written reports and oral
statements, references are made to expectations regarding future performance of
the Company. Examples include, but are not limited to, statements as to
expectations, beliefs and strategies, future earnings, revenue growth, and sales
expansion opportunities. These "forward-looking statements," are based on
currently available competitive, financial and economic data and the Company's
operating plans, but they are inherently uncertain. Investors must recognize
that events could turn out to be significantly different from what is expected.
Differences from expectations in the factors listed below, among others, could
affect the Company's financial performance in the future and could cause actual
results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such
forward-looking statements. These factors, which include changes in both
domestic and global assumptions and expectations are, among others: overall
economic conditions; interest rates; demand for services in the freight and
passenger rail industry; consolidations in the rail industry; demand for the
Company's products and services; product mix; gains and losses in market share;
demand for freight cars, locomotives, passenger transit cars and buses; industry
demand for faster and more efficient braking equipment; continued outsourcing by
the Company's customers; governmental funding for some of the Company's
customers; future regulation/deregulation of the Company's customers and/or the
rail industry; successful research and development; success in developing,
marketing and delivering new products; the Company's ability to complete
expected sales; cancellation of orders; labor stability; integration of recent
acquisitions; completion of additional acquisitions; changes in expected level
of capital expenditures; continued bank financing; warranty claims;
environmental laws; lawsuits; and other factors identified within this Form 10-K
and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such statements
are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
 
EFFECTS OF INFLATION; SEASONALITY
 
General price inflation has not had a material impact on the Company's results
of operations. Some of the Company's labor contracts contain negotiated salary
and benefit increases and others contain cost of living adjustment clauses,
which would cause the Company's cost automatically to increase if inflation were
to become significant. The Company's business is not seasonal, although the
third quarter results generally tend to be slightly lower than other quarters,
reflecting vacation and down time at major customers during this period.
 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
Financial statements and supplementary data are set forth in Item 14 of Part IV
hereof.
 
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
None
 
                                    PART III
 
ITEMS 10 THROUGH 13.
 
In accordance with the provisions of General Instruction G to Form 10-K, the
information required by Item 10 (Directors and Executive Officers of the
Registrant), Item 11 (Executive Compensation), Item 12 (Security Ownership of
Certain Beneficial Owners and Management) and Item 13 (Certain Relationships and
Related Transactions) is not set forth herein because the Company's definitive
Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 26,
1998, which includes such information, will be filed with the Commission not
later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this annual
report. Such information is incorporated in this annual report by reference,
except for the information required to be included in the Proxy Statements by
paragraphs (i), (k) and (l) of Item 402 of Regulations S-K.
 

 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT
          SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON
          FORM 8-K
 
The financial statements, financial statement schedules and exhibits listed
below are filed as part of this annual report:
 

 


 
- ---------
 
     * Filed herewith
 
   ** Filed as an exhibit to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1
      (No. 33-90866)
 
  *** Filed as an exhibit to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
      period ended December 31, 1995
 
 **** Filed as an exhibit to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, dated
      October 3, 1996
 
***** Filed as an exhibit to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-8
      (No. 333-39159)
 

 
                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
 
To the Board of Directors of Westinghouse Air Brake Company:
 
     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Westinghouse
Air Brake Company (a Delaware corporation) and subsidiaries as of December 31,
1997 and 1996, and the related consolidated statements of operations,
shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 1997. These financial statements are the responsibility of
the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits.
 
     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
     In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of Westinghouse Air Brake
Company and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997 and 1996, and the results of
their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 1997, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.
 
                                              ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
February 16, 1998
 

 
                         WESTINGHOUSE AIR BRAKE COMPANY
 
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 

 
         The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement.
 

 
                         WESTINGHOUSE AIR BRAKE COMPANY
 
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
 

 
         The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement.
 

 
                         WESTINGHOUSE AIR BRAKE COMPANY
 
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
 

 
         The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement.
 

 
                         WESTINGHOUSE AIR BRAKE COMPANY
 
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

 
         The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement.
 

 
                         WESTINGHOUSE AIR BRAKE COMPANY
 
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
1. BUSINESS
 
Westinghouse Air Brake Company (the Company) is North America's largest
manufacturer of value-added equipment for locomotives, railway freight cars and
passenger transit vehicles. The Company's products, which are sold to both the
original equipment manufacturer market and the aftermarket, are intended to
enhance safety, improve productivity and reduce maintenance costs for its
customers. The Company's products include electronic controls and monitors, air
brakes, couplers, door controls, draft gears and brake shoes. The Company's
primary manufacturing operations are in the United States and Canada, and the
Company's revenues have been primarily from North America. The Company's
customer base consists of freight transportation (railroad) companies,
locomotive and freight car original equipment manufacturers, railroads and
transit car builders and public transit systems.
 
The Company's operations and revenue base are generally dependent on the capital
replacement cycles for locomotives and freight cars of the large North
American-based railroad companies. The Company's passenger transit operations
are dependent on the budgeting and expenditure appropriation process of federal,
state and local governmental units for mass transit needs established by public
policy.
 
2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
  PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION
 
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and
its majority owned subsidiaries. Such statements have been prepared in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. All intercompany
accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. Certain prior
year amounts have been reclassified, where necessary, to conform to the current
year presentation.
 
  USE OF ESTIMATES
 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles requires the Company to make estimates and assumptions
that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the
financial statements and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Actual amounts could differ from the estimates.
 
  INVENTORIES
 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined under
the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. Inventory costs include material, labor
and overhead. The components of inventory, net of reserves, were:
 

 
  PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
 
Property, plant and equipment additions are stated at cost. Expenditures for
renewals and betterments are capitalized. Expenditures for ordinary maintenance
and repairs are expensed as incurred. The Company provides for book depreciation
principally on the straight-line method over the following estimated useful
lives of plant and equipment.
 

 
Accelerated depreciation methods are utilized for income tax purposes.
 
  INTANGIBLE ASSETS
 
Goodwill is amortized on a straight-line basis over 40 years. Other intangibles
are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated economic lives.
Goodwill and other intangible assets, including patents and tradenames, are
periodically reviewed for impairment based on an assessment of future operations
(see Note 4).
 
  REVENUE RECOGNITION
 
Revenue is recognized when products have been shipped to the respective
customers and the price for the product has been determined. Sales returns are
infrequent and not material in relation to the Company's net sales.
 
  STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION
 
The Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" ("SFAS
No. 123"), in October 1995. This statement established a "fair value based
method" of financial accounting and
 

 
related reporting standards for stock-based employee compensation plans, such as
the Company's 1995 Stock Incentive Plan (see Note 11). SFAS No. 123 became
effective for calendar year 1996 and provides for adoption in the income
statement or through footnote disclosure only. The Company has continued to
account for its 1995 Stock Incentive Plan under APB Opinion No. 25, "Accounting
for Stock Issued to Employees," as permitted by SFAS 123, and has provided the
required disclosure in the footnotes (see Note 11).
 
  RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Research and development costs are charged to expense as incurred. Such costs
totaled $24.4 million, $18.2 million and $14.6 million in 1997, 1996 and 1995,
respectively.
 
  WARRANTY COSTS
 
Warranty costs are accrued based on management's estimates of repair or upgrade
costs per unit and historical experience. In recent years, the Company has
introduced several new products. The Company does not have the same level of
historical warranty experience for these new products as it does for its
continuing products. Therefore, warranty reserves have been established for
these new products based upon management's estimates. Actual future results may
vary from such estimates. Warranty expense was $9.9 million, $5.5 million and
$8.1 million for 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively. Warranty reserves were $12.9
million and $8.2 million at December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
 
  FINANCIAL DERIVATIVES
 
The Company periodically enters into interest rate swap agreements to reduce the
impact of interest rate changes on its variable rate borrowings. Interest rate
swaps are agreements with a counterparty to exchange periodic interest payments
(such as pay fixed, receive variable) calculated on a notional principal amount.
The interest rate differential to be paid or received is accrued to interest
expense (see Note 5).
 
  INCOME TAXES
 
Income taxes are accounted for under the liability method. Deferred tax assets
and liabilities are determined based on differences between financial reporting
and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax
rates and laws that will be in effect when the differences are expected to
reverse. The provision for income taxes includes Federal, state and foreign
income taxes (see Note 9).
 
  FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION
 
The financial statements of the Company's foreign subsidiaries are translated
into U.S. currency under the guidelines set forth in SFAS No. 52, "Foreign
Currency Translation." The effects of currency exchange rate changes on
intercompany transactions of a long-term investment nature are accumulated and
carried as a component of shareholders' equity.
 
  EARNINGS PER SHARE
 
In February 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 128,
"Earnings per Share". As required, the Company adopted this Standard in its 1997
financial statements for all periods presented.
 
SFAS No. 128 sets forth requirements for computing basic and diluted earnings
per share. Basic earnings per common share are computed by dividing net income
applicable to common shareholders by the weighted-average number of shares of
common stock outstanding during the year. Diluted earnings per common share are
computed by dividing net income applicable to common shareholders by the
weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding adjusted for the
assumed conversion of all dilutive securities (employee stock options) (see Note
10).
 
The adoption of SFAS No. 128 did not have a material impact on reported earnings
per share.
 
  SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMERS AND CONCENTRATIONS
     OF CREDIT RISK
 
The Company's trade receivables are primarily from rail and transit industry
original equipment manufacturers, railroad carriers and commercial companies
that utilize rail cars in their operations, such as utility and chemical
companies. No one customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company's sales in
1997 or 1996, and, in 1995, one customer accounted for more than 10%. The
allowance for doubtful accounts was $2.0 million and $1.3 million as of December
31, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
 
  EMPLOYEES
 
As of December 31, 1997, approximately 29% of the Company's workforce is covered
by collective bargaining agreements. These agreements expire at various times
between 1998 and 2002.
 
  RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
 
During 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued several Statements
of Financial Accounting Standards including the following:
 

 
SFAS No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income," is effective for fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 1997. This Statement establishes standards for
reporting and display of comprehensive income and its components. Comprehensive
income includes net income and all other changes in shareholders' equity except
those resulting from investments and distributions to owners.
 
SFAS No. 131, "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
Information," is effective for financial statements issued for periods beginning
after December 15, 1997. This Statement requires financial and descriptive
information about an entity's operating segments to be included in the annual
financial statements.
 
Neither of these standards, when implemented, is expected to impact the reported
financial position or results of operations of the Company.
 
3. ACQUISITIONS
 
Effective July 31, 1997 the Company acquired 100% of the stock of H.P. s.r.1.
("HP"), an Italian company, for a total purchase price of $5.8 million, which
included the assumption of $2.3 million in debt. HP is located in Sassuolo,
Italy and is a leading supplier of door controls for transit rail cars and buses
in the Italian market. Revenues approximated $9 million for its most recent
fiscal year. The acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method. The
excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired of
approximately $3.5 million was allocated to goodwill.
 
Effective May 1, 1997 the Company purchased Stone Safety Service Corporation and
Stone U.K. Limited ("Stone"), a supplier of transit air conditioning equipment,
from Enprotech Corporation, a subsidiary of Itochu International. Stone is
located in New Jersey and England. On June 27, 1997, the Company acquired the
heavy rail air conditioning business of Thermo King Corporation ("Thermo King")
from Westinghouse Electric. The Thermo King purchase included certain inventory,
equipment and drawings. The aggregate purchase price for the Stone and Thermo
King acquisitions was approximately $7.7 million. Annual revenues of the Stone
and Thermo King acquisitions aggregate approximately $30 million. The
acquisitions were accounted for under the purchase method. The excess of the
purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired of approximately $2
million was allocated to goodwill.
 
The results of operations for HP, Stone and Thermo King are included in the
Company's financial statements since the date of the applicable acquisition. The
effect of the acquisitions is not considered material to the consolidated
results of the Company.
 
On September 19, 1996, the Company acquired from Mark IV Industries Inc. the
Vapor Group ("Vapor") for a cash purchase price of approximately $63.9 million.
The transaction, which has been accounted for as a purchase, was effective
September 1, 1996 and accordingly the results of Vapor have been included in the
accompanying financial statements since September 1, 1996. Pursuant to an earn
out provision, the purchase price may be increased by up to $2 million based on
a sales formula. Vapor is the leading manufacturer of door controls for transit
rail cars and metropolitan buses in the United States. Annual revenues for its
most recent fiscal year prior to the acquisition of totaled $65 million. The net
tangible assets of Vapor were approximately $36 million at the date of purchase.
The fair market valuations and allocation of the purchase price to the acquired
tangible and intangible assets have been based upon an independent appraisal.
 
The purchase price paid in excess of the fair value of the acquired net tangible
assets was approximately $28.5 million and has been allocated as follows:
 

 
The tradename and goodwill are being amortized over 40 years; the patents over
their remaining lives; and the non-compete agreements over 5 years. Annual
amortization expense of the intangible assets is $1.2 million.
 
In conjunction with integrating the Vapor operations into the Company, early
retirement incentives and other severance programs have been offered to the
Vapor employees. The estimated cost of this restructuring ($3.2 million) was
accrued in the allocation of the Vapor purchase price.
 
Pro forma results of operations, including the effect of the pro forma
adjustments related to the acquisition of Vapor, assuming the transaction had
occurred on January 1, 1995, are as follows:
 

 
The pro forma financial information presented above does not purport to present
what the Company's results of operations would have been if the acquisition of
Vapor had
 

 
actually occurred on January 1, 1995, or to project the Company's results of
operations for any future period.
 
Effective January 31, 1996, the Company acquired Futuris Industrial Products
Pty. Ltd. ("Futuris"), an Australian company, for a cash purchase price of $15
million. Futuris is a leading manufacturer of brake shoes and disc brake pads
for railroads in Australia and the Pacific Rim. The acquisition was accounted
for under the purchase method and the excess of the purchase price over the fair
value of the net assets acquired, or $10 million, was allocated primarily to
goodwill. The effect of the acquisition is not considered material to the
consolidated results of the Company.
 
4. INTANGIBLES
 
Intangible assets of the Company, other than goodwill, consist of the following:
 

 
At December 31, 1997 and 1996, goodwill, net of accumulated amortization of $5.4
million and $4.2 million, respectively, totaled $66.6 million and $60.5 million,
respectively. The Company evaluates the recoverability of intangible assets,
including goodwill, at each balance sheet date based on forecasted future
operations, undiscounted cash flows and other subjective criteria. Based upon
historical information, management believes that the carrying amount of these
intangible assets will be realizable over the respective amortization periods.
 
5. LONG-TERM DEBT
 
Long-term debt consisted of the following:
 

 
The Company's revolving credit and term loan borrowings have been made pursuant
to a credit agreement (the "Credit Agreement"), with a consortium of commercial
banks. The Credit Agreement provides for up to $140.0 million of revolving
credit loans and provided $170.6 million of term loans, of which $145.5 million
was outstanding at December 31, 1997. The Credit Agreement also provides for up
to $5 million of swingline loans and for the issuance of up to $50 million of
letters of credit. The incurrence of swingline loans and the issuance of letters
of credit will reduce the $140 million borrowing availability under the
revolving credit portion of the Credit Agreement.
 
Borrowings under the Credit Agreement bear variable rates of interest indexed to
several options including LIBOR and prime. At December 31, 1997, the contractual
interest rate on borrowings outstanding under the Credit Agreement was 7.36%.
The Company entered into interest rate swap agreements to alter the impact of
changes in interest rates on its variable rate borrowings. At year-end 1997, the
notional value of interest rate swaps outstanding totaled $100 million. The swap
agreements effectively change the Company's interest rate exposure on $100
million of loans from variable to fixed rates. As a result, the effective
interest rate was 7.67% on borrowings under the Credit Agreement at year-end
1997. The interest rate swap agreements mature in 1998 through 2000.
 
The Company is exposed to credit risk in the event of nonperformance by the
counterparties. However, since only the cash interest payments are exchanged,
exposure is significantly less than the notional amount. The counterparties are
large financial institutions and the Company does not anticipate nonperformance.
 
The maximum balances outstanding under the revolving credit loans were $105.4
million and $85.9 million during 1997 and 1996, respectively. Average balances
outstanding were $87.7 million and $72.0 million, respectively. Borrowings
outstanding under the revolving credit commitment are due January 31, 2001.
 

 
Scheduled term loan principal repayments are as follows:
 

 
At December 31, 1997, the Company had outstanding letters of credit in the
aggregate amount of $17.1 million, primarily as collateral for contract
performance guarantees.
 
Substantially all of the Company's U.S. assets, 100% of the capital stock of its
U.S. subsidiaries and 65% of the capital stock of its non-U.S. subsidiaries are
pledged as collateral pursuant to the Credit Agreement. The Company's indenture,
pursuant to which the Notes were issued, contains certain restrictive covenants
which, among other things, limit the ability of the Company and certain of its
Canadian subsidiaries to incur indebtedness, pay dividends (limited to $1.9
million annually) on and redeem capital stock, create restrictions on
investments in unrestricted subsidiaries, make distributions from certain
subsidiaries, use proceeds from the sale of assets and subsidiary stock, enter
into transactions with affiliates, create liens and enter into sale/ leaseback
transactions. The Company's indenture also restricts, subject to certain
exceptions, the Company's ability to consolidate and merge with, or to transfer
all or substantially all of its assets to, another person.
 
The Company's senior notes, issued in June 1995, bear interest at the rate of
9.375% and mature June 2005. The net proceeds were used to prepay an additional
portion of the term loans outstanding under the existing credit agreement. The
Notes are senior unsecured obligations of the Company and rank pari passu in
right of payment with all existing and future indebtedness under (i) capitalized
lease obligations, (ii) the Credit Agreement, (iii) indebtedness of the Company
for money borrowed and (iv) indebtedness evidenced by notes, debentures, bonds
or other similar instruments for the payment of which the Company is responsible
or liable unless, in the case of clause (iii) or (iv), it is provided that such
obligations are subordinate in right of payment to the Notes.
 
In conjunction with the Credit Agreement and Senior Note Offering and other
borrowings, debt issuance costs of $14.0 million were incurred and are being
amortized over the terms of the borrowings. The accumulated amortization of debt
issuance costs were $4.7 million and $2.8 million at December 31, 1997 and 1996,
respectively.
 
The $17 million note payable incurred in conjunction with the acquisition of
Pulse Electronics matures January 2004 and bears interest at 9.5% per annum,
subject to adjustment, based on prime plus 1%, in February 1998 and 2001 with a
maximum rate of 13%.
 
6. RETIREMENT AND EMPLOYEE SAVINGS PLANS
 
The Company has a defined benefit pension plan which covers substantially all
union employees and provides pension benefits of stated amounts for each year of
service of the employee. The Company also has a defined contribution plan which
prior to March 31, 1995, covered certain nonunion employees and a
noncontributory defined benefit plan for certain domestic service center
employees. In connection with the establishment of the ESOP (see Note 8) in
January 1995, the pension plan for U.S. salaried employees was modified to
eliminate any credit (or accrual) for current service costs for any future
periods, effective March 31, 1995. The Company's 401(k) savings plan was also
amended to provide for the Company's future matching contributions to be made to
the ESOP in the form of the Company's common stock. The Company's funding
methods, which are primarily based on the ERISA requirements, differ from those
used to recognize pension expense, which is primarily based on the projected
unit credit method, in the accompanying financial statements.
 
Net periodic pension expense for the U.S. pension plans was as follows:
 

 
Weighted average discount rates of 7.25%, 7.5% and 7.5% were used in determining
the actuarial present value of the projected benefit obligation at December 31,
1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively. The expected long-term rates of return on
assets were 10% in 1997, 1996 and 1995. Plan assets consist primarily of common
stocks, corporate bonds, U.S. government obligations and temporary investments.
 
In 1996, as the result of an early retirement package offered to certain union
employees, the Company incurred a charge of $696,000 reflected above as a
special event.
 

 
The following table sets forth the U.S. pension plans' funded status and amounts
recognized:
 

 
The Company's Canadian subsidiaries have defined benefit retirement plans
covering substantially all employees. Net periodic pension expense for the
Canadian plans was as follows:
 

 
Weighted average discount rates of 7.25%, 8.5% and 8.5% were used in determining
the actuarial present value of the projected benefit obligation at December 31,
1997, 1996 and 1995. The expected long-term rates of return on assets at the
measurement dates were 9.25%, 9.25% and 10% in 1997, 1996 and 1995,
respectively.
 
The following table sets forth the Canadian plans' funded status and amounts
recognized:
 

 
7. POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS
 
In addition to providing pension benefits, the Company had provided certain
unfunded postretirement health care and life insurance benefits for
substantially all U.S. employees. In conjunction with the establishment of the
ESOP in January 1995 (see Note 8), the postretirement health care and life
insurance benefits for salaried employees were modified to discontinue benefits
for employees who had not attained the age of 50 by March 31, 1995. The Company
is not obligated to pay health care and life insurance benefits to individuals
who had retired prior to 1990.
 
Postretirement benefit expenses were comprised of the following:
 

 

 
The accumulated postretirement benefit obligation was comprised of the
following:
 

 
The accumulated postretirement benefit obligation was actuarially determined
using a method that applied specific interest rates to future cash flows when
discounting the obligation to its present value. The interest rate associated
with future cash flows and used to discount the accumulated postretirement
benefit obligation to present value was 7.25%, 7.5% and 7.5% at December 31,
1997, 1996 and 1995. The assumed medical cost trend rate at December 31, 1997
was 5.75%. A one percentage point increase in the assumed health care cost trend
rates for each future year increases annual postretirement benefit expense by
$256,000 and the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation by $2.7 million.
 
8. EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLAN AND TRUST (ESOP)
Effective January 31, 1995, the Company established the ESOP to enable
participating employees to obtain ownership interests in the Company. Employees
eligible to participate in the ESOP primarily include the salaried U.S.
employees and, as described in Notes 6 and 7, the ESOP contributions are
intended to supplement or replace other salaried employee benefit plans.
 
In connection with the establishment of the ESOP, the Company made a $140
million loan to the ESOP, which was used to purchase 9,336,000 shares of the
Company's outstanding common stock. The ESOP loan initially had a term of 50
years with interest at 8.5% and was collateralized by the shares purchased by
the ESOP. Company contributions to the ESOP will be used to repay the ESOP
loan's annual debt service requirements of $12 million. The Company is obligated
to contribute amounts sufficient to repay the ESOP loan. The ESOP uses such
Company contributions to repay the ESOP loan. Approximately 187,000 shares were
to be allocated annually to participants over a 50-year period. These
transactions occur simultaneously and, for accounting purposes, offset each
other. Unearned ESOP shares of $131.3 million at December 31, 1997, is reflected
as a reduction in shareholders' equity in the accompanying financial statements
and will be amortized to compensation expense coterminous with the ESOP loan. In
addition, any difference between the market price of the Company's common stock
and $15 per share (the purchase price paid by the ESOP) will also be charged or
credited to compensation expense (with the offset to additional paid-in capital)
based on the annual allocation to ESOP participants. Total compensation expense
recognized for allocated ESOP shares was $3.2 million, $2.6 million and $2.6
million in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively. In addition, the Company incurred
expenses of approximately $1 million in 1995 to establish the ESOP and related
trust.
 
9. INCOME TAXES
 
A reconciliation of the United States federal statutory income tax rate to the
effective income tax rate is provided below:
 

 
The provision for income taxes consisted of the following:
 

 
The 1995 provision includes a $960,000 income tax effect on the extraordinary
loss (see Note 13) related to the early extinguishment of certain debt
obligations.
 
The components of income before taxes on income for U.S. and foreign operations,
primarily Canada, were $47.9 million and $12.7 million, respectively, for 1997,
$42.4 million and $11.3 million, respectively, for 1996 and $46.6 million and
$9.2 million, respectively, for 1995.
 

 
The sources of deferred income taxes were as follows:
 

 
Components deferred tax assets and liabilities were as follows:
 

 
10. EARNINGS PER SHARE
 
The computation of earnings per share is as follows:
 

 
Options to purchase .5 million, 2.2 million and 1.3 million shares of common
stock were outstanding in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively, but were not
included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the options'
exercise price exceeded the average market price of the common shares.
 
11. 1995 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN
 
The Company adopted the 1995 Stock Incentive Plan on May 26, 1995, under which
the Company may grant options to employees of Westinghouse Air Brake Company and
Subsidiaries for up to 3.1 million shares of Westinghouse Air Brake Company
common stock. Options to purchase approximately 2.9 million shares of
Westinghouse Air Brake Company common stock under the plan have been granted,
net of forfeitures, to employees of Westinghouse Air Brake Company at, or in
excess of, fair market value at the date of grant. Generally, the options become
exercisable over three and five-year vesting periods and expire ten years from
the date of grant.
 
In 1996, as part of a long-term incentive program, the Company granted options
to purchase up to 684,206 shares to certain executives under the 1995 Stock
Incentive Plan. The option price per share is the greater of the market value of
the stock on the date of grant or $14. The options, which vest 100% after eight
years, are subject to accelerated vesting after three years if the Company
achieves certain earnings targets as established by the compensation committee
of the board of directors.
 
Effective November 1, 1995, the Company adopted a nonemployee directors stock
option plan under which 100,000 shares of common stock are reserved for issuance
at a price not less than $14. Through year-end 1997, the Company granted
nonstatutory stock options to nonemployee directors to purchase a total of
25,000 shares.
 
The Company applies APB 25 and related interpretations in accounting for its
stock option plans. Accordingly, no compensation expense has been recognized
under these plans. Had compensation expense for the Company's stock option plan
been determined based on the fair value at the grant dates for awards under the
plan consistent with the method set forth under SFAS No. 123, the Company's net
income and earnings per share would be as set forth in the following table. For
purposes of pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value is amortized to
expense over the options' vesting period.
 

 
Since compensation expense associated with option grants is recognized over the
vesting period, the initial impact of applying SFAS No. 123 on pro forma net
income is not
 

 
representative of the potential impact on pro forma net income in future years.
In each subsequent year, pro forma compensation expense would include the effect
of recognizing a portion of compensation expense from multiple awards.
 
For purposes of presenting pro forma results, the fair value of each option
grant is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing
model with the following weighted-average assumptions:
 

 
The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use in estimating
fair value of traded options, which are significantly different than employee
stock options. Although this valuation model is an acceptable method for use in
presenting pro forma information, because of the differences in traded options
and employee stock options, the Black-Scholes model does not necessarily provide
a single measure of the fair value of employee stock options.
 
A summary of the Company's stock option activity and related information for the
years ended December 31 follows:
 

 
Exercise prices for options outstanding as of December 31, 1997 ranged from
$11.00 to $21.38. The weighted-average remaining contractual life of those
options is 8 years.
 
12. OPERATING LEASES
 
Minimum annual rentals payable under noncancelable leases in each of the next
five years and beyond are as follows:
 

 
Rental expense under all leases was approximately $3.3 million, $2.8 million and
$2.8 million for the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995. Operating
leases relate principally to several manufacturing locations, warehouse and
office space, transportation equipment and communication systems.
 
13. EXTRAORDINARY ITEM
 
In connection with an amendment to the Credit Agreement (see Note 5), the
Company wrote off approximately $2.3 million of previously capitalized cost
relating to the previous credit agreement. In 1995, this resulted in an after
tax charge of $1.4 million or $.05 per share, which has been reflected as an
extraordinary item.
 
14. STOCK REPURCHASE
 
In March 1997, the Company repurchased from Scandinavian Incentive Holdings,
B.V., ("SIH"), 4,000,000 shares of the Company's Common Stock for an aggregate
purchase price of $44 million plus fees and expenses of approximately $2 million
(the "Redemption"). The Redemption was effected pursuant to a Redemption Agree-
 

 
ment (the "Redemption Agreement") dated as of March 5, 1997 among the Company,
SIH and Incentive AB, the sole shareholder of SIH. Concurrently therewith, SIH
sold its remaining 6,000,000 shares of WABCO Common Stock to investors
consisting of Vestar Equity Partners, L.P. ("Vestar"), Harvard Private Capital
Holdings, Inc. ("Harvard"), American Industrial Partners Capital Fund II, L.P.
("AIP") and certain members of management of the Company (the "Management
Purchasers") for a purchase price of $11 per share in cash, pursuant to a Stock
Purchase Agreement dated as of March 5, 1997, which sale was effective as of
March 31, 1997 (the "SIH Purchase").
 
To finance the Redemption, the Company amended its Credit Agreement to increase
the revolving credit availability by $15 million (from $125 million to $140
million) and to obtain a waiver of the requirement to make a prepayment in an
aggregate principal amount equal to 50% of excess cash flow for 1996, or
approximately $11.5 million. The Company obtained consents from record owners as
of March 3, 1997 of its Senior Notes (the "Notes") to certain amendments to a
covenant contained in the Indenture dated as of June 20, 1995 among the Company,
as issuer, and The Bank of New York, as trustee, pursuant to which the Notes
were issued (the "Indenture"). The Company borrowed $46 million to fund the
Redemption and related expenses.
 
Upon the Company's receipt of the requisite consents, the Indenture was amended
(i) to permit additional Restricted Payments in an amount of approximately $22
million in order to complete the Redemption, and (ii) to permit up to $2 million
of additional Restricted Payments to be made in advance of when they would
otherwise have been permitted.
 
The following presents the Company's results for the year ended December 31,
1997 on a pro forma basis as if the stock repurchase had occurred on January 1,
1997:
 

 
15. STOCKHOLDERS' AND VOTING TRUST AGREEMENTS
 
As of December 31, 1997, the approximate ownership interests in the Company's
common stock are held by management and the ESOP (45%), the investors referred
to in Note 14 (16%), and all others including public shareholders (39%). The
investors referred to in Note 14 and certain members of senior management
purchased 6 million shares of WABCO common stock from SIH. The seller is a
successor in interest to Incentive AB (a Swedish corporation) which acquired
Investment AB Cardo, an original equity owner at the time of the 1990
acquisition of the Railway Products Group of American Standard, Inc. ("1990
Acquisition"). A Stockholders Agreement exists between management and the
investors referred to in Note 14 that provides for, among other things, the
composition of the Board of Directors as long as certain minimum stock ownership
percentages are maintained, restrictions on the disposition of shares and rights
to request the registration of the shares.
 
The active original management owners have entered into an Amended Voting
Trust/Disposition Agreement effective December 13, 1995, as amended. The
agreement provides for, among other matters, the stock to be voted as one block
and restrictions on the sale or transfer of such stock. The agreement expires on
January 1, 2000 and can be terminated by an affirmative vote of two-thirds of
the stock shares held by the trust. In connection with this Voting Trust, the
Company has entered into an Indemnification Agreement with the trustees, which
is covered by the Company's directors and officers liability insurance.
 
The shares held by the ESOP (established January 31, 1995) are subject to the
terms of the related ESOP Loan Agreement, Employee Stock Ownership Trust
Agreement, Employee Stock Ownership Plan and the Pledge Agreement. The ESOP is
further described in Note 8.
 
16. PREFERRED STOCK
 
The Company's authorized capital stock includes 1,000,000 shares of preferred
stock. The Board of Directors has the authority to issue the preferred stock and
to fix the designations, powers, preferences and rights of the shares of each
such class or series, including dividend rates, conversion rights, voting
rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, without any further
vote or action by the Company's shareholders. The rights and preferences of the
preferred stock would be superior to those of the common stock. At December 31,
1997 and 1996 there was no preferred stock issued or outstanding.
 
17. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
 
Under the terms of the purchase agreement and related documents for the 1990
Acquisition, American Standard, Inc. ("ASI"), has indemnified the Company for
certain items including, among others, environmental claims. The indemnification
provisions of the agreement expire at various dates through 2000 (which is when
the environmental indemnification expires). If ASI was unable to honor or meet
these indemnifications, the Company would be responsible for such items. In the
opinion of management, ASI currently has the ability to meet its indemnification
 

 
obligations. ASI has not disputed any coverage or reimbursement under these
provisions.
 
The Company, through one of its operating subsidiaries, has been named, along
with other parties, as a Potentially Responsible Party (PRP) under the North
Carolina Inactive Sites Response Act because of an alleged release or threat of
release of hazardous substances at the "Old James Landfill" site in North
Carolina. The Company believes that any costs associated with the cleanup
activities at this site which it may be held responsible for, if any, are
covered by (a) the ASI indemnification referred to above, as ASI previously
owned 50% of the subsidiary and (b) a related insurance policy which expires
January 2002 for environmental claims provided by the other former 50% owner of
the involved operating subsidiary. The Company has submitted a claim under the
policy for any costs of clean up imposed on or incurred by the Company in
connection with the "Old James Landfill" and International Insurance, Ltd. has
acknowledged coverage under the policy, subject to the stated policy exclusions.
In addition, management believes that such costs, if any, attributable to the
Company will not be material and, therefore, has not established a reserve for
such costs.
 
The Company's operations do not use and its products do not contain any
asbestos. The operations acquired by the Company from ASI discontinued the use
of asbestos in 1980. The Company is named as a codefendant in asbestos claims
filed by third parties against ASI relating to events occurring prior to 1981
(which is significantly prior to the 1990 acquisition). These claims are covered
by the indemnification agreement and the insurance policy referred to above. ASI
has taken complete responsibility in administering, defending and settling the
claims. The Company is not involved with, nor has it incurred any costs related
to, these claims. ASI has not claimed that the Company has any responsibility
for these cases. Management believes that these claims are not related to the
Company and that such costs, if any, attributable to the Company and will not be
material; therefore, the financial statements accordingly do not reflect any
costs or reserves for such claims.
 
In the opinion of management, based on available information, environmental
matters and asbestos claims do not presently represent any material
contingencies to the Company.
 
From time to time the Company is involved in litigation relating to claims
arising out of its operations in the ordinary course of business. As of the date
hereof, the Company is involved in no litigation which the Company believes will
have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of
operations. The Company historically has not been required to pay any material
liability claims.
 
18. INTERNATIONAL SALES
 
The following table sets forth geographic sales distribution:
 

 
19. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
The estimated fair values of the Company's financial instruments approximate
their related carrying values, except for the following:
 

 
Fair values of the fixed rate obligations were estimated using discounted cash
flow analyses. The fair value of the Company's interest rate swaps (see Note 5)
were based on dealer quotes and represent the estimated amount the Company would
pay to the counterparty to terminate the swap agreements.
 

 
20. SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)
 

 

 
                                   SIGNATURES
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
                                                WESTINGHOUSE AIR BRAKE COMPANY
 
                                                By  /s/ WILLIAM E. KASSLING
                                                    ---------------------------
                                                        William E. Kassling
                                                       Chief Executive Officer
                                                Date: February 26, 1998
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Company
in the capacities indicated and on the dates indicated.
 

 

 
                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
 
To the Board of Directors of
Westinghouse Air Brake Company:
 
     We have audited, in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards,
the consolidated financial statements of Westinghouse Air Brake Company included
in this Form 10-K, and have issued our report thereon dated February 16, 1998.
Our audits were made for the purpose of forming an opinion on those statements
taken as a whole. The schedule listed in the index in Item 14(a)2 of this Form
10-K is the responsibility of the Company's management and is presented for
purposes of complying with the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and is
not part of the basic financial statements. This schedule has been subjected to
the auditing procedures applied in the audits of the basic financial statements
and, in our opinion, fairly states in all material respects the financial date
required to be set forth therein in relation to the basic financial statements
taken as a whole.
 
                                              ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
February 16, 1998
 

 
                                                                     SCHEDULE II
 
                         WESTINGHOUSE AIR BRAKE COMPANY
 
                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                 FOR EACH OF THE THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31
 

 
(1) Reserves of acquired companies.
 

 
                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS
 

 

 

 
- ---------
 
    * Filed herewith
 
   ** Filed as an exhibit to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1
      (Registration No. 33-90866)
 
  *** Filed as an exhibit to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
      period ended December 31, 1995
 
 **** Filed as an exhibit to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed
      September 19, 1996
 
***** Filed as an exhibit to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-8
      (Registration No. 333-39159)
 

