
10-K405
FORM 10-K



 
- - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
             ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
                SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED]
 
                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996
 
                                      OR
 
           TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
               SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
 
                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-3932
 
                             WHIRLPOOL CORPORATION
            (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)
 
               DELAWARE                              38-1490038
       (STATE OF INCORPORATION)         (I.R.S. EMPLOYER IDENTIFICATION NO.)
 
    2000 NORTH M-63, BENTON HARBOR,                  49022-2692
                MICHIGAN                             (ZIP CODE)
    (ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE
               OFFICES)
 
       REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE (616) 923-5000
 
SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:
 

 
SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:
 
                                     NONE
 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes  X    No    .
                                       ---      ---
 
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of the registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K, or any
amendment to this Form 10-K  X .
                            ---
 
  The aggregate market value of the voting stock of the registrant held by
stockholders not including voting stock held by directors and elected officers
of the registrant and certain employee plans of the registrant (the exclusion
of such shares shall not be deemed an admission by the registrant that any
such person is an affiliate of the registrant) on March 3, 1997, was
$3,682,350,173.
 
  On March 3, 1997, the registrant had 74,842,729 shares of common stock
outstanding.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
  Portions of the following documents are incorporated herein by reference
into the Part of the Form 10-K indicated:

 
                           EXHIBIT INDEX ON PAGE:**
 
                           TOTAL NUMBER OF PAGES:***
- - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
                                    PART I
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS.
 
                                    GENERAL
 
  Whirlpool Corporation, the leading worldwide manufacturer and marketer of
major home appliances, was incorporated in 1955 under the laws of Delaware as
the successor to a business that traces its origin to 1898. As used herein,
and except where the context otherwise requires, the term "Company" includes
Whirlpool Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. All currency figures
are in U.S. dollars.
 
                              RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
 
                                 NORTH AMERICA
 
  In July 1996, the Company announced that following an evaluation by Sears
Roebuck and Co. ("Sears"), the Company's largest trade customer, Sears would
continue its business with the Company. In addition to providing laundry
products, dishwashers, refrigerators, trash compactors and air control
products under Sears' KENMORE and SEARS brand names, the Company will continue
to sell KITCHENAID and WHIRLPOOL brand appliances through Sears' Brand Central
outlets.
 
  In early 1996, the Company began production of gas and electric cooking
ranges at a new facility in Tulsa, Oklahoma and small appliances at a new
small appliance manufacturing facility in Greenville, Ohio.
 
                                    EUROPE
 
  In October 1996, the Company acquired the remaining minority (28%) equity
interest in Whirlpool Tatramat (in the Republic of Slovakia) it did not
already own for a purchase price of approximately $4 million.
 
  In September 1996, the Company acquired Gentech Trading Ltd. ("Gentech"),
one of the largest appliance distributors and manufacturers in South Africa,
from Power Technologies Group of Johannesburg, South Africa for a purchase
price of approximately $27 million, consisting of $2 million in cash and $25
million in assumed liabilities. Gentech, renamed Whirlpool South Africa,
manufactures refrigerators and markets manufactured and imported appliances
under the WHIRLPOOL and local KIC brand names. Gentech's annual sales were
about $100 million for its fiscal year 1995.
 
                                     ASIA
 
  During 1996, the Company closed its Whirlpool Asia research and engineering
center in Singapore to more effectively use global technological product
development resources, including existing technology centers located in the
United States and Europe, to develop products for the Asia market. At the same
time, the Company consolidated and relocated its Singapore regional
headquarters to Hong Kong to achieve greater proximity to the majority of the
Company's business in Asia.
 
  In November 1996, Whirlpool of India signed a memorandum of understanding
("MOU") with Tecumseh Products Company of the USA ("Tecumseh"), a global
manufacturer of compressors, to sell WOI's compressor division and related
facilities at Faridabad and Ballabhgarh, India. Under the terms of the MOU,
Tecumseh would enter into a long-term supply agreement with the Company
pursuant to which the Company would be required to purchase and Tecumseh would
be required to sell compressors to the Company. The agreement is contingent
upon receiving all necessary government and regulatory approvals and the
transaction is expected to be finalized during 1997.
 

 
  In May 1996, two of the Company's majority owned subsidiaries in India,
Kelvinator of India ("KOI") and Whirlpool Washing Machines Limited ("WWML"),
were merged and renamed Whirlpool of India ("WOI"). As part of the merger
plan, the Company purchased an additional 27% interest in WWML for $12 million
in April 1996 for a total interest of 78% in WWML. The merger will result in
the Company having a 56% interest in the combined entity, WOI.
 
             FINANCIAL INFORMATION RELATING TO BUSINESS SEGMENTS,
               FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC OPERATIONS AND EXPORT SALES
 
  The Company operates predominantly in the business segments classified as
Major Home Appliances and Financial Services.
 
  During 1996, the Company's U.S. operations sold product into Canada, Mexico,
Latin America, Asia, Europe, Africa and the Middle East. However, export sales
by the Company's U.S. operations were less than 10 percent of gross revenues.
 
  For certain other financial information concerning the Company's business
segments and foreign and domestic operations, see Notes 1 and 15 of the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Company's Annual Report to
Stockholders (the "Annual Report"), which information is incorporated herein
by reference.
 
                             PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
 
  The Company manufactures and markets a full line of major home appliances
and related products for home and commercial use and provides certain
inventory, consumer, and other financial services. The Company's principal
products and financial services are as follows:
 
 Major Home Appliances:
 
    Home laundry appliances: automatic and semi-automatic washers; automatic
  dryers; coin-operated laundry machines; and stacked washer-dryer units.
 
    Home refrigeration and room air conditioning equipment: refrigerator-
  freezers; upright and chest freezers; room air conditioners; dehumidifiers;
  and residential, commercial, and component ice makers; compact
  refrigerators; and wine coolers.
 
    Home cooking appliances: free-standing and set-in ranges; built-in ovens
  and surface cooking units; microwave ovens; countertop cooking units; and
  range hoods.
 
    Small household appliances: stand mixers; hand mixers; food processors;
  blenders; and toasters.
 
    Other home appliances, products and services: dishwashers; residential
  trash compactors; food waste disposers; hot water dispensers; water
  filtration products; oil radiators; water heaters; kitchen sinks; component
  parts; replacement parts, repair services and warranty contracts; and
  product kits.
 
 Financial Services:
 
    Whirlpool Financial Corporation ("WFC") provides inventory financing and
  factoring services, including stocking and display programs for retailers
  and distributors that market products manufactured by the Company in North
  America and various countries in Europe, Latin America and Asia plus other
  manufacturers of consumer durables in the United States and Canada. It also
  provides consumer financing services for retail sales in the United States,
  principally through Whirlpool Financial National Bank ("WFNB") which offers
  consumer credit card programs and in India through Whirlpool Apple Consumer
  Credit Pvt. Ltd., a joint venture between a subsidiary of WFC and Apple
  Industries Limited. WFC continues to phase out its aerospace financing and
  leasing portfolios.
 
 

 
  The Company purchases a portion of its product requirements from other
manufacturers for resale by the Company. The Company purchases some of its
requirements of twin tub washers, and all of its requirements of certain
cooking products, range hoods, food waste disposers, upright and chest freezers
(North America only), wine coolers, food processors and certain other
miscellaneous products from other manufacturers for resale by the Company.
 
  For certain information with respect to each class of similar products which
accounted for 10 percent or more of the Company's consolidated revenue in 1996,
1995, and 1994, see "Revenue Information" in the Annual Report, which
information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
  The Company has been the principal supplier of home laundry appliances to
Sears for over 80 years. The Company is also the principal supplier to Sears of
residential trash compactors and dehumidifiers and a major supplier to Sears of
dishwashers, room air conditioners, and home refrigeration equipment. The
Company also supplies Sears with certain other products for which the Company
is not currently a major supplier. Sales of such other products to Sears are
not significant to the Company's business. The Company supplies products to
Sears for sale under Sears' KENMORE and SEARS brand names. Sears has also been
a major outlet for the Company's WHIRLPOOL and KITCHENAID brand appliances
since 1989. As previously noted under the caption "Recent Developments," the
Company announced that following an evaluation by Sears of its home appliance
suppliers, Sears would retain it business relationship with the Company.
 
  Major home appliances are marketed and distributed in the United States under
the WHIRLPOOL, KITCHENAID, ROPER, ESTATE, CHAMBERS, and COOLERATOR brand names
through Company-owned sales branches primarily to retailers and builders.
KITCHENAID portable appliances are sold to retailers either directly or through
an independent representative organization. The Company sells product to the
builder trade both directly and through contract distributors. Major home
appliances are manufactured and/or distributed in Canada under the INGLIS,
ADMIRAL, SPEED QUEEN, WHIRLPOOL, ESTATE, ROPER, and KITCHENAID brand names.
Refrigerator-freezers, laundry products, room air conditioners, residential
trash compactors, residential and component ice makers, cooking products,
dishwashers, and other products are sold in limited quantities by the Company
to other manufacturers and retailers for resale in North America under their
respective brand names.
 
  In Europe, Whirlpool Europe markets and distributes its major home appliances
through regional networks under the WHIRLPOOL, BAUKNECHT, IGNIS, and LADEN
brand names. In certain Eastern European countries, products bearing the
WHIRLPOOL and IGNIS brand names are sold through independent distributors.
Whirlpool Europe also has company-owned sales subsidiaries in Hungary, Poland,
the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Greece, Romania, Bulgaria, and Morocco and a
representative office in Russia. Whirlpool Europe has a subsidiary in South
Africa through which it markets products under the WHIRLPOOL and KIC brand
names.
 
  Whirlpool Europe also sells products carrying the WHIRLPOOL, BAUKNECHT,
IGNIS, ALGOR, and FIDES brand names to the Company's wholly-owned sales
companies in Asia and/or Latin America (Whirlpool Asia Appliance Group and the
Latin America Appliance Group) and to independent distributors and retailers in
Africa and the Middle East.
 
  In Asia, the Company markets and distributes its major home appliances
through three operating regions: the Greater China region, based in Hong Kong,
which includes the Peoples Republic of China and Hong Kong; the South Asia
region, based in Delhi, which includes India, Pakistan, and other surrounding
markets; and the Asia Pacific Sales region, based in Singapore, which includes
Southeast Asia, Japan, Korea, the Philippines, Thailand, Taiwan, Australia, and
New Zealand. The Company markets and sells its products in Asia under the
WHIRLPOOL, KITCHENAID, ROPER, IGNIS, BAUKNECHT, and RAYBO brand names as well
as under the SMC, NARCISSUS and SNOWFLAKE brand names (owned by its joint
venture partners and used under license). At the end of 1996, the Company
discontinued its licensed use of the KELVINATOR OF INDIA name and the
KELVINATOR brand for refrigerators. The Company also discontinued its licensed
use of the TVS brand name effective beginning in 1997.
 
 

 
                        WHIRLPOOL FINANCIAL CORPORATION
 
  WFC provides diversified financial services to businesses and consumers
throughout the United States and Canada and factoring, inventory and display
financing activities in Europe, Mexico, Argentina, India and Thailand. WFC
conducts its business through three divisions: the Inventory Finance Division,
which provides floorplan financing and display programs to retailers in the
United States and Canada; the Consumer Finance Division, which provides
installment financing and, through WFNB, WFC's credit card bank, consumer
credit card programs in the United States; and the International Division,
operated through Whirlpool Financial Corporation International and its
subsidiaries, Whirlpool Financial Latin America Inc. and Whirlpool Financial
Corporation Overseas, wholly-owned subsidiaries of WFC, which provide
factoring, inventory and display financing for retailers of products of
Whirlpool Europe, Whirlpool Argentina, Vitromatic, Whirlpool's joint venture
company in Mexico, Whirlpool India, and Whirlpool Thailand. Inventory
financing represents the largest segment of WFC's business, providing services
for manufacturers, distributors, and retailers in the appliance, consumer
electronics, outdoor power equipment, residential heating and cooling
equipment, and music industries. As previously mentioned, WFC is phasing-out
its aerospace financing and leasing portfolios.
 
                                  COMPETITION
 
  The major home appliance business is highly competitive. The Company
believes that, in terms of units sold annually, it is the largest U. S.
manufacturer of home laundry appliances and one of the largest United States
manufacturers of home refrigeration and room air conditioning equipment and
dishwashers. The Company estimates that during 1996 with respect to United
States manufacturers, there were approximately five manufacturers of home
laundry appliances, 10 manufacturers of room air conditioning equipment, five
manufacturers of home refrigeration equipment, and four manufacturers of
dishwashers. Competition in the North American major home appliance business
is based on a wide variety of factors, including principally product features,
price, product quality and performance, service, warranty, advertising, and
promotion.
 
  The Company believes that Whirlpool Europe, in terms of units sold annually,
is one of the three largest manufacturers and marketers of major home
appliance products in Europe. The Company estimates that during 1996 there
were approximately 35 European manufacturers of major home appliances, the
majority of which manufacture a limited range of products for a specific
geographic region. In recent years, there has been significant merger and
acquisition activity as manufacturers seek to broaden product lines and expand
geographic markets, and the Company believes that this trend will continue.
The Company believes that, with Whirlpool Europe, it is in a favorable
position relative to its competitors because it has an experienced European
sales network, balanced sales throughout the European market under well-
recognized brand names, manufacturing facilities located in different
countries, and the ability to customize its products to meet the specific
needs of diverse consumer groups. Competition in the European major home
appliance business is based on a wide variety of factors, including
principally product features, price, product quality and performance, service,
warranty, advertising, and promotion. With respect to microwave ovens,
European manufacturers face competition from manufacturers in Asia, primarily
Japan and South Korea.
 
  In Asia, the major domestic appliance market is characterized by rapid
growth and is dominated primarily by Asian diversified industrial
manufacturers whose significant size and scope of operations enable them to
achieve economies of scale. Products imported from Europe and North America
have a significant presence in some Asian markets. The Company estimates that
during 1996 there were approximately 50 manufacturers of major home appliances
competing in the Asian market. Competition in the Asian home appliance market
is based on a wide variety of factors, including principally local production
capabilities, product features, price, product quality, and performance.
 
  The Company believes that, together with its Brazilian affiliates, it is
well-positioned in the Latin American appliance market due to its ability to
offer a broad range of products under well-recognized brand names such as
WHIRLPOOL and the BRASTEMP and CONSUL brand names (owned by its Brazilian
affiliate and used under license)
 

 
to meet the specific requirements of consumers in the region. The Company
estimates that during 1996 there were approximately 65 manufacturers of home
appliances in the region. Competition in the Latin American home appliance
business is based on a wide variety of factors, including principally product
features, price, product quality and performance, service, warranty,
advertising, and promotion. In Latin America there are trends toward
privatization of government-owned businesses and a liberalization of
investment and trade restrictions. In addition the Company's majority-owned
sales company exports products to the Latin American market under the ALGOR,
FIDES, and IGNIS brand names.
 
  As a result of its global expansion, the Company believes it may have a
competitive advantage by reason of its ability to share engineering
capabilities across regions, transfer best practices, and economically
purchase raw materials and component parts in large volumes.
 
  The financial services industry is an intensely competitive business.
Factors affecting competition include new entrants into a market experiencing
only moderate growth and the continuing pressure to improve investment returns
in the financial services industry. With respect to inventory financing, there
has been a trend toward consolidation resulting in five dominant companies in
the United States market. In terms of total assets, WFC is the smallest of
these companies. WFC believes it has a competitive advantage due to its strong
relationship with the Company and other distribution networks. In the
inventory finance business, WFC's strategy is to exploit niches within the
consumer durables retail market. In consumer finance, WFC utilizes the same
retailer relationships to address the needs of their consumers through private
label credit card programs. The consumer finance market is highly fragmented
with numerous competitors, none of which has a dominant market share.
 
                                   EMPLOYEES
 
  The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries had approximately 48,000
employees as of December 31, 1996.
 
                               OTHER INFORMATION
 
  The Company owns minority equity interests in certain Brazilian
manufacturers of major home appliances and components (Multibras and Embraco)
and has a controlling interest in a sales and marketing joint venture (the
South American Sales Company) with Multibras. The Company has a significant
minority equity interest in a major manufacturer of kitchen furniture in
Germany which is also a major trade customer of the Company. The Company also
has a majority interest in a joint venture company in Argentina which
manufactures home appliances for sale and distribution in its home and
surrounding markets. In China, the Company has majority interests in joint
venture companies that manufacture microwave ovens, refrigeration products,
air conditioners and automatic washing machines for sale and distribution in
their home countries and for export. In India, the Company has a majority
interest in a company that produces refrigeration products and washing
machines for the Indian market and for export to the rest of Asia. The Company
also has minority equity interests in a Mexican manufacturer of home
appliances and components and a Taiwanese marketer and distributor of home
appliances. In China, the Company has a minority equity interest in a
compressor manufacturing joint venture between its Brazilian affiliate and a
company in China which manufactures refrigeration products and is a joint
venture affiliate of the Company. For additional information regarding the
Company's affiliated companies, see the discussion contained under Note 5 of
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report which is
incorporated herein by reference. In addition, the Company furnishes
engineering, manufacturing and marketing assistance to certain foreign
manufacturers of home laundry and refrigeration equipment and other major home
appliances for negotiated fees.
 
  The Company's interests outside the United States and Western Europe are
subject to risks which may be greater than or in addition to those risks
currently present in the United States and Western Europe. Such risks may
include high inflation, the need for governmental approval of and restrictions
on certain financial and other
 

 
corporate transactions and new or continued business operations, government
price controls, restrictions on the remittance of dividends, interest,
royalties, and other payments, and the convertibility of local currencies,
restrictions on imports and exports, duties, political and economic
developments and instability, the possibility of expropriation, uncertainty as
to the enforceability of commercial rights and trademarks, and various types
of local participation in ownership. In Brazil, the Company's minority equity
interests earned profits in 1995 and 1996 due to lower interest rates,
availability of consumer credit, higher purchasing power in certain market
segments, cost control, productivity improvements, and an increase in consumer
demand. However, issues such as economic volatility and exchange rate changes
continue to affect consumer purchasing power and the appliance industry as a
whole.
 
  The Company is generally not dependent on any one source for raw materials
or purchased components essential to its business. In those areas where a
single supplier is used, alternative sources are generally available and can
be developed within the normal manufacturing environment, although some
unanticipated costs may be incurred in transitioning to a new supplier where a
prior single supplier is abruptly terminated. While there are pricing
pressures on some materials and significant demand for certain components, it
is believed that such raw materials and components will be available in
adequate quantities to meet anticipated production schedules.
 
  Patents presently owned by the Company are considered, in the aggregate, to
be important to the conduct of the Company's business. The Company is licensed
under a number of patents, none of which individually is considered material
to its business. The Company is the owner of a number of trademarks and the
U.S. and foreign registrations thereof. The most important for its North
American operations are the trademarks WHIRLPOOL, KITCHENAID, ROPER, and
INGLIS. Whirlpool Europe, through its subsidiaries, is also the owner of a
number of trademarks and the foreign registrations thereof. The most important
trademarks owned by Whirlpool Europe are BAUKNECHT, IGNIS, and LADEN. The most
important trademark for the Company's European, Asian and Latin American
operations is WHIRLPOOL. The most important trademark licensed to the
Company's subsidiaries is the trademark PHILIPS and the PHILIPS shield emblem,
which can be used exclusively on major home appliances by such subsidiaries
until July 31, 1998. In the event of a change in control of the Company,
Philips ("Philips") has the option to terminate the use by the Company's
subsidiaries of the trademark PHILIPS and the PHILIPS shield emblem. Pursuant
to the agreement whereby the Company purchased most of Whirlpool Europe's
business from Philips, except for certain limited exceptions and subject to
certain phase-out provisions, neither Philips nor any subsidiary of Philips
may engage directly or indirectly in the major domestic appliance business
anywhere in the world until July 31, 1998.
 
  The Company believes that its business, in the aggregate, is not seasonal.
Certain of its products, however, sell more heavily in some seasons than in
others. In the United States, room air conditioners and dehumidifiers are
generally produced and sold heavily in the first half of each year.
Refrigerators have a seasonal increase in production and sales from May
through September. Portable appliances and microwave ovens tend to sell more
heavily in the second half of each year. In Europe, clothes dryers are sold
more heavily in the winter. In Asia, with the exception of India,
refrigerators tend to sell more heavily in summer, while demand for washers is
greater in winter. In India, refrigerators and washers sell more frequently in
the fall and winter months. Air conditioners are sold more heavily in the
summer in Asia. In South America, refrigerators and room air conditioners sell
more heavily in the second half of the year.
 
  Backlogs of the Company's products are filled and renewed relatively
frequently in each year and are not significant in relation to the Company's
annual sales. However, with respect to Asia, marked seasonality of certain
product sales as noted above, combined with less efficient modes of
distribution in that region, can result in significant inventory backlogs.
 
  Expenditures for Company-sponsored research and engineering activities
relating to the development of new products and the improvement of existing
products are included in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements in the Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Customer-sponsored research activities relating to the development of new
products, services or techniques, or the improvement of existing products,
services, or techniques are not material.
 
 

 
  The Company's manufacturing facilities are subject to numerous laws and
regulations designed to protect or enhance the environment, many of which
require federal, state, or other governmental licenses and permits with regard
to wastewater discharges, air emissions, and hazardous waste management. These
laws are continually changing and, as a general matter, are becoming more
restrictive. The Company's policy is to comply with all such laws and
regulations.
 
  The Company believes that it is in compliance in all material respects with
all presently applicable federal, state, local, and other provisions relating
to environmental protection in the countries in which it has manufacturing
operations. Capital expenditures and expenses attributable to compliance with
such provisions worldwide amounted to approximately $78 million in 1994, $58
million in 1995 and $50 million in 1996. The Company anticipates that such
capital expenditures and expenses will aggregate approximately $52 million in
1997. Much of the decrease from 1994 to 1996 is attributable to the phaseout
of CFCs and is associated with the elimination of taxes on chloroflourocarbons
("CFCs") (which were eliminated from the Company's products in the United
States prior to December 31, 1995). The Company is using a global
environmental management process to assist in achieving its goals of producing
environmentally compatible products, better integrating environmental
considerations into the Company's product design and employee training,
improving the Company's ability to report and monitor its management of
environmental, health and safety affairs, and reducing its worldwide emissions
of certain chemicals.
 
  The entire United States home appliance industry, including the Company,
must contend with adoption of stricter governmental energy and environmental
standards to be phased in over the next several years. These include the
general phaseout of CFCs used in refrigeration and energy standards
rulemakings for other selected major appliances produced by the Company.
Enactment of Federal energy standards is uncertain at this time due to funding
and rulemaking restrictions being considered for the Department of Energy by
the U.S. Congress. Compliance with these various standards as they become
effective will require some product redesign.
 
  In Europe, the Company met the December 31, 1994 deadline for the
elimination of CFCs in its products. As in the United States, Whirlpool Europe
is also dealing with anticipated regulations and rules regarding improved
efficiency and energy usage for its products. The Company believes it is well
positioned to field products that comply with these anticipated regulations.
In most Asian countries, the Company has until 2010 to eliminate CFCs from its
products. Whirlpool's Asian operations are also well positioned to meet
anticipated efficiency and energy usage regulations.
 
  The Company has been notified by state and federal environmental protection
agencies of its possible involvement in a number of so-called "Superfund"
sites in the United States. However, the Company does not presently anticipate
any material adverse effect upon the Company's earnings or financial condition
arising out of the resolution of these matters or the resolution of any other
known governmental proceeding regarding environmental protection matters. The
Company has completed environmental assessments of its European facilities
acquired as a result of the Company's purchase of the Major Domestic Appliance
division of Philips. The Company does not presently anticipate any material
adverse effect upon the Company's earnings or financial condition arising out
of the resolution of these matters. The Company is also in the process of
evaluating several recently acquired facilities in India and China. The
Company does not presently anticipate any material adverse effect upon the
Company's earnings or financial condition from the environmental condition of
these facilities.
 

 
  The following table sets forth the names of the Company's executive officers
at December 31, 1996, the positions and offices with the Company held by them
at such date, the year they first became officers, and their ages at December
31, 1996:
 

 
  Each of the executive officers named above was elected to serve in the office
indicated until the first meeting of the Board of Directors following the
annual meeting of stockholders in 1997 and until his successor is chosen and
qualified or until his earlier resignation or removal.
 
  Each of the executive officers of the Company has held the position set forth
in the table above or has served the Company in various executive or
administrative capacities for at least the past five years, except for:
 

 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
 
  The principal executive offices of Whirlpool Corporation are located in
Benton Harbor, Michigan. At December 31, 1996, the principal manufacturing and
service operations of the Company were carried on at 32 locations worldwide, 20
of which are located in 10 countries outside the United States. The Company
occupied a total of approximately 35 million square feet devoted to
manufacturing, service, administrative offices, warehouse, distribution, and
sales space. Over 10 million square feet of such space is occupied under lease.
In general, all such facilities are well maintained, suitable equipped, and in
good operating condition. In 1996, manufacturing plants in Tulsa, Oklahoma, and
Greenville, Ohio, were completed and became fully operational.
 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.
 
  As of, and during the quarter ended, December 31, 1996, there were no
material pending legal proceedings to which the Company or any of its
subsidiaries was a party or to which any of their property was subject.
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.
 
  There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders in the fourth
quarter of 1996.
 
 

 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS.
 
  The Company's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange, the
Chicago Stock Exchange, and the London Stock Exchange.
 
  At March 3, 1997, the number of holders of record of the Company's common
stock was approximately 10,904.
 
  High and low sales prices (as reported on the New York Stock Exchange
composite tape) and cash dividends declared and paid for the Company's common
stock for each quarter during the years 1995 and 1996 are set forth in Note 16
of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which
is herein incorporated by reference.
 
  In December 1996, Whirlpool Financial Corporation issued 250,000 shares of
Series C redeemable cumulative preferred stock for an initial price of $100
per share. Goldman, Sachs & Co. ("Goldman") was the initial purchaser of all
of the shares of the Series C preferred stock and such shares were purchased
by Goldman and sold by the Company pursuant to a purchase agreement (the
"Purchase Agreement") between Goldman and the Company. Pursuant to the terms
and conditions of the Purchase Agreement, Goldman made the representation that
it was purchasing the Series C shares in reliance on Rule 144A under the
Securities Act and that any resale of such Series C shares would be made to
institutional "accredited investors" (within the meaning of Rule 501(a)(1),
(2), (3) or (7) under the Act (Regulation D)). Goldman received $218,750 in
fees, deducted from the offering proceeds, for its services in connection with
the issuance of the Series C preferred Stock.
 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.
 
  The selected financial data for the five years ended December 31, 1996 with
respect to the following line items shown under the "Eleven Year Consolidated
Statistical Review" in the Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference
and made a part of this report: Total revenues; earnings from continuing
operations before accounting change; earnings from continuing operations
before accounting change per share of common stock; dividends paid per share
of common stock; total assets; and long-term debt. See the material
incorporated herein by reference in response to Item 7 of this report for a
discussion of the effects on such data of business combinations and other
acquisitions, disposition and restructuring activity, restructuring costs,
accounting changes, and earnings of foreign affiliates.
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.
 
  The Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and
Financial Condition in the Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference
and made a part of this report.
 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.
 
  The consolidated financial statements of the Company in the Annual Report
are incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this report.
Supplementary financial information regarding quarterly results of operations
(unaudited) for the years ended December 31, 1996 and 1995 is set forth in
Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. For a list of
financial statements and schedules filed as part of this report, see the
"Index to Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule(s)" beginning
on page F-1.
 
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
 
  None.
 
 

 
                                   PART III
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.
 
  Information with respect to directors of the Company is incorporated herein
by reference to the information under the caption "Directors and Nominees for
Election as Directors" in the Company's proxy statement for the 1997 annual
meeting of stockholders (SEC File No. 1-3932) (the "Proxy Statement").
Information with respect to executive officers of the Company is set forth in
Part I of this report.
 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.
 
  Information with respect to compensation of executive officers and directors
of the Company is incorporated herein by reference to the information under
the captions "Executive Compensation" and "Compensation of Directors" in the
Proxy Statement.
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP.
 
  Information with respect to security ownership by the only person(s) known
to the Company to beneficially own more than 5 percent of the Company's stock
and by each director of the Company and all directors and elected officers of
the Company as a group is incorporated herein by reference to the information
under the caption "Security Ownership" in the Proxy Statement.
 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
 
  None.
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.
 
  (a) The following documents are filed as a part of this report:
 
    1. The financial statements listed in the "Index to Financial Statements
  and Financial Statement Schedules."
 
    2. The financial statement schedule listed in the "Index to Financial
  Statements and Financial Statement Schedules."
 
    3. The exhibits listed in the "Index to Exhibits."
 
  (b) Reports on Form 8-K filed during the fourth quarter of 1996.
 
    1. None.
 
  (c) Exhibits.
 
    1. The following exhibits are included herein:
 
      (11) Computation of per share earnings.
 
      (12) Computation of the ratios of earnings to fixed charges.
 
      (27) Financial Data Schedule.
 
      (99) Audited Consolidated Financial Statements of Multibras S.A.
          Electrodomesticos and subsidiaries.
 
    2. The response to this portion of Item 14 is submitted as a separate
  section of this report.
 
  (d) Financial Statement Schedules.
 
    The response to this portion of Item 14 is submitted as a separate
  section of this report.
 

 
                                   SIGNATURES
 
  PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED ON ITS BEHALF BY
THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED.
 
                                          Whirlpool Corporation
                                          (Registrant)
 
                                                /s/ John P. Cunningham
                                          By: _________________________________
                                               John P. Cunningham(Principal
                                             Financial Officer) Executive Vice
                                               President and Chief Financial
                                                          Officer
 
  PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS
REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE
REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE DATE INDICATED.
 

 
    /s/ Daniel F. Hopp          Attorney-in-Fact
*By: __________________________
        Daniel F. Hopp
 

 
                          ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
 
                       ITEMS 14(A) (1) AND (2) AND 14(D)
 
       INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE(S)
 
                         YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996
 
              WHIRLPOOL CORPORATION AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
  The following consolidated financial statements of the registrant and its
consolidated subsidiaries, set forth in the Annual Report, are incorporate
herein by reference in Item 8:
 
    Consolidated balance sheets--December 31, 1996 and 1995
 
    Consolidated statements of earnings--Three years ended December 31,
 
    Consolidated statements of cash flows--Three years ended December 31,
 
    Notes to consolidated financial statements
 
  The following reports of independent auditors and consolidated financial
statement schedules of the registrant and its consolidated subsidiaries are
submitted herewith in response to Items 14(a) (2) and 14(d):
 

 
  Individual financial statements of the registrant's affiliated foreign
companies, other than affiliated Brazilian companies, accounted for by the
equity method, have been omitted since no such company individually
constitutes a significant subsidiary. Summarized financial information
relating to the affiliated companies is set forth in Note 5 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements incorporated by reference herein.
 
  Certain schedules for which provisions are made in the applicable accounting
regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission are not required under
the related instructions or are inapplicable, and therefore have been omitted.
 
                                      F-1

 
                        [LETTERHEAD ERNST & YOUNG LLP]

                         REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
 
The Stockholders and Board of Directors
Whirlpool Corporation
Benton Harbor, Michigan
 
  We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Whirlpool
Corporation listed in the Index at Item 14(a)(1) of the annual report on Form
10-K of Whirlpool Corporation for the year ended December 31, 1996. Our audits
also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item
14(a)(2). These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of
Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements and schedule based on our audits. We did not audit the
financial statements of the Brazilian affiliates used as the basis for
recording the Company's equity in their net earnings, as presented in Note 5 to
the consolidated financial statements. The financial statements of those
affiliates were audited by other auditors whose reports have been furnished to
us, and our opinion, insofar as it relates to the amount included for the
Brazilian affiliates, is based on the reports of the other auditors.
 
  We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits and the reports of the other
auditors provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
  In our opinion, based on our audits and the reports of the other auditors,
the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the consolidated financial position of Whirlpool Corporation at
December 31, 1996 and 1995, and the consolidated results of its operations and
its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
1996, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our
opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation
to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all
material respects the information set forth therein.
 
                                       [LOGO SIGNATURE Ernst & Young LLP]
 
Chicago, Illinois
January 20, 1997
 
                                      F-2

 
 
                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
 
                                                               January 22, 1997
 
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders
Brasmotor S.A.
 
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Brasmotor
S.A. and its subsidiaries as of December 31, 1996 and 1995 and the related
consolidated statements of earnings, of movement in stockholders' equity and
of cash flows for the years then ended, expressed in U.S. dollars. Such audits
were made in conjunction with our audits of the financial statements expressed
in local currency on which we issued an unqualified opinion dated January 22,
1997. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits. We did not audit the financial statements of
Whirlpool Argentina S.A. used as the basis for recording the Company's equity
in its net earnings, as presented in Note 4 to the consolidated financial
statements. The financial statements of that affiliate were audited by other
auditors whose reports have been furnished to us, and our opinion, insofar as
it relates to the amounts included for Whirlpool Argentina S.A. (Note 4), is
based solely on the reports of the other auditors.
 
  We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
  As stated in Note 1, Whirlpool Corporation has prescribed that accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America be applied in
the preparation of the consolidated financial statements of Brasmotor S.A. and
its subsidiaries to be included in Whirlpool's consolidated financial
statements. Brazil has a highly inflationary economy. Accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America require that financial
statements of a company denominated in the currency of a country with a highly
inflationary economy be remeasured into a more stable currency unit for
purposes of consolidation. Accordingly, the accounts of Brasmotor S.A. and its
Brazilian subsidiaries, which are maintained in reais, were remeasured and
adjusted into U.S. dollars for the financial statements prepared in accordance
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America
on the bases stated in Note 1.
 
                                      F-3

 
  In our opinion, based on our audits and the report of the other auditors,
the consolidated financial statements expressed in U.S. dollars audited by us
are presented fairly, in all material respects, on the bases stated in Note 1
and discussed in the preceding paragraph.
 
                                          Price Waterhouse
                                          Auditors Independents
                                          CRC 2SP000160/O-5
 
                                          Carlos Roberto Asciutti
                                          Partner
                                          Contador CRC 1SP145670/O-1
 
                                      F-4

 
 
                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
 
                                                               January 22, 1997
 
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders
Empresa Brasileira de Compressores S.A.--EMBRACO
 
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Empresa
Brasileira de Compressores S.A.--EMBRACO and its subsidiaries as of December
31, 1996 and 1995 and the related consolidated statements of earnings, of
movement in stockholders' equity and of cash flows for the years then ended,
expressed in U.S. dollars. Such audits were made in conjunction with our
audits of the financial statements expressed in local currency on which we
issued an unqualified opinion dated January 22, 1997. These financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits.
 
  We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
  As stated in Note 1, Whirlpool Corporation has prescribed that accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America be applied in
the preparation of the consolidated financial statements of Empresa Brasileira
de Compressores S.A.--EMBRACO and its subsidiaries to be included in
Whirlpool's consolidated financial statements. Brazil has a highly
inflationary economy. Accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America require that financial statements of a company denominated
in the currency of a country with a highly inflationary economy be remeasured
into a more stable currency unit for purposes of consolidation. Accordingly,
the accounts of Empresa Brasileira de Compressores S.A.--EMBRACO and its
Brazilian subsidiaries, which are maintained in reais, were remeasured and
adjusted into U.S. dollars, for the purpose of the financial statements
prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America on the bases stated in Note 1.
 
                                      F-5

 
  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements expressed in U.S.
dollars audited by us are presented fairly, in all material respects, on the
bases stated in Note 1 and discussed in the preceding paragraph.
 
                                          Price Waterhouse
                                          Auditores Independentes
                                          CRC 2SP000160/O-5 "S" SC
 
                                          Carlos Roberto Asciutti
                                          Partner
                                          Contador CRC 1SP145670/O-1 "S" SC
 
                                      F-6

 
 
 
                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
 
                                                               January 22, 1997
 
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders
Multibras S.A. Electrodomesticos
 
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Multibras
S.A. Eletrodomesticos and its subsidiaries as of December 31, 1996 and 1995
and the related consolidated statements of earnings, of movement in
stockholders' equity and of cash flows for the years then ended, expressed in
U.S. dollars. Such audits were made in conjunction with our audits of the
financial statements expressed in local currency on which we issued an
unqualified opinion dated January 22, 1997. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express
an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
 
  We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
  As stated in Note 1, Whirlpool Corporation has prescribed that accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America be applied in
the preparation of the consolidated financial statements of Multibras S.A.
Eletrodomesticos and its subsidiaries to be included in Whirlpool's
consolidated financial statements. Brazil has a highly inflationary economy.
Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America
require that financial statements of a company denominated in the currency of
a country with a highly inflationary economy be remeasured into a more stable
currency unit for purposes of consolidation. Accordingly, the accounts of
Multibras S.A. Eletrodomesticos and its Brazilian subsidiaries, which are
maintained in reais, were remeasured and adjusted into U.S. dollars for the
financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America on the basics stated in
Note 1.
 
                                      F-7

 
  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements expressed in U.S.
dollars audited by us are presented fairly, in all material respects, on the
bases stated in Note 1 and discussed in the preceding paragraph.
 
                                          Price Waterhouse
                                          Auditores Independentes
                                          CRC 2SP000160/O-5
 
                                          Carlos Roberto Asciutti
                                          Partner
                                          Contador CRC ISP145670/O-1
 
                                      F-8

 
                 SCHEDULE II--VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
 
                     WHIRLPOOL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                 YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996, 1995, AND 1994
 
                             (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)
 

- - --------
Note A--The amounts represent accounts charged off, less recoveries of $7 in
1996, $5 in 1995 and $1 in 1994, and translation adjustments.
Note B--The amounts represent accounts charged off, less recoveries of $3 in
1996 and 1995 and $2 in 1994.
Note C--Includes cash payments for employee severance and related costs, lease
terminations, facility dispositions and other cash costs; write-down of
facilities, equipment and other assets; and translation adjustments.
 
                                      F-9

 
                 EXHIBIT 11--COMPUTATION OF EARNINGS PER SHARE
 
                     WHIRLPOOL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
              (ALL AMOUNTS IN MILLIONS EXCEPT EARNINGS PER SHARE)
 

- - --------
(a) Using the average market price per share of stock for the period.
(b) Using the greater of the average market price per share of stock for the
    period or the market price per share of stock at the end of the period.
 
                                      F-10

 
                 EXHIBIT 12--RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES
 
                     WHIRLPOOL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
 

 
                                      F-11

 
                 EXHIBIT 12--RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES
 
                     WHIRLPOOL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
 

 
                                      F-12

 
                                                                      EXHIBIT 99

Multibras S.A.
Eletrodomesticos
and Its Subsidiaries

Consolidated Financial Statements 
at
December 31, 1996 and 1995
and Report of Independent 
Accountants


                                     F-13

 
Multibras S.A. Eletrodomesticos and its subsidiaries

Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31
In thousands of U.S. dollars
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.

                                     F-14




The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.

                                     F-15

 
Multibras S.A. Eletrodomesticos

Statement of Movement in Stockholders' Equity
In thousands of U.S. dollars (except per-share amounts)
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.

                                     F-16

 
Multibras S.A. Eletrodomesticos and its subsidiaries
 
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
Years Ended December 31
In thousands of U.S. dollars
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                     F-17



 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements

                                     F-18

 
       Multibras S.A. Eletrodomesticos and its subsidiaries

       Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
       at December 31, 1996 and 1995
       In thousands of U.S. dollars, unless otherwise stated
       ------------------------------------------------------------------------

1      Summary of Principal Accounting Policies

(a)    Nature of operations

       The Company is the leading Brazilian manufacturer and marketer of home
       appliances. The majority of its production is sold in the local market.
       The Company was formed in 1994 as a result of the merger of three
       companies under common control with consolidated assets of US$ 1,176,441,
       net sales of US$ 1,506,299 and net earnings of US$ 135,729 at, and for
       the year ended, December 31, 1994.

(b)    Bases of consolidation

       The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of
       Multibras S.A. Eletrodomesticos and all majority-owned subsidiaries.
       Investments in affiliated companies are accounted for by the equity
       method. All intercompany receivables and payables, revenues and expenses,
       unrealized profits and losses and investments in directly or indirectly
       owned subsidiary companies have been eliminated. The amounts of net
       earnings and stockholders' equity attributed to minority stockholders are
       separately stated in the financial statements.

(c)    Bases of adjustment and remeasurement into U.S. dollars

       The Company is incorporated in Brazil and its books and records and those
       of its Brazilian subsidiaries are kept in reais and in accordance with
       Brazilian generally accepted accounting principles. The financial
       statements expressed in U.S. dollars conform with accounting principles
       generally accepted in the United States of America and reflect the
       adjustment and remeasurement into U.S. dollars on the bases set out in
       (i) and (ii) below:

   (i) Adjustments

       The following principal adjustments have been reflected in the U.S.
       dollar financial statements:

       .   Present value adjustment of short-term receivables and payables.

       .   Interest incurred on financing of property, plant and equipment under
           construction is capitalized in accordance with FAS 34.

       .   Income taxes are accounted for in accordance with FAS 109.

       .   Pension expense is recognized in accordance with FAS 87.

                                     F-19


     Multibras S.A. Eletrodomesticos and its subsidiaries

     Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
     at December 31, 1996 and 1995
     In thousands of U.S. dollars, unless otherwise stated
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(ii) Remeasurement

     Operations in hyperinflationary economy - Brazil

     The basis of remeasurement of local currency into U.S. dollars is
     summarized as follows:



     Price-level restatements, which were required to be recorded in the local
     books up to December 31, 1995 to partially recognize the effects of
     inflation, do not receive a U.S. dollar equivalent on remeasurement, except
     insofar as the price-level restatements affect the computation of income
     taxes.

     Had the undistributed retained earnings reflected in the official
     accounting records at December 31, 1996 and 1995 of R$ 322.711 thousand and
     R$ 153.623 thousand (shown in the accompanying financial statements at US$
     393.801 and US$ 214,443), been expressed in U.S. currency at the prevailing
     exchange rate on those dates, the amounts thereof would have been US$
     310.448 and US$ 157.951.

     The resulting remeasurement gains and losses are classified in the
     statement of earnings as detailed in Note 12.

     Operations in non-hyperinflationary economies - foreign


                                     F-20

 
     Multibras S.A. Eletrodomesticos and its subsidiaries
 
     Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
     at December 31, 1996 and 1995
     In thousands of U.S. dollars, unless otherwise stated
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
(d)  Cash and equivalents
 
     Cash and equivalents are carried at cost plus interest and include highly
     liquid financial investments with original maturities of 90 days or less.
 
(e)  Trade receivables
 
     The Company makes substantial sales to a relatively small number of home
     appliance retailers, which operate nationally or regionally. Trade
     receivables are stated at estimated net realizable values. An allowance for
     uncollectible accounts is provided in an amount considered to be
     sufficient to meet probable future losses.

(f)  Inventories
 
     Inventories are stated at the lower of average cost of purchase or
     production, replacement cost or net realizable value.
 
(g)  Property, plant and equipment
 
     Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation is computed
     on the straight-line method, over the estimated useful lives of the various
     classes of assets. 

     Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to income.
     Improvements and major renewals are capitalized.

(h)  Recoverability of long-lived assets
 
     On an annual basis or more frequently if circumstances require, the Company
     evaluates long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment,
     investments and intangibles, against current and estimated undiscounted
     future operating income of the related businesses. No impairment losses
     have been recorded for any of the periods presented. Write-down of the
     carrying value of assets or groups of assets will be made, if appropriate.

(i)  Current and long-term liabilities

     These are adjusted for the effects of indexation or exchange rate
     fluctuations on the basis of the contractually agreed indexes or rates,
     when applicable.

(j)  Product warranty
 
     Provision is made currently for estimated product warranty costs, based on
     past experience and future expected commitments.

                                     F-21


         Multibras S.A. Eletrodomesticos and its subsidiaries

         Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
         at December 31, 1996 and 1995
         In thousands of U.S. dollars, unless otherwise stated
         -----------------------------------------------------------------------

(k)      Revenue and expense recognition

         Sales revenues are recognized when products are shipped or services are
         rendered. Expenses and costs are recognized on the accrual basis.

(l)      Income taxes

    (i)  Under the terms of the Government International Trade Authority
         (BEFIEX) fiscal incentive program, which expires in 1998, earnings from
         qualified export sales are subject to income tax at the rate of 6%, in
         the proportion that those export sales bear to total Company sales.
         That part of earnings not deemed, on this basis, to be eligible for a
         reduced tax rate is subject to income tax at the standard statutory
         rate. The Company also records accelerated depreciation on certain
         plant and equipment for tax purposes only.

   (ii)  Pursuant to FAS 109 "Accounting for Income Taxes" the net tax charges
         or benefits related to (i) tax loss carryforwards available to be
         offset against future taxable income and (ii) tax effects of temporary
         differences between tax results and financial reporting results,
         excluding the effects of indexation recorded for tax purposes and
         changes in exchange rates, are recorded at the enacted tax rates at
         each balance sheet date.

  (iii)  Income taxes are recorded gross of tax incentive investments and
         subsequently reduced by the amount of incentive investment deposits
         when received.

(m)      Use of estimates

         The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP
         requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the
         amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes.
         Actual results could differ from those estimates .



                                     F-22

 
     Multibras S.A. Eletrodomesticos and its subsidiaries
 
     Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
     at December 31, 1996 and 1995
     In thousands of U.S. dollars, unless otherwise stated
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
3    Inventories
 
 

4    Investments in affiliated companies
 
(i)  The Company has direct voting interests of 36% in Multibras da Amazonia
     S.A., 50% in each of Sabrico Utilidades Domesticas Ltda. and Consorcio
     Nacional Brastemp Sabrico S/C Ltda., and other companies engaged in the
     manufacture of home appliances or related components.
     
(ii) In February 1995, the subsidiary company Empresa Brasileira de Compressores
     S.A. - EMBRACO entered into a joint venture to produce compressors in
     China. The subsidiary is the majority partner of the joint venture with an
     interest of 52%. As of December 31, 1996, US$13,807 was invested as
     capital in the joint venture. The other partners in this joint venture are
     Whirlpool Overseas Holdings Corporation (8%) and Beijing Snowflake
     Eletric Appliance Group Corporation (40%).
     
(iii)In September, 1996, the investment in Motores Eletricos Brasil S.A. was
     sold to a third party for US$22,026.

5    Property, plant and equipment

 
 
Property, plant and equipment of US$3,709 are pledged in guarantee of
borrowings.

                                     F-23


     Multibras S.A. Eletrodomesticos and its subsidiaries

     Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
     at December 31, 1996 and 1995
     In thousands of U.S. dollars, unless otherwise stated
     --------------------------------------------------------------------------



6    Debt



     At December 31, 1996, the long-term portion of total long-term debt matures
     in the following years:


7    Income Tax                                             

(a)  Tax rate

     Income taxes in Brazil include Federal income tax and social contribution
     (which is an additional Federal tax on income). There are no State or local
     income taxes in Brazil. The statutory rates applicable in each year
     presented were as follows (in percentage):



     The social contribution is deductible both for Federal income tax and
     social contribution purposes.

                                      F-24


     Multibras S.A. Eletrodomesticos and its subsidiaries

     Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
     at December 31, 1996 and 1995
     In thousands of U.S. dollars, unless otherwise stated
     --------------------------------------------------------------------------

     (b)  Income tax reconciliation

     The amount reported as income tax expense or benefit is reconciled to the
statutory rates as follows:


     (c)  Deferred Income Taxes

     The deferred tax assets (liabilities) are comprised of the following:



8    Employees' Severance Benefits

     As required by Italian legislation, the subsidiary Embraco Europe SrL.
     accrues severance benefits equal to one month's salary for every year of
     service of each employee.

9    Stockholders' Equity

     Issued and fully-paid capital stock comprises 739,465,532 common shares and
     361,804,950 preferred shares with no par value.

     The Company's statutes establish a minimum compulsory annual dividend of 25
     % of net earnings for the year in local currency, adjusted in accordance
     with corporate legislation, subject to the minimum dividend priority of
     preferred stockholders.

                                      F-25

 
     Multibras S.A. Eletrodomesticos and its subsidiaries
 
     Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
     at December 31, 1996 and 1995
     In thousands of U.S. dollars, unless otherwise stated
     --------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
     In the statutory financial statements, retained earnings include: (i) the
     tax incentive investments reserve, corresponding to that portion of the
     income tax liability applied in tax incentive investments; and (ii) the
     legal reserve which must be accumulated at the rate of 5% of the statutory
     net earnings until the reserve reaches 20% of capital stock in local
     currency. At December 31,1996 these restricted reserves totalled US$
     26,079.
 
 
10   Commitments and Contingencies
 
(a)  In 1989, a subsidiary initiated civil litigation contesting responsibility
     for the payment of loan principal amounting to approximately US$ 39,500.
     This loan, which did not have appropriate board approval, was allegedly
     authorized at that time by the then chief executive officer and, according
     to the financial institution, was drawn in the subsidiary's name, although
     the proceeds were never recorded by the subsidiary. Simultaneously with
     this legal action, a police inquiry was initiated at the subsidiary's
     request.
 
     In view of outside legal counsel's opinion that the chances of a favorable
     decision in respect of this matter are very high, management considers that
     no provision is necessary in respect thereof, and accordingly, no liability
     for this contingency is recorded in the financial statements.
 
(b)  Income tax returns for the last five years remain open to examination and
     final acceptance by the fiscal authorities. Other taxes are also open to
     review for varying periods. Management does not anticipate that any major
     assessments would arise in the event of an examination.
     
(c)  The Company and a subsidiary have signed a contract with BEFIEX under the
     terms of which they are committed to jointly export products with a value
     of US$ 1,987,000 and to make certain minimum capital expenditures during
     the ten-year period ending July 1998, in compensation for benefits relating
     to import and other taxes. In the event of failure to comply with these
     conditions, the Company and the subsidiary will be subject to the repayment
     of tax benefits previously obtained, plus interest and fine. Management
     expects that they will comply with these conditions.
 
(d)  In 1995, a subsidiary obtained a favorable decision in the law courts with
     respect to a legal claim relative to certain export incentives, which were
     eliminated by the government in 1989, in the amount of US$ 38,547. This
     amount was realized and recognized as income by the subsidiary in 1995. In
     September 1995, part of this amount was contested by the fiscal
     authorities. No provision has been recorded with respect to this claim as
     management, based on the opinion of its legal advisors, believes that the
     probability of any loss is remote. On December 16, 1996, a favorable
     decision was obtained by the Company and a subsidiary with respect to
     additional export incentives in connection with the BEFIEX program. The
     final implementation of such decision is dependent on the calculation of
     the amount involved and approval by the court. A reasonable estimation of
     the amount involved cannot be made at this time.
 
 
11   Related Party Transactions
 
     A subsidiary makes substantial sales to Whirpool Corporation, a significant
     shareholder of the Company, and its subsidiaries at normal prices and
     conditions. Accounts receivable from these companies totalled US$ 6,972 and
     US$ 6,306 at December 31, 1996 and 1995.

                                      F-26


     Multibras S.A. Eletrodomesticos and its subsidiaries

     Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
     at December 31, 1996 and 1995
     In thousands of U.S. dollars, unless otherwise stated
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------------


12   Gains and Losses on Remeasurement


     The gains and losses on translation have been reclassified to the related
     line items in the statement of earnings as follows:


13   Pension Plan


     The Company and its Brazilian subsidiaries maintain both contributory and
     concontributory defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all
     employees in Brazil. The plans provide pension benefits that are based on
     years of service and employees' compensation during a specified period
     before retirement. The Company's present funding policy for these plans is
     to generally make the minimum annual contribution required by applicable
     regulations. Assets held by the plans are managed by an outside public
     pension fund institution, which also manages funds of other unrelated
     employers and guarantees a minimum annual fixed return of 4% on plan
     assets.

     Annual pension expense comprises the following components:



     Assumptions used in accounting for defined benefit pension plans are as
     follows:



                                     F-27

 
     Multibras S.A. Eletrodomesticos and its subsidiaries
 
     Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
     at December 31, 1996 and 1995
     In thousands of U.S. dollars, unless otherwise stated
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
     The funded status of the pension plans is as follows:



     The accumulated benefit obligation, which is included in the projected
     benefit obligation, represents the actuarial present value of benefits
     attributed to employee service and compensation levels to date. At December
     31, 1996 and 1995, the accumulated benefit obligation was US$ 78,333 and
     US$ 63,364, respectively. The vested portion was US$ 60,991 in 1996 and US$
     51,817 in 1995.
      
14   Fair value of financial instruments
 
     Besides cash and equivalents which are stated at cost plus accrued interest
     and which approximate fair value, the carrying value of the Company's other
     financial instruments approximates fair value at December 31, 1996 and 1995
     reflecting the short-term maturity of these instruments at those dates.

     Based on interest rates currently available to Multibras S. A.
     Eletrodomesticos for bank loans with similar terms and average maturities,
     the fair value of long-term debt at December 31, 1996 and 1995 approximates
     its carrying value.
 
     Fair value estimates are made at a specific date, based on relevant market
     information about the financial instrument. These estimates are subjective
     in nature and involve uncertainties and matters of significant judgement
     and therefore cannot be determined with precision. Changes in assumptions
     could significantly affect the estimates.


 
 
                                  *    *    *

                                      F-28

 
                          ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
 
                           ITEMS 14(A)(3) AND 14(C)
 
                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS
 
                         YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996
 
  The following exhibits are submitted herewith or incorporated herein by
reference in response to Items 14(a)(3) and 14(c):
 

 
 
                                      E-1

 

- - --------
*This information appears only in the manually signed originals of the Form
   10-K and conformed copies with exhibits.
 
                                      E-2

