
10-K405
FORM 10-K




- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C. 20549

  FORM 10-K.--ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
                             EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
(Mark One)

  [X]            ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                    OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

               For the fiscal year ended ended December 31, 1999

                                      OR

  [_]      TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
               SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]

                      For the Transition period from to

                          Commission File No. 1-3932

                             WHIRLPOOL CORPORATION
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

               Delaware                              38-1490038
       (State of Incorporation)         (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
    2000 North M-63, Benton Harbor,                  49022-2692
               Michigan                              (Zip Code)
    (Address of principal executive
               offices)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code (616) 923-5000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:



Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                                     NONE

   Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes   No
        X

   Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K ((S)229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant's knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part
III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.
                                                                   X

   The aggregate market value of the voting stock of the registrant held by
stockholders not including voting stock held by directors and elected officers
of the registrant and certain employee plans of the registrant (the exclusion
of such shares shall not be deemed an admission by the registrant that any
such person is an affiliate of the registrant) on March 1, 2000, was
$3,866,139,250.

   On March 1, 2000, the registrant had 73,243,737 shares of common stock
outstanding.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

   Portions of the following documents are incorporated herein by reference
into the Part of the Form 10-K indicated:



- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                    PART I

ITEM 1. Business.

                                    General

   Whirlpool Corporation, the leading worldwide manufacturer and marketer of
major home appliances, was incorporated in 1955 under the laws of Delaware as
the successor to a business that traces its origin to 1898. As used herein,
and except where the context otherwise requires, the terms "Company" and
"Whirlpool" include Whirlpool Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.
All currency figures are in U.S. dollars.

             Financial Information Relating to Operating Segments,
               Foreign and Domestic Operations and Export Sales

   The Company operates predominantly in the business segment classified as
Major Home Appliances.

   During 1999 the Company's U.S. operations sold product into Canada, Mexico,
Latin America, the Caribbean, Asia, Europe, Africa, and the Middle East.
However, export sales by the Company's U.S. operations were less than 10% of
gross revenues.

   For certain other financial information concerning the Company's business
segments and foreign and domestic operations, see Notes 1 and 15 of the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.

                             Products and Services

   The Company manufactures and markets a full line of major home appliances
and related products, primarily for home use. The Company's principal products
are: home laundry appliances, home refrigeration and room air conditioning
equipment, home cooking appliances, home dishwashers, and mixers and other
small household appliances. Less than 10% of the Company's unit sales volume
is purchased from other manufacturers for resale by the Company. The Company
also produces hermetic compressors and plastic components, primarily for the
home appliance and electronics industries.

   The following table sets forth information regarding the total revenue
contributed by each class of similar products which accounted for 10% or more
of the Company's consolidated revenue in 1999, 1998, and 1997:



   The Company has been the principal supplier of home laundry appliances to
Sears, Roebuck and Co. ("Sears") for over 80 years. The Company is also the
principal supplier to Sears of residential trash compactors and microwave hood
combinations and a major supplier to Sears of dishwashers, free-standing
ranges, and home refrigeration equipment. The Company also supplies Sears with
certain other products for which the Company is not currently a major
supplier. Sales of such other products to Sears are not significant to the
Company's business. The Company supplies products to Sears for sale under
Sears' Kenmore and Sears brand names. Sears



has also been a major outlet for the Company's Whirlpool and KitchenAid brand
products since 1989. In 1999 approximately 18% of the Company's net sales were
attributable to sales to Sears.

   Major home appliances are marketed and distributed in the United States
under the Whirlpool, KitchenAid, Roper, and Estate brand names primarily to
retailers, buying groups, and builders. KitchenAid portable appliances are
sold to retailers either directly or through an independent representative
organization. The Company sells product to the builder trade both directly and
through contract distributors. Major home appliances are manufactured and/or
distributed in Canada under the Inglis, Admiral, Speed Queen, Whirlpool,
Estate, Roper, and KitchenAid brand names. In Mexico the Company's affiliate,
Vitromatic S.A., manufactures and markets major home appliances for sale under
the Whirlpool, Acros, and Supermatic brand names. Refrigerator-freezers,
laundry products, room air conditioners, residential trash compactors,
residential and component ice makers, cooking products, dishwashers, and other
products are sold in limited quantities by the Company to other manufacturers
and retailers for resale in North America under their respective brand names.

   In Europe Whirlpool markets and distributes, through wholly owned sales
entities, its major home appliances under the Whirlpool, Bauknecht, Ignis,
Algor, and Laden brand names and its portable appliances under the KitchenAid
brand name. In addition to its extensive operations in Western Europe, the
Company has sales subsidiaries in Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic,
Slovakia, Greece, Romania, Bulgaria, Latvia, Estonia, Lithuania, and Morocco
and a representative office in Russia. In certain Eastern European countries
and ex-Soviet states, products bearing the Whirlpool and Ignis brand names are
sold through independent distributors. The Company owns a subsidiary in South
Africa which manufactures refrigerators and freezers and through which it
markets a full line of products under the Whirlpool and KIC brand names.
Whirlpool's European operations also sell products carrying the Whirlpool,
Bauknecht, Ignis, Algor, and Fides brand names to the Company's wholly-owned
sales companies in Asia and majority-owned sales companies in Latin America
and to independent distributors and dealers in Africa and the Middle East.

   In Asia the Company markets and distributes its major home appliances
through three operating regions: the South Asia Sales region based in New
Delhi, which includes India and surrounding markets; the Asia Pacific Sales
region, which includes the ASEAN countries, Korea, Japan, Australia, New
Zealand, Hong Kong, and Taiwan; and the China Sales region through Whirlpool
Narcissus and Whirlpool Shunde. With the exception of the Narcissus and Taiwan
joint ventures, all of these entities are wholly-owned by Whirlpool. The
Company markets and sells its products in Asia under the Whirlpool,
KitchenAid, Bauknecht, and Ignis brand names.

   In Latin America the Company markets and distributes its major home
appliances through regional networks under the Whirlpool, Brastemp, Consul,
and Eslabon de Lujo brand names. Appliance sales and distribution in Brazil,
Argentina, Bolivia, and Chile are managed through subsidiaries owned by
Multibras S.A. Eletrodomesticos ("Multibras"), the Company's Brazilian
subsidiary, and in Bolivia, Peru, Paraguay, and Uruguay through independent
distributors. Appliance sales and distribution in Central American countries,
the Caribbean, Venezuela, and Ecuador are managed through Whirlpool sales
subsidiaries which are part of Whirlpool's North America Region and through
independent distributors. In Colombia the Company operates a sales branch
which sells and distributes products for the Colombian market.

                                  Competition

   The major home appliance business is highly competitive. The Company
believes that, in terms of units sold annually, it is the largest United
States manufacturer of home laundry appliances and one of the largest United
States manufacturers of home refrigeration and room air conditioning
equipment, dishwashers, and cooking products. The Company estimates that
during 1999 with respect to U.S. manufacturers, there were approximately five
manufacturers of home laundry appliances, ten manufacturers of room air
conditioning equipment, five manufacturers of home refrigeration equipment,
five manufacturers of dishwashers, and five manufacturers of cooking products.
Competition in the North American major home appliance business is based



on a wide variety of factors, including principally product features, price,
product quality and performance, service, warranty, advertising, and
promotion.

   The Company believes that in Europe it is, in terms of units sold annually,
one of the three largest manufacturers and marketers of major home appliance
products. The Company estimates that during 1999 there were approximately 35
European manufacturers of major home appliances, the majority of which
manufacture a limited range of products for a specific geographic region. In
recent years there has been significant merger and acquisition activity as
manufacturers seek to broaden product lines and expand geographic markets, and
the Company believes this trend will continue. The Company believes it is in a
favorable position in Europe relative to its competitors because it has an
experienced European sales network, balanced sales throughout the European
market under well-recognized brand names, manufacturing facilities located in
different countries, and the ability to customize its products to meet the
specific needs of diverse consumer groups. Competition in the European major
home appliance business is based on a wide variety of factors, including
principally product features, price, product quality and performance, service,
warranty, advertising, and promotion. With respect to microwave ovens, Western
European manufacturers face competition from manufacturers in Asia, primarily
China, South Korea, and Japan.

   In Asia the major domestic appliance market is characterized by rapid
growth and is dominated primarily by Asian diversified industrial
manufacturers whose significant size and scope of operations enable them to
achieve economies of scale. The Company estimates that during 1999 there were
approximately 50 manufacturers of major home appliances competing in the Asian
market. Competition in the Asian home appliance business is based on a wide
variety of factors including principally local production capabilities,
product features, price, product quality and performance.

   The Company believes that it is well-positioned in the Latin American
appliance market due to its ability to offer a broad range of products under
well-recognized brand names such as Whirlpool, Brastemp, Consul, and Eslabon
de Lujo to meet the specific requirements of consumers in the region. The
Company estimates that during 1999 there were approximately 20 manufacturers
of home appliances in the region. Competition in the Latin American home
appliance business is based on a wide variety of factors, including
principally product features, price, product quality and performance, service,
warranty, advertising, and promotion. In Latin America there are trends toward
privatization of government-owned businesses and a liberalization of
investment and trade restrictions.

   As a result of its global expansion, the Company believes it has a
competitive advantage by reason of its ability to leverage engineering
capabilities across regions, transfer best practices, and economically
purchase raw materials and component parts in large volumes.

                                   Employees

   The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries had approximately 61,000
employees as of December 31, 1999.

                               Other Information

   The Company has a controlling equity interest in Brasmotor S.A., the
Company's long-time partner in Latin America and the parent company of certain
Latin American manufacturers of major home appliances and components (Empressa
Brasileira de Compressores S.A. (Embraco) and Multibras). The Company has a
minority equity interest in Vitromatic, S.A., a Mexican manufacturer of home
appliances and components. In China the Company has a majority interest in
Whirlpool Narcissus (Shanghai) Company Limited, a joint venture company that
manufactures automatic washing machines for sale and distribution in China and
for export, and a



minority interest in Shenzhen Electra Air-Conditioner Co. Limited, a joint
venture company that manufactures air conditioners. In India the Company has a
majority interest in a company that produces refrigeration products and
washing machines for the Indian market and for export to the rest of Asia. The
Company also has a minority equity interest in a Taiwanese marketer and
distributor of home appliances. The Company has a significant minority equity
interest in a major manufacturer of kitchen furniture in Germany that is also
a major trade customer of the Company. In addition, the Company furnishes
engineering, manufacturing, and marketing assistance to certain foreign
manufacturers of home laundry and refrigeration equipment and other major home
appliances for negotiated fees.

   The Company's interests outside the United States and Western Europe are
subject to risks which may be greater than or in addition to those risks which
are currently present in the United States and Western Europe. Such risks may
include: currency exchange rate fluctuations; high inflation; the need for
governmental approval of and restrictions on certain financial and other
corporate transactions and new or continued business operations; the
convertibility of local currencies; government price controls; restrictions on
the remittance of dividends, interest, royalties, and other payments;
restrictions on imports and exports; duties; political and economic
developments and instability; the possibility of expropriation; uncertainty as
to the enforceability of commercial rights and trademarks; and various types
of local participation in ownership.

   Since the real devaluation in January 1999, the Brazilian economy has been
gradually improving throughout the year. The white goods industry in Brazil
declined in 1999 as a consequence of high interest rates, limited credit
availability, and a high unemployment level. However, the Company's
performance has been superior to market performance, resulting in the
Company's gain in market share. In the foreseeable future, it is expected that
Brazil will experience moderate but steady GDP growth, a trend that began in
the fourth quarter of 1999. The gradual easing of interest rates by the
Brazilian Central Bank is likely to improve demand. Despite an inflation spike
toward the end of 1999, inflation is likely to remain under control given
current economic conditions. The reduction of country risk due to improved
payment balance, reduction in fiscal deficit, and a calm political environment
should result in greater exchange rate stability in the future.

   The Company is generally not dependent upon any one source for raw
materials or purchased components essential to its business. In those areas
where a single supplier is used, alternative sources are generally available
and can be developed within the normal manufacturing environment, although
some unanticipated costs may be incurred in transitioning to a new supplier
where a prior single supplier is abruptly terminated. While there are pricing
pressures on some materials and significant demand for certain components, the
Company believes such raw materials and components will be available in
adequate quantities to meet anticipated production schedules.

   Patents presently owned by the Company are considered, in the aggregate, to
be important to the conduct of the Company's business. The Company is licensed
under a number of patents, none of which individually is considered material
to its business. The Company is the owner of a number of trademarks and the
U.S. and foreign registrations thereof. The most important for its North
American operations are the trademarks Whirlpool, KitchenAid, the KitchenAid
Mixer Shape, Roper, and Inglis. In Europe Whirlpool, through its subsidiaries,
is also the owner of a number of trademarks and the foreign registrations
thereof. The most important trademarks owned by the Company in Europe are
Bauknecht, Ignis, and Laden. In Latin America the most important trademarks
owned by the Company are Brastemp, Consul and Eslabon de Lujo. The most
important trademark for the Company's European, Asian, and Latin American
operations is Whirlpool.

   The Company believes that its business, in the aggregate, is not seasonal.
Certain of its products, however, sell more heavily in some seasons than in
others. For example, air conditioners typically sell more heavily during
summer months. Where appropriate, the Company manages its regional
manufacturing operations and product inventories to address seasonal
variations in demand.



   Backlogs of the Company's products are filled and renewed relatively
frequently in each year and are not significant in relation to the Company's
annual sales. However, with respect to Asia, marked seasonality of certain
product sales, combined with less efficient modes of distribution in that
region, can result in significant inventory backlogs.

   Expenditures for Company-sponsored research and engineering activities
relating to the development of new products and the improvement of existing
products are included in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements in the Annual Report.

   The Company's manufacturing facilities are subject to numerous laws and
regulations designed to protect or enhance the environment, many of which
require federal, state, or other governmental licenses and permits with regard
to wastewater discharges, air emissions, and hazardous waste management. These
laws are continually changing and, as a general matter, are becoming more
restrictive. The Company's policy is to seek to comply with all such laws and
regulations. When laws and regulations are inadequate, the Company has
established and is following its own standards consistent with its commitment
to environmental responsibility.

   The Company believes that it is in compliance in all material respects with
all presently applicable federal, state, local, and other governmental
provisions relating to environmental protection in the countries in which it
has manufacturing operations. Capital expenditures and expenses for
manufacturing operations directly attributable to compliance with such
provisions worldwide amounted to approximately $30 million in 1997, $30
million in 1998, and $19 million in 1999. The decrease from 1998 to 1999 is
attributable to the completion of air and water pollution control capital
improvement projects in 1998, as well as benefits from previous pollution
prevention projects. It is estimated that in 2000 environmental capital
expenditures and expenses for manufacturing operations will be approximately
$22 million. Capital expenditures and expenses for product related
environmental activities were not material in any of the past three years and
are not expected to be material in 2000.

   The entire United States home appliance industry, including the Company,
must contend with the adoption of stricter governmental energy and
environmental standards to be phased in over the next several years. These
include the general phase-out of HCFCs used in refrigeration and energy
standards rulemakings for other selected major appliances produced by the
Company. Compliance with these various standards as they become effective will
require some product redesign.

   As in the United States, Whirlpool's European and Latin American operations
are also dealing with anticipated regulations and rules regarding improved
efficiency and energy usage for its products. The Company believes it is well
positioned to field products that comply with these anticipated regulations.
In most Asian countries the Company has until 2010 to eliminate CFCs from its
products. Whirlpool's Asian operations are also well positioned to meet
anticipated efficiency and energy usage regulations.

   The Company has been notified by state and federal environmental protection
agencies of its possible involvement in a number of so-called "Superfund"
sites in the United States. However, the Company does not presently anticipate
any material adverse effect upon the Company's earnings or financial condition
arising out of the resolution of these matters or the resolution of any other
known governmental proceeding regarding environmental protection matters. In
1999 the Company evaluated its facilities in Brazil and does not anticipate
any material adverse effect upon the Company's earnings or financial condition
from the environmental condition of these facilities.

   In an effort to enhance productivity and business systems performance, the
Company is implementing an integrated business software package to replace and
consolidate many of its existing stand-alone systems. The new system was
implemented in Austria, Brazil, Canada, Germany, and Switzerland in 1998, and
in the United States and the Netherlands in 1999. The project is expected to
be completed within the next two years.



   The following table sets forth the names of the Company's executive
officers at December 31, 1999, the positions and offices with the Company held
by them at such date, the year they first became officers, and their ages at
December 31, 1999:



   Each of the executive officers named above was elected to serve in the
office indicated until the first meeting of the Board of Directors following
the annual meeting of stockholders in 2000 and until his successor is chosen
and qualified or until his earlier resignation or removal.

   Each of the executive officers of the Company has held the position set
forth in the table above or has served the Company in various executive or
administrative capacities for at least the past five years, except for:



ITEM 2. Properties.

   The principal executive offices of Whirlpool Corporation are located in
Benton Harbor, Michigan. At December 31, 1999, the principal manufacturing and
service operations of the Company were carried on at 44 locations worldwide,
34 of which are located in 12 countries outside the United States. The Company
occupied a total of approximately 41.7 million square feet devoted to
manufacturing, service, administrative offices, warehouse, distribution, and
sales space. Over 12.4 million square feet of such space is occupied under
lease. In general, all facilities are well maintained, suitably equipped, and
in good operating condition.

ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings.

   As of, and during the quarter ended, December 31, 1999, there were no
material pending legal proceedings to which the Company or any of its
subsidiaries was a party or to which any of their property was subject.

ITEM 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

   There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders in the fourth
quarter of 1999.



                                    PART II

ITEM 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters.

   The Company's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange and the
Chicago Stock Exchange.

   As of March 1, 2000, the number of holders of record of the Company's
common stock was approximately 12,364.

   High and low sales prices (as reported on the New York Stock Exchange
composite tape) and cash dividends declared and paid for the Company's common
stock for each quarter during the years 1998 and 1999 are set forth in Note 16
of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report and
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data.

   The selected financial data for the five years ended December 31, 1999 with
respect to the following line items are shown under the "Eleven Year
Consolidated Statistical Review" in the Annual Report and incorporated herein
by reference: Total revenues, earnings from continuing operations before
accounting change, earnings from continuing operations before accounting
change per share of common stock, dividends paid per share of common stock,
total assets, and long-term debt. See the material incorporated herein by
reference in response to Item 7 of this report for a discussion of the effects
on such data of business combinations and other acquisitions, disposition and
restructuring activity, restructuring costs, accounting changes, and earnings
of foreign affiliates.

ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations.

   See the Management's Discussion and Analysis section of the Annual Report
which is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.

   Information with respect to market risk can be found under the caption
"Market Risk" in the Management's Discussion and Analysis section of the
Annual Report which is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

   The consolidated financial statements of the Company are contained in the
Annual Report and incorporated herein by reference. Supplementary financial
information regarding quarterly results of operations (unaudited) for the
years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998 is set forth in Note 16 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements. For a list of financial statements and
schedules filed as part of this report, see the "Index to Financial Statements
and Financial Statement Schedule(s)" beginning on page F-1.

ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure.

   None.

                                   PART III

ITEM 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.

   Information with respect to directors of the Company can be found under the
caption "Directors and Nominees for Election as Directors" in the Company's
Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. Information with
respect to executive officers of the Company is set forth in Part I of this
report.



ITEM 11. Executive Compensation.

   Information with respect to compensation of executive officers and
directors of the Company can be found under the captions "Executive
Compensation" and "Compensation of Directors" in the Proxy Statement and is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.

   Information with respect to security ownership by the only person(s) known
to the Company to beneficially own more than 5% of the Company's stock and by
each director of the Company and all directors and elected officers of the
Company as a group can be found under the caption "Security Ownership" in the
Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.

   Information with respect to certain transactions with executive officers
and directors of the Company and others can be found under the caption
"Certain Transactions" in the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by
reference.

                                    PART IV

ITEM 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K.

   (a) The following documents are filed as a part of this report:

    1. The financial statements listed in the "Index to Financial Statements
  and Financial Statement Schedules."

    2. The financial statement schedule listed in the "Index to Financial
  Statements and Financial Statement Schedules."

    3. The exhibits listed in the "Exhibit Index."

   (b) Reports on Form 8-K filed during the fourth quarter of 1999.

    A current report on Form 8-K for November 4, 1999 pursuant to item 5--
  "Other Events" announced that the Company was making a tender offer for the
  outstanding publicly traded shares in Brazil of its subsidiaries Multibras
  and Brasmotor S.A.

   (c) Exhibits.

    See attached "Exhibit Index."

   (d) Financial Statement Schedules.

    The response to this portion of Item 14 is submitted as a separate
  section of this report.



                                   SIGNATURES

   Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                          Whirlpool Corporation
                                          (Registrant)

                                                       Mark E. Brown
                                          By___________________________________
                                                       Mark E. Brown
                                               (Principal Financial Officer)
                                            Executive Vice President and Chief
                                                     Financial Officer

   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.







    /s/ Daniel F. Hopp
*By____________________________
        Daniel F. Hopp
       Attorney-in-Fact



                          ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

                       ITEMS 14(a) (1) AND (2) AND 14(d)

        INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

                         YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999

              WHIRLPOOL CORPORATION AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES

   The following consolidated financial statements of the registrant and its
consolidated subsidiaries, set forth in the Annual Report, are incorporated
herein by reference in Item 8:

    Consolidated balance sheets--December 31, 1999 and 1998

    Consolidated statements of earnings--Three years ended December 31,

    Consolidated statements of changes in stockholders' equity--Three years
    ended December 31, 1999

    Consolidated statements of cash flows--Three years ended December 31,

    Notes to consolidated financial statements

   The following reports of independent auditors and consolidated financial
statement schedules of the registrant and its consolidated subsidiaries are
submitted herewith in response to Items 14(a) (2) and 14(d):



   Individual financial statements of the registrant's affiliated foreign
companies, accounted for by the equity method, have been omitted since no such
company individually constitutes a significant subsidiary. Summarized
financial information relating to the affiliated companies is set forth in
Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements incorporated by
reference herein.

   Certain schedules for which provisions are made in the applicable
accounting regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission are not
required under the related instructions or are inapplicable, and therefore
have been omitted.

                                      F-1


                          REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP
                              INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

THE STOCKHOLDERS AND BOARD OF DIRECTORS
WHIRLPOOL CORPORATION--BENTON HARBOR, MICHIGAN

   We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Whirlpool
Corporation as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the related consolidated
statements of earnings, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 1999. Our audits also included the
financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 14(a). These financial
statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and
schedule based on our audits. We did not audit the 1998 and 1997 financial
statements of Brasmotor S.A. and its consolidated subsidiaries, which
statements reflect total assets of $2,500 million as of December 31, 1998 and
net earnings of $58 million and $41 million for the years ended December 31,
1998 and 1997, respectively. Those statements were audited by other auditors
whose reports have been furnished to us, and our opinion, insofar as it relates
to data included for Brasmotor S.A. and its consolidated subsidiaries, is based
on the reports of the other auditors.

   We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test
basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits and the reports of
the other auditors provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

   In our opinion, based on our audits and, for 1998 and 1997, the reports of
the other auditors, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Whirlpool
Corporation at December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the consolidated results of its
operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 1999, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement
schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken
as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth
therein.

                                      [SIGNATURE]

Chicago, Illinois
January 20, 2000

                                      F-2


                      [PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LETTERHEAD]

                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders
Brasmotor S.A.

   We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Brasmotor
S.A. and its subsidiaries as of December 31, 1998 and 1997 and the related
consolidated statements of earnings, of movement in stockholders' equity and of
cash flows for the years then ended, expressed in U.S. dollars (not presented
herein). Such audits were made in conjunction with our audits of the financial
statements expressed in local currency on which we issued an unqualified
opinion dated January 18, 1999. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We did not audit the
financial statements of Whirlpool Argentina S.A. and Sociedade Financeira de
Grandes Aparatos Domesticos S.A., which statements reflect total assets of
US$149,457 thousand and US$119,549 thousand as of December 31, 1998 and 1997,
respectively, and net earnings of US$6,037 thousand and US$9,487 thousand for
the years ended December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively. Those statements were
audited by other auditors whose reports have been furnished to us, and our
opinion, insofar as it relates to data included for Whirlpool Argentina S.A.
and Sociedade Financeira de Grandes Aparatos Domesticos S.A., is based solely
on the reports of the other auditors.

   We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits and the reports of the other auditors provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion.

   As stated in Note 1, Whirlpool Corporation has prescribed that accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America be applied in the
preparation of the consolidated financial statements of Brasmotor S.A. and its
subsidiaries to be included in Whirlpool's consolidated financial statements.
Up to December 31, 1997, Brazil had a highly inflationary economy. Accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America require that
financial statements of a company denominated in the currency of a country with
a highly inflationary economy be remeasured into a more stable currency unit
for purposes of consolidation. Accordingly, the accounts of Brasmotor S.A. and
its Brazilian subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997, which are maintained in
reais, were remeasured and adjusted into U.S. dollars for the financial
statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States of America, on the bases stated in Note 1. As from January
1, 1998, the functional currency, for the purpose of the translation of the
financial statements into U.S. dollars, has been changed from the U.S. dollar
to the local currency (reais).

                                      F-3


                      [PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LETTERHEAD]

Brasmotor S.A.
Page 2

   In our opinion, based on our audits and the reports of the other auditors,
the consolidated financial statements expressed in U.S. dollars audited by us
are presented fairly, in all material respects, on the bases stated in Note 1
and discussed in the preceding paragraph.

[PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS SIGNATURE]

PricewaterhouseCoopers
Auditores Independentes


Sao Paulo, Brazil
January 18, 1999

                                      F-4


                      [PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LETTERHEAD]

                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders
Empresa Brasileira de Compressores S.A.--EMBRACO

   We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Empresa
Brasileira de Compressores S.A.--EMBRACO and its subsidiaries as of December
31, 1998 and 1997 and the related consolidated statements of earnings, of
movement in stockholders' equity and of cash flows for the years then ended,
expressed in U.S. dollars (not presented herein). Such audits were made in
conjunction with our audits of the financial statements expressed in local
currency on which we issued an unqualified opinion dated January 18, 1999.
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based
on our audits.

   We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

   As stated in Note 1, Whirlpool Corporation has prescribed that accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America be applied in the
preparation of the consolidated financial statements of Empresa Brasileira de
Compressores S.A.--EMBRACO and its subsidiaries to be included in Whirlpool's
consolidated financial statements. Up to December 31, 1997, Brazil had a highly
inflationary economy. Accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America require that financial statements of a company denominated in
the currency of a country with a highly inflationary economy be remeasured into
a more stable currency unit for purposes of consolidation. Accordingly, the
accounts of Empresa Brasileira de Compressores S.A.--EMBRACO and its Brazilian
subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997, which are maintained in reais, were
remeasured and adjusted into U.S. dollars for the financial statements prepared
in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America, on the bases stated in Note 1. As from January 1, 1998, the
functional currency, for the purpose of the translation of the financial
statements into U.S. dollars, has been changed from U.S. dollar to the local
currency (reais).

                                      F-5


                      [PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LETTERHEAD]

Empresa Brasileira de Compressores S.A.--EMBRACO
Page 2

   In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements expressed in U.S.
dollars audited by us are presented fairly, in all material respects, on the
bases stated in Note 1 and discussed in the preceding paragraph.

[PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS SIGNATURE]

PricewaterhouseCoopers
Auditores Independentes


Sao Paulo, Brazil
January 18, 1999

                                      F-6


                      [PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LETTERHEAD]

                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders
Multibras S.A. Eletrodomesticos

   We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Multibras
S.A. Eletrodomesticos and its subsidiaries as of December 31, 1998 and 1997 and
the related consolidated statements of earnings, of movement in stockholders'
equity and of cash flows for the years then ended, expressed in U.S. dollars
(not presented herein). Such audits were made in conjunction with our audits of
the financial statements expressed in local currency on which we issued an
unqualified opinion dated January 18, 1999. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We did not audit the
financial statements of Whirlpool Argentina S.A. and Sociedade Financeira de
Grandes Aparatos Domesticos S.A., which statements reflect total assets of US$
149,457 thousand and US$ 119,549 thousand as of December 31, 1998 and 1997,
respectively, and net earnings of US$ 6,037 thousand and US$ 9,487 thousand for
the years ended December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively. Those statements were
audited by other auditors whose reports hves been furnished to us, and our
opinion, insofar as it relates to data included for Whirlpool Argentina S.A.
and Sociedade Financeira de Grandes Aparatos Domesticos S.A., is based solely
on the report of the other auditors.

   We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits and the reports of the other auditors provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion.

   As stated in Note 1, Whirlpool Corporation has prescribed that accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America be applied in the
preparation of the consolidated financial statements of Multibras S.A.
Eletrodomesticos and its subsidiaries to be included in Whirlpool's
consolidated financial statements. Up to December 31, 1997, Brazil had a highly
inflationary economy. Accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America require that financial statements of a company denominated in
the currency of a country with a highly inflationary economy be remeasured into
a more stable currency unit for purposes of consolidation. Accordingly, the
accounts of Multibras S.A. Eletrodomesticos and its Brazilian subsidiaries as
of December 31, 1997, which are maintained in reais, were remeasured and
adjusted into U.S. dollars for the financial statements prepared in accordance
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America,
on the bases stated in Note 1. As from January 1, 1998, the functional
currency, for the purpose of the translation of the financial statements into
U.S. dollars, has been changed from the U.S. dollar to the local currency
(reais).

                                      F-7


                      [PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LETTERHEAD]

Multibras S.A. Eletrodomesticos
Page 2

   In our opinion, based on our audits and the reports of the other auditors,
the consolidated financial statements expressed in U.S. dollars audited by us
are presented fairly, in all material respects, on the bases stated in Note 1
and discussed in the preceding paragraph.

[PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS SIGNATURE]

PricewaterhouseCoopers
Auditores Independentes


Sao Paulo, Brazil
January 18, 1999

                                      F-8


                SCHEDULE II--VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

                    WHIRLPOOL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                 Years Ended December 31, 1999, 1998, and 1997

                             (millions of dollars)


- ----
Note A--The amount represents the allowance for doubtful accounts balance on
the balance sheet of Brasmotor S.A. at the time of consolidation in 1997.
Note B--The amounts represent accounts charged off, less recoveries of $2 in
1999, $5 in 1998 and $15 in 1997, translation adjustments and transfers.
Note C--The amount for 1998 represents a transfer to the trade receivable
allowance while the amount for 1997 and 1996 represent accounts charged off,
less recoveries of $4 and $3, respectively.
Note D--The amount represents the restructructuring provision on the balance
sheet of Brasmotor S.A. at the time of consolidation in 1997.
Note E--Includes cash payments for employee severance and related costs, lease
terminations, facility dispositions and other cash costs; write-down of
facilities, equipment and other assets; and translation adjustments.

                                      F-9


                           ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
                            ITEMS 14(a)(3) and 14(c)
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999

   The following exhibits are submitted herewith or incorporated herein by
reference in response to Items 14(a)(3) and 14(c):



                                      E-1




                                      E-2



- --------
*This information appears only in the manually signed originals of the Form
   10-K and conformed copies with exhibits.

                                      E-3

