
10-K405
CAMPBELL SOUP COMPANY, FORM 10-K




                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K


                 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

OR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED                                  COMMISSION FILE NUMBER
    AUGUST 2, 1998                                                1-3822

                              CAMPBELL SOUP COMPANY

      New Jersey                                          21-0419870
State of Incorporation                        I.R.S. Employer Identification No.


                                 Campbell Place
                          Camden, New Jersey 08103-1799
                           Principal Executive Offices

                        Telephone Number: (609) 342-4800


           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

    Title of Each Class                Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered

Capital Stock, par value $.0375                 New York Stock Exchange
                                              Philadelphia Stock Exchange

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None


         Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.

                        Yes    [X]       No    [ ]

         Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [ x]

         As of September 21, 1998, the aggregate market value of capital stock
held by non-affiliates of the Registrant was $12,439,494,944. There were
445,585,204 shares of capital stock outstanding as of September 21, 1998.

             Portions of the Annual Report to Shareowners for the fiscal year
ended August 2, 1998 are incorporated by reference into Parts I and II. Portions
of the Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement dated October 9, 1998, for
the Annual Meeting of Shareowners to be held on November 19, 1998, are
incorporated by reference into Part III.






PART I

ITEM 1.   BUSINESS

THE COMPANY

Campbell Soup Company, together with its consolidated subsidiaries, is a global
manufacturer and marketer of high quality, branded convenience food products.
Campbell was incorporated as a business corporation under the laws of New Jersey
on November 23, 1922; however, through predecessor organizations, it traces its
heritage in the food business back to 1869. On March 30, 1998, the company spun
off certain specialty foods businesses to its shareowners as an independent
publicly-held company. The new company, Vlasic Foods International Inc.,
includes Swanson frozen foods, Vlasic pickles, and certain European and
Argentine businesses, including Swift-Armour Sociedad Anonima Argentina.
Additional information about the spin-off is incorporated by reference from Note
2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 26 of the Company's
1998 Annual Report to Shareowners for the fiscal year ended August 2, 1998
("1998 Annual Report").

During 1998, the company acquired Liebig, the leading wet soup brand in France,
and the remaining thirty percent of the outstanding shares of Arnotts Limited,
increasing its ownership of Arnotts Limited to 100%. The company divested its
European-based Delacre biscuit business, Continental Sweets Europe, Boas B.V.,
its fresh mushroom business in Australia and Spring Valley Beverages Pty. Ltd.
As part of its ongoing review of all vertically integrated operations, the
company sold its poultry and can-making operations in the United States.

The company operates in three business segments: Soup and Sauces, Biscuits and
Confectionery, and Foodservice. The Soup and Sauces segment includes the
worldwide soup businesses, Prego spaghetti sauce, Franco-American pastas and
gravies, Pace Mexican foods, Swanson broths and the V8 beverage business. The
Biscuits and Confectionery segment includes the Pepperidge Farm, Godiva and
Arnotts Limited businesses. The Foodservice segment consists of products
distributed to the food service and home meal replacement markets and includes
Campbell's Restaurant Soups, Pace Tabletop picante and Campbell's Specialty
Kitchens entrees. See also "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of
Operations and Financial Condition" at pages 20 to 23 of the company's 1998
Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference. Additional financial
information about the company's business segments is incorporated by reference
from Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 26 and 27
of the 1998 Annual Report.

INGREDIENTS

The ingredients required for the manufacture of the company's food products are
purchased from various suppliers. As a result of the company's portfolio
reconfiguration program, the company sold or spun off certain of its ingredient
and container operations and entered into various supply agreements covering
those purchases. The company does not anticipate any material restrictions on
availability or shortages of ingredients which would have a significant impact
on the company's businesses.

While all such ingredients are available from numerous independent suppliers,
raw materials are subject to fluctuations in price attributable to a number of
factors, including changes in crop size, cattle cycles, government-sponsored
agricultural programs and weather conditions during the growing and harvesting
seasons. Ingredient inventories are at a peak during the late fall and decline
during the winter and 




spring. Since many ingredients of suitable quality are available in sufficient
quantities only at certain seasons, the company makes commitments for the
purchase of such ingredients during their respective seasons.

CUSTOMERS

In the United States, sales solicitation activities are conducted by the
company's own sales force and through broker and distributor arrangements. The
company's products are generally resold to consumers in retail stores,
restaurants and other food service establishments. No material part of the
business is dependent upon a single customer. Shipments are made promptly by the
company after receipt and acceptance of orders.

TRADEMARKS AND TECHNOLOGY

The company markets its food products globally under a number of significant
trademarks. The company considers such trademarks, taken as a whole, to be of
material importance to its business and, consequently, aggressively seeks to
protect its rights in them.

Although the company owns a number of valuable patents, it does not regard any
segment of its business as being dependent upon any single patent or any group
of related patents.

COMPETITION

The company experiences vigorous competition for sales of its principal products
in its major markets, both within the United States and abroad, from numerous
competitors of varying sizes. The principal areas of competition are quality,
price, advertising, promotion and service.

WORKING CAPITAL

For information relating to the company's cash and other working capital items,
see pages 20 through 23 of the company's 1998 Annual Report in the section
entitled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and
Financial Condition", which are incorporated herein by reference.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

During the last three fiscal years, the company's expenditures on research
activities relating to new products and the improvement of existing products
were approximately $71 million in 1998, $68 million in 1997 and $76 million in
1996.

EMPLOYEES

At August 2, 1998, there were approximately 24,250 persons employed by the
company, principally reflecting the effects of the spin-off.

FOREIGN OPERATIONS

For information with respect to the revenue, operating profitability and
identifiable assets attributable to the company's foreign operations, see pages
26 and 27 of the 1998 Annual Report in the section of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements entitled "Business Segment and Geographic Area
Information", which is incorporated herein by reference.





FINANCIAL INFORMATION

For information with respect to revenue, operating profitability and
identifiable assets attributable to the company's business segments, see page 27
of the 1998 Annual Report in the section of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements entitled "Business Segments", which is incorporated herein by
reference.

RECENT DEVELOPMENTS

The information presented on page 23 of the 1998 Annual Report in the section
entitled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and
Financial Condition" is incorporated herein by reference.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

From time to time, the company makes oral and written statements which reflect
the company's current expectations regarding future results of operations,
economic performance, financial condition and achievements of the company. The
company tries, wherever possible, to identify these forward looking statements
by using words such as "anticipate", "believe", "estimate", "expect" and similar
expressions. These statements reflect the company's current plans and
expectations and are based on information currently available to it. They rely
on a number of assumptions and estimates which could be inaccurate and which are
subject to risks and uncertainties.

Campbell wishes to caution the reader that the following important factors and
those important factors described in other Securities and Exchange Commission
filings, or in the company's 1998 Annual Report, could affect the company's
actual results and could cause such results to vary materially from those
expressed in any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, the
company:

         -        the impact of strong competitive response to the company's
                  efforts to leverage its brand power with product innovation
                  and new advertising;

         -        the inherent risks in the marketplace associated with new
                  product introductions, including uncertainties about trade and
                  consumer acceptance;

         -        the company's ability to achieve sales and earnings forecasts
                  which are based on assumptions about sales volume;

         -        the continuation of the company's successful record of
                  integrating acquisitions into its existing operations and the
                  availability of new acquisition and alliance opportunities
                  that build shareowner wealth;

         -        the company's ability to achieve its cost savings and capacity
                  utilization objectives;

         -        the impact of unforeseen economic and political changes in
                  international markets where the company competes such as
                  currency exchange rates, inflation rates, recession, foreign
                  ownership restrictions and other external factors over which
                  the company has no control; or


         -        the ability of the company and its key service providers,
                  vendors, suppliers, customers and governmental entities to
                  replace, modify or upgrade computer systems in ways that
                  adequately address the Year 2000("Y2K") issue. Specific
                  factors that might cause actual results to vary materially
                  from the results anticipated include the ability to identify
                  and correct all relevant computer codes and embedded chips,
                  unanticipated difficulties or delays in the implementation of
                  the company's remediation plans and the ability of third
                  parties to adequately address their own Y2K issues.

This discussion of uncertainties is by no means exhaustive but is designed to
highlight important factors that may impact the company's outlook.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

The company's principal executive offices and main research facilities are
company-owned and located in Camden, New Jersey. The following table sets forth
the company's principal manufacturing facilities:

PRINCIPAL MANUFACTURING FACILITIES




          The company also operates retail confectionery shops in the United
States, Canada, Europe and Japan; retail bakery thrift stores in the United
States; a mail order facility; and other plants and facilities at various
locations in the United States and abroad.

Management believes that the company's manufacturing and processing plants are
well maintained and are generally adequate to support the current operations of
the businesses.



ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

In management's opinion, there are no pending claims or litigation, the outcome
of which would have a material effect on the consolidated results of operations,
financial position or cash flows of the company.

As previously reported, in October 1995, at the request of the Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA), the United States of America (USA) instituted an action
in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of California,
alleging, inter alia, that the company violated the Clean Air Act by operating
certain can manufacturing equipment at its Sacramento, California facility
without a valid permit and by failing to apply control technology to reduce air
emissions. In August 1997, at the request of the EPA, the USA filed a second
complaint alleging that the company violated the Clean Air Act by modifying
certain can manufacturing equipment at the same facility without a permit, and
without installing control technology. The second complaint also alleged that
the company exceeded certain daily and quarterly emission limits. The company
disputes all of these alleged violations. The USA asserts in its complaints that
it is seeking the imposition of civil penalties, calculated on a per diem/per
violation basis, for each of the alleged violations. As noted above, the company
disputes liability for any and all of the violations alleged and also has
disputed the application of the maximum statutory penalty to any of the alleged
violations and the USA's method of calculating applicable penalties, if any. The
company anticipates that ongoing settlement discussions will lead to an amicable
resolution of these cases on terms that are not expected to have a material
effect on the consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash
flows of the company.

Communities for a Better Environment (CBE) sent a Clean Air Act Notice of Intent
to Sue letter dated April 6, 1998, to the company. CBE claims that the company's
Sacramento facility has used certain solvents allegedly in violation of emission
limitations set by the District's Rules and has not complied with certain
record-keeping requirements. These are the same issues that were raised in
notices of violation issued to the company by the Sacramento Metropolitan Air
Quality Management District which were settled in October 1997, without
admitting liability. CBE contends, however, that the settlement with the
District did not resolve the alleged violation arising from the use of certain
solvents on the grounds that the District's method of settling the issue is not
federally approved. The company disputes the alleged violation and denies
liability. The company anticipates that ongoing settlement discussions will lead
to an amicable resolution of the CBE claim on terms that are not expected to
have a material effect on the consolidated results of operations, financial
position or cash flows of the company.

The company has also been named as a potentially responsible party in a number
of proceedings brought under the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund. Although the impact
of these proceedings cannot be predicted at this time due to the large number of
other potentially responsible parties and the speculative nature of clean-up
cost estimates, the ultimate disposition of these proceedings is not expected to
have a material effect on the consolidated results of operations, financial
position or cash flows of the company.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

              None.




EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF CAMPBELL

The following list of executive officers as of October 2, 1998, is included as
an item in Part I of this Form 10-K:






EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF CAMPBELL (CONT.)




Each of the above-named officers has been employed by the company in an
executive or managerial capacity for at least five years, except Basil L.
Anderson, Jerry S. Buckley, T. Ron Gable, Andrew K. Hughson, Ellen Oran Kaden,
Mark M. Leckie and Dale F. Morrison. Basil L. Anderson served as Chief Financial
Officer (1992-1996) of Scott Paper Company prior to joining Campbell in 1996.
Jerry S. Buckley served as Assistant Managing Editor, Gannett Company, Inc.
(1994-1995) and Senior Editor/Senior Writer, U.S. News & World Report
(1987-1994) prior to joining Campbell in 1995. T. Ron Gable served as Managing
Partner, Coopers & Lybrand Manufacturing and Logistics Practice (1983-1998)
prior to joining Campbell in 1998. Andrew K. Hughson served as General Manager,
Kellogg France, Belgium and the Netherlands (1994-1996) and Assistant to the
Chairman, Kellogg Company, Global Marketing (1993-1994) prior to joining
Campbell in 1996. Ellen Oran Kaden served as Executive Vice President, General
Counsel and Secretary (1994-1998) and Senior Vice President, General Counsel and
Secretary (1993-1994) of CBS Inc. prior to joining Campbell in 1998. Mark M.
Leckie served as Executive Vice President and General Manager of the Post
Division (1993-1997) of Kraft, Inc. prior to joining Campbell in 1997. Dale F.
Morrison served as President, Frito Lay North (1994-1995) and Vice President
Marketing and Sales, Frito Lay Central Division (1993-1994) prior to joining
Campbell in 1995.

There is no family relationship among any of the company's executive officers or
between any such officer and any director of Campbell. Executive officers of
Campbell are elected at the November 1998 meeting of the Board of Directors.


PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED SHAREOWNER MATTERS

Campbell's capital stock is listed and principally traded on the New York Stock
Exchange. Campbell's capital stock is also listed and traded on the Philadelphia
Stock Exchange, The International Stock Exchange of the United Kingdom and the
Republic of Ireland Limited and the Swiss Exchange. On September 21, 1998, there
were 38,085 holders of record of Campbell's capital stock. The market price and
dividend information with respect to Campbell's capital stock are set forth on
page 30 of the 1998 Annual Report in the section of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements entitled "Quarterly Data (unaudited)" which is incorporated
herein by reference. Future dividends will be dependent upon future earnings,
financial requirements and other factors.







ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The information called for by this Item is set forth on page 32 of the 1998
Annual Report in the section entitled "Five-Year Review - Consolidated" which is
incorporated herein by reference. Such information should be read in conjunction
with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto of the company
included in Item 8 of this Report.

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND
        FINANCIAL CONDITION

The information presented on pages 20 through 23 of the 1998 Annual Report in
the section entitled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of
Operations and Financial Condition" is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The information presented on page 22 of the 1998 Annual Report in the section
entitled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and
Financial Condition" is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The information presented on pages 24 through 31 of the 1998 Annual Report is
incorporated herein by reference. With the exception of the aforementioned
information and the information incorporated by reference in Items 1, 5, 6, 7,
and 7A, the 1998 Annual Report is not deemed to be filed as part of this Form
10-K.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

        None.


PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The sections entitled "Election of Directors" and "Directors and Executive
Officers Stock Ownership Reports" set forth on pages 1 through 4 and page 25 of
Campbell's Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement dated October 9, 1998
(the "1998 Proxy Statement") are incorporated herein by reference.

The information required by this Item relating to the executive officers of
Campbell is set forth in Part I of this Report on pages 6 and 7 under the
heading "Executive Officers of Campbell".





ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information set forth on pages 15 through 24 of the 1998 Proxy Statement in
the section entitled "Compensation of Executive Officers" is incorporated herein
by reference.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The information required by this Item is set forth at pages 5 through 7 of the
1998 Proxy Statement in the sections entitled "Security Ownership of Directors
and Executive Officers" and "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners"
and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

         None.


PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)      The following documents are filed as part of this report:

         1.       FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

         -        Consolidated Statements of Earnings for 1998, 1997 and 1996

         -        Consolidated Balance Sheets as of August 2, 1998 and August 3,

         -        Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for 1998, 1997 and 1996

         -        Consolidated Statements of Shareowners' Equity for 1998, 1997
                  and 1996

         -        Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

         -        Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

         -        Report of Independent Accountants

         -        The foregoing Financial Statements are incorporated into Part
                  II, Item 8 of this Report by reference to pages 24 through 31
                  of the 1998 Annual Report.

         2.       FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

                  None.



         3.       EXHIBITS

                  3 (i)    Campbell's Restated Certificate of Incorporation
                           as amended through February 24, 1997, was filed with
                           the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") with
                           Campbell's Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended
                           January 26, 1997, and is incorporated herein by
                           reference.

                  3 (ii)   Campbell's By-Laws, effective as of July 15,
                           1997, were filed with the SEC with Campbell's Form
                           10-K for the fiscal year ended August 3, 1997, and
                           are incorporated herein by reference.

                  4        There is no instrument with respect to long-term debt
                           of the company that involves indebtedness or
                           securities authorized thereunder exceeding 10 percent
                           of the total assets of the company and its
                           subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. The company
                           agrees to file a copy of any instrument or agreement
                           defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of
                           the company upon request of the SEC.

                  9        Major Stockholders' Voting Trust Agreement dated June
                           2, 1990, as amended, was filed with the SEC by the
                           Trustees of the Major Stockholders' Voting Trust as
                           Exhibit A to Schedule 13D dated June 5, 1990, and is
                           incorporated herein by reference.

                  10 (a)   Campbell Soup Company 1984 Long-Term Incentive Plan, 
                           as amended on March 30, 1998.*

                  10 (b)   Campbell Soup Company 1994 Long-Term Incentive Plan 
                           as amended on March 30, 1998.*

                  10 (c)   Campbell Soup Company Management Worldwide
                           Incentive Plan, as amended on November 17, 1994, was
                           filed with the SEC with Campbell's 1994 Proxy
                           Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.*

                  10 (d)   Mid-Career Hire Pension Program, as amended on
                           February 22, 1996, was filed with the SEC with
                           Campbell's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July
                           28, 1996, and is incorporated herein by reference.*

                  10 (e)   Personal Choice, A Flexible Reimbursement Program
                           for Campbell Soup Company Executives, effective
                           August 1, 1994, was filed with the SEC with
                           Campbell's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July
                           30, 1995, and is incorporated herein by reference.*

                  10 (f)   Supplemental Savings Plan, as amended on May 25,
                           1995, was filed with the SEC with Campbell's Form
                           10-K for the fiscal year ended July 30, 1995, and is
                           incorporated herein by reference.*



                  10 (g)   Salary Deferral Plan, effective January 1, 1996,
                           was filed with the SEC with Campbell's Form S-8 on
                           February 6, 1996, and is incorporated herein by
                           reference.*

                  10 (h)   Severance Protection Agreement dated April 1,
                           1998, with Ellen Oran Kaden, Senior Vice President -
                           Law and Government Affairs. Agreements with eight (8)
                           other executive officers are in all material respects
                           the same as that with Ms. Ellen Oran Kaden.*

                  10 (i)   Supplemental pension arrangement for David W.
                           Johnson, Chairman, was filed with the SEC in
                           Campbell's 1997 Proxy Statement on page 17 under the
                           heading "Pension Plans", and is incorporated herein
                           by reference.*

                  13       Pages 20 through 32 of Campbell's 1998 Annual Report
                           to Shareowners for the fiscal year ended August 2,
                           1998.

                  21       Subsidiaries of Campbell.

                  23       Consent of Independent Accountants.

                  24 (a)   Power of Attorney.

                  24 (b)   Certified copy of the resolution of Campbell's
                           Board of Directors authorizing signatures pursuant to
                           a power of attorney.

                  27       Financial Data Schedules (not considered to be 
                           filed).

                  * A management contract, compensatory plan or arrangement
                    required to be filed by Item 14(c) of this Report.

         (b)      Reports on Form 8-K

                  There were no reports on Form 8-K filed by Campbell during the
                  fourth quarter of fiscal 1998.






SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, Campbell has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date:  October 9, 1998

                                         CAMPBELL SOUP COMPANY


                                         By:   /s/Basil L. Anderson
                                            ------------------------------------
                                               Basil L. Anderson
                                               Executive Vice President
                                               and Chief Financial Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of Campbell and in the
capacity and on the date indicated.

Date:  October 9, 1998


           /s/Basil L. Anderson                 /s/Gerald S. Lord              
           ---------------------------          ----------------------------
           Basil L. Anderson                    Gerald S. Lord
           Executive Vice President             Vice President - Controller
           and Chief Financial Officer







                                INDEX OF EXHIBITS

Document

3(i)     Campbell's Restated Certificate of Incorporation as amended through
         February 24, 1997 was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
         ("SEC") with Campbell's Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended
         January 26, 1997, and is incorporated herein by reference.

3(ii)    Campbell's By-Laws, effective as of June 15, 1997, were filed with the
         SEC with Campbell's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 3, 1997,
         and are incorporated herein by reference.

4        There is no instrument with respect to long-term debt of the company
         that involves indebtedness or securities authorized thereunder
         exceeding 10 percent of the total assets of the company and its
         subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. The company agrees to file a copy
         of any instrument or agreement defining the rights of holders of
         long-term debt of the company upon request of the SEC.

9        Major Stockholders' Voting Trust Agreement dated June 2, 1990, as
         amended, was filed with the SEC by the Trustees of the Major
         Stockholders' Voting Trust as Exhibit A to Schedule 13D dated June 5,
         1990, and is incorporated herein by reference.

10(a)    Campbell Soup Company 1984 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended on
         March 30, 1998.

10(b)    Campbell Soup Company 1994 Long-Term Incentive Plan as amended on March
         30, 1998.

10(c)    Campbell Soup Company Management Worldwide Incentive Plan, as amended
         on November 17, 1994, was filed with the SEC with Campbell's 1994 Proxy
         Statement, and is incorporated herein by reference.

10(d)    Mid-Career Hire Pension Program, as amended on February 22, 1996, was
         filed with the SEC with Campbell's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
         July 28, 1996, and is incorporated herein by reference.

10(e)    Personal Choice, Financial Reimbursement Program for Campbell Soup
         Company Executives, effective August 1, 1994, was filed with the SEC
         with Campbell's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 30, 1995, and
         is incorporated herein by reference.





10(f)    Supplemental Savings Plan, as amended on May 25, 1995 was filed with
         the SEC with Campbell's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 30,
         1995 and is incorporated herein by reference.

10(g)    Salary Deferral Plan, effective January 1, 1996, was filed with the SEC
         with Campbell's Form S-8 on 10(g) February 6, 1996, and is incorporated
         herein by reference.

10(h)    Severance Protection Agreement dated April 1, 1998, with Ellen Oran
         Kaden, Senior Vice President - Law and Government Affairs. Agreements
         with eight (8) other executive officers are in all material respects
         the same as that with Ms. Ellen Oran Kaden.

10(i)    Supplemental pension arrangement for David W. Johnson, Chairman, was
         filed with the SEC in Campbell's 1997 Proxy Statement on page 17 under
         the heading "Pension Plan", and is incorporated herein by reference.

13       Pages 20 through 32 of the company's Annual Report to Shareowners for
         the fiscal year ended August 2, 1998.

21       Subsidiaries (Direct and Indirect) of Campbell.

23       Consent of Independent Accountants.

24(a)    Power of Attorney.

24(b)    Certified copy of the resolution of Campbell's Board of Directors
         authorizing signatures pursuant to a power of attorney.

27       Financial Data Schedules (not considered to be filed).







