
10-K405
FORM 10-K CAMPBELL SOUP  COMPANY



================================================================================

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

                              --------------------

                  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

    FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED                        COMMISSION FILE NUMBER
           AUGUST 3, 1997                                     1-3822

                              CAMPBELL SOUP COMPANY

                NEW JERSEY                              21-0419870
          STATE OF INCORPORATION             I.R.S. EMPLOYER IDENTIFICATION NO.


                                 CAMPBELL PLACE
                          CAMDEN, NEW JERSEY 08103-1799
                           PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES

                        TELEPHONE NUMBER: (609) 342-4800

                              --------------------

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

TITLE OF EACH CLASS                   NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE ON WHICH REGISTERED
- -------------------                   -----------------------------------------
CAPITAL STOCK, PAR VALUE $.0375               NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE
                                              PHILADELPHIA STOCK EXCHANGE

        SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT: NONE

                              --------------------

              INDICATE BY CHECK MARK WHETHER THE REGISTRANT: (1) HAS FILED ALL
REPORTS REQUIRED TO BE FILED BY SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934 DURING THE PRECEDING 12 MONTHS (OR FOR SUCH SHORTER PERIOD THAT THE
REGISTRANT WAS REQUIRED TO FILE SUCH REPORTS), AND (2) HAS BEEN SUBJECT TO SUCH
FILING REQUIREMENTS FOR THE PAST 90 DAYS.

                                 YES X    NO    .
                                    ----    ----

              INDICATE BY CHECK MARK IF DISCLOSURE OF DELINQUENT FILERS PURSUANT
TO ITEM 405 OF REGULATION S-K IS NOT CONTAINED HEREIN, AND WILL NOT BE
CONTAINED, TO THE BEST OF REGISTRANT'S KNOWLEDGE, IN DEFINITIVE PROXY OR
INFORMATION STATEMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN PART III OF THIS FORM 10-K
OR ANY AMENDMENT TO THIS FORM 10-K. [X]

              AS OF SEPTEMBER 22, 1997, THE AGGREGATE MARKET VALUE OF CAPITAL
STOCK HELD BY NON-AFFILIATES OF THE REGISTRANT WAS $12,857,264,941. THERE WERE
457,530,587 SHARES OF CAPITAL STOCK OUTSTANDING AS OF SEPTEMBER 22, 1997.

              PORTIONS OF THE NOTICE OF ANNUAL MEETING AND PROXY STATEMENT DATED
OCTOBER 10, 1997, FOR THE ANNUAL MEETING OF SHAREOWNERS TO BE HELD ON NOVEMBER
20, 1997, ARE INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE INTO PART III. PORTIONS OF THE ANNUAL
REPORT TO SHAREOWNERS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED AUGUST 3, 1997 ARE INCORPORATED
BY REFERENCE INTO PARTS I AND II.


================================================================================




                                     PART I



ITEM 1. BUSINESS

                                   THE COMPANY

Campbell Soup Company, together with its consolidated subsidiaries, is a global
manufacturer and marketer of high quality, branded convenience food products.
Campbell was incorporated as a business corporation under the laws of New Jersey
on November 23, 1922; however, through predecessor organizations, it traces its
heritage in the food business back to 1869. In September 1997, the company
announced its intention to spin off certain specialty foods businesses to its
shareowners as an independent publicly-held company. The new company will
include Swanson frozen foods, Vlasic pickles, and certain European and Argentine
businesses, including Swift-Armour Sociedad Anomina Argentina.

During 1997, the company acquired Erasco GmbH, Germany's leading soup company.
The company also divested its Marie's dressing business in the United States and
Beeck-Feinkost, GmbH, a German chilled foods business. As part of its ongoing
review of all vertically integrated operations, the company sold its beef
ranches in Argentina and is in the process of divesting its poultry operations
in the United States. In September 1997, the company agreed to finance a
proposal by Arnotts Limited to acquire its outstanding ordinary shares held by
minority shareowners. It is expected that this transaction will increase the
company's ownership of Arnotts to 100%.

The company considers itself to be engaged in a single industry segment, the
manufacture of prepared convenience foods. The company operates in three core
divisions: Soup and Sauces, Biscuits and Confectionery, and Foodservice. Soup
and Sauces includes the worldwide soup businesses, Prego Spaghetti sauce,
Franco-American pasta, Pace Mexican foods, Swanson broths, and the V8 beverage
business. Biscuits and Confectionery includes the Pepperidge Farm, Godiva,
Arnotts Limited, and Delacre businesses. Foodservice consists of products
distributed to the food service and home meal replacement markets and includes
Campbell's Restaurant Soups, Pace Tabletop picante and Campbell's Specialty
Kitchens entrees. Businesses comprising a fourth division consist of Swanson
frozen foods, Vlasic pickles, and other specialty foods businesses. See also
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and of Financial
Condition" at pages 29 to 34 of the company's 1997 Annual Report to Shareowners
for the fiscal year ended August 3, 1997 ("1997 Annual Report"), which is
incorporated herein by reference.

                                   INGREDIENTS

Most ingredients required for the manufacture of the company's food products are
purchased from others, except for mushrooms and beef. Swift-Armour Sociedad
Anomina Argentina, an Argentine corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary, has
been the principal supplier of cooked beef to the company.

                                      -2-


In general, satisfactory sources of supply of ingredients are available.
Ingredient inventories are at a peak during the late fall and decline during the
winter and spring. Since many ingredients of suitable quality are available in
sufficient quantities only at certain seasons, the company makes heavy purchases
of such ingredients during their respective seasons. As a result of factors not
within the company's control, the prices of ingredients fluctuate significantly
from time to time.


                                    CUSTOMERS

In the United States, sales solicitation activities are conducted by the
company's own sales force and through broker and distributor arrangements. The
company's products are generally resold to consumers in retail stores,
restaurants and other food service establishments. No material part of the
business is dependent upon a single customer. Shipments are made promptly by the
company after receipt and acceptance of orders.

                            TRADEMARKS AND TECHNOLOGY

The company markets its food products globally under a number of significant
trademarks. The company considers such trademarks, taken as a whole, to be of
material importance to its business and, consequently, aggressively seeks to
protect its rights in them.

Although the company owns a number of valuable patents, its business is not
dependent upon any single patent or any group of related patents.

                                   COMPETITION

The company experiences vigorous competition for sales of its principal products
in its major markets, both within the United States and abroad, from numerous
competitors of varying sizes. The principal areas of competition are quality,
price, advertising, promotion and service.

                                 WORKING CAPITAL

For information relating to the company's cash and other working capital items,
see pages 29 through 34 of the company's 1997 Annual Report in the section
entitled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and
Financial Condition", which are incorporated herein by reference.

                            RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

During the last three fiscal years, the company's expenditures on research
activities relating to new products and the improvement of existing products
were approximately $77 million in 1997, $84 million in 1996 and $88 million in
1995.

                                    EMPLOYEES

At August 3, 1997, there were approximately 37,000 persons employed by the
company.


                                      -3-


                               FOREIGN OPERATIONS

For information with respect to the revenue, operating profitability and
identifiable assets attributable to the company's foreign operations, see page
39 of the 1997 Annual Report in the section of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements entitled "Geographic Area Information", which is
incorporated herein by reference.

                              FINANCIAL INFORMATION

For information with respect to revenue, operating profitability and
identifiable assets attributable to the company's only industry segment, see
page 39 of the 1997 Annual Report in the section of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements entitled "Geographic Area Information", which is
incorporated herein by reference.

                               RECENT DEVELOPMENTS

The information presented on pages 33 and 34 of the 1997 Annual Report in the
section entitled, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations
and Financial Condition" is incorporated herein by reference.

               CAUTIONARY STATEMENT ON FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

From time to time, the company makes oral and written statements that may
constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the "Act") or by the SEC in its rules,
regulations and releases. The company desires to take advantage of the "safe
harbor" provisions in the Act for forward-looking statements made from time to
time, including, but not limited to, the forward-looking statements made in the
1997 Annual Report, including the President and Chief Executive Officer's Letter
to Shareowners (pages 1 and 2), the Chairman's Letter (page 3) and Management's
Discussion and Analysis (pages 29 to 34) and other statements made in this Form
10-K and in other filings with the SEC.

The company cautions readers that any such forward-looking statements made by or
on behalf of the company are based on management's current expectations and
beliefs but are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results could
differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking
statements. Among the factors that could impact the company's ability to achieve
its strategic growth plan goals are:

        -  the impact of strong competitive response to the company's efforts to
           leverage its brand power with product innovation and new advertising;

        -  the inherent risks in the marketplace associated with new product
           introductions, including uncertainties about trade and consumer
           acceptance;

                                      -4-


        -  the continuation of the company's successful record of integrating
           acquisitions into its existing operations and the availability of new
           acquisition and alliance opportunities that build shareowner wealth;

        -  the company's ability to achieve the gains in productivity and
           improvements in capacity utilization that it anticipates from its
           cost productivity (including low cost business systems),
           consolidation and restructuring program;

        -  the company's ability to achieve the forecasted savings related to
           the restructuring program discussed in Management's Discussion and
           Analysis;

        -  the company's ability to achieve sales and earnings forecasts, which
           are based on assumptions about sales volume;

        -  the company's ability to find buyers to purchase underperforming
           businesses at prices considered appropriate to complete the
           divestitures in 1998;

        -  the market risks associated with financial instruments which may be
           subject to unforeseen economic changes, such as currency exchange
           rates, inflation rates and recessionary trends;

        -  the receipt of a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service that the
           spinoff of certain non-core specialty foods businesses will be a tax
           free transaction to United States shareowners, various regulatory
           approvals and final approval from the company's Board of Directors;

        -  the approval by a majority of Arnotts Limited's shareholders
           (excluding the company and its subsidiaries) holding 75% of shares
           voted and approval of the Supreme Court of New South Wales of the
           proposal to finance the Arnotts Limited purchase of the minority
           shareholders' ownership interest; and

        -  the impact of unforeseen economic and political changes in
           international markets where the company competes such as currency
           exchange rates, inflation rates, recession, foreign ownership
           restrictions and other external factors over which the company has no
           control.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

Manufacturing facilities of the company in the United States include six thermal
processing plants located in California, Michigan, North Carolina, Ohio and
Texas. Other of the company's convenience foods are also manufactured in the
United States at various plant locations.

Outside the United States, the company has manufacturing and distribution
facilities in Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, England,
France, Germany, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, the Netherlands,
New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, Scotland and other locations.

                                      -5-


The company's operations also include can-making facilities, mushroom farms and
tomato paste, pasta and spice processing facilities.

The company also operates retail confectionery shops in the United States,
Canada, Europe and Japan; retail bakery thrift stores in the United States; a
mail order facility; and other plants and facilities at various locations in the
United States and abroad. Management believes that the company's manufacturing
and processing plants are well maintained and are generally adequate to support
the current operations of the business.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

In management's opinion, there are no pending claims or litigation, including
those proceedings specifically discussed below, the outcome of which would have
a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position or results of
operations of the company.

As previously reported, in October 1995, the United States of America filed a
complaint against Campbell at the request of the Environmental Protection Agency
("EPA") in the United States Court for the Eastern District of California for
alleged violations of the Clean Air Act relating to the company's can-making
operations at its Sacramento, CA facility. In August 1997, the United States of
America, at the request of the EPA, filed a second complaint in the same
jurisdiction for alleged violations of the Clean Air Act also relating to the
company's can-making operations at its Sacramento, CA facility. Both suits seek
monetary and injunctive relief. Campbell is disputing these alleged violations.

In addition, as previously reported, Campbell received a complaint from the EPA
in December 1996, relating to waste water discharge from the company's
can-making operation at its Sacramento, CA facility. Campbell has completed
corrective action, and the EPA is proceeding administratively to resolve this
matter.

The company has also been named as a potentially responsible party in a number
of proceedings brought under the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund. Although the impact
of these proceedings cannot be predicted at this time due to the large number of
other potentially responsible parties and the speculative nature of clean-up
cost estimates, the ultimate disposition is not expected to have a material
effect on the company's consolidated financial position or results of
operations.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

        None.

                                      -6-


EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF CAMPBELL

The following list of executive officers as of October 2, 1997, is included
herein as an item in Part I of this Form 10-K:

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF CAMPBELL



                                      -7-


Each of the above-named officers has been employed by the company in an
executive or managerial capacity for at least five years, except Basil L.
Anderson, Ronald E. Elmquist, Mark M. Leckie, Dale F. Morrison and Edward F.
Walsh. Basil L. Anderson served as Chief Financial Officer (1992-1996),
Worldwide Treasurer (1987-1991) and U.S. Treasurer (1985-1987) of Scott Paper
Company prior to joining Campbell in 1996. Ronald E. Elmquist served as Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer of White Swan, Inc. for more than five years prior
to joining Campbell in 1994. Mark M. Leckie served as Executive Vice President
and General Manager of the Post Division (1993-1997), Vice President-General
Foods U.S.A. and Assoc. General Manager, Post (1993) and Vice President -
Marketing, Grocery Products (1991-1993) of Kraft, Inc. prior to joining Campbell
in 1997. Dale F. Morrison served as President, Frito Lay North (1994-1995), Vice
President Marketing and Sales, Frito Lay Central Division (1993-1994) and headed
PepsiCo, Inc. businesses in the United Kingdom (1990-1993) prior to joining
Campbell in 1995. Prior to joining Campbell in 1992, Edward F. Walsh served as
Senior Vice President - Administration of Nutri-System, Inc. (1990-1992).

There is no family relationship among any of the company's executive officers or
between any such officer and any director of Campbell. Executive officers of
Campbell are elected at the November 1997 meeting of the Board of Directors.



                                     PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED SHAREOWNER MATTERS

Campbell's Capital Stock is listed and principally traded on the New York Stock
Exchange. Campbell's Capital Stock is also listed and traded on the Philadelphia
Stock Exchange, The International Stock Exchange of the United Kingdom and the
Republic of Ireland Limited and the Swiss Exchange. On September 22, 1997, there
were 34,655 holders of record of Campbell's Capital Stock. The market price and
dividend information with respect to Campbell's Capital Stock are set forth on
page 46 of the 1997 Annual Report in the section of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements entitled "Quarterly Data (unaudited)" which is incorporated
herein by reference. Future dividends will be dependent upon future earnings,
financial requirements and other factors.

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The information called for by this Item is set forth on pages 48 and 49 of the
1997 Annual Report in the section entitled "Eleven-Year Review - Consolidated"
which is incorporated herein by reference. Such information should be read in
conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto of the
company included in Item 8 of this Report.

                                      -8-


ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND
        FINANCIAL CONDITION

The information presented on pages 29 through 34 of the 1997 Annual Report in
the section entitled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of
Operations and Financial Condition" is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The information presented on pages 32 and 33 of the 1997 Annual Report in the
section entitled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations
and Financial Condition" is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The information presented on pages 35 through 47 of the 1997 Annual Report is
incorporated herein by reference. With the exception of the aforementioned
information and the information incorporated by reference in Items 1, 5, 6 and
7, the 1997 Annual Report is not deemed to be filed as part of this Form 10-K.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

        None.



                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The sections entitled "Election of Directors" and "Directors and Executive
Officers Stock Ownership Reports" set forth on pages 1 through 4 and page 24 of
Campbell's Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement dated October 10, 1997
(the "1997 Proxy Statement") are incorporated herein by reference.

The information required by this Item relating to the executive officers of
Campbell is set forth in Part I of this Report on pages 6 through 8 under the
heading "Executive Officers of Campbell".

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information set forth on pages 10 through 18 of the 1997 Proxy Statement in
the section entitled "Compensation of Executive Officers" is incorporated herein
by reference.


                                      -9-



ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The information required by this Item is set forth at pages 5, 6, 23 and 24 of
the 1997 Proxy Statement in the sections entitled "Security Ownership of
Directors and Executive Officers" and "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
Owners" and is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

         None.


                                     PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON
         FORM 8-K

(a)     1. Financial Statements

           Consolidated Statements of Earnings for 1997, 1996 and 1995

           Consolidated Balance Sheets as of August 3, 1997 and July 28, 1996

           Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for 1997, 1996 and 1995

           Consolidated Statements of Shareowners' Equity for 1997, 1996 and 

           Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

           Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

           Report of Independent Accountants

           The foregoing Financial Statements are incorporated into Part II, 
           Item 8 of this Report by reference to pages 35 through 47 of the 1997
           Annual Report.


        2. Financial Statement Schedules

           None.


                                      -10-




            3. Exhibits





                                      -11-



            3. Exhibits (Cont'd.)



- ------------------
* A management contract, compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed
by Item 14(c) of this Report.

(b)   Reports on Form 8-K

      There were no reports on Form 8-K filed by Campbell during the fourth
      quarter of fiscal 1997.


                                      -12-


                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, Campbell has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date:  October 22, 1997
                                         CAMPBELL SOUP COMPANY


                                         By: /s/ Basil L. Anderson
                                             -------------------------
                                             Basil L. Anderson
                                             Executive Vice President
                                             and Chief Financial Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of Campbell and in the
capacity and on the date indicated.

Date:  October 22, 1997


         /s/ Basil L Anderson                     /s/ Gerald S. Lord
         --------------------                     ------------------
         Basil L. Anderson                        Gerald S. Lord
         Executive Vice President                 Vice President - Controller
         and Chief Financial Officer





                                      -13-


                                INDEX OF EXHIBITS






                                      I-1


                           INDEX OF EXHIBITS (cont'd.)




                                      I-2

