
10-K
FORM 10-K, CAMPBELL SOUP COMPANY



================================================================================


                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                           WASHINGTON, D.C.   20549

                                   FORM 10-K
   
              -------------------------------------------------

                 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

 FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED                              COMMISSION FILE NUMBER
     JULY 30, 1995                                                1-3822
                                                        

                             CAMPBELL SOUP COMPANY


             NEW JERSEY                                21-0419870
     STATE OF INCORPORATION                  I.R.S. EMPLOYER IDENTIFICATION NO.


                                CAMPBELL PLACE
                        CAMDEN, NEW JERSEY  08103-1799
                         PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES

                       TELEPHONE NUMBER: (609) 342-4800

              -------------------------------------------------
   

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:




       SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:  NONE

              -------------------------------------------------
   

        Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all 
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

                            Yes    X       No 
                               --------       ------.

        Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant 
to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K. / /

        As of September 18, 1995, the aggregate market value of Capital 
Stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant was $5,910,581,338.50.
(The exclusion of the market value of shares owned by any person shall not be
deemed an admission that such person is an "affiliate" of the Registrant.)
There were 248,439,373 shares of Capital Stock outstanding as of September 18,
1995.

        Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement dated October 6, 1995, 
for the Annual Meeting of Shareowners to be held on November 16, 1995, are 
incorporated by reference into Part III.

================================================================================
This Form 10-K contains 114 pages including exhibits.  An index to exhibits is
on page 39.

                                     PART I

ITEM 1.   BUSINESS

                                  THE COMPANY

Campbell Soup Company, together with its consolidated subsidiaries, is a
leading manufacturer and marketer of high quality, branded convenience food
products.  Campbell was incorporated as a business corporation under the laws
of New Jersey on November 23, 1922; however, through predecessor organizations,
its beginnings in the food business can be traced back to 1869.

During 1995, the company acquired Pace Foods, the world's leading producer and
marketer of Mexican sauces; Fresh Start Bakeries, Inc., a food service baking
company with operations in the U.S., Europe and South America; and
Stratford-upon-Avon Foods, a canned vegetable and fruit company in England.
The company also acquired additional shares in Arnotts Limited, Australia's
leading biscuit manufacturer, boosting its share ownership to 65%.

                                    PRODUCTS

The company produces and sells a wide array of food products including canned
foods such as soups, juices, gravies, pasta, meat and vegetables; frozen foods
such as dinners, breakfasts, entrees, garlic breads and rolls, sandwiches, meat
pies, seafood, vegetables, pastries and cakes; pickles, olives, peppers and
relishes; fresh bread and rolls; croutons and stuffing; cookies, crackers and
snacks; dry soups; refrigerated foods such as salads, antipasto, salad
dressings, cheese spreads and dips, sauces, desserts and entrees; vinegar,
vegetable oils, mayonnaise and mustard; beverage and dessert mixes; sauces,
including salsa, picante, pasta and barbecue sauces; nuts; pates; chocolates
and other confectionery items; bubble gum; fish; poultry; and fresh mushrooms.
The company's food products are for the most part prepared from confidential
recipes developed in its kitchens and research laboratories.  To assure
wholesome, attractive and uniform products, high standards of quality are
maintained by a rigorous system of quality assurance.

In the United States, sales solicitation activities are conducted by the
company's own sales force and through broker and distributor arrangements.  No
material part of the business is dependent upon a single customer.  Shipments
are made promptly by the company after receipt and acceptance of orders.

                                   TRADEMARKS

The company markets its food products under a number of significant trademarks.
The company considers such trademarks, taken as a whole, to be of material
importance to its business and, consequently, aggressively seeks to protect its
rights in them.  In the United States, these include: Campbell's, M'm! M'm!
Good!, Pepperidge Farm, Godiva, Vlasic, Swanson, Pace, Mrs. Paul's, V8,
Franco-American, Prego, SpaghettiOs, Marie's, Open Pit, Healthy Request, Home
Cookin', Goldfish, Hungry-Man, Mac & More, Lunch and More, Great Starts, and
others.





                                      -2-

Trademarks used outside the United States include: Delacre, Arnott's, Swift,
Habitant, Lacroix, Fray Bentos, Kohi, Exeter, Plate, Ace, La Patrona, MacFarms,
La Main Bleue, Royal Mail, Candy Man, Tubble Gum, Roll Up, Beeck, Kattus,
Probare, Granny's, Devos-Lemmens, Imperial, Kwatta, Lutti, Leo and others.

The company's trademarks also include federally registered depictions of
certain characters and designs such as the "Campbell Kids", the "Campbell's"
condensed soup can label, the "Vlasic" stork, the "Godiva" Gold Ballotin box,
the "Goldfish" cracker shape, the "Pace" salsa and picante sauce jar shape, and
others.

Although the company owns a number of valuable patents, its business is not
dependent upon any single patent or any group of related patents.

                                 COMPETITION

The company experiences vigorous competition for sales of all its principal
products in its major markets from numerous competitors of varying sizes. The
principal areas of competition are quality, price, advertising, promotion, and
service.  The company is the largest manufacturer in the United States of
condensed and ready-to-serve soups, vegetable juice, tomato juice, pickles,
Mexican sauces, and canned poultry; and has a strong position in the canned
beans, canned gravies, canned pasta products, pasta sauces, frozen breakfasts
and frozen prepared dinners segments.

                                  INGREDIENTS

Most ingredients required for the manufacture of the company's food products
are purchased from others, except for mushrooms, poultry and beef.
Swift-Armour Sociedad Anonima Argentina, an Argentine corporation and a
wholly-owned subsidiary, has been the principal supplier of cooked beef to the
company.

In general, satisfactory sources of supply of ingredients are available.
Ingredient inventories are at a peak during the late fall and decline during
the winter and spring.  Since many ingredients of suitable quality are
available in sufficient quantities only at certain seasons, the company makes
heavy purchases of such ingredients during their respective seasons.  As a
result of factors not within the company's control, the prices of ingredients
fluctuate significantly from time to time.

                                WORKING CAPITAL

Information relating to the company's cash and other working capital items is
set forth in Part II of this Report on pages F-2 through F-7 in the section
entitled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and
Financial Condition".





                                     -3-

                            RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

During the last three fiscal years, the company's expenditures on research
activities relating to new products and the improvement of existing products
were approximately $88 million in 1995, $78 million in 1994, and $69 million in
1993.  The company conducts this research at the Campbell Institute for
Research and Technology at the company's headquarters in Camden, New Jersey,
and in other locations in the United States and foreign countries.

                             ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

The company has programs for the operation and design of its facilities which
meet or exceed applicable environmental rules and regulations.  The company's
expenditures for capital improvements during fiscal 1995 were approximately
$391 million, of which, according to company estimates, approximately $7.2
million was for compliance with environmental laws and regulations in the
United States.  The company further estimates that approximately $6.0 million
of the capital expenditures anticipated during fiscal 1996 will be for
compliance with such environmental laws and regulations.  The company believes
that continued compliance with existing environmental laws and regulations will
not have a material effect on capital expenditures, earnings or the competitive
position of the company.

                                  EMPLOYEES

At July 30, 1995, there were 43,781 persons employed by the company.

                              FOREIGN OPERATIONS

Information with respect to the revenue, operating profitability and
identifiable assets attributable to the company's foreign operations is set
forth in Part II of this Report on page F-16 in the section of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements entitled "Geographic Area Information".

                            FINANCIAL INFORMATION

Information with respect to the revenue, operating profit and identifiable
assets for the company's only industry segment is set forth in Part II hereof
on page F-16 in the section of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
entitled "Geographic Area Information".

ITEM 2.   PROPERTIES AT JULY 30, 1995

The company's principal manufacturing and processing operations in the United
States are located in Arkansas (frozen foods; ingredients), California (heat
processed; dried and frozen foods; condiments; bakery; mushrooms; ingredients),
Connecticut (bakery), Delaware (condiments), Florida (bakery; biscuit), Georgia
(dry and heat processed foods; ingredients; mushrooms), Hawaii (nuts; bakery),
Illinois (bakery; mushrooms), Kansas (bakery), Michigan (condiments; heat
processed foods;





                                      -4-

mushrooms), Nebraska (frozen foods; ingredients), New Jersey (ingredients),
North Carolina (heat processed foods), Ohio (heat processed; biscuit),
Pennsylvania (confectionery; biscuit; bakery; mushrooms), South Carolina
(bakery), Texas (heat processed foods; ingredients), Utah (biscuit; bakery;
frozen foods) and Wisconsin (ingredients; condiments).

Outside the U.S., the company has manufacturing and distribution facilities in
Argentina (meat products; heat processed and chilled foods), Australia
(biscuit; heat processed foods; juices; mushrooms), Belgium (confectionery;
biscuit; heat processed foods), Brazil (bakery), Canada (heat processed and
frozen foods), Chile (bakery), England (heat processed and frozen foods),
France (confectionery; biscuit; heat processed foods), Germany (refrigerated
and heat processed foods; bakery; distribution), Hong Kong (distribution),
Japan (distribution), Mexico (ingredients; heat processed and frozen foods;
distribution), the Netherlands (confectionery; frozen foods; biscuit;
distribution), New Zealand (biscuit; distribution), Papua New Guinea (biscuit)
and Scotland (frozen foods).

The company also operates 126 retail confectionery shops in the United States,
Canada and Europe; 88 retail bakery thrift stores in the United States; 1 mail
order facility; and other plants and facilities at various locations in the
United States and abroad.

The company's manufacturing and processing plants are efficient and well
maintained.  In the design of plant facilities, particular emphasis is placed
on quality assurance in the finished products, safety in the operations, and
avoidance or abatement of pollution.  The company maintains its own engineering
staff, which monitors these facilities with a view toward continuously
upgrading and modernizing their design and construction.

ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

In management's opinion, there are no pending claims or litigation, the outcome
of which would have a material effect on the consolidated financial position of
the company.  Campbell has received a notice of violation from the United
States Environmental Protection Agency relating to certain air emission permits
at its Sacramento, CA facility.  Campbell is disputing the alleged violations.
The company has been named as a potentially responsible party in a number of
proceedings brought under the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund.  The ultimate
impact of these environmental proceedings cannot be predicted at this time due
to the large number of other potentially responsible parties and the
speculative nature of clean-up cost estimates, but it is not expected to be
material either individually or in the aggregate.

ITEM 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

          None.





                                     -5-

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF CAMPBELL AT OCTOBER 2, 1995

The following list of executive officers as of October 2, 1995, is included
herein as an item in Part I of this Form 10-K:







                                     -6-

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF CAMPBELL AT OCTOBER 2, 1995




Each of the above-named officers has been employed by the company in an
executive or managerial capacity for at least five years, except Frank E.
Weise, III, Ronald E. Elmquist, John L. Forbis, Dale F. Morrison, Daniel J.
O'Neill, Alfred Poe, J. Neil Stalter and Edward F. Walsh.  Frank E. Weise, III
served as Comptroller (chief financial officer), Food and Beverage Sector, of
The Procter & Gamble Company prior to joining Campbell in 1992.   Ronald E.
Elmquist served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of White Swan, Inc.
prior to joining Campbell in 1994.  John L. Forbis was a partner at Arthur D.
Little prior to joining Campbell in 1994.  Dale F. Morrison served as
President, Frito Lay North America (1993-1995), and headed PepsiCo, Inc.
businesses in the United Kingdom (1990-1993) prior to joining Campbell in 1995.
Daniel J. O'Neill served as Vice President - Group Managing Director, Europe
(1993-1994), Vice President - Group Business Manager, North America (1992-1993)
and Vice President U.S. Consumer Products, Homecare (1990-1992) of S.C. Johnson
prior to  joining Campbell in 1994.  Alfred Poe served as Vice President -
Sales (1991) and Vice President - Brands (1988-1991) of M&M/Mars prior to
joining Campbell in 1991.  J. Neil Stalter served as Vice President - Corporate
Communications of Eastman Kodak Company prior to joining Campbell in 1991.
Prior to joining Campbell in 1993, Edward F. Walsh served as Senior Vice
President - Administration of Nutri-System, Inc. (1990-1993).





                                      -7-

There is no family relationship between any of the above named officers or
between any such officer and any director of Campbell.  Each officer of
Campbell is elected at the meeting of the Board of Directors next following the
Annual Meeting of Shareowners to serve one year or until his or her successor
is elected and qualified.


                                   PART II

ITEM 5.   MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED
          SHAREOWNER MATTERS

Campbell's Capital Stock is listed on the New York and Philadelphia Stock
Exchanges, The Stock Exchange-London and the Swiss Stock Exchanges.  On
September 18, 1995, there were 30,748 holders of record of Campbell's Capital
Stock.  The market price and dividend information with respect to Campbell's
Capital Stock are set forth on page F-26 of this Report in the section of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements entitled "Quarterly Data
(unaudited)".  Future dividends will be dependent upon future earnings,
financial requirements and other factors.

ITEM 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The information called for by this Item is set forth on page F-1 of this
Report.  Such information should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated
Financial Statements and Notes thereto of the company included in Item 8 of
this Report.

ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
          AND FINANCIAL CONDITION

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
Condition is presented on pages F-2 through F-7 of this Report.

ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
          
The information called for by this Item is contained in a separate section of
this Report.  See the Index to Financial Statements on page F-8 of the Report.

ITEM 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING
          AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

          None.





                                     -8-

                                   PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The sections entitled "Election of Directors" and "Compliance with Section 16
of the Exchange Act" set forth on pages 1 through 3 and page 27 of Campbell's
Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement dated October 6, 1995 (the "1995
Proxy Statement") are incorporated herein by reference.

The information required by this Item relating to the executive officers of
Campbell is set forth in Part I of this Report on pages 6 through 8 under the
heading "Executive Officers of Campbell at October 2, 1995".

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information set forth on pages 9 through 14 of the 1995 Proxy Statement in
the section entitled "Compensation of Executive Officers" is incorporated
herein by reference.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND 
          MANAGEMENT

The information required by this Item is set forth at pages 4 and 5 and pages
26 and 27 of the 1995 Proxy Statement in the sections entitled "Election of
Directors" and "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners" and is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

          None.





                                     -9-


                                   PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON 
          FORM 8-K

(a)  1.   All Financial Statements
          
          The Index of Financial Statements is included on page F-8 of this 
          Report.

     2.   Financial Statement Schedules
     
          None.
          
     3.   Exhibits
          


          




                                     -10-

3.        Exhibits (Cont'd.)




- ---------------------------------
* A management contract, compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed
  by Item 14(c) of this Report.

(b)       Reports on Form 8-K

          There were no reports on Form 8-K filed by Campbell during the
          fourth quarter of fiscal 1995.





                                     -11-

                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, Campbell has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date:  October 6, 1995
                                         CAMPBELL SOUP COMPANY
                                         
                                         
                                         By:/s/ Robert Subin                  
                                            -----------------------------------
                                            Robert Subin
                                            Senior Vice President - Finance

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of Campbell and
in the capacity and on the date indicated.

Date:  October 6, 1995


  (a)  /s/ David W. Johnson              (b)  /s/ Leo J. Greaney       
       ------------------------------         ------------------------------
       David W. Johnson                       Leo J. Greaney
       Chairman, President and Chief          Vice President - Controller
       Executive Officer                      (Principal financial and       
       (Principal executive officer)          accounting officer)


                           (c)  Directors


                                /s/ David W. Johnson                 
                                -------------------------
                                David W. Johnson
                                            and:
                                
            Alva A. App                                 Mary Alice Malone
            Robert A. Beck                              Charles H. Mott
            Edmund M. Carpenter                         Ralph A. Pfeiffer, Jr.
            Bennett Dorrance, Vice Chairman             George M. Sherman
            Thomas W. Field, Jr.                        Donald M. Stewart
            David K. P. Li                              George Strawbridge, Jr.
            Philip E. Lippincott                        Robert J. Vlasic
                                                        Charlotte C. Weber
                                                        
                                                        
            
                         By:  /s/ John J. Furey                                
                              ---------------------------------------
                              John J. Furey, Corporate Secretary
                              as Attorney-in-Fact





                                     -12-

ITEM 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

Campbell Soup Company
ELEVEN-YEAR REVIEW - CONSOLIDATED
(millions, except per share amounts)






                                      F-1

             CAMPBELL SOUP COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES


ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
          RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION


RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

OVERVIEW

Net sales rose 9% to $7.28 billion compared to $6.69 billion in the prior year,
with strategic acquisitions contributing a third of the company's sales growth.
Net earnings climbed 11% to $698 million versus $630 million last year.
Earnings per share were $2.80, after $.08 dilution from acquisitions, up 12%
over $2.51 for the previous year.

All three operating divisions - U.S.A., Bakery & Confectionery and
International Grocery delivered record-breaking sales and earnings in 1995.

Global soup volume increased 2% as U.S. soup volume increased 1% and
international soup volume increased 8%.

Cash generated from operations climbed 22% to a record $1,185 million with a
major contribution coming from reductions in working capital, particularly
inventories which declined $63 million.


1995 COMPARED TO 1994

RESULTS BY DIVISION

U.S.A. - Net sales increased 8% to $4.3 billion in 1995 compared to $3.96
billion last year, with acquisitions contributing 50% of the sales growth.
Operating earnings rose 13% to $885 million.

Soup volume increased 1%, with continued improvement throughout the year, led
by "Home Cookin'" and "Healthy Request" soups and "Swanson" broths.  "Swanson"
frozen dinners and canned poultry achieved double-digit growth, and the new
"Swanson Mac n' More" single-serving dishes won excellent consumer reception.
New Vlasic "Sandwich Stackers" pickles and "Franco-American" pasta driven by
new shapes also achieved double-digit volume growth.  Pasta sauces, aided by
the recently introduced "Barilla" brand, posted solid volume gains, as did "V8"
vegetable juice and a wide range of Food Service products.

BAKERY & CONFECTIONERY - This division consists of Pepperidge Farm in the U.S.,
Arnotts Limited in Australia, Delacre and Lamy Lutti in Europe, and Godiva
Chocolatier worldwide.





                                      F-2

Net sales grew 8% in fiscal 1995 to $1.63 billion, from $1.51 billion last
year.  Operating earnings increased 8% to $182 million, led by Pepperidge Farm
and the confectionery businesses.

Pepperidge Farm cookies, frozen garlic bread and "Goldfish" crackers all
achieved solid volume growth.  The acquisition of Greenfield Healthy Foods gave
impetus to Pepperidge Farm's initiatives in the rapidly growing market for
fat-free cookies.  Godiva Chocolatier reported double-digit volume growth in
the U.S., Europe and Japan, and the Lamy Lutti confectionery business reported
good gains in France.

INTERNATIONAL GROCERY - International Grocery consists of soup, sauces, juices
and frozen businesses outside the U.S.

Net sales were $1.41 billion in fiscal 1995, up 10% from $1.28 billion last
year.  The Stratford-upon-Avon Foods acquisition in the United Kingdom
contributed 30% of the sales growth.  Operating earnings were $135 million, 12%
over the prior year.  The devaluation of the Mexican peso reduced earnings by
$4 million for the year.

Soup volume outside the U.S. rose 8%, paced by continuing gains in Canada and
Asia.  The company's businesses in Argentina also achieved exceptional sales
and earnings gains.

STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS

Gross margins improved .9 percentage points to 41.4% as a result of higher
selling prices and manufacturing efficiencies.

Marketing and selling expenses remained relatively flat at 19.1% of sales
versus 19.0% in 1994.  Advertising expenses increased .2% of sales from last
year due largely to the aggressive advertising strategy of Pace Foods and
additional advertising support for Pepperidge Farm "Goldfish" Crackers and
Vlasic "Sandwich Stackers".

Administrative expenses increased .1% of sales from 1994 due mainly to higher
management incentive plan costs.

Research and development increased 13% due to new product development
activities.

Other expense increased 54% due principally to amortization of intangibles
associated with acquisitions.

Interest expense increased 55% as a result of financing costs associated with
acquisitions.

The effective tax rate declined to 33% from 34.6% reflecting the benefit of tax
planning strategies and utilization of tax loss carryforwards.

Net margins increased to 9.6%, the highest level since the company went public
in 1954.





                                      F-3

1994 COMPARED TO 1993

RESULTS BY DIVISION

U.S.A. - Operating earnings for U.S.A. were $783 million in 1994 compared to
$780 million in 1993, before 1993 special charges of $175 million.  Net sales
were $3.96 billion in 1994, 3% below 1993.

These results reflect decisions by the U.S. Soup unit to level production and
ship to customer demand.  "Swanson" dinners, "Great Starts" breakfasts and
"Prego" spaghetti sauces achieved solid volume growth.  Food Service products
continued rapid growth led by frozen entrees and custom packed products for
quick-service restaurants.

BAKERY & CONFECTIONERY - Operating earnings rose 47% to $169 million in 1994
from $115 million in 1993 before special charges of $5 million.  The division
achieved net sales of $1.5 billion, a 19% increase.  This performance reflects
a full year of results for Arnotts in Australia, which was acquired in the
third quarter of 1993, a turnaround at Delacre in Europe and a strong
performance by Campbell's confectionery business.  Excluding the effect of the
additional investment in Arnotts, earnings increased 28% and sales were flat.

Pepperidge Farm's frozen pastry products and garlic breads achieved solid
volume gains.  At Arnotts, volume gains were strong in the chocolate category
and flavored snacks.  Sales at Delacre were down due to the lingering effects
of recession in Europe, but earnings were up significantly on lower
manufacturing costs.

INTERNATIONAL GROCERY - Operating earnings increased 18% to $120 million in
1994, from $102 million in 1993 before special charges of $173 million.
Operating earnings improvements were achieved in all International Grocery
locations with the United Kingdom, Argentina and Mexico turning in strong
performances.

Net sales were $1.28 billion in 1994, a 2% decline from $1.31 billion in 1993.
Net sales before divestitures and currency fluctuations increased 6.5%.  Soup
in the United Kingdom, Mexico, Australia and Hong Kong achieved very strong
volume growth.  Sales in the United Kingdom also benefited from the 1993
acquisition of "Fray Bentos".

STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS

Gross margins improved 1.7 points to 40.5% as a result of higher selling
prices.

Marketing and selling expenses increased to 19.0% of sales from 18.3% in 1993.
Growth in marketing spending was substantially less than in prior years as a
result of company efforts to refocus trade promotional activities on the
consumer and better match shipments to consumption.  Advertising was even with
1993.

Administrative expenses declined to 4.4% of sales from 4.6% a year ago, due
principally to lower management incentive plan expenses and cost controls.





                                      F-4

Research and development increased 13% due to new product development and the
opening of a new research and test facility in Camden, New Jersey.

Other expense increased $13 million because of minority owners' share of
Arnotts' earnings for the full year in 1994 versus five months in 1993.

Interest expense decreased 11% principally as a result of a decline in the
company's average effective interest rate to 7.6%.

The effective tax rate declined to 34.6% from 50.5% in 1993.  The higher rate
in 1993 reflected non-deductible divestiture and restructuring charges.

SPECIAL CHARGES

On January 28, 1993, the company's Board of Directors approved a divestiture
and restructuring program which specifically identified six manufacturing
plants to be closed and fourteen businesses to be sold.  This action was taken
to consolidate high cost, underutilized plants into more cost effective
locations; and to prune out low return, non-strategic businesses which were
detracting from the company's earnings and returns and were requiring an
inordinate amount of management's time and attention.

At the time of the Board's approval, charges of $353 million, $300 million
after tax or $1.19 per share, were recorded for the estimated loss on
disposition of plant assets, cost of closing each plant and loss on each
business divestiture.  Of the total charge of $353 million, non-cash charges of
$275 million represent the excess of net book value of plants to be closed and
businesses to be sold over the estimated sales proceeds.  The balance of the
charges represents cash outflows of $78 million which occurred or are expected
to occur as follows:  1993 and 1994 - $38 million, 1995 - $22 million, and 1996
- - $18 million.  The remaining reserve balance at July 30, 1995 is $96 million.
The company plans to complete the program in 1996.

The businesses to be divested represent approximately $340 million in annual
sales.  The entire program anticipates an annual improvement in net earnings of
$28 million when fully implemented.  This total includes savings after tax of
$19 million from direct labor and plant overhead reductions and $6 million in
non-cash savings principally from reductions in depreciation and amortization.
Cash outflows do not adversely affect the company's liquidity.  See Note 5 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of divestiture and
restructuring charges.

Effective August 3, 1992, the company adopted Statements of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 106, "Employers' Accounting for Postretirement
Benefits Other Than Pensions," No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes," and No.
112, "Employers' Accounting for Postemployment Benefits".  The after-tax effect
of these accounting changes was a "one-time" charge to 1993 earnings of $249
million or $.99 per share.  These accounting changes are more fully described
in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.





                                      F-5

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Increasingly strong cash flows, a strong balance sheet and an "AA" credit
rating demonstrate the company's continued superior financial strength.

CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES provided $1,185 million in 1995, an
increase of $217 million or 22% over 1994.  Over the last three years,
operating cash flow totaled $2.8 billion.  This strong cash generating
capability provides the company substantial financial flexibility in meeting
operating and investing objectives.

CAPITAL EXPENDITURES were $391 million in 1995, down $30 million from the prior
year as the company completed several cost saving and restructuring programs in
the prior year.  Construction of a new $150 million world-class manufacturing
facility by Arnotts began in the third quarter of 1995 with completion planned
for 1997.  Capital expenditures are projected to reach $450 million in 1996.

ACQUISITIONS in 1995 totaled $1.26 billion and included Pace Foods, the world's
leading producer and marketer of Mexican sauces; Fresh Start Bakeries, a food
service baking concern with operations in the U.S., Europe and South America;
Stratford-upon-Avon Foods, a canned fruit and vegetable company in England; and
Greenfield Foods, a U.S. baking operation specializing in low-fat cakes and
cookies.  The company also acquired additional shares in Arnotts Limited
boosting its share ownership in this Australian public company to 65%.  The
company is the "ultimate holding company" of Arnotts under Australian
Corporations Law.

These acquisitions were funded through cash generated from operations and short
and long-term borrowings of different maturities and interest rates.

LONG-TERM DEBT increased due to issuance of $300 million of notes bearing an
interest rate of 7.75% with a maturity in fiscal 1997.  This debt issuance
replaced a portion of the short-term borrowings that financed 1995
acquisitions.

SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS increased $431 million in 1995 to assist in meeting the
financing requirements of the company's acquisitions.

The company has ample financial resources, including unused lines of credit
totaling $722 million  and has ready access to financial markets around the
world.  The pre-tax interest coverage ratio was 9.4 for 1995 compared to 12.2
for 1994 reflecting the increase in debt relating to the acquisition program.

DIVIDEND payments increased $29 million or 11% to $295 million in 1995,
compared to $266 million in 1994.  Dividends declared in 1995 totaled $1.21 per
share, up from $1.09 per share in 1994.  The 1995 fourth quarter rate was 31
cents.

COMMON STOCK REPURCHASES for the treasury totaled 500 thousand shares at a cost
of $24 million during 1995, compared to repurchases of 4 million shares at a
cost of $145 million in the same period for 1994.





                                      F-6

TOTAL ASSETS increased 27% to a record $6.3 billion during 1995.  Intangible
assets increased $1.1 billion due to acquisitions and plant assets increased
$183 million due to acquisitions and capital expenditures.

TOTAL LIABILITIES increased $844 million or 28% with total borrowings
increasing $728 million in order to fund the acquisition program.

INFLATION

Inflation during recent years has not had a significant effect on the company.
The company  mitigates the effects of inflation by increasing selling prices
where appropriate and aggressively pursuing an ongoing cost-improvement effort
which includes capital investments in more efficient plants and equipment and
low cost business systems.  The divestiture and restructuring programs
instituted since 1988 have significantly improved the company's overall
productivity with sales per employee increasing 64% from $101 thousand to $166
thousand.





                                      F-7




                         INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


Financial Statements







                                      F-8


                      REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS





To the Shareowners and Directors
of Campbell Soup Company





    In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the
accompanying index present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of Campbell Soup Company and its subsidiaries at July 30, 1995 and
July 31, 1994, and results of their operations and their cash flows for each of
the three years in the period ended July 30, 1995 in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles.  These financial statements are the
responsibility of the company's management; our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.  We conducted our
audits of these statements in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing
the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management,
and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that
our audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above.

    As discussed in Note 2, the company changed its methods of accounting for
income taxes, postretirement benefits and postemployment benefits in 1993.



PRICE WATERHOUSE LLP



Thirty South Seventeenth Street
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103
September 6, 1995





                                      F-9

Campbell Soup Company
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
(millions, except per share amounts)



The accompanying Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Notes on pages
F-15 to F-26 are an integral part of the financial statements.





                                      F-10

 Campbell Soup Company
 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 (millions)



The accompanying Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Notes on pages
F-15 to F-26 are an integral part of the financial statements.





                                     F-11


 Campbell Soup Company
 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 (millions)




The accompanying Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Notes on pages
F-15 to F-26 are an integral part of the financial statements.





                                     F-12

Campbell Soup Company
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREOWNERS' EQUITY
(millions)



The accompanying Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Notes on pages
 F-15 to F-26 are an integral part of the financial statements.





                                      F-13



CHANGES IN NUMBER OF SHARES
(thousands)






The accompanying Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and
Notes on pages F-15 to F-26 are an integral part of the financial
statements.





                                     F-14

CAMPBELL SOUP COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(MILLION DOLLARS)

1.     SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

       CONSOLIDATION - The consolidated financial statements include the
       accounts of the company and its majority-owned subsidiaries.
       Significant intercompany transactions are eliminated in consolidation.
       Investments of 20% or more in affiliates are accounted for by the equity
       method.

       FISCAL YEAR - The company's fiscal year ends on the Sunday nearest July
       3l.

       CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS - All highly liquid debt instruments purchased
       with a maturity of three months or less are classified as Cash
       equivalents.

       INVENTORIES - Substantially all domestic inventories are priced at the
       lower of cost or market, with cost determined by the last-in, first-out
       (LIFO) method.  Other inventories are priced at the lower of average
       cost or market.

       PLANT ASSETS - Plant assets are stated at historical cost.  Alterations
       and major overhauls which extend the lives or increase the capacity of
       plant assets are capitalized.  The amounts for property disposals are
       removed from plant asset and accumulated depreciation accounts and any
       resultant gain or loss is included in earnings.  Ordinary repairs and
       maintenance are charged to operating costs.

       DEPRECIATION - Depreciation provided in costs and expenses is calculated
       using the straight-line method.  Buildings and machinery and equipment
       are depreciated over periods not exceeding 45 years and 15 years,
       respectively.  Accelerated methods of depreciation are used for income
       tax purposes in certain jurisdictions.

       INTANGIBLES - Intangible assets consist principally of excess purchase
       price over net assets of businesses acquired.  Intangibles are amortized
       on a straight-line basis over periods not exceeding 40 years.

       ASSET VALUATION - The company periodically reviews the recoverability of
       plant assets and intangibles based principally on an analysis of cash
       flows.

       PENSION AND RETIREE BENEFIT PLANS - Costs are accrued over employees'
       careers based on plan benefit formulas.

       INCOME TAXES - Deferred taxes are provided in accordance with Statement
       of Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) No. 109.





                                     F-15

2.     ACCOUNTING CHANGES

       In 1993, the company adopted Statements of Financial Accounting
       Standards No. 106, "Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits
       Other Than Pensions," No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes," and No.
       112, "Employers' Accounting for Postemployment Benefits."

       FAS No. 106 requires accrual of the cost of retiree health and life
       insurance benefits during the years that employees render service.
       These costs were previously expensed as claims were paid.  The company
       elected to recognize the effect of the transition liability for past
       service costs by recording a one-time, non-cash charge against 1993
       earnings of $230 or $.91 per share.  The incremental annual charge
       decreased 1995 and 1994 earnings by $.08 per share and 1993 earnings by
       $.07 per share.

       FAS No. 112 requires the company to account for postemployment benefits
       on the accrual basis.  The cumulative effect of this change in
       accounting decreased 1993 net earnings by $22 or $.09 per share.

       FAS No. 109 requires the company to recognize the benefit of certain
       deferred tax assets,  increasing 1993 net earnings by $3 or $.01 per
       share.

3.     GEOGRAPHIC AREA INFORMATION

       The company is predominantly engaged in the manufacture and sale of
       prepared convenience foods.  The following presents information about
       operations in different geographic areas:







                                     F-16




       Transfers between geographic areas are recorded at cost plus markup or
       at market.  1993 divestiture and restructuring charges of $353 were
       allocated to geographic areas as follows:  United States - $126, Europe
       - $210 and Other - $17.

4.     OTHER EXPENSE



5.     DIVESTITURE AND RESTRUCTURING CHARGES

       On January 28, 1993, the company's Board of Directors approved a
       divestiture and restructuring program which specifically identified six
       manufacturing plants to be closed and fourteen businesses to be sold.
       At the time of the Board's approval, charges of $353 ($300 after tax or
       $1.19 per share) were recorded for the estimated loss on disposition of
       plant assets, cost of closing each plant and loss on each business
       divestiture.

       Components of the original reserve and charges are as follows:







                                     F-17

       Five plant closings were completed and one plant was restructured.  Ten
       businesses were divested through July 30, 1995.  The company plans to
       complete the program in 1996.

       In the second quarter of 1995, the Board of Directors approved the sale
       of two additional businesses not included in the original Board
       authorization.  Based on current estimates, existing reserves are
       adequate to cover the cost of disposing of these businesses because one
       business included in the original program will not be sold.

6.     INTEREST EXPENSE



7.     ACQUISITIONS

       During 1995, 1994 and 1993 the company made several acquisitions.  These
       acquisitions were accounted for as purchase transactions, and operations
       of the acquired companies are included in the financial statements from
       the dates the acquisitions were consummated.  The final allocation of
       the purchase price of 1995 acquisitions will be completed during 1996
       when appraisals and other studies have been finalized.  The preliminary
       allocation of the purchase price to assets acquired and liabilities
       assumed was based upon fair value estimates as follows:



       During 1995, the company acquired Pace Foods, the world's leading
       producer and marketer of Mexican sauces; Fresh Start Bakeries, a food
       service baking concern with operations in the U.S., Europe and South
       America; Stratford-upon-Avon Foods, a canned fruit and vegetable company
       in England; and Greenfield Foods, a U.S. baking operation specializing
       in low-fat cakes and cookies.  The company also acquired additional
       shares in Arnotts Limited, Australia's leading biscuit manufacturer,
       boosting its share ownership to 65%.

       The Pace Foods acquisition was consummated on January 30, 1995 and based
       on unaudited data, net sales for 1995 and 1994 would have increased $127
       and $225, respectively, and net earnings would have decreased $16 and
       $31, respectively, had the acquisition occurred at the beginning of
       fiscal 1995 and 1994.  Proforma financial information for the other
       acquisitions would not have a material effect on the company's net sales
       and earnings in fiscal 1995 and 1994.

       Acquisitions in 1994 consisted of the Australian mushroom business,
       Dandy Mushrooms, and the Australian canned-meat business, "Fray Bentos".





                                     F-18

       During 1993, the company increased its ownership of Arnotts to 58% from
       33% prior to fiscal 1993.

8.     PENSION PLANS AND RETIREMENT BENEFITS

       PENSION PLANS - Substantially all of the company's U.S. and certain
       non-U.S. employees are covered by noncontributory defined benefit
       pension plans.  Plan benefits are generally based on years of service
       and employees' compensation during the last years of employment.
       Benefits are paid from funds previously provided to trustees and
       insurance companies or are paid directly by the company from general
       funds.  Actuarial assumptions and provisions for funded plans are
       reviewed regularly by the company and its independent actuaries to
       ensure that plan assets will be adequate to provide pension and survivor
       benefits.  Plan assets consist primarily of investments in common stock,
       fixed income securities, real estate and money market funds.

       Pension expense included the following:



       The funded status of the plans was as follows:







                                      F-19

       Pension coverage for employees of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries are
       provided to the extent determined appropriate through their respective
       plans.  Obligations under such plans are systematically provided for by
       depositing funds with trusts or under insurance contracts.  The assets
       and obligations of these plans are not material.

       SAVINGS PLANS - The company sponsors employee savings plans which cover
       substantially all U.S. employees.  After one year of continuous service,
       the company generally matches 50% of employee contributions up to five
       percent of compensation.  In fiscal 1995, 1994 and 1993, the company
       increased its contribution to 60% because earnings goals were achieved.
       Amounts charged to costs and expenses were $14 in 1995 and 1994 and $13
       in 1993.

       RETIREE BENEFITS -  The company provides certain health care and life
       insurance benefits (postretirement benefits) to substantially all
       retired U.S. employees and their dependents.  Employees who have 10
       years of service after the age of 45 and retire from the company are
       eligible to participate in the postretirement benefit plans.

       Postretirement benefit expense was comprised of the following:



       Healthcare claims and death benefits paid totaled $20 in 1995 and $18 in
       1994 and 1993.



       The discount rate used to determine the accumulated postretirement
       benefit obligation was 7.75% in 1995 and 8.25% in 1994.  The assumed
       initial healthcare cost trend rate used to measure the accumulated
       postretirement benefit obligation was 10%, declining to 5.5% over a
       period of 10 years and continuing at 5.5% thereafter.  A
       one-percentage-point change in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate
       would have changed the 1995 accumulated postretirement benefit
       obligation by $46 and postretirement benefit expense by $8.

       Obligations related to non-U.S. postretirement benefit plans are not
       significant since these benefits are generally provided through
       government-sponsored plans.

       Estimated postretirement benefits payable in fiscal 1996 of $19 are
       included in "Accrued liabilities."





                                      F-20


9.     TAXES ON EARNINGS

       The provision for income taxes consists of the following:



       The deferred tax credit in 1993 resulted principally from charges for
       restructuring and other postretirement benefits.

       The following is a reconciliation of effective income tax rates with the
       U.S. Federal statutory income tax rate:
 






                                     F-21

       Deferred tax liabilities and assets are comprised of the following:



       For income tax purposes, subsidiaries of the company have tax loss
       carryforwards of approximately $154 of which $6 relate to periods prior
       to acquisition of the subsidiaries by the company.  Of these
       carryforwards, $40 expire in 1999, $32 expire through 2005 and $82 may
       be carried forward indefinitely.  The current statutory tax rates in
       these countries range from 30% to 40%.

       Income taxes have not been accrued on undistributed earnings of non-U.S.
       subsidiaries of $414 which are invested in operating assets and are not
       expected to be remitted.  If remitted, tax credits are available to
       substantially reduce any additional taxes.

10.    CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

       Cash and cash equivalents includes cash equivalents of $36 at July 30,
       1995 and $32 at July 31, 1994.

11.    ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE



12.    INVENTORIES







                                     F-22

       Inventories for which the LIFO method of determining cost is used
       represented approximately 63% of consolidated inventories in 1995 and
       70% in 1994.

13.    PREPAID EXPENSES


14.    PLANT ASSETS

       Depreciation provided in costs and expenses was $261 in 1995, $237 in
       1994 and $223 in 1993. Approximately $220 of capital expenditures are
       required to complete projects in progress at July 30, 1995.

15.    INTANGIBLE ASSETS


16.    OTHER ASSETS


17.    NOTES PAYABLE AND LONG-TERM DEBT

       Notes payable consists of the following:





                                     F-23

       The amount of unused lines of credit at July 30, 1995 approximates $722.
       The lines of credit are unconditional and generally cover loans for a
       period of one year at prime commercial interest rates.

       Long-term debt consists of the following:



       * $50 redeemable in 1998

       The cost to retire the company's long-term debt was $905 at July 30,
       1995 and $585 at July 31, 1994.

       Principal amounts of long-term debt mature as follows:  1996 - $10 (in
       current liabilities); 1997 - $316; 1998 - $101; 1999 - $2; 2000 - $2;
       and beyond - $436.

       Future minimum capital lease payments are $62, including implicit
       interest of $27.

18.    OTHER LIABILITIES



19.    FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

       The book values of cash and cash equivalents, accounts and notes
       receivable, accounts payable and short-term debt approximate fair value.
       The fair value of financial instruments, non-current investments and
       long-term debt is based on quoted market prices.

       The company utilizes derivative financial instruments to enhance its
       ability to manage risk, including interest rate and foreign currency
       exposures which exist as part of its ongoing business operations.

       The company utilizes interest rate swap agreements to minimize its
       worldwide financing costs and to achieve a desired proportion of
       variable versus fixed rate debt, based on current and projected market
       conditions.  When interest rates change, the difference to be paid or
       received is recognized as an adjustment to interest expense over the
       lives of the agreements.  At times, the company utilizes forward foreign
       exchange contracts to hedge foreign currency exposures.  Gains and
       losses resulting from these instruments are recognized in the same
       period as the underlying hedged transaction.





                                     F-24

       The notional amounts of interest rate swaps were $337 at July 30, 1995
       and $300 at July 31, 1994.  In addition, the company has swap agreements
       with  financial institutions which cover both foreign currency and
       interest rates.  The notional amounts of these swaps were $32 at July
       30, 1995 and $10 at July 31, 1994.  These agreements hedge currency
       exposures arising from strategies which replaced certain local currency
       debt with lower cost U.S. dollar financing.  The cost to settle all
       swaps was $20 at July 30, 1995, of which $5 was accrued.

       The company is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by
       the counterparties; however, the company does not anticipate any
       nonperformance.  The company's credit risk on swap transactions is
       minimized by its policy of dealing only with leading, credit-worthy
       financial institutions having long-term credit ratings of "A" or better.

       At July 30, 1995, the company also had contracts to purchase or sell
       approximately $84 in foreign currency versus $31 at July 31, 1994.  The
       contracts are mostly for Canadian and European currencies and have
       maturities through 1996.

       The company uses a mix of equity, intercompany debt and local currency
       borrowings to finance its foreign operations.   Gains and losses, both
       realized and unrealized, on financial instruments that hedge the
       company's investments in foreign operations are recognized in the
       Cumulative translation adjustments account in Shareowners' equity.

20.    SHAREOWNERS' EQUITY

       The company has authorized 280 million shares of Capital Stock of $.075
       par value and 40 million shares of Preferred Stock, issuable in one or
       more classes, with or without par as may be authorized by the Board of
       Directors.  No Preferred Stock has been issued.

       The following summarizes the activity in the company's long-term
       incentive plans:







                                     F-25


       As of July 30, 1995, 10.7 million shares remain available for grant
       under the 1994 long-term incentive plan.

       All net earnings per share data is based on the weighted average shares
       outstanding during the applicable periods.  The potential dilution from
       the exercise of stock options is not material.

21.    STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



22.    QUARTERLY DATA (UNAUDITED)









                                      F-26

                              INDEX OF EXHIBITS







                                     I-1

                         INDEX OF EXHIBITS (cont'd.)







                                     I-2

