
10-K405
FORM 10-K405 FISCAL YEAR ENDED AUGUST 1, 1999



                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K


                  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER
      AUGUST 1, 1999                                     1-3822

                           CAMPBELL SOUP COMPANY LOGO




       NEW JERSEY                                        21-0419870
 STATE OF INCORPORATION                    I.R.S. EMPLOYER IDENTIFICATION NO.


                                 CAMPBELL PLACE
                          CAMDEN, NEW JERSEY 08103-1799
                           PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES

                        TELEPHONE NUMBER: (856) 342-4800


           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:



        SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT: NONE


             INDICATE BY CHECK MARK WHETHER THE REGISTRANT: (1) HAS FILED ALL
REPORTS REQUIRED TO BE FILED BY SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934 DURING THE PRECEDING 12 MONTHS (OR FOR SUCH SHORTER PERIOD THAT THE
REGISTRANT WAS REQUIRED TO FILE SUCH REPORTS), AND (2) HAS BEEN SUBJECT TO SUCH
FILING REQUIREMENTS FOR THE PAST 90 DAYS.

                             YES    x       NO       .

             INDICATE BY CHECK MARK IF DISCLOSURE OF DELINQUENT FILERS PURSUANT
TO ITEM 405 OF REGULATION S-K IS NOT CONTAINED HEREIN, AND WILL NOT BE
CONTAINED, TO THE BEST OF REGISTRANT'S KNOWLEDGE, IN DEFINITIVE PROXY OR
INFORMATION STATEMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN PART III OF THIS FORM 10-K
OR ANY AMENDMENT TO THIS FORM 10-K. [ x]

             AS OF SEPTEMBER 20, 1999, THE AGGREGATE MARKET VALUE OF CAPITAL
STOCK HELD BY NON-AFFILIATES OF THE REGISTRANT WAS $9,713,788,701. THERE WERE
427,836,506 SHARES OF CAPITAL STOCK OUTSTANDING AS OF SEPTEMBER 20, 1999.

             PORTIONS OF THE ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREOWNERS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR
ENDED AUGUST 1, 1999 ARE INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE INTO PARTS I AND II. PORTIONS
OF THE NOTICE OF ANNUAL MEETING AND PROXY STATEMENT DATED OCTOBER 8, 1999, FOR
THE ANNUAL MEETING OF SHAREOWNERS TO BE HELD ON NOVEMBER 18, 1999, ARE
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE INTO PART III.

PART I

ITEM 1.   BUSINESS

THE COMPANY
Campbell Soup Company ("Campbell" or the "company"), together with its
consolidated subsidiaries, is a global manufacturer and marketer of high
quality, branded convenience food products. Campbell was incorporated as a
business corporation under the laws of New Jersey on November 23, 1922; however,
through predecessor organizations, it traces its heritage in the food business
back to 1869.

During 1999, the company divested its Fresh Start Bakeries business.

The company operates in three business segments: Soup and Sauces, Biscuits and
Confectionery, and Away From Home. The Soup and Sauces segment includes the
worldwide soup businesses, Prego spaghetti sauce, Franco-American pastas and
gravies, Pace Mexican foods, Swanson broths, Home Pride sauces in the United
Kingdom and the V8 and V8 Splash beverage business. The Biscuits and
Confectionery segment includes the Pepperidge Farm, Godiva and Arnotts Limited
businesses. The Away From Home segment represents products, including Campbell's
soups, Pace Tabletop picante and Campbell's Specialty Kitchens entrees, which
are distributed to the food service and home meal replacement markets. See also
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
Condition" at pages 27 to 34 of the Company's 1999 Annual Report to Shareowners
for the fiscal year ended August 1, 1999 ("1999 Annual Report"), which is
incorporated herein by reference. Additional financial information about the
company's business segments is incorporated by reference from the section of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements entitled "Business and Geographic
Segment Information" from pages 40 and 41 of the 1999 Annual Report.

INGREDIENTS
The ingredients required for the manufacture of the company's food products are
purchased from various suppliers. As a result of the company's portfolio
reconfiguration program, the company sold or spun off certain of its ingredient
and container operations and entered into various supply agreements covering
those purchases. The company does not anticipate any material restrictions on
availability or shortages of ingredients that would have a significant impact on
the company's businesses.

While all such ingredients are available from numerous independent suppliers,
raw materials are subject to fluctuations in price attributable to a number of
factors, including changes in crop size, cattle cycles, government-sponsored
agricultural programs and weather conditions during the growing and harvesting
seasons. Ingredient inventories are at a peak during the late fall and decline
during the winter and spring. Since many ingredients of suitable quality are
available in sufficient quantities only at certain seasons, the company makes
commitments for the purchase of such ingredients during their respective
seasons.

CUSTOMERS
In the United States, sales solicitation activities are conducted by the
company's own sales force and through broker and distributor arrangements. The
company's products are generally resold to consumers in retail stores,
restaurants and other food service establishments. No material part of the


business is dependent upon a single customer. Shipments are made promptly by the
company after receipt and acceptance of orders.

TRADEMARKS AND TECHNOLOGY
The company markets its food products globally under a number of significant
trademarks. The company considers such trademarks, taken as a whole, to be of
material importance to its business and, consequently, aggressively seeks to
protect its rights in them.

Although the company owns a number of valuable patents, it does not regard any
segment of its business as being dependent upon any single patent or any group
of related patents.

COMPETITION
The company experiences vigorous competition for sales of its principal products
in its major markets, both within the United States and abroad, from numerous
competitors of varying sizes. The principal areas of competition are quality,
price, advertising, promotion and service.

WORKING CAPITAL
For information relating to the company's cash and other working capital items,
see pages 27 through 34 of the company's 1999 Annual Report in the section
entitled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and
Financial Condition", which are incorporated herein by reference.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
During the last three fiscal years, the company's expenditures on research
activities relating to new products and the improvement of existing products
were approximately $66 million in 1999, $71 million in 1998 and $68 million in
1997.

EMPLOYEES
At August 1, 1999, there were approximately 24,500 persons employed by the
company.

FOREIGN OPERATIONS
For information with respect to the revenue, operating profitability and
identifiable assets attributable to the company's foreign operations, see pages
40 and 41 of the 1999 Annual Report in the section of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements entitled "Business and Geographic Segment Information",
which is incorporated herein by reference.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION
For information with respect to revenue, operating profitability and
identifiable assets attributable to the company's business segments, see pages
40 and 41 of the 1999 Annual Report in the section of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements entitled "Business and Geographic Segment Information",
which is incorporated herein by reference.

RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
The information presented on page 34 of the 1999 Annual Report in the section
entitled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and
Financial Condition" is incorporated herein by reference.


FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
From time to time, the company makes oral and written statements which reflect
the company's current expectations regarding future results of operations,
economic performance, financial condition and achievements of the company. The
company tries, wherever possible, to identify these forward looking statements
by using words such as "anticipate", "believe", "estimate", "expect" and similar
expressions. These statements reflect the company's current plans and
expectations and are based on information currently available to it. They rely
on a number of assumptions and estimates which could be inaccurate and which are
subject to risks and uncertainties.

Campbell wishes to caution the reader that the following important factors and
those important factors described in other Securities and Exchange Commission
filings of the company, or in the company's 1999 Annual Report, could affect the
company's actual results and could cause such results to vary materially from
those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, the
company:

- -            the impact of strong competitive response to the company's efforts
             to leverage its brand power with product innovation, promotional
             programs and new advertising;

- -            the inherent risks in the marketplace associated with new product
             introductions, including uncertainties about trade and consumer
             acceptance;

- -            the company's ability to achieve sales and earnings forecasts,
             which are based on assumptions about sales volume and product mix;

- -            the continuation of the company's successful record of integrating
             acquisitions into its existing operations and the availability of
             new acquisition and alliance opportunities that build shareowner
             wealth;

- -            the company's ability to achieve its cost savings objectives,
             including the projected outcome of supply chain management
             programs;

- -            the difficulty of predicting the pattern of inventory movements by
             the company's trade customers;

- -            the impact of unforeseen economic and political changes in
             international markets where the company competes such as currency
             exchange rates, inflation rates, recession, foreign ownership
             restrictions and other external factors over which the company has
             no control; and

- -            the ability of the company and its key service providers, vendors,
             suppliers, customers and governmental entities to replace, modify
             or upgrade computer systems in ways that adequately address the
             Year 2000 issue. Specific factors that might cause actual results
             to vary materially from the results anticipated include the ability
             to identify and correct all relevant computer codes and embedded
             chips, unanticipated difficulties or delays in the implementation
             of the company's remediation plans and the ability of third parties
             to adequately address their own Year 2000 issues.


This discussion of uncertainties is by no means exhaustive but is designed to
highlight important factors that may impact the company's outlook.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

The company's principal executive offices and main research facilities are
company-owned and located in Camden, New Jersey. The following table sets forth
the company's principal manufacturing facilities:

PRINCIPAL MANUFACTURING FACILITIES



The company also operates retail confectionery shops in the United States,
Canada, Europe and Japan; retail bakery thrift stores in the United States; a
mail order facility; and other plants and facilities at various locations in the
United States and abroad.

Management believes that the company's manufacturing and processing plants are
well maintained and are generally adequate to support the current operations of
the businesses.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

In management's opinion, there are no pending claims or litigation, the outcome
of which would have a material effect on the consolidated results of operations,
financial position or cash flows of the company.


The company has been named as a potentially responsible party in a number of
proceedings brought under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation
and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund. Although the impact on these
proceedings cannot be predicted at this time due to the large number of other
potentially responsible parties and the speculative nature of clean-up cost
estimates, the ultimate disposition is not expected to have a material effect on
the consolidated results of operations, financial position, or cash flows of the
company.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

              None.


EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

The following list of executive officers as of October 1, 1999, is included as
an item in Part I of this Form 10-K:







Each of the above-named officers has been employed by the company in an
executive or managerial capacity for at least five years, except Basil L.
Anderson, Jerry S. Buckley, Timothy Callahan, Andrew K. Hughson, Ellen Oran
Kaden, and Dale F. Morrison. Dale F. Morrison served as President, Frito Lay
North (1994-1995) and Vice President Marketing and Sales, Frito Lay Central
Division (1993-1994) prior to joining Campbell in 1995. Basil L. Anderson served
as Chief Financial Officer (1992-1996) of Scott Paper Company prior to joining
Campbell in 1996. Ellen Oran Kaden served as Executive Vice President, General
Counsel and Secretary (1994-1998) and Senior Vice President, General Counsel and
Secretary (1993-1994) of CBS Inc. prior to joining Campbell in 1998. Jerry S.
Buckley served as Assistant Managing Editor, Gannett Company, Inc. (1994-1995)
and Senior Editor/Senior Writer, U.S. News & World Report (1987-1994) prior to
joining Campbell in 1995. Timothy Callahan served as Vice President and General
Manager (1997-1998), Vice President - Marketing and Sales (1995-1997) and
Category Director (1993-1995) of Kraft Foods - Post Cereal Division prior to
joining Campbell in 1998. Andrew K. Hughson served as General Manager, Kellogg
France, Belgium and the Netherlands (1994-1996) and Assistant to the Chairman,
Kellogg Company, Global Marketing (1993-1994) prior to joining Campbell in 1996.

There is no family relationship among any of the company's executive officers or
between any such officer and any director of Campbell. Executive officers of
Campbell are elected at the November 1999 meeting of the Board of Directors.


PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED SHAREOWNER MATTERS

Campbell's capital stock is listed and principally traded on the New York Stock
Exchange. Campbell's capital stock is also listed and traded on the Philadelphia
Stock Exchange, The International Stock Exchange of the United Kingdom and the
Republic of Ireland Limited and the Swiss Exchange. On September 20, 1999, there
were 38,722 holders of record of Campbell's capital stock. The market price and
dividend information with respect to Campbell's capital stock are set forth on
page 47 of the 1999 Annual Report in the section of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements entitled "Quarterly Data


(unaudited)" which is incorporated herein by reference. Future dividends will be
dependent upon future earnings, financial requirements and other factors.

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The information called for by this Item is set forth on page 49 of the 1999
Annual Report in the section entitled "Six-Year Review Consolidated" which is
incorporated herein by reference. Such information should be read in conjunction
with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto of the company
included in Item 8 of this Report.

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND
        FINANCIAL CONDITION

The information presented on pages 27 through 34 of the 1999 Annual Report in
the section entitled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of
Operations and Financial Condition" is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The information presented on pages 30 through 32 of the 1999 Annual Report in
the section entitled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of
Operations and Financial Condition" is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The information presented on pages 35 through 48 of the 1999 Annual Report is
incorporated herein by reference. With the exception of the aforementioned
information and the information incorporated by reference in Items 1, 5, 6, 7,
and 7A, the 1999 Annual Report is not deemed to be filed as part of this Form
10-K.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

              None.


PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The sections entitled "Election of Directors" and "Directors and Executive
Officers Stock Ownership Reports" set forth on pages 1 through 4 and page 30 of
Campbell's Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement dated October 8, 1999
(the "1999 Proxy Statement") are incorporated herein by reference.


The information required by this Item relating to the executive officers of
Campbell is set forth in Part I of this Report on pages 5 and 6 under the
heading "Executive Officers of the Company."

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information set forth on pages 15 through 25 of the 1999 Proxy Statement in
the section entitled "Compensation of Executive Officers" is incorporated herein
by reference.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The information required by this Item is set forth at pages 5 through 7 of the
1999 Proxy Statement in the sections entitled "Security Ownership of Directors
and Executive Officers" and "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners"
and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

              None.


PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

      (a)     The following documents are filed as part of this report:

              1.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

              -   Consolidated Statements of Earnings for 1999, 1998 and 1997

              -   Consolidated Balance Sheets as of August 1, 1999 and August 2,

              -   Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for 1999, 1998 and 1997

              -   Consolidated Statements of Shareowners' Equity for 1999, 1998
                  and 1997

              -   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

              -   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

              -   Report of Independent Accountants

              -   The foregoing Financial Statements are incorporated into Part
                  II, Item 8 of this Report by reference to pages 35 through 48
                  of the 1999 Annual Report.


             2.  FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

                  None.

             3.   EXHIBITS






      (b) Reports on Form 8-K

          There were no reports on Form 8-K filed by the Company during the
          fourth quarter of fiscal 1999.


                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, Campbell has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date:  October 8, 1999

                                            CAMPBELL SOUP COMPANY


                                            By:/s/ Basil L. Anderson
                                               --------------------------------
                                                  Basil L. Anderson
                                                  Executive Vice President
                                                  and Chief Financial Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of Campbell and in the
capacity and on the date indicated.

Date:  October 8, 1999


           /s/ Basil L. Anderson                 /s/ Gerald S. Lord
           ---------------------                 ------------------
           Basil L. Anderson                     Gerald S. Lord
           Executive Vice President              Vice President - Controller
           and Chief Financial Officer





                                INDEX OF EXHIBITS

Document







