
10-K405
FORM 10-K


================================================================================

                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, DC 20549

                         -----------------------------

                                   Form 10-K

       [X]      ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999
                                       OR
       [ ]    TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                       THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                          Commission File No. 0-5108

                            STATE STREET CORPORATION
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)



                                  617-786-3000
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

                         -----------------------------

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:



          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                                     None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes [X]  No [ ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K.  [X]

The aggregate market value of the Registrant's Common Stock held by
non-affiliates (persons other than directors and executive officers) of the
registrant on February 29, 2000 was $11,431,160,000.

The number of shares of the Registrant's Common Stock outstanding on
February 29, 2000 was 159,952,162

Portions of the following documents are incorporated into the Parts of this
Report on Form 10-K indicated below:

      (1) The Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31,
          1999 (Parts I and II)

      (2) The Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement dated March 15, 2000
          (Part III)

================================================================================


                            STATE STREET CORPORATION
                                 FORM 10-K INDEX
                      For the Year Ended December 31, 1999




                                    PART I

Item 1. Business

The business of State Street Corporation and its subsidiaries is further
described in the "Financial Review" section of State Street Corporation's 1999
Annual Report to Stockholders, which section comprises Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation; such description,
information and analysis is included in Exhibit 13 of this report and is
incorporated by reference.


General Development of Business

State Street Corporation ("State Street" or the "Corporation") is a bank
holding company organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts
and is one of the world's leading specialists in serving institutional
investors. State Street provides a full range of products and services for
portfolios of investment assets.

State Street was organized in 1970 and conducts its business principally
through its subsidiary, State Street Bank and Trust Company ("State Street
Bank" or the "Bank"), and traces its beginnings to the founding of the Union
Bank in 1792. The charter under which State Street Bank now operates was
authorized by a special act of the Massachusetts Legislature in 1891, and its
present name was adopted in 1960.

State Street is a market leader in the businesses on which it focuses, services
for institutional investors and investment management, with $6.0 trillion of
assets under custody and $667 billion of assets under management at year-end
1999. Customers include mutual funds and other collective investment funds,
corporate and public pension funds, corporations, unions and not-for-profit
organizations in and outside of the United States. For information as to
non-U.S. activities, refer to Note W that appears in the Notes to Financial
Statements in State Street's 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders. Such
information is incorporated by reference.

Services are provided from 27 offices in the United States, and from offices in
Australia, Belgium, Canada, Cayman Islands, Chile, Czech Republic, France,
Germany, Ireland, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Netherlands Antilles, New
Zealand, People's Republic of China, Russia, Singapore, South Korea,
Switzerland, Taiwan, United Arab Emirates and the United Kingdom. State
Street's executive offices are located at 225 Franklin Street, Boston,
Massachusetts.


Lines of Business

State Street reports three lines of business: Services for Institutional
Investors, Investment Management and Commercial Lending. In 1999, 70% of
operating revenue came from Services for Institutional Investors, 23% came from
Investment Management and 7% came from Commercial Lending. For additional
information on State Street's lines of business, see pages 20 through 22 of
State Street's 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders, under the caption "Lines of
Business", which information is incorporated by reference.

Services for Institutional Investors. Services for Institutional Investors
includes accounting, custody, daily pricing and information services for
investment portfolios. Customers around the world include mutual funds and
other collective investment funds, corporate and public pension plans,
corporations, investment managers, not-for-profit organizations, unions and
other holders of investment assets. Institutional investors are offered State
Street services, including foreign exchange, cash management, securities
lending, fund administration, daily pricing, portfolio accounting,
recordkeeping, banking services, and deposit and short-term investment
facilities. These services support institutional investors in developing and
executing their strategies, enhancing their returns, and evaluating and
managing risk.

With $2.8 trillion of mutual fund assets under custody, State Street is the
largest mutual fund custodian and accounting agent in the United States. State
Street began providing mutual fund services in 1924. Customers who sponsor the
U.S. mutual funds that State Street services include investment companies,
broker/dealers, insurance companies and others. In addition, State Street
services offshore mutual funds and collective investment funds in non-U.S.
locations.

State Street is distinct from other mutual fund service providers because
customers make extensive use of a number of related services in addition to
custody, including fund accounting and administration, daily pricing,
accounting for multiple classes of shares, master/feeder accounting, securities
lending, performance and analytics, compliance monitoring and services for
offshore funds and local funds in locations outside the United States.
Shareholder services are provided through a 50% owned affiliate, Boston
Financial Data Services, Inc.




Item 1. Business (continued)

State Street began servicing pension assets in 1974, and now has $2.7 trillion
of pension, insurance and other investment pool assets under custody for U.S.
customers. State Street has a leading share of the market for servicing U.S.
tax-exempt assets for corporate and public funds in the United States. Services
include global custody, portfolio accounting, daily pricing, securities
lending, performance and analytics, information and other related services for
retirement plans and other financial asset portfolios of corporations, public
funds, investment managers, not-for-profit organizations, unions and others.
State Street provides global and U.S. custody and custody-related services for
$514 billion in assets for customers outside the United States.

State Street provides foreign exchange services to institutional investors
worldwide. These services include currency trading and research, risk
management and electronic execution services. State Street is a securities
lending agent providing collateral management and lending of securities issued
in 31 countries, acting as agent between institutional investors and
broker/dealers worldwide. State Street also provides repurchase agreements and
deposit services for the short-term cash needs associated with customers'
investment activities. Trading and arbitrage operations are conducted with
government securities and other financial instruments.

Investment Management. State Street was a pioneer in the development of U.S.
and international index funds. State Street provides an extensive range of
investment management services, including investment management for
corporations, public funds and other institutional investors; administration
and investment services for defined contribution and other employee benefit
programs; and investment management and other financial services for
high-net-worth individuals. These services are offered through State Street
Global Advisors ("SSgA[RegTM]"). SSgA offers a broad array of investment
strategies, including passive, enhanced and active management using
quantitative and fundamental methods for both global equities and global fixed
income securities. SSgA is a leading trustee and money manager for individuals.
At year-end 1999, institutional and personal trust assets under management
totaled $667 billion. Additionally, SSgA provides recordkeeping and other
services attendant to its investment management activities, including services
for 2.9 million defined contribution plan participants as of year-end 1999.
SSgA has offices worldwide, including offices in the following cities: Boston,
Brussels, Dubai, Hong Kong, London, Montpellier, Montreal, Moscow, Munich,
Paris, Prague, Santiago, Sydney, Tokyo, Toronto and Zurich. In the United
States, SSgA is the largest manager of tax-exempt assets, the third largest
manager of defined contribution plan assets and the third largest manager of
total assets. Globally, SSgA is the seventh largest manager of total assets.

Commercial Lending. State Street provides lending and other banking services
for institutional investors, including cash management and deposit services and
lease financing. Through September 30, 1999, Commercial Lending also included
lending activities and other commercial banking business services for regional,
middle-market companies and companies in selected industries. On October 1,
1999, State Street completed the sale of its commercial banking business. See
Note B to the Notes to Financial Statements in State Street's 1999 Annual
Report to Stockholders, which is incorporated by reference.


Competition

State Street operates in a highly competitive environment in all areas of its
business on a worldwide basis, including services to institutional investors
and investment management. State Street faces competition from other
deposit-taking institutions, investment management firms, private trustees,
insurance companies, mutual funds, broker/dealers, investment banking firms,
law firms, benefits consultants, leasing companies, and business service and
software companies. As State Street expands globally, additional sources of
competition are encountered.

State Street believes there are certain key competitive considerations in these
markets, specifically, for asset servicing: quality of service, efficiencies of
scale, technological expertise, quality and scope of sales and marketing, and
price; and for investment management: expertise, experience, the availability
of related service offerings, and price.

State Street's competitive success depends upon its ability to develop and
market new and innovative services; to adopt or develop new technologies to
bring new services to market in a timely fashion at competitive prices; and to
continue and expand its relationships with existing and new customers.


Employees

At December 31, 1999, State Street had 17,213 employees, of whom 16,769 were
full-time.




Item 1. Business (continued)

Regulation and Supervision

General. State Street is registered with the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System (the "Federal Reserve Board") as a bank holding company pursuant
to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the "Act"). The Act, with
certain exceptions, limits the activities that may be engaged in by State
Street and its non-bank subsidiaries, which includes non-bank companies for
which State Street owns or controls more than 5% of a class of voting shares,
to those which are deemed by the Federal Reserve Board to be so closely related
to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto.
The Federal Reserve Board may order a bank holding company to terminate any
activity or its ownership or control of a non-bank subsidiary if the Federal
Reserve Board finds that such activity or ownership or control constitutes a
serious risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of a subsidiary
bank and is inconsistent with sound banking principles or statutory purposes.
In the opinion of management, all of State Street's present subsidiaries are
within the statutory standard or are otherwise permissible. The Act also
requires a bank holding company to obtain prior approval of the Federal Reserve
Board before it may acquire substantially all the assets of any bank or
ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any bank. A recent
federal law reduces to some extent the restrictions on activities of certain
bank holding companies, such as State Street, which qualify as financial
holding companies. See "Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999" below.

Capital Adequacy. Bank holding companies, such as State Street, are subject to
Federal Reserve Board risk-based capital and minimum leverage ratio guidelines.
At December 31, 1999, State Street's consolidated Tier 1 capital and total
capital ratios were both 14.7%. For further information as to the Corporation's
capital position and capital adequacy, refer to the Liquidity and Capital
Resources portion of the Financial Review section, which section comprises
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operation, and to Note K to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
which appear in State Street's 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders. Such
information is incorporated by reference.

State Street Bank is subject to similar risk-based and leverage capital
requirements. State Street Bank was in compliance with the applicable minimum
capital requirements as of December 31, 1999. Failure to meet capital
requirements could subject a bank to a variety of enforcement actions,
including the termination of deposit insurance by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation (the "FDIC"), and to certain restrictions on its business, which
are described further in this section.

Subsidiaries. The primary federal banking agency responsible for regulating
State Street and its subsidiaries, including State Street Bank, for both U.S.
and international operations is the Federal Reserve System. State Street is
also subject to the Massachusetts bank holding company statute. The
Massachusetts statute requires prior approval by the Massachusetts Board of
Bank Incorporation for the acquisition by State Street of more than 5% of the
voting shares of any additional bank and for other forms of bank acquisitions.

State Street's banking subsidiaries are subject to supervision and examination
by various regulatory authorities. State Street Bank is a member of the Federal
Reserve System and the FDIC and is subject to applicable federal and state
banking laws and to supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve Bank of
Boston, as well as by the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks, the FDIC, and
the regulatory authorities of those countries in which a branch of State Street
Bank is located. Other subsidiary trust companies are subject to supervision
and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, other offices
of the Federal Reserve System or by the appropriate state banking regulatory
authorities of the states in which they are located. State Street's non-U.S.
banking subsidiaries are also subject to regulation by the regulatory
authorities of the countries in which they are located. The capital of each of
these banking subsidiaries is in excess of the minimum legal capital
requirements as set by those authorities.

State Street and its non-bank subsidiaries are affiliates of State Street Bank
under the federal banking laws, which impose certain restrictions on transfers
of funds in the form of loans, extensions of credit, investments or asset
purchases by State Street Bank to State Street and its non-bank subsidiaries.
Transfers of this kind to State Street and its non-bank subsidiaries by State
Street Bank are limited to 10% of State Street Bank's capital and surplus with
respect to each affiliate and to 20% in the aggregate, and are subject to
certain collateral requirements. A bank holding company and its subsidiaries
are prohibited from engaging in certain tie-in arrangements in connection with
any extension of credit or lease or sale of property or furnishing of services.
Federal law also provides that certain transactions with affiliates must be on
terms and under circumstances, including credit standards that are
substantially the same, or at least as favorable to the institution as those
prevailing at the time for comparable transactions involving other
non-qualified companies or, in the absence of comparable transactions, on terms
and under circumstances, including credit standards, that in good faith would
be offered to, or would apply to, nonaffiliated companies. The Federal Reserve
Board has jurisdiction to regulate the terms of certain debt issues of bank
holding companies.




Item 1. Business (continued)

Support of Subsidiary Banks. Under Federal Reserve Board policy, a bank holding
company is required to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to
its subsidiary banks. Under this policy, State Street is expected to commit
resources to its subsidiary banks in circumstances where it might not do so
absent such policy. In the event of a bank holding company's bankruptcy, any
commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to
maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy
trustee and entitled to a priority payment.

Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999. In 1999, major financial services modernization
legislation, known as the "Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999", ("GLBA"), became
law. GLBA lifts the Glass-Steagall Act prohibitions on banks associating with,
or having management interlocks with, business organizations engaged in
securities activities. By electing to become a "financial holding company", a
bank holding company may acquire new powers not otherwise available to it. In
order to qualify, each bank holding company's depository subsidiaries must be
well capitalized and well managed, and must be meeting its Community
Reinvestment Act obligations. Once qualified as a financial holding company, a
bank holding company must continue to meet the applicable capital and
management standards. Failure to maintain such standards may ultimately permit
the Federal Reserve Board to take certain enforcement action against such
company. The repeal of the Glass-Steagall Act and the availability of new
powers both are effective on or after March 12, 2000. State Street became a
financial holding company on March 13, 2000.

Financial holding companies are permitted to engage in those activities that
are determined by the Federal Reserve Board, working with the Secretary of the
Treasury, to be financial in nature, incidental to an activity that is
financial in nature, or complementary to a financial activity and that does not
pose a safety and soundness risk. GLBA defines certain activities as financial
in nature, including, but not limited to, the following: providing financial or
investment advice; underwriting, dealing in or making markets in securities;
merchant banking, subject to significant limitations; and any activities
previously found by the Federal Reserve Board to be closely related to banking.
A company that is predominantly engaged in financial activities but is not a
bank holding company may, if it becomes a bank holding company and thereby also
a financial holding company, continue to engage in or retain a subsidiary
engaging in those nonfinancial activities in which the company or its
subsidiary was lawfully engaged on September 30, 1999, but it may not expand
those grandfathered activities or initiate new nonfinancial activities. Such
grandfathering is available for up to fifteen years.

GLBA also permits national and state banks (subject to capital, management,
size, debt rating, and Community Reinvestment Act qualification factors) to
have "financial subsidiaries" that are permitted to engage in financial
activities not otherwise permissible. However, unlike financial holding
companies, financial subsidiaries may not engage in insurance underwriting,
developing or investing in real estate, merchant banking (for at least five
years) or insurance portfolio investing.


Dividends

As a bank holding company, State Street is a legal entity separate and distinct
from State Street Bank and its non-bank subsidiaries. The right of State Street
to participate as a stockholder in any distribution of assets of State Street
Bank upon its liquidation or reorganization or otherwise is subject to the
prior claims by creditors of State Street Bank, including obligations for
federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements and
deposit liabilities. Payment of dividends by State Street Bank is subject to
provisions of the Massachusetts banking law which provides that dividends may
be paid out of net profits provided (i) capital stock and surplus remain
unimpaired, (ii) dividend and retirement fund requirements of any preferred
stock have been met, (iii) surplus equals or exceeds capital stock, and (iv)
there are deducted from net profits any losses and bad debts, as defined, in
excess of reserves specifically established therefore. Under the Federal
Reserve Act, the approval of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System would be required if dividends declared by the Bank in any year would
exceed the total of its net profits for that year combined with retained net
profits for the preceding two years, less any required transfers to surplus.
Under applicable federal and state law restrictions, at December 31, 1999,
State Street Bank had $1.2 billion of retained earnings available for
distribution to State Street in the form of dividends. Future dividend payments
of the Bank and non-bank subsidiaries cannot be determined at this time.


Economic Conditions and Government Policies

Economic policies of the government and its agencies influence the operating
environment of State Street. Monetary policy conducted by the Federal Reserve
Board directly affects the level of interest rates and overall credit
conditions of the economy. Policy is applied by the Federal Reserve Board
through open market operations in U.S. government securities, changes in
reserve requirements for depository institutions, and changes in the discount
rate and availability of borrowing from the Federal Reserve. Government
regulations of banks and bank holding companies are intended primarily for the
protection of depositors of the banks, rather than of the stockholders of the
institutions.




Item 1. Business (continued)

Factors Affecting Future Results

From time to time, information provided by State Street, statements made by its
employees, or information included in its filings with the Securities and
Exchange Commission (including this Form 10-K), may contain statements which
are not historic facts (so-called "forward looking statements"), including
statements about the Corporation's confidence and strategies and its
expectation about revenues and market growth, new technologies, services and
opportunities, and earnings. These statements may be identified by such forward
looking terminology as "expect", "look", "believe", "anticipate", "may",
"will", or similar statements or variations of such terms. These
forward-looking statements involve certain risks and uncertainties, which could
cause actual results to differ materially. Factors that may cause such
differences include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed in this
section and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Each of these factors, and others, are
also discussed from time to time in the Corporation's other filings with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, including its reports on Form 10-Q.

Cross-border investing. Increases in cross-border investing by customers
worldwide benefit State Street's revenue. Future revenue may increase or
decrease depending upon the extent of increases or decreases in cross-border
investments made by customers or future customers.

Savings rate of individuals. State Street benefits from the savings of
individuals that are invested in mutual funds or in defined contribution plans.
Changes in savings rates or investment styles may affect revenue.

Value of worldwide financial markets. As worldwide financial markets increase
or decrease in value, State Street's opportunities to invest and service
financial assets may change. Since a portion of the Corporation's fees are
based on the value of assets under custody and management, fluctuations in
worldwide securities market valuations will affect revenue.

Dynamics of markets served. Changes in markets served, including the growth
rate of U.S. mutual funds, the pace of debt issuance, outsourcing decisions,
and mergers, acquisitions and consolidations among customers and competitors,
can affect revenue. In general, State Street benefits from an increase in the
volume of financial market transactions serviced.

State Street provides services worldwide. Global and regional economic factors
and changes or potential changes in laws and regulations affecting the
Corporation's business, including volatile currencies and changes in monetary
policy, and social and political instability, could affect results of
operations.

Interest rates. Market interest rate levels, the shape of the yield curve and
the direction of interest rate changes affect net interest revenue and
fiduciary compensation from securities lending. All else being equal, in the
short term, State Street's net interest revenue benefits from falling interest
rates and is negatively affected by rising rates because interest-bearing
liabilities reprice sooner than interest-earning assets.

Volatility of currency markets. The degree of volatility in foreign exchange
rates can affect the amount of foreign exchange trading revenue. In general,
State Street benefits from currency volatility.

Pace of pension reform. State Street expects to benefit from worldwide pension
reform that creates additional pools of assets that use custody and related
services and investment management services. The pace of pension reform and
resulting programs including public and private pension schemes may affect the
pace of revenue growth.

Pricing/competition. Future prices the Corporation is able to obtain for its
products may increase or decrease from current levels depending upon demand for
its products, its competitors' activities and the introduction of new products
into the marketplace.

Pace of new business. The pace at which existing and new customers use
additional services and assign additional assets to State Street for management
or custody will affect future results.

Business mix. Changes in business mix, including the mix of U.S. and non-U.S.
business may affect future results.

Rate of technological change. Technological change creates opportunities for
product differentiation and reduced costs, as well as the possibility of
increased expenses. State Street's financial performance depends in part on its
ability to develop and market new and innovative services and to adopt or
develop new technologies that differentiate State Street's products or provide
cost efficiencies.




Item 1. Business (continued)

There are risks inherent in this process. These include rapid technological
change in the industry, including the emergence of alternative delivery systems
such as the widespread use of the internet and shortened settlement cycles that
ultimately will result in changes to existing procedures. The Corporation's
ability to access technical and other information from customers, and the
significant and ongoing investments required to bring new services to market in
a timely fashion at competitive prices. Further, there is risk that competitors
may introduce services that could replace or provide lower-cost alternatives to
State Street's services.

State Street uses appropriate trademark, trade secret, copyright and other
proprietary rights procedures to protect its technology, and has applied for a
limited number of patents in connection with certain software programs. The
Corporation believes that patent protection is not a significant competitive
factor and that State Street's success depends primarily upon the technical
expertise and creative abilities of its employees and the ability of the
Corporation to continue to develop, enhance and market its innovative business
processes and systems. However, in the event a third party asserts a claim of
infringement of its proprietary rights, obtained through patents or otherwise,
against the Corporation, State Street may be required to spend significant
resources to defend against such claims, develop a non-infringing program or
process, or obtain a license to the infringed process.

Year-2000 modifications. Certain risks with respect to the impact of the Year
2000 on processing date-sensitive information remain. State Street will
continue to monitor date-sensitive processing.

Acquisitions, alliances and divestitures. Acquisitions of complementary
businesses and technologies, and development of strategic alliances are a part
of State Street's overall business strategy. The Corporation has completed
several acquisitions and alliances in recent years. However, there can be no
assurance that services, technologies, key personnel, and businesses of
acquired companies will be effectively assimilated into State Street's business
or service offerings or that alliances will be successful.

Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 may cause
changes in the competitive environment in which State Street operates. Such
changes could include, among other things, broadening the scope of activities
of significant competitors, or facilitating consolidation of competitors into
larger, better capitalized companies, offering a wide array of financial
services and products; and attracting large and well-capitalized financial
services companies into activities not previously undertaken but competitive to
the Corporation's traditional businesses. In addition, the Corporation's
ability to engage in new activities may expose it to business risks with which
it has less experience than it has with the business risks associated with its
traditional businesses. Such changes and the ability of the Corporation to
address and adapt to the regulatory and competitive challenges, may effect
future results.


Selected Statistical Information

The following tables contain State Street's consolidated statistical
information relating to, and should be read in conjunction with, the
consolidated financial statements, selected financial data and management's
discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation, all of
which appear in State Street's 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders and is
incorporated by reference herein.




Item 1. Business (continued)

Distribution of Average Assets, Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity; Interest
Rates and Interest Differential

The average statements of condition and net interest revenue analysis for the
years indicated are presented below.






(1) On October 1, 1999, State Street completed the sale of its commercial
    banking business. Average balances for l999 include $1.7 billion of
    commercial, financial and real estate loans that were sold, and $822
    million of interest- and noninterest-bearing deposits that were
    transferred as part of the sale.

(2) Amounts reported were with non-U.S. domiciled offices of other banks.

(3) Non-accrual loans are included in the average loan amounts outstanding.
    Non-U.S. loans include non-U.S. lease financing.

(4) Net interest margin is taxable-equivalent net interest revenue divided by
    average interest-earning assets.


Interest revenue on non-taxable investment securities and loans includes the
effect of taxable-equivalent adjustments, using a federal income tax rate of
35%, adjusted for applicable state income taxes, net of the related federal tax
benefit.




Item 1. Business (continued)

The table below summarizes changes in interest revenue and interest expense due
to changes in volume of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing
liabilities, and changes in interest rates. Changes attributed to both volume
and rate have been allocated based on the proportion of change in each
category.



Investment Portfolio

Investment securities consisted of the following at December 31:






Item 1. Business (continued)

The maturities of debt investment securities at December 31, 1999 and the
weighted average yields (fully taxable-equivalent basis) were as follows:



Loan Portfolio

U.S. and non-U.S. loans at December 31, and average loans outstanding for the
years ended December 31, were as follows:



Loan and lease maturities for selected loan categories at December 31, 1999
were as follows:






Item 1. Business (continued)

The following table shows the classification of loans due after one year
according to sensitivity to changes in interest rates:



Loans are evaluated on an individual basis to determine the appropriateness of
renewing each loan. State Street does not have a general rollover policy.
Deferred fees included in loans were $7 million and $11 million for years ended
December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively. Unearned revenue included in leases
was $692 million and $700 million for non-U.S. leases, and $201 million and $229
million for U.S. leases, for the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998,
respectively.


Non-Accrual Loans

It is State Street's policy to place loans on a non-accrual basis when they
become 60 days past due as to either principal or interest, or when in the
opinion of management, full collection of principal or interest is unlikely.
Loans eligible for non-accrual, but considered both well secured and in the
process of collection, are treated as exceptions and may be exempted from non-
accrual status. When the loan is placed on non-accrual, the accrual of interest
is discontinued and previously recorded but unpaid interest is reversed and
charged against net interest revenue. Past due loans are loans on which
principal or interest payments are over 90 days delinquent, but where interest
continues to be accrued.

Non-accrual loans totaled $9 million, $12 million, $2 million, $12 million and
$16 million as of December 31, 1999 through 1995, respectively. There were $5
million of non-accrual loans to non-U.S. customers in 1999, none in 1998, less
than $1 million in 1997, $6 million in 1996, and none in 1995.

Past due loans totaled less than $1 million as of December 31, 1999 through
1995. Past due loans included loans to non-U.S. customers for less than $1
million in 1999, 1998 and 1997, and none for the years 1996 and 1995.

The interest revenue for 1999, which would have been recorded for the
non-accrual loans is less than $1 million for U.S. and less than $1 million for
non-U.S. loans. The interest revenue that was recorded on non-accrual loans was
less than $1 million for U.S. and non-U.S. loans.




Item 1. Business (continued)

Allowance for Loan Losses and Credit Quality


The changes in the allowance for loan losses for the years ended December 31,
were as follows:



(1) On October 1, 1999, State Street completed the sale of its commercial
    banking business which included the transfer of $36 million of the allowance
    for loan loss.

State Street establishes an allowance for loan losses to absorb probable credit
losses. Management's review of the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses is
ongoing throughout the year and is based, among other factors, on previous loss
experience, current economic conditions and adverse situations that may affect
the borrowers' ability to repay, timing of future payments, estimated value of
the underlying collateral and the performance of individual credits in relation
to contract terms, and other relevant factors.

While the allowance is established to absorb probable losses inherent in the
total loan portfolio, management allocates the allowance for loan losses to
specific loans, selected portfolio segments and certain off-balance sheet
exposures and commitments. Adversely classified loans in excess of $1 million
are reviewed individually to evaluate risk of loss and assigned a specific
allocation of the allowance. The allocations are based on an assessment of
potential risk of loss and include evaluations of the borrowers' financial
strength, discounted cash flows, collateral, appraisals and guarantees. The
allocations to portfolio segments and off-balance sheet exposures are based on
management's evaluation of relevant factors, including the current level of
problem loans and current economic trends. These allocations are also based on
subjective estimates and management judgment, and are subject to change from
quarter-to-quarter. In addition, a portion of the allowance remains unallocated
as a general reserve for the entire loan portfolio. The general reserve is
based upon such factors as portfolio concentration, historical losses and
current economic conditions.

The provision for loan losses is a charge to earnings for the current period
which is required to maintain the total allowance at a level considered
adequate in relation to the level of risk in the loan portfolio. The provision
for loan losses was $14 million and $17 million in 1999 and 1998, respectively.




Item 1. Business (continued)

At December 31, 1999, loans comprised 7% of State Street's assets. State
Street's loan policies limit the size of individual loan exposures to reduce
risk through diversification.

For 1999, net charge-offs were $14 million versus net charge-offs of $16
million in 1998. Net charge-offs for 1999, as a percentage of average loans,
were .22% compared to net charge-offs of .24% for 1998.

At December 31, 1999, total non-performing assets were $13 million, a $3
million decrease from year-end 1998. Non-performing assets include $9 million
and $12 million of non-accrual loans at year-end 1999 and 1998, respectively,
and $4 million of other real estate owned in both 1999 and 1998.

At December 31, 1999, the allowance for loan losses was $48 million, or 1.12%
of total loans. This compares with an allowance of $84 million, or 1.34% of
total loans a year ago. In 1999, the measures of credit quality continued to be
satisfactory, largely due to favorable U.S. economic conditions. State Street
expects these measures of credit quality to continue to remain satisfactory in
2000. Actual results may differ materially from these forward-looking
statements due to deterioration in the economic conditions and other unforeseen
factors.


Cross-Border Outstandings

Countries within which State Street has cross-border outstandings (primarily
deposits and letters of credit to banks and other financial institutions) of at
least 1% of its total assets at December 31, were as follows:



There were no other individual countries with aggregate cross-border
outstandings between .75% and 1% of total assets at December 31, 1999; at
December 31, 1998 there was $441 million (Belgium).


Deposits

The average balance and rates paid on interest-bearing deposits for the years
ended December 31, were as follows:





Item 1. Business (continued)

Maturities of U.S. certificates of deposit of $100,000 or more at December 31,
1999 were as follows:



At December 31, 1999, substantially all non-U.S. time deposit liabilities were
in amounts of $100,000 or more. Included in non interest-bearing deposits were
non-U.S. deposits of $35 million at December 31, 1999, $83 million at December
31, 1998 and $72 million at December 31, 1997.


Return on Equity and Assets and Capital Ratios

The return on equity, return on assets, dividend pay-out ratio, equity to
assets ratio and capital ratios for reported results for the years ended
December 31, were as follows:





Short-Term Borrowings

The following table reflects the amounts outstanding and weighted average
interest rates of the primary components of short-term borrowings as of and for
the years ended December 31:






Item 2. Properties

State Street's headquarters are located in the State Street Bank Building, a
34-story building at 225 Franklin Street, Boston, Massachusetts, which was
completed in 1965. State Street leases approximately 500,000 square feet (or
approximately 54% of the space in this building). The initial lease term was 30
years with two successive extension options of 20 years each at negotiated
rental rates. State Street exercised the first of these two options, which
became effective on January 1, 1996 for a term of 20 years.

State Street owns five buildings located in Quincy, Massachusetts, a city south
of Boston. Four of the buildings, containing a total of approximately 1,365,000
square feet, function as State Street Bank's operations facilities. The fifth
building, with 186,000 square feet, is leased to Boston Financial Data
Services, Inc., a 50% owned affiliate. Additionally, State Street owns a 92,000
square foot building in Westborough, Massachusetts, which is used as a data
center, and a 100,000 square foot data center in Kansas City, Missouri.

The remaining offices and facilities of State Street and its subsidiaries are
leased. As of December 31, 1999, the aggregate mortgages and lease payments,
net of sublease revenue, payable within one year amounted to $82 million plus
assessments for real estate tax, cleaning and operating expenses.

For additional information relating to premises, see Note E to the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements in State Street's 1999 Annual Report to
Stockholders.


Item 3. Legal Proceedings

State Street is subject to pending and threatened legal actions that arise in
the normal course of business. In the opinion of management, after discussion
with counsel, these can be successfully defended or resolved without a material
adverse effect on State Street's financial position or results of operations.


Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

None



Item 4.A. Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following table sets forth certain information with regard to each
executive officer of State Street. As used herein, the term "executive officer"
means an officer who performs policy-making functions for State Street.



All executive officers are elected by the Board of Directors. The Chairman,
President and Treasurer have been elected to hold office until the next annual
meeting of stockholders or until their respective successors are chosen and
qualified. Other executive officers hold office at the discretion of the Board.
There are no family relationships among any of the directors and executive
officers of State Street. With the exception of Ms. Bateman and Mr. O'Kelley,
all of the executive officers have been officers of State Street for five years
or more.

Ms. Bateman was hired as an executive officer of State Street in 1997. Prior to
joining State Street, she was Managing Director and General Counsel of United
States Trust Company of New York. Prior to that, she had been Vice President
and Counsel at Bankers Trust Company.

Mr. O'Kelley was hired as an executive officer of State Street in 1995. Prior
to joining State Street, he was Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of
Douglas Aircraft Company, a subsidiary of McDonnell Douglas Corporation. Prior
to that, he was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Rolls
Royce, Inc.

Mr. Chow became an executive officer of State Street in 1999. Prior to joining
State Street in 1990, Mr. Chow was employed with Bank of Boston in various
corporate and international banking roles.

Mr. Harbert became an executive officer of State Street in 1999. Mr. Harbert
joined State Street in 1987 and has held a various positions including Head of
Systems and Investment Operations, and Chief Operating Officer and President of
State Street Global Advisors. Prior to joining State Street, Mr. Harbert was a
manager in the Management Consulting Services practice of
PriceWaterhouseCoopers, LLC.

Mr. Shelton became an executive officer of State Street in 1999. Mr. Shelton
joined State Street in 1984 and has held various positions, including manager
of State Street's offices in London and Hong Kong. Prior to joining State
Street, Mr. Shelton was Vice President of First City National Bank.




                                    PART II


Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

Information concerning the market prices of and dividends on State Street's
common stock during the past two years appears on page 26 of State Street's
1999 Annual Report to Stockholders and is incorporated by reference. There were
5,970 stockholders of record at December 31, 1999. State Street's common stock
is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, ticker symbol: STT. State Street's
common stock is also listed on the Boston and Pacific Stock Exchanges.

Directors who are also employees of the Corporation or the Bank receive no
compensation for serving as directors or as members of committees. Directors
who are not employees of the Corporation or the Bank received an annual
retainer of $37,500, payable at their election in shares of Common Stock of the
Corporation or in cash, and an award of 468 shares of deferred stock payable
when the director leaves the Board or retires, for services provided during the
period April 1999 through March 2000. In 1999, all outside directors elected to
receive their annual retainer in shares of Common Stock. The directors may
elect to defer either 50% or 100% of all fees and compensation payable in
either cash or stock during any calendar year pursuant to the Corporation's
Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors. Three directors have elected to defer
compensation. An aggregate of 6,651 shares were issued as retainers, and rights
to receive an aggregate of 8,065 deferred shares were awarded, in 1999.
Exemption from registration of the shares is claimed by the Corporation under
Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933.


Item 6. Selected Financial Data

The information required by this item is set forth on page 11 of State Street's
1999 Annual Report to Stockholders and is incorporated by reference.


Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operation

The information required by this item appears in State Street's 1999 Annual
Report to Stockholders on pages 2 through 9 and pages 12 through 29 and is
incorporated by reference.


Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

The information required by this item appears in State Street's 1999 Annual
Report to Stockholders on pages 26 through 29 and is incorporated by reference.


Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The Consolidated Financial Statements, Report of Independent Auditors and
Supplemental Financial Data appear on pages 30 through 55 of State Street's
1999 Annual Report to Stockholders and are incorporated by reference. In
addition, discussion of restrictions on transfer of funds from State Street
Bank to Registrant is included in Part I, Item 1, "Dividends".


Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure

None




                                   PART III


Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Information concerning State Street's directors appears on pages 2 through 7 of
State Street's Proxy Statement for the 2000 Annual Meeting of Stockholders
under the caption "Election of Directors". Such information is incorporated by
reference.

Information concerning State Street's executive officers appears under the
caption "Executive Officers of the Registrant" in Item 4.A of this Report.

Information concerning compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange
Act appears on page 9 of State Street's Proxy Statement for the 2000 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders under the caption "Compliance with Section 16(a) of the
Securities Exchange Act". Such information is incorporated by reference.


Item 11. Executive Compensation

Information in response to this item appears on pages 15 and 16 in State
Street's Proxy Statement for the 2000 Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the
caption "Executive Compensation", on page 8 in State Street's Proxy Statement
for the 2000 Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the caption "Compensation of
Directors", on pages 18 - 20 in State Street's Proxy Statement for the 2000
Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the caption "Retirement Benefits", on page
7 in State Street's Proxy Statement for the 2000 Annual Meeting of Stockholders
under the caption "General Information--Executive Compensation Committee", on
pages 10 to 14 in State Street's Proxy Statement for the 2000 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders under the caption "Report of the Executive Compensation
Committee", and on page 17 in State Street's Proxy Statement for the 2000
Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the caption "Stockholder Return
Performance Presentation". Such information is incorporated by reference.


Item 12: Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

Information concerning security ownership of certain beneficial owners and
management appears on pages 8 and 9 in State Street's Proxy Statement for the
2000 Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the caption "Beneficial Ownership of
Shares". Such information is incorporated by reference.


Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

Information concerning certain relationships and related transactions appears
on pages 9 and 10 in State Street's Proxy Statement for the 2000 Annual Meeting
of Stockholders under the caption "Certain Transactions". Such information is
incorporated by reference.




                                    PART IV


Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)(1) Financial Statements

       The following consolidated financial statements of State Street included
       in its Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1999
       are incorporated by reference in Item 8 hereof:

       Consolidated Statement of Income--Years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and
       Consolidated Statement of Condition--December 31, 1999 and 1998
       Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows--Years ended December 31, 1999, 1998
       and 1997
       Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders' Equity--Years ended
       December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997
       Notes to Financial Statements
       Report of Independent Auditors


   (2) Financial Statement Schedules

       Certain schedules to the consolidated financial statements have been
       omitted if they were not required by Article 9 of Regulation S-X or if,
       under the related instructions, they were inapplicable, or the
       information was contained elsewhere herein.


   (3) Exhibits

       A list of the exhibits filed or incorporated by reference is as follows:

       3.1  Restated Articles of Organization, as amended (filed with the
            Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to Registrant's
            Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997 and
            incorporated by reference)

       3.2  By-laws, as amended (filed with the Securities and Exchange
            Commission as Exhibit 3.2 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K
            for the year ended December 31, 1991 and incorporated by reference)

       4.1  The description of Registrant Common Stock is included in
            Registrant's Registration Statement on Form 10, as filed with the
            Securities and Exchange Commission on September 3, 1970 and amended
            as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 12, 1971
            and incorporated by reference

       4.2  Amended and Restated Rights Agreement dated as of June 18, 1998
            between Registrant and BankBoston, N.A., Rights Agent (filed with
            the Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 99.1 to
            Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated June18, 1998 and
            incorporated by reference)

       4.3  Indenture dated as of May 1, 1983 between Registrant and Morgan
            Guaranty Trust Company of New York, Trustee, relating to
            Registrant's 7 3/4% Convertible Subordinated Debentures due 2008
            (filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 4 to
            Registrant's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Commission File No.
            2-83251) and incorporated by reference)

       4.4  Indenture dated as of August 2, 1993 between Registrant and The
            First National Bank of Boston, as trustee relating to Registrant's
            long-term notes (filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
            as Exhibit 4 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
            October 8, 1993 and incorporated by reference)

       4.5  Instrument of Resignation, Appointment, and Acceptance, dated as of
            February 14, 1996 among Registrant, The First National Bank of
            Boston (resigning trustee) and Fleet National Bank of Massachusetts
            (successor trustee) (filed with the Securities and Exchange
            Commission as Exhibit 4.6 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K
            for the year ended December 31, 1995 and incorporated by reference)

       4.6  Instrument of Resignation, Appointment and Acceptance dated as of
            June 26, 1997 among Registrant, Fleet National Bank (resigning
            trustee) and First Trust National Association (successor trustee)
            (filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 4.13
            to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
            December 31, 1997 and incorporated by reference)

       4.7  Junior Subordinated Indenture dated as of December 15, 1996 between
            Registrant and the First National Bank of Chicago (filed with the
            Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 1 to Registrant's
            Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 20, 1996 and incorporated
            by reference)

       4.8  Amended and Restated Trust Agreement dated as of December 15, 1996
            relating to State Street Institutional Capital A (filed with the
            Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 2 to Registrant's
            Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 20, 1996 and incorporated
            by reference)

       4.9  Capital Securities Guarantee Agreement dated as of December 15,1996
            between Registrant and the First National Bank of Chicago (filed
            with the Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 3 to
            Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 20, 1996 and
            incorporated by reference)




Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K
           (continued)

       4.10 Amended and Restated Trust Agreement, dated as of March 11, 1997
            relating to State Street Institutional Capital B (filed with the
            Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 2 to the Registrant's
            Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 11, 1997 and incorporated by
            reference)

       4.11 Capital Securities Guarantee Agreement dated as of March 11, 1997
            between Registrant and the First National Bank of Chicago (filed
            with the Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 3 to
            Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 11, 1997 and
            incorporated by reference)

       4.12 (Note: Registrant agrees to furnish to the Securities and Exchange
            Commission upon request a copy of any other instrument with respect
            to long-term debt of the Registrant and its subsidiaries. Such other
            instruments are not filed herewith since no such instrument relates
            to outstanding debt in an amount greater than 10% of the total
            assets of Registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.)

       10.1 Registrant's 1984 Stock Option Plan, as amended (filed with the
            Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 4(a) to Registrant's
            Registration Statement on Form S-8 (File No. 2-93157) and
            incorporated by reference)

       10.2 Registrant's 1985 Stock Option and Performance Share Plan, as
            amended (filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as
            Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
            ended December 31, 1985 and incorporated by reference)

       10.3 Registrant's 1989 Stock Option Plan, as amended (filed with the
            Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant's
            Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1989 and
            incorporated by reference)

       10.4 Registrant's 1990 Stock Option and Performance Share Plan, as
            amended (filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as
            Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
            ended December 31, 1990 and incorporated by reference)

       10.5 Registrant's Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, together with
            individual benefit agreements (filed with the Securities and
            Exchange Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant's Annual Report on
            Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1991 and incorporated by
            reference)

       10.5A Amendment No. 1 dated as of October 19, 1995, to Registrant's
            Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (filed with the Securities
            and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 10.6A to Registrant's Annual
            Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995 and
            incorporated by reference)

       10.6 Individual Pension Agreement with Marshall N. Carter (filed with the
            Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 10.10 to Registrant's
            Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1991 and
            incorporated by reference)

       10.6A Revised Termination Benefits Arrangement with Marshall N. Carter
            (filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 10.10
            to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
            December 31, 1995 and incorporated by reference)

       10.7 Registrant's 1994 Stock Option and Performance Unit Plan (filed with
            the Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 10.17 to
            Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
            31, 1993 and incorporated by reference)

       10.7A Amendment No. 1 dated as of October 19, 1995, to Registrant's 1994
            Stock Option and Performance Unit Plan (filed with the Securities
            and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 10.13A to Registrant's Annual
            Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995 and
            incorporated by reference)

       10.7B Amendment No. 2 dated as of June 20, 1996, to Registrant's 1994
            Stock Option and Performance Unit Plan (filed with the Securities
            and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 10.7B to Registrant's Annual
            Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998 and
            incorporated by reference)

       10.8 Registrant's Amended and Restated Supplemental Defined Benefit
            Pension Plan for Senior Executive Officers (filed with the
            Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 10 to Registrant's
            Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1998
            and incorporated by reference)

       10.9 Registrant's Non-employee Director Retirement Plan (filed with the
            Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 10.22 to Registrant's
            Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994 and
            incorporated by reference)

       10.10 State Street Global Advisors Incentive Plan for 1996 (filed with
            the Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 10.19 to
            Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
            31, 1995 and incorporated by reference)

       10.  11 Forms of Employment Agreement with Officers (Levels 1, 2, and 3)
            approved by the Board of Directors on September, 1995 (filed with
            the Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 10.20 to
            Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
            31, 1995 and incorporated by reference)

       10.12 State Street Global Advisors Equity Compensation Plan (filed with
            the Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 10 to the
            Registrant's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1996 and
            incorporated by reference)




Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K
                                       (continued)

       10.13 Registrant's Senior Executive Annual Incentive Plan (filed with the
            Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 10.17 to Registrant's
            Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996 and
            incorporated by reference)

       10.14 Registrant's Executive Compensation Trust Agreement dated December
            6, 1996 (Rabbi Trust) (filed with the Securities and Exchange
            Commission as Exhibit 10.18 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form
            10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996 and incorporated by
            reference).

       10.15 Registrant's 1997 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended (filed with the
            Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 10.22 to Registrant's
            Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1997 and incorporated by
            reference)

       10.15A Amendment No. 2 to Registrant's 1997 Equity Incentive Plan (filed
            with the Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 10.17 to
            Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
            31, 1997 and incorporated by reference)

       10.16 Description of 1998 deferred stock awards and issuances in lieu of
            retainer to non-employee directors (filed with the Securities and
            Exchange Commission as Exhibit 10.16 to Registrant's Annual Report
            on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998 and incorporated
            by reference)

       10.17 Description of 1999 deferred stock awards (filed with the
            Securities and Exchange Commission on page 8 under the heading
            "Compensation of Directors" of Registrant's Proxy Statement for the
            2000 Annual Meeting and incorporated by reference)

       10.18 Amended and Restated Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors of
            State Street Corporation (filed with the Securities and Exchange
            Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form
            10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1999 and incorporated by
            reference)

       10.19 Amended and Restated Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors of
            State Street Bank and Trust Company (filed with the Securities and
            Exchange Commission as Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant's Quarterly Report
            on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1999 and incorporated
            by reference)

       10.20 Registrant's 401(k) Restoration and Voluntary Deferral Plan (filed
            with the Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 10 to
            Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
            June 30, 1999 and incorporated by reference)

       11.1 Computation of Earning per Share (information appears in
            Registrant's 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders on page 47 and is
            incorporated by reference)

       12.1 Statement of ratio of earnings to fixed charges

       13   Portions of State Street Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders
            for the year ended December 31,1999. With the exception of the
            information incorporated by reference in Items 1, 2, 5, 6, 7, 7A, 8
            and 14 of this Form 10-K, the Annual Report to Stockholders is not
            deemed filed as part of this report

       21.1 Subsidiaries of State Street Corporation

       23.1 Consent of Independent Auditors

       27.1 Financial Data Schedule (such schedule is not deemed filed as part
            of this report) for the year ended December 31, 1999


 (b) Reports on Form 8-K

   A current report on Form 8-K dated December 8, 1999 was filed, by the
Registrant, on December 9, 1999 with the Securities and Exchange Commission
which reported an agreement with CitiGroup, Inc. to participate in the
formation of a jointly-owned subsidiary, CitiStreet. The transaction is
expected to be completed during the first six months of 2000.

   A current report on Form 8-K dated January 7, 2000 was filed, by the
Registrant, on January 7, 2000 with the Securities and Exchange Commission
which reported on the sale by the Registrant of $5.2 billion of investment
securities as part of a repositioning of its investment portfolio assets.




                                  SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirement of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities and
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, on March 16, 2000, thereunto duly authorized.


                                           STATE STREET CORPORATION


                                           By /s/ FREDERICK P. BAUGHMAN
                                              ---------------------------

                                              FREDERICK P. BAUGHMAN,

                                              Senior Vice President, Controller
                                              and Chief Accounting Officer


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below on March 16, 2000 by the following persons on
behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated.


     OFFICERS:


   /s/ MARSHALL N. CARTER                     /s/ RONALD L. O'KELLEY
  ---------------------------------          ----------------------------------
   MARSHALL N. CARTER,                        RONALD L. O'KELLEY,
   Chairman and Chief Executive               Executive Vice
                                              President, Chief Officer
                                              Financial Officer and Treasurer


                                              /s/ FREDERICK P. BAUGHMAN
                                             ----------------------------------
                                              FREDERICK P. BAUGHMAN,

                                              Senior Vice President, Controller
                                              and Chief Accounting Officer


     DIRECTORS:


   /s/ TENLEY E. ALBRIGHT                     /s/ I. MACALLISTER BOOTH
  ---------------------------------          ----------------------------------
   TENLEY E. ALBRIGHT, M.D.                   I. MACALLISTER BOOTH

                                              /s/ TRUMAN S. CASNER
  ---------------------------------          ----------------------------------
   JAMES I. CASH, JR.                         TRUMAN S. CASNER

   /s/ NADER F. DAREHSHORI                    /s/ ARTHUR L. GOLDSTEIN
  ---------------------------------          ----------------------------------
   NADER F. DAREHSHORI                        ARTHUR L. GOLDSTEIN

                                              /s/ JOHN M. KUCHARSKI
  ---------------------------------          ----------------------------------
   DAVID P. GRUBER                            JOHN M. KUCHARSKI

   /s/ CHARLES R. LAMANTIA                    /s/ DAVID B. PERINI
  ---------------------------------          ----------------------------------
   CHARLES R. LAMANTIA                        DAVID B. PERINI

                                              /s/ ALFRED POE
  ---------------------------------          ----------------------------------
   DENNIS J. PICARD                           ALFRED POE

   /s/ BERNARD W. REZNICEK                    /s/ RICHARD P. SERGEL
  ---------------------------------          ----------------------------------
   BERNARD W. REZNICEK                        RICHARD P. SERGEL

   /s/ DAVID A SPINA                          /s/ DIANA CHAPMAN WALSH
  ---------------------------------          ----------------------------------
   DAVID A. SPINA                             DIANA CHAPMAN WALSH

  /s/ ROBERT E. WEISSMAN
  ---------------------------------
  ROBERT E. WEISSMAN




                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
                                (filed herewith)

       12.1 Statement of ratio of earnings to fixed charges

       13.1 Five Year Selected Financial Data

       13.2 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
            Results of Operations for the Three Years Ended December 31, 1999
            (not covered by the Report of Independent Public Accountants)

       13.3 Letter to Stockholders

       13.4 State Street Corporation Consolidated Financial Statements and
            Schedules

       21.1 Subsidiaries of State Street Corporation

       23.1 Consent of Independent Auditors

       27.1 Financial Data Schedule (such schedule is not to be deemed filed as
            part of this report)



