
10-K
1993 STRYKER 10-K FILING


                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C. 20549
                                   FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
[X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
     ACT OF 1934
      For the fiscal year ended  December 31, 1993
                                      OR
[ ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES 
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
      For the transition period from_________ to __________
                         Commission file number 0-9165
                               STRYKER CORPORATION               
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
         Michigan                                               38-1239739
(State or other jurisdiction of                             (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                              Identification No.)

P.O. Box 4085, Kalamazoo, Michigan                                 49003-4085
(Address of principal executive offices)                           (Zip Code)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  616/385-2600
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  None 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  Common Stock $.10
                                                               par value

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was 
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing 
requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes__X__ No_____.

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the 
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements 
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [  ]

Based on the closing sales price of February 28, 1994 the aggregate market value
of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the registrant was approximately
$1,052,000,000.

The number of shares outstanding of the registrant's common stock, $.10 par 
value, was 48,415,669 at February 28, 1994.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Portions of the annual stockholders report for the year ended December 31, 1993
are incorporated by reference into Parts II and IV.

Portions of the proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission relating to the 1994 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the "1994 proxy
statement") are incorporated by reference into Part III.



PART I

ITEM I.  BUSINESS

GENERAL

Stryker Corporation and its subsidiaries (the "Company" or "Stryker") develop,
manufacture and market specialty surgical and medical products, including 
endoscopic systems, orthopaedic implants, powered surgical instruments, and 
patient handling equipment, which are sold to hospitals and physicians 
worldwide.  In addition, since 1986 the Company has provided physical therapy
services through stand-alone clinics throughout the U.S.  Stryker was 
incorporated in Michigan on February 20, 1946 as the successor to a business
founded in 1941 by Dr. Homer H. Stryker, a leading orthopaedic surgeon and the
inventor of several innovative orthopaedic products.

In October 1992, the Company's subsidiary, Stryker France S.A., acquired Dimso
S.A. and its subsidiary companies in France and Spain.  Dimso designs and 
manufactures the Diapason and Stryker 2S spinal implant systems in addition to 
other orthopaedic products.  The Company's European Division had previously 
marketed the Stryker 2S spinal implant system since 1990.  In late 1992, the
Company applied to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for approval to
market the Stryker 2S spinal implant system in the U.S.

In August 1993, the Company purchased 20% of the outstanding shares of Matsumoto
Medical Instruments, Inc., Osaka, Japan.  Matsumoto began distributing Stryker
products in Japan in 1969 and is the exclusive distributor of most Stryker
products in that country.

PRODUCT SALES

The principal classes of products listed below accounted for the following 
amounts ($000's) and percentages of net sales during each of the three years
ended December 31:

                                    1993            1992            1991       
                                  $       %       $       %       $       %    

  Surgical Products            447,042    80   394,111    83    302,938   83

  Medical Products             110,293    20    82,943    17     61,887   17
                               _______         _______          _______ 
                               557,335   100   477,054   100    364,825  100
                               =======         =======          =======

Approximately two-thirds of the Company's sales in 1993, 1992 and 1991 consisted
of products with short lives and service revenues, such as implants (while 
implants have a long useful life to the patient, they have a one-time use to the
hospital), physical therapy revenues, disposables, expendable tools and parts, 
and service and repair charges.  The balance were products that could be 
considered capital equipment, having useful lives in excess of one year.

The Company's backlog of firm orders is not considered material to an 
understanding of its business.  



SURGICAL PRODUCTS

The principal specialty served by the Company's Surgical products is 
orthopaedics.  Artificial joint replacements, medical video cameras, 
arthroscopes, heavy-duty powered instruments, and pulsating irrigation systems
are manufactured and marketed for use by the orthopaedic surgeon.

The Company specializes in the design and manufacture of innovative total and 
partial hip and knee replacements.  These artificial implants are made of cobalt
chrome or titanium alloys and are implanted in patients whose natural joints 
have been damaged by arthritis, other diseases or injury.

The Company also designs and manufactures spinal implant systems.  These implant
systems are used by spinal surgeons in the treatment of degenerative spinal 
diseases and deformities and to stabilize the spine in trauma cases.

Stryker's broad line of powered surgical drills, saws, fixation and reaming 
equipment and other surgical instruments are used by surgeons for drilling, 
burring, rasping or curring bone, wiring or pinning bone fractures, preparing
hip or knee surfaces for the placement of artificial hip or knee joints,
performing cranial operations or treating skin defects by surgical abrasion.
Hundreds of different sized and shaped drills bits, burrs, blades, chisels and
other attachments are available to the surgeon.  

Small, light, "micro" powered tools are used in such specialties as 
maxillofacial surgery, otology, neurosurgery, spinal surgery, podiatry and 
plastic surgery.  In addition, the oral surgeon is served by the Company's line
of dental implants and powered oral surgery instruments.  

The Company also produces a number of other operating room products.  The 
Company's CBC-Constavac(T) system is a post-operative wound drainage and blood 
reinfusion device that enables joint replacement patients to receive their own 
blood rather than donor blood.  In conjunction with joint replacement surgery,
the Company's High Vacuum Cement Injection System is used to mix and inject
cement under high vacuum for cemented implant applications.

The Company's endoscopic systems include medical video cameras, light sources,
laparoscopes, powered instruments, and manual instruments.  These systems are
used in less-invasive surgery, such as arthroscopy and cholecystectomy (gall 
bladder removal) in which the surgeon operates on a patient through a series of
small punctures rather than an open incision as required by conventional 
surgery.

MEDICAL PRODUCTS

The Company's Medical product line consists primarily of specialty stretchers 
and beds, which facilitate the transportation, transfer and treatment of 
patients within the hospital. The Company designs and manufactures innovative
specialty stretchers/beds for many departments within the hospital, including 
emergency, recovery, intensive care, surgery, maternity and the general patient
room.  These products service the particular treatment needs of each department
by providing multiple or custom combinations of hydraulic jacks, removable top 
sections, built-in weighing systems, on-board x-ray equipment, patient-warming
systems and a vast number of additional standard or optional features.  These 
products are assembled on a design-to-order basis.  



Also included in Medical product sales is revenue of the Company's Physiotherapy
Associates subsidiary.  This organization operates outpatient rehabilitation 
centers, which offer physical, occupational and speech therapy to patients who 
have suffered orthopaedic or neurological injuries.  It focuses, in particular,
on expediting injured workers' return to work.

PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT

Most of the Company's products and product improvements have been developed
internally.  In addition, the Company maintains close working relationships with
physicians and medical personnel in hospitals and universities who assist in 
product research and development.  New and improved products play a critical 
role in the Company's sales growth.  The Company has placed increased 
emphasis on the development of proprietary products and product improvements
to complement and expand its existing product lines.

Total expenditures for product research, development and engineering were 
$36,199,000 in 1993; $32,313,000 in 1992; and $23,703,000 in 1991.  Research, 
development and engineering expenses increased in 1993 and 1992 due principally
to the development of new implant designs (the Series 7000 Total Knee System 
introduced in 1992, with modular and posterially stabilized components added to
the line in 1993), the further application of hydroxylapatite (HA) technology
for arthroplasty, the development of advanced powered instruments and video
technology (the Company's third generation 3-Chip and 1-Chip Camera systems
introduced in 1992 and Quadracut ACL/Shaver system for arthroscopy introduced
in 1993), the development of new specialized operating room equipment (the
Company's Surgilav Plus pulsed irrigation system introduced in 1993 and the
High Vacuum Cement Injection system for applying bone cement introduced in 
1992), the development of new patient handling and patient care equipment (a 
warming stretcher for the recovery room introduced in 1992 and a general patient
hospital bed introduced in 1993) and clinical trials of the Company's Osteogenic
Protein Device.

At the end of 1990, the Company's Osteonics subsidiary became the first company
to receive clearance from the U.S. FDA to commercially release for sale in the 
U.S. a hip implant with HA surface treatment.  HA is a naturally occurring 
calcium phosphate material that demonstrates a high level of biocompatibility 
due to its resemblance to human bone.  Osteonics' clinical experience with 
HA-coated hip implants now extends over five years and on the industry's 
standard measure of performance, the Harris Hip Score, these implants earned an
average rating of 97 out of 100--a record unmatched by any other hip prosthesis
reported in the professional literature.  These excellent clinical results have
further strengthened the Company's belief that HA has significant potential as a
means of improving the performance and longevity of implants.

In 1991 the Company received FDA approval to begin human clinical trials of its
Osteogenic Protein Device which was developed by Creative BioMolecules, Inc.
(Creative), a biopharmaceutical company, as part of a long-term research program
funded by Stryker since 1985.  This device is composed of a recombinant human
osteogenic protein and a bioresorbable carrier.  This osteogenic protein is 
naturally present in the human body and is directly implicated in a cascade of 
cellular events that result in bone growth.  In preclinical studies, the 
Osteogenic Protein Device has induced the formation of new bone when implanted
into bone defect sites.  The human clinical studies, which began in 1992, will 
compare the efficacy of the Osteogenic Protein Device to autografts in the 
repair of non-union fractures.  Stryker owns the patents on its Osteogenic



Protein Device and has the exclusive right to develop, market and sell the 
Device for local use in the treatment, repair or replacement of bone and joint
tissue ("orthopaedic reconstruction").  Creative has the right to use the 
technology outside the field of orthopaedic reconstruction.

MARKETING

Most of the Company's products are marketed in the United States directly to 
more than 7,500 hospitals, and to doctors and other health care facilities, by 
the Company's sales force consisting of approximately 375 salespersons.  Stryker
maintains separate and dedicated sales forces for each of its principal product
lines to provide focus and a high level of expertise to each medical specialty 
served.  Certain products, primarily orthopaedic implants, are sold to hospitals
in the United States principally through independent dealer organizations. 

Approximately 22% of the Company's domestic revenues in 1993 were accounted for
by sales to hospital cooperative buying groups and other large national accounts
and 2% by sales to the Veterans Administration and other hospitals operated by 
the Federal government.


International sales accounted for 32% of total revenues in 1993.  Stryker 
products are sold in over 100 foreign countries primarily through more than 350 
local dealers whose efforts are coordinated by approximately 250 sales and 
marketing personnel who are local nationals.  Stryker distributes its products 
through sales subsidiaries with offices located in The Netherlands, Belgium,
France, Italy, the United Kingdom, Germany, Spain, Hong Kong, China, Singapore, 
Korea, India, Taiwan, Japan, Australia, Malaysia, Canada and Moscow.  Stryker 
exports products to dealers in Latin America, the Middle East and Japan, and to
customers in the CIS (former Soviet Union).  Additional information regarding
the Company's foreign and domestic operations andexport sales appearing in 
"Note 8--Geographic Data" on page 42 (page 45 of the 1993 Annual Report) is 
incorporated herein by reference.

The Company's business is generally not seasonal in nature; however, in 1993 and
1992 sales and earnings have been stronger in the fourth quarter than in the 
previous three quarters.

COMPETITION

The Company is one of the two leading competitors in the U.S. market for powered
surgical instruments, the other being Zimmer, USA Inc. (a subsidiary of 
Bristol-Myers, Squibb, Inc.).  While competition abroad varies from area to 
area, the Company believes it is also a leading factor in the international 
market, with Aesculap-Werke AG, a large European manufacturer, being its 
principal competitor.

In the orthopaedic reconstructive products market Stryker is one of the four 
market leaders, with the principal competitors being Zimmer, Howmedica, Inc. (a
subsidiary of Pfizer, Inc.) and DePuy (a subsidiary of Boehringer Mannheim 
Corporation, a German company).  

In the arthroscopy market, the Company considers itself to be one of the three 
market leaders, with the principal competitors being Dyonics, Inc. (a subsidiary
of Smith & Nephew) and Linvatec/Concept, Inc. (a subsidiary of Bristol-Myers, 
Squibb, Inc.).  In the laparoscopic imaging products market, the Company 
considers itself to be one of the four market leaders with the principal 



competitors being Karl Stroz GmbH & Co. (a German company), Olympus Optical 
Co. Ltd. (a Japanese company) and Circon Corporation.

The Company's primary competitor in the specialty stretcher/bed market and the 
general hospital bed market is Hill-Rom (a divison of Hillenbrand Industries).

In the outpatient physical therapy market the Company's primary competitors are
physician owned/independent practices and hospital-based services.  There are 
also a few national rehabilitation companies, such as HealthSouth Corporation,
NovaCare, Inc./RehabClinics, Inc. and Rehability Corporation.

The principal factors which the Company believes differentiate its products in 
these highly competitive markets and enable it to compete effectively are 
innovative products, reliability, service and reputation.  The Company is not 
able to predict the effect that continuing efforts to reduce health care
expenses generally and hospital costs in particular will have on the future 
sales of its products or its competitive position.  (See "Regulation and Product
Quality.")  The Company believes that its competitive position in the future 
will depend to a large degree upon the new products and improvements in existing
products it is able to develop.  While the Company does not consider patents a
major factor in its overall competitive success, patents and trademarks are 
significant to the extent that a product or attribute of a product represents a
unique design or process.  Patent or trademark protection of such products 
restricts competitors from duplicating these unique product designs and
features.  Stryker seeks to obtain patent protection whenever possible on its
products.  The Company currently has approximately 70 U.S. patents and 10 
foreign patents which generally expire in the next 10-15 years.

MANUFACTURING AND SOURCES OF SUPPLY

The Company's manufacturing processes consist primarily of precision machining,
metal fabrication, assembly operations and the investment casting of cobalt 
chrome and finishing of cobalt chrome and titanium.  Approximately 15% of the 
Company's cost of sales in 1993 represented finished products which were 
purchased complete from outside suppliers.  The Company also purchases parts 
and components, such as forgings, castings, gears, bearings, casters and
electrical components and uses outside sources for certain finishing operations
such as plating, hardening and coating of machined components and sterilization
of certain products.  The principal raw materials used by the Company are 
stainless steel, aluminum, cobalt chrome and titanium alloys.  In all, purchases
from outside sources were approximately 54% of the total cost of sales in 1993.

While the Company relies on single sources for certain purchased materials and
services, it believes alternate sources are available if needed.  The Company 
has not experienced any significant difficulty in the past in obtaining the 
materials necessary to meet its production schedules.

The Company's patient handling products are assembled to order, while other 
products are stocked in inventory.



REGULATION AND PRODUCT QUALITY

The Medical Device Amendments of 1976 to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic 
Act, the Safe Medical Devices Act of 1990, and regulations issued or proposed 
thereunder, provide for regulation by the FDA of the manufacture of medical 
devices, including most of the Company's products.

The FDA's "Good Manufacturing Practices" guidelines set forth standards for the
Company's manufacturing processes, require the maintenance of certain records 
and provide for unscheduled inspections of the Company's facilities by the FDA. 
There are also certain requirements of state, local and foreign governments 
which must be complied with in the manufacturing and marketing of the Company's
products.  The Company believes that the manufacturing and quality control 
procedures it employs meet the requirements of these regulations.

Most of the Company's new products fall into FDA classifications which require
notification of and review by the FDA before marketing (submitted as 510(k)).  
Certain of the Company's new implant products and the Osteogenic Protein Device
(see "Product Development") require extensive clinical testing, consisting of 
safety and efficacy studies, followed by a Pre-Market Approval (PMA) 
application.  A panel of industry and medical experts review the results of 
clinical studies and make their recommendations to the FDA.  Upon positive 
recommendation by the panel, the FDA may grant a PMA allowing the product to be
marketed. 

Government agencies and legislative bodies in the United States and other 
countries are considering various proposals designed to hold down increases in 
health care costs.  It is impossible to predict at this time the long-term 
impact of such cost containment measures on the Company's future business.

EMPLOYEES

At December 31, 1993, the Company had 3,228 employees worldwide, including 1,214
involved in manufacturing, warehousing and distribution operations, 777 in 
marketing and sales, 223 in research, development and engineering and the 
balance in general management and administration.  No employees are covered by 
collective bargaining agreements.  The Company believes that its employee 
relations are satisfactory.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

The Company's principal facilities are located in Kalamazoo and Portage, 
Michigan.  A 190,000 square foot Portage facility completed in 1992 houses 
manufacturing (80,000 square feet) and warehousing and distribution (25,000 
square feet) for surgical instrument products, with the remaining portion of the
facility used for Division offices.  The Medical Division is located in two 
facilities, one in Portage which was completed in 1985 and contains 
manufacturing and warehousing (122,000 square feet) and Division offices
(23,000 square feet), and another in Kalamazoo which contains manufacturing and
warehousing (64,000 square feet) and offices (22,000 square feet).

The Company leases 185,000 square feet in an industrial park in Allendale, New 
Jersey for its orthopaedic implant business; 56,000 square feet in San Jose, 
California for its endoscopic systems business; 28,000 square feet in Clackamas,
Oregon for production of maternity beds and furniture; and 40,000 square feet in
Arroyo, Puerto Rico for the assembly of disposable tubing sets and other 
manufacturing.  The Company's 72 physical therapy clinics are all located in 
leased offices.



ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES -- continued

The Company's principal European facilities are located in two buildings (one of
which is leased) in Uden, The Netherlands.  Of the total 70,000 square feet 
(22,000 of which is leased) 41,000 square feet are devoted to production 
(principally hospital beds and related equipment) and 11,300 square feet to 
warehousing, with the balance used for administrative offices.  In addition, the
Company leases 16,000 square feet in Bordeaux, France for its spinal implant 
manufacturing operation.  Manufacturing and warehousing account for 11,000 
square feet of the total and the remainder is used for administrative offices.
The Company also leases other foreign sales and administration offices.  

In addition, the Company leases 12,000 square feet in Kalamazoo, Michigan for 
its administrative offices.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The Company is a defendant and plaintiff in various legal actions arising in the
normal course of business.  The Company does not anticipate material losses as a
result of these actions.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

Not applicable.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

Certain information with respect to the executive officers of the Company is set
forth in Item 10 of this report.

PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER 
         MATTERS

The Company's common stock is traded in the over-the-counter market on the 
NASDAQ National Market System under the symbol STRY.  Quarterly stock prices and
dividend information appearing under the caption "Summary of Quarterly Data" on
page 44 (page 47 of the 1993 Annual Report) are incorporated herein by 
reference.  The Company's Board of Directors intends to consider a year-end cash
dividend annually at its December meeting.

On December 31, 1993 there were 3,951 stockholders of record of the Company's 
common stock.



ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The financial information for each of the five years in the period ended
December 31, 1993 under the caption "Ten Year Review" on page 29 (pages 32 and 
33 of the 1993 Annual Report) is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS

The information under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of 
Financial Condition and Results of Operations" on pages 30 through 32 (pages 34
through 36 of the 1993 Annual Report) is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The consolidated financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries and 
report of independent auditors, included on pages 33 through 45 (pages 37 
through 48 of the 1993 Annual Report) are incorporated herein by reference.

Quarterly results of operations appearing under the caption "Summary of 
Quarterly Data" on page 44 (page 47 of the 1993 Annual Report) are incorporated
herein by reference.

ITEM 9.  DISAGREEMENTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

Not applicable.

PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

Information regarding the directors of the Company appearing under the caption
"Election of Directors" in the 1994 proxy statement is incorporated herein by
reference.

Information regarding the executive officers of the Company appears below.  All
officers are elected annually.  Reported ages are as of January 31, 1994.

John W. Brown, age 59, has been Chairman of the Board since January 1981, and
President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since February 1977.  He is
also a director of Lunar Corporation, a medical products company, First of 
America, a bank, and the Health Industry Manufacturers Association and a Trustee
of Kalamazoo College.

Ronald A. Elenbaas, age 40, was appointed President of the Surgical Group in 
1985 and has been a Vice President of the Company since August 1983.  Previously
he was the Director of Surgical Sales since May 1982.  Since joining the Company
in September 1975 he has held various other positions, including Sales 
Representative, Marketing Product Manager, Plant Manager, Canadian Sales 
Director, Assistant to the President and Director of Customer Relations.

William T. Laube, III, age 54, was appointed President of Stryker Pacific 
Limited in 1985 and has been a Vice President of the Company since March 1979.  
Since joining the Company in July 1975 he has held various international sales 
management positions.



ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS -- continued

Robert D. Monk, age 42, was appointed Treasurer-Controller upon joining the 
Company in March 1984.  He was also appointed Assistant Secretary in February 
1991.

David J. Simpson, age 47, was appointed Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
and Secretary upon joining the Company in June 1987.  He had previously been 
Vice President and Treasurer of Rexnord Inc., a manufacturer of industrial and 
aerospace products, since July 1985.

Thomas R. Winkel, age 41, was appointed President of Stryker Americas/Middle 
East in March 1992 and has been a Vice President of the Company since December 
1984.  He had previously been Vice President, Administration since June 1987.  
Since joining the Company in October 1978 he has held various other positions, 
including Assistant Controller, Secretary and Corporate Controller.

An amended Form 5 was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in 
June 1993 by John W. Brown, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive
Officer of the Company, when it was realized that a charitable gift of 2,625 
Shares of Common Stock of the Company made by him had been omitted from the 
original filing.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Information regarding the compensation of the management of the Company 
appearing under the captions "Director Compensation" and "Executive 
Compensation" in the 1994 proxy statement is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The information under the captions "Beneficial Ownership of More than 5% of the
Outstanding Common Stock" and "Beneficial Ownership of Management" in the 1994 
proxy statement is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

Not applicable.


PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
          (Executive compensation plans and arrangements are referenced as 
          exhibits 10(i) and (ii).)

          (a)(1) and (2) -   The response to this portion of Item 14 is 
                             submitted as a separate section of this report 
                             following the signature page.

                  (a)(3) -   Exhibits

                      Exhibit 3 - Articles of incorporation and by-laws

                       (i)   Restated Articles of Incorporation and amendment
                             thereto dated December 28, 1993.

                      (ii)   By-Laws--Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                             3(ii) to the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter
                             ended June 30, 1988 (Commission File No. 0-9165).

                      Exhibit 4 - Instruments defining the rights of security  
                             holders, including indentures--The Company agrees
                             to furnish to the Commission upon request a copy
                             of each instrument pursuant to which long-term
                             debt of the Company and its subsidiaries not
                             exceeding 10% of the total assets of the Company
                             and its consolidated subsidiaries is authorized.

                      Exhibit 10-Material contracts
      
                        (i)* 1988 Stock Option Plan as amended--Incorporated by
                             reference to Exhibit 10(i) to the Company's
                             Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992
                             (Commission File No. 0-9165).

                       (ii)* Description of bonus arrangements between the
                             Company and certain officers, including Messrs.
                             Brown, Elenbaas, Laube, Simpson and Winkel.

                      Exhibit 11-Statement re computation of per share earnings

                        (i)  Statement Re:  Computation of net earnings per
                             share

                      Exhibit 13-Annual report to security holders

                        (i)  Portions of the 1993 Annual Report that are
                             incorporated herein by reference

                      Exhibit 21-Subsidiaries of the registrant

                       (i)   List of Subsidiaries

*compensation arrangement



ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON 
          FORM 8-K--continued

                      Exhibit 23-Consents of experts and counsel

                        (i)  Consent of Independent Auditors

          (b)     Reports on Form 8-K - No reports on Form 8-K were required to
                  be filed in the fourth quarter of 1993.

          (c)     Exhibits - The response to this portion of Item 14 is 
                  submitted as a separate section of this report following the 
                  signature page.

          (d)     Financial statement schedules - The response to this portion 
                  of Item 14 is submitted as a separate section of this report 
                  following the signature page.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its 
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                           STRYKER CORPORATION

Date: March 18, 1994                       DAVID J. SIMPSON
                                           David J. Simpson, Vice President, 
                                           Chief Financial Officer and Secretary


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and 
in the capacities and on the dates indicated.



JOHN W. BROWN               3/18/94      DAVID J. SIMPSON               3/18/94
John W. Brown, Chairman, President       David J. Simpson, Vice President, Chief
  and Chief Executive Officer              Financial Officer and Secretary
  (Principal Executive Officer)            (Principal Financial Officer)



HOWARD E. COX, JR.          3/18/94      ROBERT D. MONK                 3/18/94
Howard E. Cox, Jr. - Director            Robert D. Monk, Treasurer/Controller
                                           (Principal Accounting Officer)    



DONALD M. ENGELMAN          3/18/94      RONDA E. STRYKER               3/18/94
Donald M. Engelman, Ph.D. - Director     Ronda E. Stryker - Director



JEROME H. GROSSMAN          3/18/94      GERARD THOMAS                  3/18/94
Jerome H. Grossman, M.D. - Director      Gerard Thomas - Director 



JOHN S. LILLARD             3/18/94      WILLIAM U. PARFET              3/18/94
John S. Lillard - Director               William U. Parfet - Director












                          ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

                      ITEM 14(a)(1) and (2), (c) and (d)

          LIST OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

                               CERTAIN EXHIBITS

                         FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

                         YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993

                              STRYKER CORPORATION

                              KALAMAZOO, MICHIGAN



FORM 10-K--ITEM 14(a)(1), (2) AND (d)

STRYKER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Index to Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules


The following consolidated financial statements of Stryker Corporation and
subsidiaries and report of independent auditors, included in the annual 
stockholders report of the registrant for the year ended December 31, 1993, are
incorporated by reference in Item 8:

    Report of independent auditors

    Consolidated balance sheet--December 31, 1993 and 1992.

    Consolidated statement of earnings--years ended December 31, 1993, 1992 and
    1991.

    Consolidated statement of stockholders' equity--years ended December 31, 
    1993, 1992 and 1991.

    Consolidated statement of cash flows--years ended December 31, 1993, 1992 
    and 1991.

    Notes to consolidated financial statements--December 31, 1993.

The following consolidated financial statement schedules of Stryker Corporation
and subsidiaries are included in Item 14(d):

    Schedule I--Marketable securities-other investments

    Schedule VIII--Valuation and qualifying accounts

    Schedule IX--Short-term borrowings

    Schedule X--Supplementary income statement information

    Schedule XIII--Other investments

All other schedules for which provision is made in the applicable accounting
regulation of the Securities and Exchange Commission are not required under the
related instructions or are inapplicable, and therefore have been omitted.











          SCHEDULE X --SUPPLEMENTARY INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION

                   STRYKER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES


       Col. A                                      Col. B

        ITEM                            Charged to Costs and Expenses

                                            Year Ended December 31
                                 _________________________________________

                                     1993           1992           1991
                                 _________________________________________

 Advertising costs                $8,097,000     $7,345,000     $6,038,000
                                  ==========     ==========     ==========





Amounts for maintenance and repairs; amortization of tangible assets, 
pre-operating costs and similar deferrals; taxes, other than payroll and income 
taxes; and royalties are not presented as such amounts are less than 1% of 
net sales.





FORM 10-K--ITEM 14(c) 

STRYKER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Exhibit Index

Exhibit                                                                   Page*

 (3)  Articles of incorporation and by-laws

      (i) Restated Articles of Incorporation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22

     (ii) By-Laws . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11**

(10)  Material contracts
    
      (i) 1988 Stock Option Plan as amended . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11**

     (ii) Description of bonus arrangements between the Company and 
          certain officers including, Messrs. Brown, Elenbaas, 
             Laube, Simpson and Winkel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27

(11)  Statement re computation of per share earnings

      (i) Statement Re:  Computation of net earnings per share. . . . . .   28

(13)  Annual report to security holders

      (i) Portions of the 1993 Annual Report are
             incorporated here by reference. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  29

(21)  Subsidiaries of the registrant 

      (i) List of Subsidiaries. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48

(23)  Consents of experts and counsel

      (i) Consent of Independent Auditors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49


 * Page number in sequential numbering system where such exhibit can be found,
   or it is stated that such exhibit is incorporated by reference.

** Incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


                           CERTIFICATE OF AMENDMENT
                                      OF
                      RESTATED ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION
                                      OF
                              STRYKER CORPORATION
                            _______________________

     1.   The present name of the corporation is Stryker Corporation.  The
registered office of the corporation is 2725 Fairfield Road, Kalamazoo, Michigan
49002.

     2.   The former name of the corporation was Orthopedic Frame Company.

     3.   The date of filing of the original Articles of Incorporation was
February 20, 1946.

     4.   Section A of Article III of the Articles of Incorporation, as amended
and restated to date, is hereby amended to increase the authorized Common Stock 
to 150,000,000 shares, and as so amended shall read in its entirety as follows:

   A.   The aggregate number of shares of all classes of stock which the 
   corporation shall have authority to issue is 150,500,000 to be divided into 
   two classes consisting of 500,000 shares of a class designated "Preferred 
   Stock", of the par value of One Dollar ($1) per share, and 150,000,000 shares
   of a class designated "Common Stock", of the par value of Ten Cents ($.10) 
   per share.

     5.   This amendment was duly adopted by the shareholders of the corporation
on the 27th day of April, 1993 in accordance with the provisions of subsection 
(2) of Section 611 of the Business Corporation Act of Michigan.

Dated this 28th day of December, 1993.

                                           STRYKER CORPORATION




                                           By   JOHN W. BROWN              
                                                John W. Brown, Chairman,
                                                President and Chief
                                                Executive Officer



                      RESTATED ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION
                                      OF
                              STRYKER CORPORATION

     1.   These Restated Articles of Incorporation are executed pursuant to the
provisions of Section 641-643 of the Business Corporation Act of Michigan (Act 
284, Public Acts of 1972, as amended).

     2.   The present name of the corporation is Stryker Corporation.  

     3.   The former name of the corporation was Orthopedic Frame Company.

     4.   The date of filing the original Articles of Incorporation was
February 20, 1946.

     5.   The following Restated Articles of Incorporation supersedes the 
original Articles of Incorporation, as amended and restated to date, and shall 
be the Articles of Incorporation of the corporation. 

                                   ARTICLE I

           The name of the corporation is Stryker Corporation.

                                  ARTICLE II

           The purpose of the corporation is to engage in any activity within 
   the purposes for which corporations may be organized under the Business 
   Corporation Act of Michigan.  Without limiting in any manner the scope and 
   generality of the foregoing, the corporation may manufacture and/or sell or 
   lease hospital equipment, medical and  surgical supplies and instruments and
   allied products and may buy, sell, lease or rent real estate and erect  
   buildings in connection with the foregoing, or otherwise.

                                  ARTICLE III

           A.   The aggregate number of shares of all classes of stock which the
   corporation shall have authority to issue is 50,500,000 to be divided into 
   two classes consisting of 500,000 shares of a class designated "Preferred 
   Stock", of the par value of One Dollar ($1) per share, and 50,000,000 shares
   of a class designated "Common Stock," of the par value of Ten Cents ($.10) 
   per share.



           B.   The relative rights, preferences and limitations of the shares 
   of each class are as follows:

                  1.   Preferred Stock.  The Preferred Stock may be issued from
           time to time in one or more series, with such distinctive designation
           or title and in such number of shares as may be fixed by resolution 
           of the Board of Directors without further action by shareholders.  
           The Board of Directors is expressly granted authority to prescribe, 
           by resolution or resolutions adopted before the issuance of any 
           shares of a particular series of Preferred Stock, the relative rights
           and preferences of each series, and the limitations applicable 
           thereto, including but not limited to the following:

                      (a)  The voting powers full, special or limited, or no
                  voting powers of each such series;

                      (b)  The rate, terms and conditions on which dividends
                  shall be paid, whether such dividends will be cumulative, and
                  what preference such dividends shall have in relation to the
                  dividends on other series or classes of stock;

                      (c)  The rights, terms and conditions, if any, for
                  conversion of such series of Preferred Stock into shares of
                  other series or classes of stock;

                      (d)  Any right of the corporation to redeem the shares of
                  such series of Preferred Stock, and the price, time, and
                  conditions of such redemption, including the provisions for 
                  any sinking fund; and 

                      (e)  The rights of holders of such series of Preferred
                  Stock in relation to the rights of other series and classes of
                  stock upon the liquidation, dissolution or distribution of the
                  assets of the corporation.

                  Unless the Board of Directors otherwise provides in the 
           resolution establishing a series of Preferred Stock, upon repurchase
           by the corporation, redemption or conversion, the shares of Preferred
           Stock shall revert to authorized but unissued shares and may be 
           reissued as shares of any series of Preferred Stock.



                  2.   Common Stock.

                      (a)  Subject to the prior payment or provision therefor of
                  dividends on the Preferred Stock, the holders of the Common
                  Stock shall be entitled to receive out of the funds of
                  the corporation legally legally available for such purpose
                  dividends as and when declared by the Board of Directors.

                      (b)  In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or
                  distribution of the assets of the corporation and after
                  satisfaction of the preferential requirements of the Preferred
                  Stock, the holders of Common Stock shall be entitled to share
                  ratably in the distribution of all remaining assets of the
                  corporation available for distribution.

                      (c)  The holders of the Common Stock shall be entitled to
                  one vote for each share held by them of record on the books of
                  the corporation. 

                                  ARTICLE IV

           The shareholders of the corporation shall have no preemptive right to
   acquire additional or treasury shares of the corporation.  All preemptive 
   rights existing prior to the date hereof, whether created by statute or 
   common law, are abolished.

                                   ARTICLE V

           The address of the current registered office is:  420 Alcott Street,
   Kalamazoo, Michigan 49001.  The name of the current resident agent is
   David J. Simpson.

                                  ARTICLE VI

           The duration of the corporation is perpetual.




                                  ARTICLE VII

           The liability to the corporation and its shareholders of each and 
   every person who is at any time a director of the corporation for acts or 
   omissions in such person's capacity as a director is and shall be limited and
   eliminated to the full extent authorized or permitted by the Michigan 
   Business Corporation Act, as it now exists or may hereafter be amended.  Any
   amendment, alteration or repeal of this Article VII by the shareholders of 
   the corporation shall not adversely affect any right or protection of a 
   director of the corporation for or with respect to any act or omission of 
   such director occurring prior to, or at the time of, such amendment, 
   alteration or repeal.

           6.   The Restated Articles of Incorporation were duly adopted by the
Board of Directors on the 29th day of July, 1988, without a vote of the 
shareholders, in accordance with the provisions of Section 642 of the Business 
Corporation Act of Michigan.  The Restated Articles of Incorporation only 
restate and integrate and do not further amend the Articles of Incorporation as
heretofore amended, and there is no material discrepancy between the provisions 
of the Articles of Incorporation as heretofore amended and the provisions of
these Restated Articles of Incorporation.

Dated this 29th day of July, 1988.

                                   STRYKER CORPORATION



                                   By   JOHN W. BROWN           
                                        John W. Brown, Chairman,
                                        President and Chief
                                        Executive Officer




                                                               EXHIBIT (10)(ii)





                       DESCRIPTION OF BONUS ARRANGEMENTS


The Company has entered into bonus arrangements with certain executive officers
for 1994, including Mr. Brown, Mr. Elenbaas, Mr. Laube, Mr. Simpson and 
Mr. Winkel, based on specific performance criteria including sales, profits and
asset management.  The aggregate amount of such bonuses is not expected to 
exceed $1,200,000.




                                                                   EXHIBIT (11)


       STATEMENT RE:  COMPUTATION OF EARNINGS PER SHARE OF COMMON STOCK


                                                  Year Ended December 31       
                                              1993         1992         1991   


Average number of shares outstanding      48,356,000   47,716,000   47,526,000
                                          __________   __________   __________
Net earnings                             $60,205,000  $47,700,000  $33,075,000
                                         ===========  ===========  ===========
Earnings per share of common stock:
   Net earnings                                $1.25        $1.00         $.70

Primary:
  Average shares outstanding              48,356,000   47,716,000   47,526,000

  Net effect of dilutive stock options,
    based on the treasury stock method
    using average market price               536,000    1,173,000    1,228,000
                                          __________   __________   __________
      Total Primary Shares                48,892,000   48,889,000   48,754,000
                                          ==========   ==========   ==========
Fully Diluted:
  Average shares outstanding              48,356,000   47,716,000   47,526,000

  Net effect of dilutive stock options,
    using the year-end market price, if 
    higher then average market price         586,000    1,199,000    1,447,000
                                          __________   __________   __________
      Total Fully Diluted Shares          48,942,000   48,915,000   48,973,000
                                          ==========   ==========   ==========



Note: Shares subject to stock options are not included in the earnings per share
      computation because the present effect thereof is not materially dilutive.






MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
                                      
Results of Operations
                                      
The table below outlines the components of the consolidated statement of
earnings as a percentage of net sales:
                                      
                                  Percentage of Net            Percentage
                                        Sales                   Increase
                                ______________________      __________________
                                1993     1992     1991      1993/92    1992/91
                                      
Net Sales                      100.0%   100.0%   100.0%        17%        31%
Cost of sales                   46.1     46.5     47.3         16         29
Research, development and
 engineering expense             6.5      6.8      6.5         12         36
Selling, general and 
 administrative expense         30.9     31.3     32.1         15         28
                                      
Operating Income                16.5     15.4     14.1         25         43
Other income                      .7       .7       .5
                                      
Earnings Before Income Taxes    17.2     16.1     14.6         25         44
Income taxes                     6.4      6.1      5.5         23         44
                                      
Net Earnings                    10.8%    10.0%     9.1%        26         44
                                      

1993 COMPARED TO 1992
                                      
Stryker Corporation's net sales increased 17% in 1993 to $557.3 million as 
demand for the Company's products, which are sold to hospitals throughout the 
world, continued to grow.  Increased unit volume accounted for the entire
increase as higher selling prices in 1993 provided only 1% growth and were 
essentially offset by the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange 
rates.  
                                      
Uncertainty over the impact of U.S. health care reform programs has generally 
slowed domestic sales of medical devices.  In addition, in an effort to reduce 
their costs, purchasers of the Company's orthopaedic implants domestically have
shifted their purchasing mix toward the Company's lower-cost implants.  Despite
these factors, the Company's total domestic sales grew 14% in 1993.  
International sales increased 22% in 1993 led by Osteonics orthopaedic implant 
and Dimso spinal implant sales.  International sales expanded to 32% of total
sales in 1993 compared to 31% in 1992.
                                      
Surgical product sales (principally orthopaedic products) increased 13% for the
year.  The domestic sales growth in Surgical products was led by Stryker 
Instruments' High Vacuum Cement Injection System and new Surgilav Plus pulsed 
irrigation system, Osteonics' knee implants and Stryker Endoscopy's newly 
introduced third generation Model 782 3-Chip Camera.  The international sales 
growth of Surgical products was led by Osteonics orthopaedic implant sales by 
the Company's Pacific Division and Dimso spinal implant system sales by all the 
Company's international divisions.  Sales of Medical products (principally 
specialty stretchers/beds and physical therapy services) increased 33%, led by
the introduction of the MPS Primary Acute Care Bed in the third quarter, 
increased revenues from physical therapy services and increased sales of patient
handling equipment.  

Cost reduction programs at several of the Company's divisions and the higher mix
of international sales lowered the cost of sales percentage in 1993 compared to
1992.  Research, development and engineering expense increased 12% as the 
Company spent $36.2 million on product development in 1993 compared to 
$32.3 million in 1992.  This commitment to product development resulted in 
several new products in 1993 including the MPS Primary Acute Care Bed, the 
Quadracut ACL/Shaver System for arthroscopy, the SurgiLav Plus pulsed irrigation
system, and the Series 7000 Primary Posterially Stabilized Knee and Modular



Tibia System.  Selling, general and administrative expense increased 15% in
1993, principally as a result of larger sales forces in the Company's
Instruments and Medical Divisions. 
                                      
However, this cost increase was contained below the percentage growth in sales 
and these costs dropped to 30.9% of sales in 1993 compared to 31.3% in 1992.
                                      
The effective tax rate decreased to 37.3% in 1993 compared to 38.0% in 1992 due 
to lower effective foreign tax rates.  Effective January 1, 1993, the Company 
adopted FASB Statement No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes".  The cumulative 
effect of the change in the method of accounting on net earnings was not 
material.  Net earnings in 1993 were $60.2 million, a 26% increase over the 
Company's earnings in 1992 of $47.7 million.
                                      
In the fourth quarter of 1993, net sales reached a record level of 
$145.2 million and net earnings were $17.8 million or 12.2% of sales.  Fourth 
quarter net earnings as a percent of sales was higher than the previous three
quarters of the year because manufacturing costs and operating expenses 
increased at a slower rate than sales.

1992 COMPARED TO 1991
                                      
Stryker Corporation's net sales increased 31% in 1992 to $477.1 million compared
to $364.8 million in 1992.  Increased unit volume generated a 28% sales 
increase, increased selling prices added 2% and a 1% increase was due to changes
in foreign currency exchange rates.  Sales of the Company's Surgical products 
increased 30% for the year led domestically by Stryker Endoscopy's 3-Chip Camera
system, the newly introduced Osteonics Series 7000 Total Knee System and the 
System 2000 heavy-duty battery-powered instrument line.  The international 
sales growth in Surgical products was led by the introduction of the Osteonics 
knee line in Japan.  Sales of Medical products increased 34%, led by gains in 
physical therapy revenues and nearly the entire line of patient-handling 
equipment.
                                      
Cost of sales increased 29% in 1992 and represented 46.5% of sales compared to 
47.3% in 1991.  The lower cost of sales percentage in 1992 resulted from cost 
reduction programs implemented at several of the Company's divisions and from 
increased unit volume.  Research, development and engineering expense increased
36% as the Company spent $32.3 million on product development in 1992 compared 
to $23.7 million in 1991.  This commitment to product development resulted in 
several new products in 1992 including the Series 7000 Total Knee System, the 
Company's third generation 3-Chip and 1-Chip Camera systems, the High Vacuum 
Cement Injection System for applying bone cement, and a warming stretcher for 
the recovery room.  Selling, general and administrative expense increased 28% 
in 1992, principally as a result of the increased cost of larger sales forces in
the Endoscopy, Instruments, Medical and Europe Divisions.  These costs dropped 
to 31.3% of sales in 1992 compared to 32.1% in 1991.  
                                      
The increase in other income is a result of modest foreign currency gains in 
1992 of $188,000 compared to $898,000 of foreign currency losses in 1991.  In 
addition, interest income, which is included in other income, increased in 1992
as a result of increased levels of cash and marketable securities.
                                      
The effective tax rate remained constant at 38.0% in 1992.  Net earnings in 1992
were $47.7 million, a 44% increase over the Company's net earnings in 1991 of
$33.1 million.
                                      
In the fourth quarter of 1992, net sales were $130.0 million and net earnings 
were $14.6 million or 11.2% of sales.  Fourth quarter net earnings as a percent
of sales was higher than the previous three quarters of the year because 
manufacturing costs and selling, general and administrative expenses increased
at a slower rate than sales.



LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
                                      
Stryker's financial position continued to strengthen in 1993, with operating
activities providing $86.1 million in cash.  Working capital increased to $214.0
million from $168.2 million in the prior year.  Accounts receivable increased 
14% compared with the Company's 17% increase in sales and days sales outstanding
in accounts receivable at the end of 1993 decreased to 47 days from 52 days at 
the end of 1992.  Inventories actually decreased 4% in 1993 and days sales in 
inventory reflected even greater improvement, finishing 1993 at 114 days 
compared to 130 days at the end of 1992.  
                                      
In August 1993, the Company purchased 20% of the outstanding shares of Matsumoto
Medical Instruments, Inc., Osaka, Japan.  The cost of the investment, which was
based on net book value, was approximately $33 million and was financed by a 
five-year Japanese yen denominated fixed-rate bank borrowing.  The investment is
accounted for under the equity method.  The Company's share of Matsumoto's net 
earnings in 1993 were immaterial to consolidated net earnings.  
                                      
The Company's cash and marketable securities of $152.6 million at 
December 31, 1993, as well as anticipated cash flows from operations, are 
expected to be sufficient to fund planned future operating capital requirements.
Should additional funds be required, the Company has unsecured lines of credit
with banks totaling $39.0 million.  At December 31, 1993, only $.8 million of 
these lines has been utilized to fund operating activities overseas.  



CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
STRYKER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                     
December 31
(in thousands, except per share amounts)              1993             1992 
                                      
Assets
                                     
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash and cash equivalents                            $49,712          $43,091 
Marketable securities                                102,925           48,661 
Accounts receivable, less allowance of $3,800
   ($2,900 in 1992)                                   87,896           76,899 
Inventories                                           76,582           79,391 
Deferred income taxes                                 15,829           12,772 
Prepaid expenses and other current assets             10,907            8,791 
                                                     -------          -------
Total Current Assets                                 343,851          269,605 
                                      
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Land, buildings and improvements                      30,790           25,220 
Machinery and equipment                               94,551           82,317 
                                                     _______          _______
                                                     125,341          107,537 
Less allowance for depreciation                       57,634           47,888 
                                                     _______          _______
                                                      67,707           59,649 

OTHER ASSETS
Intangibles, less accumulated amortization
   of $9,925 ($6,790 in 1992)                          7,795            9,370 
Investment in affiliate                               32,569
Miscellaneous                                          2,282            1,648 
                                                     _______          _______
                                                      42,646           11,018 
                                                     _______          _______
                                                    $454,204         $340,272 
                                                    ========         ========
                                      
Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity

CURRENT LIABILITIES
Notes payable                                           $777
Accounts payable                                      43,172          $38,269
Accrued compensation                                  28,270           25,067 
Income taxes                                          21,107            9,979 
Accrued expenses and other liabilities                35,678           26,901 
Current maturities of long-term debt                     882            1,192 
                                                     _______          _______
Total Current Liabilities                            129,886          101,408 
                                      
LONG-TERM DEBT, EXCLUDING CURRENT MATURITIES          31,282            1,433 
                                     
OTHER LIABILITIES                                      4,602            5,170 
                                      
STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Common stock, $.10 par value:
 Authorized--150,000 shares (50,000 in 1992)
 Outstanding--48,395 shares (48,303 in 1992)           4,840            4,830 
Additional paid-in capital                            17,111           15,732 
Retained earnings                                    268,367          211,550 
Foreign translation adjustments                       (1,884)             149 
                                                     _______          _______
Total Stockholders' Equity                           288,434          232,261 
                                                     _______          _______
                                                    $454,204         $340,272 
                                                    ========         ========

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
                                      





















CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EARNINGS
STRYKER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                     
Years Ended December 31
(in thousands, except per share amounts)        1993        1992         1991
                                      
Net Sales                                    $557,335    $477,054     $364,825
                                      
Costs and expenses:
 Cost of sales                                256,748     221,650      172,477
 Research, development and engineering         36,199      32,313       23,703
 Selling, general and administrative          172,446     149,390      117,089
                                              _______     _______      _______
                                              465,393     403,353      313,269
                                              _______     _______      _______
Operating Income                               91,942      73,701       51,556
Other income - net                              4,123       3,239        1,789
                                              _______     _______      _______
Earnings Before Income Taxes                   96,065      76,940       53,345
Income taxes                                   35,860      29,240       20,270
                                              _______     _______      _______
Net Earnings                                  $60,205     $47,700      $33,075
                                              =======     =======      =======
Net Earnings Per Share of Common Stock          $1.25       $1.00         $.70
                                              =======     =======      =======
Average Number of Shares Outstanding           48,356      47,716       47,526

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
                                      


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
STRYKER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                      
Years Ended December 31                  Additional                    Foreign
(in thousands, except per      Common     Paid-In       Retained     Translation
   share amounts)              Stock      Capital       Earnings     Adjustments
                                      
Balance at January 1, 1991     $4,746      $4,757       $136,053        $2,319 
                                      
Net earnings for 1991                                     33,075
Sales of 134 shares of common 
 stock under option, including
 $799 income tax benefit           14       1,256 
Cash dividend declared of 
 $.05 per share of common stock                           (2,380)
Translation adjustment                                                      35 
                               ______      ______       ________        ______
Balance at December 31, 1991    4,760       6,013        166,748         2,354 
                                      
Net earnings for 1992                                     47,700 
Sales of 706 shares of common 
 stock under stock option and
 benefit plans, including
 $7,469 income tax benefit         70       9,719 
Cash dividend declared of 
 $.06 per share of common stock                           (2,898)
Translation adjustment                                                  (2,205)
                                ______     ______        _______        ______
Balance at December 31, 1992     4,830     15,732        211,550           149 
                                      
Net earnings for 1993                                     60,205
Sales of 92 shares of common 
 stock under stock option and 
 benefit plans, including 
 $393 income tax benefit            10      1,379 
Cash dividend declared of 
 $.07 per share of common stock                           (3,388)
Translation adjustment                                                  (2,033)
                                 ______    ______        _______        ______
Balance at December 31, 1993     $4,840   $17,111       $268,367       ($1,884)
                                      
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
                                      


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
STRYKER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                      
Years Ended December 31
(in thousands)                             1993          1992           1991 
                                      
OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Net Earnings                             $60,205       $47,700        $33,075 
Adjustments to reconcile net 
 earnings to net cash provided
 by operating activities:
  Depreciation                            13,048        10,214          9,890 
  Amortization                             3,135         1,168          1,906 
  Provision for losses on 
   accounts receivable                       900           400          1,200 
  Deferred income taxes (credit)          (2,917)       (4,171)        (5,872)
  Changes in operating assets and
   liabilities:
   Increase in accounts receivable       (11,305)      (20,563)        (3,682)
   Decrease (increase) in inventories      2,271           726        (18,103)
   Increase in accounts payable            4,982         7,723          8,340 
   Increase in income taxes               11,092           632          2,766 
   Other                                   4,691         6,899          8,124 
                                         _______       _______        _______
Net Cash Provided by Operating 
 Activities                               86,102        50,728         37,644 
                                      
INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Purchases of property, plant and 
 equipment                               (20,160)      (31,618)       (16,570)
Purchases of marketable securities       (54,264)      (21,553)       (11,728)
Business acquisitions                    (34,654)       (8,736)
                                         _______       _______        _______
Net Cash Used in Investing Activities   (109,078)      (61,907)       (28,298)
                                      
FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Proceeds from borrowings                  33,563                        4,401 
Payments on borrowings                    (2,016)       (7,418)          (400)
Dividends paid                            (2,898)       (2,380)
Proceeds from exercise of stock options    1,389         9,789          1,270 
Other                                       (126)         (376)          (198)
                                         _______       _______        _______
Net Cash Provided by (Used in) 
 Financing Activities                     29,912          (385)         5,073 
                                      
Effect of exchange rate changes on 
 cash and cash equivalents                  (315)        1,734           (170)
                                         _______       _______        _______
Increase (Decrease) in Cash and 
 Cash Equivalents                          6,621        (9,830)        14,249 
Cash and cash equivalents at 
 beginning of year                        43,091        52,921         38,672 
                                         _______       _______        _______
Cash and Cash Equivalents at 
 End of Year                             $49,712       $43,091        $52,921
                                         =======       =======        =======

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
                                      


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STRYKER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
December 31, 1993

1.  Significant Accounting Policies

BUSINESS:  Stryker Corporation develops, manufactures and markets specialty 
surgical and medical products which are sold primarily to hospitals throughout 
the world.

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION:  The consolidated financial statements include the
accounts of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries after elimination of 
all significant intercompany accounts and transactions.  The Company's 
investment in affiliate represents a 20% investment and is accounted for by the
equity method.

REVENUE RECOGNITION:  Revenue is recognized on the sale of products when the 
related goods have been shipped or services have been rendered.

CASH EQUIVALENTS AND MARKETABLE SECURITIES:  Cash equivalents are highly liquid
investments with a maturity of three months or less when purchased.  Marketable
securities are valued at cost which approximates market value.

INVENTORIES:  Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market.  Cost for
approximately 63% (68% in 1992) of inventories is determined using the lower of
first-in, first-out (FIFO) cost or market.  Cost for certain domestic 
inventories is determined using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) cost method.  The
FIFO cost for all inventories approximates replacement cost.

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT:  Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost.
Depreciation is computed by the straight-line method over the estimated useful 
lives of the assets.

INTANGIBLE ASSETS:  Intangible assets represent the excess of purchase price 
over fair value of tangible net assets of acquired businesses.  Intangible 
assets, which include patents and intangibles not specifically identifiable, are
being amortized using the straight-line method over periods of up to sixteen 
years.

INCOME TAXES:  Effective January 1, 1993, the Company adopted FASB Statement 
No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes", which requires the use of the liability 
method of accounting for deferred income taxes.  Under this method, deferred tax
assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between financial 
reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using the 
enacted tax rates in effect for the years in which the differences are expected
to reverse.  Prior to the adoption of Statement 109, income tax expense was 
determined using the deferred method.  Deferred tax expense was based on items 
of income and expense that were reported indifferent years in the financial 
statements and tax returns and were measured at the tax rate in effect in the 
year the difference originated.

EARNINGS PER SHARE:  Earnings per share is based upon the average number of 
shares of common stock outstanding during each year.  Shares subject to option 
are not included in earnings per share computations because the present effect 
thereof is not materially dilutive.



2.  Inventories

Inventories are as follows (in thousands):
                                                    December 31     
                                             1993                  1992  

            Finished goods                 $45,338               $47,068
            Work-in-process                 10,586                14,968
            Raw material                    28,455                24,783
                                           _______               _______
            FIFO cost                       84,379                86,819
            Less LIFO reserve                7,797                 7,428
                                           _______               _______
                                           $76,582               $79,391
                                           =======               =======
                                      
3.  Business Acquisitions

In August 1993, the Company purchased 20% of the outstanding shares of Matsumoto
Medical Instruments, Inc., Osaka, Japan.  Matsumoto began distributing Stryker
products in Japan in 1969 and is the exclusive distributor of most Stryker 
products in that country.  The cost of the investment, which was based on net 
book value, was approximately 3.4 billion yen ($32.8 million).  This investment
is accounted for under the equity method.  The Company's share of Matsumoto's 
net earnings did not have a material impact on the Company's net earnings in 
1993.

During 1993 and 1992, the Company's subsidiary, Physiotherapy Associates, Inc.,
purchased several physical therapy clinic operations.  The aggregate purchase 
price of these clinics in 1993 and 1992 was approximately $1,900,000 and 
$2,900,000, respectively, and generally approximated the carrying amounts of the
assets acquired.  Proforma consolidated results including the purchased 
businesses would not differ significantly from reported results.

In October 1992, the Company's subsidiary, Stryker France S.A., acquired 
Dimso S.A. and its subsidiary companies in France and Spain.  Dimso designs and
manufactures the Diapason and Stryker 2S Spinal Implant Systems and other 
orthopaedic products.  The acquisition was accounted for by the purchase method
at a total cost of $13,000,000 of which approximately $7,000,000 will be paid 
over the next three years.  Intangible assets acquired, principally patents, are
being amortized over a ten year period.  Proforma consolidated results including
the purchased business would not differ significantly from reported results.



4.  Borrowings

The Company and its subsidiaries have unsecured short-term line of credit 
arrangements with banks aggregating $20,000,000 domestically and $19,000,000 
equivalent in foreign currencies.  Borrowings under these lines at 
December 31, 1993 were $777,000 in foreign funds at an average interest rate
of 12.5%.  These lines generally expire July 31, 1994.

Long-term debt is as follows (in thousands):

                                                    December 31      
                                                 1993           1992  
                 Bank loan                     $30,736 
                 Other                           1,428         $2,625
                                               _______         ______
                                                32,164          2,625
                 Less current maturities           882          1,192
                                               _______         ______
                                               $31,282         $1,433
                                               =======         ======
                                      
The unsecured bank loan, which matures on August 4, 1998, is Japanese yen 
denominated and bears interest at a fixed rate of 4.9% per annum.  
                                      
Maturities of debt for the four years succeeding 1994 are: 1995 - $44,000;
1996 - $48,000; 1997 - $52,000 and 1998 - $30,793,000.
                                      
The carrying amount of the Company's long-term debt approximates the fair value
based on the Company's current borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing 
agreements.
                                      
Total interest expense, which is included in other income and approximates 
interest paid, was $1,067,000 in 1993, $411,000 in 1992 and $655,000 in 1991.
                                      

5.  Capital Stock

The Company has key employee and director Stock Option Plans under which options
are granted at a price not less than fair market value at date of grant.  The 
options are granted for periods of up to ten years and become exercisable in 
varying installments.  A summary of stock option activity follows:

                                                                     Option
                                             Shares              Price Per Share
                                      
Options outstanding at January 1, 1992     1,709,750              $3.20 - $30.75
Granted                                      397,000              34.25 -  38.75
Canceled                                     (69,800)              4.34 -  34.25
Exercised                                   (761,025)              3.20 -  14.63
________________________________________________________________________________
Options outstanding at December 31, 1992   1,275,925               3.20 -  38.75
Granted                                      867,500              22.38 -  25.50
Canceled                                    (411,300)              6.75 -  38.75
Exercised                                    (75,600)              3.20 -  14.63
________________________________________________________________________________
Options outstanding at December 31, 1993   1,656,525              $3.20 - $34.25



At December 31, 1993, options for 576,225 shares were exercisable and 1,113,100
shares were reserved for future grants.

On May 13, 1991, the Company effected a two-for-one stock split.  All share and
per share data and affected amounts have been adjusted to reflect the stock 
split as though it had occurred at the beginning of the periods presented.

The Company has 500,000 authorized shares of $1 par value preferred stock, none
of which are outstanding.

6.  Retirement Plans

Substantially all Company employees are covered by profit sharing or defined
contribution retirement plans.  Retirement plan expense under the Company's 
profit sharing and defined contribution retirement plans totaled $5,302,000 in 
1993, $4,715,000 in 1992 and $3,631,000 in 1991.  

7.  Income Taxes

Effective January 1, 1993, the Company adopted FASB Statement No. 109, 
"Accounting for Income Taxes", which requires the use of the liability method of
accounting for income taxes (see Note 1).  As permitted by Statement 109, the 
Company has elected not to restate the financial statements of any prior years.
The cumulative effect of the change in the method of accounting on net earnings
was not material.

Earnings before income taxes consist of the following (in thousands):

                                                1993        1992        1991

       United States operations               $88,181     $66,552     $45,480
       Foreign operations                       7,884      10,388       7,865
                                              _______     _______     _______
                                              $96,065     $76,940     $53,345
                                              =======     =======     =======
                                      
The components of the provision for income taxes follow (in thousands):
                                      
                                                1993        1992        1991 
       Current:
          Federal                             $26,114     $20,827     $17,985 
          State, including Puerto Rico         10,372       7,973       4,467 
          Foreign                               2,291       4,611       3,690 
                                              _______     _______     _______
                                               38,777      33,411      26,142 
       Deferred tax expense (credit)           (2,917)     (4,171)     (5,872)
                                              -------      ------      ------
                                              $35,860     $29,240     $20,270 
                                              =======     =======     =======
                                      


A reconciliation of the statutory federal income tax rate to the Company's 
effective tax rate follows:
                                      
                                                1993        1992        1991
  U.S. statutory income tax rate                35.0%       34.0%       34.0%
  Add (deduct):
   State taxes, less effect of federal
     reduction                                   6.3         5.9         4.3
   Foreign income taxes at rates different
     from the U.S. statutory rate                (.8)        1.0         1.3
   Tax benefit relating to operations in
     Puerto Rico                                (1.8)       (1.9)       (2.4)
   Research and development tax credit          (1.4)        (.9)       (1.7)
   Earnings of Foreign Sales Corporation        (1.4)        (.8)       (1.3)
   Other                                         1.4          .7         3.8
                                                ----        ----        ----
                                                37.3%       38.0%       38.0%

Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences 
between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting 
purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes.  The tax effect of 
significant temporary differences which comprise the Company's deferred tax 
assets and liabilities at December 31, 1993 are as follows (in thousands):

             Deferred tax assets:
                Inventories                           $4,712 
                Accounts receivable and
                 other assets                          2,874 
                Other accrued expenses                 6,662 
                State taxes                            1,297 
                Other                                    920 
                                                      ------
                   Total deferred tax assets          16,465 
            Deferred tax liabilities:
               Depreciation                             (792)
               Other                                    (895)
                                                      ------
                   Total deferred tax liabilities     (1,687)
                                                      ------
                   Total net deferred tax assets     $14,778 
                                                     =======

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are included in the consolidated balance 
sheet at December 31, 1993 as follows (in thousands):

               Current -- Deferred income taxes      $15,829 
               Non-current -- Other liabilities       (1,051)
                                                     -------
               Net deferred tax assets               $14,778 
                                                     =======

No provision has been made for U.S. federal and state income taxes or foreign 
taxes that may result from future remittances of the undistributed earnings 
($40,128,000 at December 31, 1993) of foreign subsidiaries because it is 
expected that such earnings will be reinvested overseas indefinitely.  
Determination of the amount of any unrecognized deferred income tax liability on
these unremitted earnings is not practicable.

Total income taxes paid were $27,641,000 in 1993, $25,133,000 in 1992 and
$22,550,000 in 1991.



8.  Geographic Data

Geographic area information follows (in thousands):

                                     1993            1992             1991
NET SALES
United States operations:
     Domestic                     $378,255        $330,782         $253,479 
     Export                        115,977          81,513           72,256 
Foreign operations:
     Europe                         63,366          58,010           47,685 
     Other                          45,638          43,182           24,401 
Eliminations                       (45,901)        (36,433)         (32,996)
                                  --------        --------         --------
Net Sales                         $557,335        $477,054         $364,825 
                                  ========        ========         ========

OPERATING INCOME (LOSS)
United States operations           $90,726         $68,759          $49,492 
Foreign operations:
     Europe                          6,571           6,998            7,497 
     Other                           3,125           4,477              717 
                                  --------        --------         --------
Total Foreign Operations             9,696          11,475            8,214 

Corporate expenses                  (8,480)         (6,533)          (6,150)
                                  --------        --------         --------
Total Operating Income             $91,942         $73,701          $51,556 
                                  ========        ========         ========

ASSETS
United States operations          $225,587        $199,188         $156,155 
Foreign operations:
     Europe                         39,313          42,580           24,607 
     Other                          16,120          15,125           15,834 
Corporate                          173,184          83,379           73,720 
                                  --------        --------         --------
Total Assets                      $454,204        $340,272         $270,316 


Intercompany sales between geographic areas are included in export and foreign
operations sales at agreed upon prices which include a profit element.

For the year ended December 31, 1993, sales to Matsumoto Medical Instruments,
Inc. were $64,300,000 or 12% of total net sales.  No customer accounted for 10%
or more of the Company's sales in 1992 and 1991.

Gains (losses) on foreign currency transactions, which are included in other 
income, totaled $(256,000), $188,000 and $(898,000) in 1993, 1992 and 1991, 
respectively.

Corporate assets consist primarily of domestic cash and cash equivalents, 
marketable securities and investment in affiliate.



9.  Leases

The Company leases various manufacturing and office facilities and equipment 
under operating leases.  Future minimum lease commitments under these leases are
as follows (in thousands):

                     1994            $7,507
                     1995             5,591
                     1996             4,316
                     1997             3,001
                     1998             2,115
                     Thereafter       2,152
                                     ------
                                    $24,682
                                    ======= 

Rent expense totaled $10,950,000 in 1993, $8,792,000 in 1992 and $6,686,000 in 
1991.


10.  Contingencies

The Company is involved in various claims and legal actions arising in the 
normal course of business.  The Company does not anticipate material losses as a
result of these actions.





                                     


                          REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
                                      
                                 Board of Directors
                                Stryker Corporation
                                      
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Stryker
Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1993 and 1992, and the related
consolidated statements of earnings, stockholders' equity and cash flows for 
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1993.  These financial 
statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our 
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on 
our audits.
                                      
We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit 
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement 
presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our 
opinion.
                                      
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in 
all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Stryker
Corporation and subsidiaries at December 31, 1993 and 1992, and the consolidated
results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 1993, in conformity with generally accepted 
accounting principles.
                                      
                                      
                                      
                                                      Ernst & Young

Kalamazoo, Michigan
January 31, 1994



                      BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

 John W. Brown
    Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Stryker Corporation.
 Howard E. Cox, Jr.
    General Partner, Greylock Partners & Co.
*Donald M. Engelman, Ph.D.
    Professor of Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry, Yale University.
 Jerome H. Grossman, M.D.
    Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, New England Medical Center, Inc.
*John S. Lillard
    Chairman-Founder, JMB Institutional Realty Corp.
 William U. Parfet
    President and Chief Executive Officer, Richard-Allan Medical 
    Industries, Inc.
 Ronda E. Stryker
    Granddaughter of the founder of the Company and daughter of the former
    President of the Company.  A director of Comerica Bank, the L. Lee Stryker
    Center and Trustee of Kalamazoo College.
*Gerard Thomas
    Attorney, Miller, Canfield, Paddock & Stone.
    
*Audit and Compensation Committees


CORPORATE OFFICERS

John W. Brown
    Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
Ronald A. Elenbaas
    Vice President, President, Stryker Surgical Group
William T. Laube, III
    Vice President, President, Stryker Pacific 
Robert D. Monk
    Treasurer/Controller and Assistant Secretary
Julia M. Paradine-Rice
    Assistant Treasurer
David J. Simpson
    Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary
Thomas R. Winkel
        Vice President, President, Stryker Americas/Middle East


                             OPERATING DIVISIONS

OSTEONICS CORP.
    Edward B. Lipes - President
    Gary L. Grenter - Vice President, Operations
    Brian K. Hutchison - Vice President, Finance
    Michael T. Manley, Ph.D. - Vice President, Advanced Research
    Anthony M. Moutinho - Vice President, Sales

PHYSIOTHERAPY ASSOCIATES, INC.
    Jason T. Blackwood - President
    Jeffrey S. Chitwood - Vice President, Finance
    G. William Cole, Jr. - Vice President, Marketing and Development

STRYKER AMERICAS/MIDDLE EAST
    Thomas R. Winkel - President
    Bradford J. Williams - Vice President, Canada

STRYKER BIOTECH
    Samuel Yin, Ph.D. - Director

STRYKER ENDOSCOPY
    Ronald A. Elenbaas - President
    Pedro A. Martinez - Vice President, General Manager
    William E. Chang - Vice President, Research and Development

STRYKER EUROPE 
    Jean-Pierre Boucher - President
    Alain Guez - Vice President, France
    Maurizio Zaccarelli - Vice President, Stryker Europe

STRYKER INSTRUMENTS
    Ronald A. Elenbaas - President
    Stephen Si Johnson - Executive Vice President, General Manager
    Matthew S. Alves - Vice President, Marketing
    Bradley D. Black - Vice President, Human Resources 
    James A. Evans - Vice President, Research and Development
    Thomas R. Gillentine - Vice President, Controller
    John T. Saunders - Vice President, Operations
    
STRYKER MEDICAL 
  Harry E. Carmitchel - President
  Joseph S. Messer - Vice President, Marketing, Patient Care Division
  Michael R. Stringer - Vice President, Sales, Patient Care Division
  Mark J. Fletcher - Vice President, Sales and Marketing, Patient Handling
    Division
  Gary T. Morton - Vice President, Engineering, Patient Handling Division
  Kenneth A. Palmer - Vice President, General Manager, Patient Handling Division
  Joseph P. Briggs - Vice President, Service Division

STRYKER PACIFIC 
  William T. Laube, III - President
  Alexander S. Kennedy - Vice President, General Manager, Australia
  Hyung-Yun Lee - Vice President, General Manager, Korea
  John D. Pierson - President, Japan
  Hugo K.W. Hui - Vice President, Finance and Administration



                                                                   EXHIBIT (21)

                             List of Subsidiaries


                                                        State or Country of
Name of Subsidiary                                         Incorporation  
- ------------------                                      -------------------

Nippon Stryker Service K.K.                             Japan

Osteonics Corp.                                         New Jersey
                                                     
Physiotherapy Associates, Inc.                          Michigan

Stryker Australia Pty. Ltd.                             Australia

Stryker B.V.                                            The Netherlands

Stryker Barbados Foreign Sales Corporation              Barbados

Stryker Canada Inc.                                     Canada

Stryker Corporation (Malaysia) SDN BHD                  Malaysia

Stryker Deutschland GmbH                                Germany

Stryker Far East, Inc.                                  Delaware

Stryker Foreign Sales Corporation                       U.S. Virgin Islands

Stryker France SA                                       France

Stryker India Medical Equipment Private Limited         India

Stryker Italia SRL                                      Italy

Stryker Japan K.K.                                      Japan

Stryker Korea Ltd.                                      Korea

Stryker Malaysia, SDN. BHD.                             Malaysia

Stryker Pacific Limited                                 Hong Kong

Stryker Puerto Rico, Inc.                               Delaware

Stryker SA                                              Switzerland

Stryker Sales Corporation                               Michigan

Stryker Singapore Private Limited                       Singapore


Stryker Corporation is the immediate parent and owns 100% of the outstanding 
voting securities of each of the above-named subsidiaries.







                EXHIBIT 23--CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS



We consent to the incorporation by reference in this Annual Report (Form 10-K)
of Stryker Corporation and subsidiaries of our report dated January 31, 1994,
included in the 1993 Annual Report to Stockholders of Stryker Corporation and
subsidiaries.

Our audits also included the financial statement schedules of Stryker
Corporation and subsidiaries listed in Item 14(a).  These schedules are the
responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express
an opinion based on our audits.  In our opinion, the financial statement
schedules referred to above, when considered in relation to the basic
consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly in all
material respects the information set forth therein.

We also consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration
Statement Number 33-55662 on Form S-8 dated December 11, 1992, Registration
Statement Number 2-96467 on form S-8 dated April 4, 1985, Registration
Statement Number 33-16642 on Form S-3 dated August 20, 1987, and Registration
Statement Number 33-32240 on Form S-8 dated November 20, 1989 and to the
related prospectus for each of the registration statements, of our report
dated January 31, 1994, with respect to the consolidated financial statements
incorporated herein by reference, and our report included in the preceding
paragraph with respect to the financial statement schedules included in this
Annual Report (Form 10-K) of Stryker Corporation.



                                                              ERNST & YOUNG



Kalamazoo, Michigan
March 17, 1994



