
10-K



                         Washington, D.C. 20549
                               FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
[X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
     ACT OF 1934
      For the fiscal year ended  December 31, 1994                 
                                   OR
[ ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
      For the transition period from                    to                 
                     Commission file number 0-9165
                               STRYKER CORPORATION                   
               (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
         Michigan                                        38-1239739     
(State or other jurisdiction of                      (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                       Identification No.)

P.O. Box 4085, Kalamazoo, Michigan                            49003-4085
(Address of principal executive offices)                      (Zip Code)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  616/385-2600
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  None 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  Common Stock
$.10 par value

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes    X   No       .

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [  ]

Based on the closing sales price of February 28, 1995 the aggregate market
value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the registrant was
approximately $1,430,000,000.


                                                        Page 2

The number of shares outstanding of the registrant's common stock, $.10 par
value, was  48,385,411 at February 28, 1995.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Portions of the annual stockholders report for the year ended December 31,
1994 are incorporated by reference into Parts II and IV.

Portions of the proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission relating to the 1995 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the "1995
proxy statement") are incorporated by reference into Part III.

PART I

ITEM I.  BUSINESS

General

Stryker Corporation and its subsidiaries (the "Company" or "Stryker")
develop, manufacture and market specialty surgical and medical products,
including orthopaedic implants, powered surgical instruments, endoscopic
systems, patient care and patient handling equipment for the global market
and provide physical therapy services through outpatient clinics in the
United States.  Stryker was incorporated in Michigan on February 20, 1946 as
the successor to a business founded in 1941 by Dr. Homer H. Stryker, a
leading orthopaedic surgeon and the inventor of several orthopaedic products.

In October 1992, the Company's subsidiary, Stryker France S.A., acquired
Dimso S.A. and its subsidiary companies in France and Spain.  Dimso designs
and manufactures the Diapason and Stryker 2S spinal implant systems in
addition to other orthopaedic products.  The Company's European Division had
previously marketed the Stryker 2S spinal implant system since 1990.  

In June 1994, the Company purchased the Steri-Shield product line, which is a
personal protection system for operating room personnel, from a private
company.

In August 1993, the Company purchased 20% of the outstanding common stock of
Matsumoto Medical Instruments, Inc. ("Matsumoto"), Osaka, Japan.  Matsumoto
is one of the largest distributors of medical devices in Japan and is the
exclusive distributor of Stryker products in that country.  In August 1994,
the Company purchased an additional 31% of Matsumoto's outstanding common
stock, thereby increasing its direct ownership in Matsumoto to 51%.  The
results of operations for Matsumoto were consolidated with Stryker beginning
in August 1994.

Product Sales

The principal classes of products listed below accounted for the following
amounts ($000's) and percentages of net sales during each of the three years
ended December 31:

                                                       Page 3


                                  1994            1993            1992 
                              ------------    ------------    ------------
                                $       %       $       %       $       %  
                              -------  ---    -------  ---    -------  ---

  Surgical Products           544,049   80    447,042   80    394,111   83

  Medical Products            137,871   20    110,293   20     82,973   17
                              -------  ---    -------  ---    -------  ---
                              _______  ___    _______  ___    _______   __
                              681,920  100    557,335  100    477,054  100
                              =======  ===    =======  ===    =======  ===

Approximately 60% of the Company's sales in 1994 and approximately two-thirds
of the Company's sales in 1993 and 1992 consisted of products with short
lives and service revenues, such as implants (while implants have a long
useful life to the patient, they have a one-time use to the hospital),
physical therapy revenues, disposables, expendable tools and parts, and
service and repair charges.  The balance were products that could be
considered capital equipment, having useful lives in excess of one year. 

The Company's backlog of firm orders is not considered material to an
understanding of its business.  

Surgical Products

The principal specialty served by the Company's Surgical products is
orthopaedics.  Artificial joint replacements, medical video cameras,
arthroscopes, heavy-duty powered instruments, and pulsating irrigation
systems are manufactured and marketed for use by the orthopaedic surgeon. 

The Company specializes in the design and manufacture of innovative total and
partial hip and knee replacements.  These artificial implants are made of
cobalt chrome or titanium alloys and are implanted in patients whose natural
joints have been damaged by arthritis, other diseases or injury.  

The Company also designs and manufactures spinal implant systems outside the
United States.  These implant systems are used by spinal surgeons in the
treatment of degenerative spinal diseases and deformities and to stabilize
the spine in trauma cases.

Stryker's broad line of powered surgical drills, saws, fixation and reaming
equipment and other surgical instruments are used by surgeons for drilling,
burring, rasping or cutting bone, wiring or pinning bone fractures, preparing
hip or knee surfaces for the placement of artificial hip or knee joints,
performing cranial operations or treating skin defects by surgical abrasion. 
Hundreds of different sized and shaped drill bits, burrs, blades, chisels and
other attachments are available to the surgeon.  

Small, light, "micro" powered tools are used in such specialties as
maxillofacial surgery, functional endoscopic sinus surgery, otology,
neurosurgery, spinal surgery, podiatry and plastic surgery.  In addition, the
oral surgeon is served by the Company's line of powered oral surgery
instruments.  


                                                       Page 4

The Company also produces a number of other operating room or surgery related
products.  The Company's CBC-ConstavacTM system is a post-operative wound
drainage and blood reinfusion device that enables joint replacement patients
to receive their own blood rather than donor blood.  In conjunction with
joint replacement surgery, the Company's High Vacuum Cement Injection System
is used to mix and inject cement under high vacuum for cemented implant
applications.  The Steri-Shield Personal Protection System product line
purchased in 1994 is a totally enclosed hood and toga that helps protect
operating room personnel against contamination from blood and airborne
particles.

The Company's endoscopic systems include medical video cameras, light
sources, laparoscopes, powered instruments and manual instruments.  These
systems are used in less-invasive surgery, such as arthroscopy and
cholecystectomy (gall bladder removal), in which the surgeon operates on a
patient through a series of small punctures rather than an open incision as
required by conventional surgery.

In Japan, Matsumoto Medical Instruments, Inc., the Company's 51% owned
subsidiary, distributes the Company's surgical products as well as
orthopaedic, ophthalmology and general surgery products manufactured by other
companies.


Medical Products

The Company's Medical product line consists primarily of specialty stretchers
and beds, which facilitate the transportation, transfer and treatment of
patients within the hospital. The Company designs and manufactures innovative
specialty stretchers/beds for many departments within the hospital, including
emergency, recovery, intensive care, surgery, maternity and the general
patient room.  These products service the particular treatment needs of each
department by providing multiple or custom combinations of hydraulic jacks,
removable top sections, built-in weighing systems, on-board x-ray equipment,
patient-warming systems and a vast number of additional standard or optional
features.  These products are assembled on a design-to-order basis.  

Also included in Medical product sales is revenue of the Company's
Physiotherapy Associates, Inc. subsidiary.  This organization operates
outpatient rehabilitation centers, which offer physical, occupational and 
speech therapy to patients who have suffered orthopaedic or neurological 
injuries.  It focuses, in particular, on expediting injured workers' return 
to work.

In Japan, Matsumoto Medical Instruments, Inc. distributes the Company's
specialty stretchers and beds and emergency care products manufactured by
other companies.

Product Development

Most of the Company's products and product improvements have been developed
internally.  In addition, the Company maintains close working relationships
with physicians and medical personnel in hospitals and universities who
assist in product research and development.  New and improved products play a
critical role in the Company's sales growth.  The Company has placed
increased emphasis on the development of proprietary products and product
improvements to complement and expand its existing product lines.

                                                       Page 5

Total expenditures for product research, development and engineering were
$39,630,000 in 1994; 36,199,000 in 1993; and $32,313,000 in 1992.  Research,
development and engineering expenses increased in 1994 and 1993 due
principally to the development of new implant designs (modular and
posterially stabilized components of the Series 7000 Total Knee System were
developed in 1993 and the Omnifit Plus forged cobalt chrome hip stem was
developed in 1994), the further application of hydroxylapatite (HA)
technology for arthroplasty, the development of advanced powered instruments
and video technology (the Company's Quadracut ACL/Shaver system for
arthroscopy introduced in 1993 and a new line of powered micro instruments
for oral/maxillofacial procedures, the Sapphire ViewTM arthroscope system and
a low cost high resolution 1-chip camera, all introduced in 1994), the
development of new specialized operating room equipment (the Company's
SurgiLav Plus pulsed irrigation system introduced in 1993 and the second
generation ConstaVacTM CBCII Blood Conservation System introduced in 1994),
the development of new patient handling and patient care equipment (a general
patient hospital bed introduced in 1993 and a EMS ambulance cot introduced in
1994) and ongoing clinical trials of the Company's Osteogenic Protein Device.

At the end of 1990, the Company's Osteonics subsidiary became the first
company to receive clearance from the U.S. FDA to commercially release for
sale in the U.S. a hip implant with HA surface treatment.  HA is a naturally
occurring calcium phosphate material that demonstrates a high level of
biocompatibility due to its resemblance to human bone.  Osteonics' clinical
experience with HA-coated hip stems now extends over six years and their
clinical performance continues to exceed that of any comparable stem reported
in the scientific literature.  These excellent clinical results have further
strengthened the Company's belief that HA has significant potential as a
means of improving the performance and longevity of implants.

In 1991 the Company received FDA approval to begin human clinical trials of
its Osteogenic Protein Device which was developed by Creative BioMolecules,
Inc. (Creative), a biopharmaceutical company, as part of a long-term research
program funded by Stryker since 1985.  This device is composed of a
recombinant human osteogenic protein and a bioresorbable carrier.  This
osteogenic protein is naturally present in the human body and is directly
implicated in a cascade of cellular events that result in bone growth.  In
preclinical studies, the Osteogenic Protein Device has induced the formation
of new bone when implanted into bone defect sites.  The ongoing human
clinical studies, which began in 1992, will compare the efficacy of the
Osteogenic Protein Device to autografts in the repair of non-union fractures. 
Stryker owns the patents on its Osteogenic Protein Device and has the
exclusive right to develop, market and sell the Device for local use in the
treatment, repair or replacement of bone and joint tissue ("orthopaedic
reconstruction").  Creative has the right to use the technology outside the
field of orthopaedic reconstruction.

Marketing

Most of the Company's products are marketed in the United States directly to
more than 7,500 hospitals, and to doctors and other health care facilities,
by the Company's sales force consisting of approximately 340 salespersons. 
Stryker maintains separate and dedicated sales forces for each of its
principal product lines to provide focus and a high level of expertise to
each medical specialty served.  Certain products, primarily orthopaedic
implants, are sold to hospitals in the United States principally through
independent dealer organizations. 

Approximately 32% of the Company's domestic revenues in 1994 were accounted
for by sales to hospital cooperative buying groups and other large national
accounts and 2% by sales to the Veterans Administration and other hospitals
operated by the Federal government.

                                                       Page 6

International sales accounted for 41% of total revenues in 1994.  Stryker
products are sold in over 100 foreign countries primarily through more than
370 local dealers whose efforts are coordinated by approximately 540 sales
and marketing personnel who are local nationals.  Stryker distributes its
products through sales subsidiaries and branches with offices located in The
Netherlands, Belgium, France, Italy, the United Kingdom, Germany, Spain, Hong
Kong, Japan, Australia, Canada and Moscow.  Stryker exports products to
dealers in Latin America, the Middle East, Singapore, Korea, India, Taiwan,
and Malaysia, and to customers in the CIS (former Soviet Union) and China. 
Additional information regarding the Company's foreign and domestic
operations and export sales appearing in "Note 9--Geographic Data" on pages
38 and 39 of the 1994 Annual Report(page 52 of the EDGAR filing) is
incorporated herein by reference.

The Company's business is generally not seasonal in nature; however, the
number of orthopaedic surgeries is lower during the summer months and overall
sales have generally been stronger in the fourth quarter than in the previous
three quarters.

Competition

The Company is one of the five leading competitors in the U.S. market for
orthopaedic reconstructive products, the others being Zimmer, USA Inc. (a
subsidiary of Bristol-Myers, Squibb, Inc.), Howmedica, Inc. (a subsidiary of
Pfizer, Inc.), DePuy (a subsidiary of Boehringer Mannheim Corporation, a
German company) and Biomet. While competition abroad varies from area to
area, the Company believes it is also a leading factor in the international
markets, with these same companies being its principal competitors.

In the international market for spinal implants, the Company is one of the
four market leaders through its Dimso S.A. subsidiary, with the principal
competitors being Sofamor Danek Group, Inc., AcroMed Corporation and Synthes
France SA.  The Company has not yet entered the U.S. market for spinal
implants, which is dominated by Sofamor Danek and AcroMed.

In the powered surgical instruments market, Stryker is one of the three market
leaders, with the principal competitors being Zimmer and Midas-Rex, Inc.. 
These same companies are competitors in the international markets along with
Aesculap-Werke AG, a large European manufacturer, 

In the arthroscopy market, the Company considers itself to be one of the four
market leaders, with the principal competitors being Dyonics, Inc. (a
subsidiary of Smith & Nephew), Linvatec, Inc. (a subsidiary of Bristol-Myers,
Squibb, Inc.)and Acufex Microsurgical, Inc. ( a subsidiary of American Home
Products Companies).  In the laparoscopic imaging products market, the
Company considers itself to be one of the four market leaders, with the
principal competitors being Karl Storz GmbH & Co. (a German company), Olympus
Optical Co. Ltd. (a Japanese company) and Circon Corporation.

The Company's primary competitor in the hospital bed market is Hill-Rom (a
division of Hillenbrand Industries) and in the specialty stretcher market the
primary competitors are Ferno-Washington, Hausted, Inc., Hill-Rom and Midmark
Corporation.

In the outpatient physical therapy market, the Company's primary competitors
are physician owned/independent practices and hospital-based services.  There
are also several national rehabilitation companies, such as HealthSouth
Corporation, NovaCare, Inc./RehabClinics, Inc. and Rehability Corporation.

The principal factors which the Company believes differentiate its products
in these highly competitive markets and enable it to compete effectively are
innovative products, reliability, service and reputation.  The Company is not
able to predict the effect that continuing efforts to reduce health care
expenses generally and hospital costs in particular will have on the future

                                                       Page 7

sales of its products or its competitive position.  (See "Regulation and
Product Quality.")  The Company believes that its competitive position in the
future will depend to a large degree upon the new products and improvements
in existing products it is able to develop.  While the Company does not
consider patents a major factor in its overall competitive success, patents
and trademarks are significant to the extent that a product or attribute of a
product represents a unique design or process.  Patent or trademark protection
of such products restricts competitors from duplicating these unique product
designs and features.  Stryker seeks to obtain patent protection whenever
possible on its products.  The Company currently has approximately 100 U.S.
patents and 50 foreign patents which generally expire in the next 10-15 years.

Manufacturing and Sources of Supply

The Company's manufacturing processes consist primarily of precision
machining, metal fabrication, assembly operations and the investment casting
of cobalt chrome and finishing of cobalt chrome and titanium.  Approximately
15% of the Company's cost of sales in 1994 represented finished products
which were purchased complete from outside suppliers.  The Company also
purchases parts and components, such as forgings, castings, gears, bearings,
casters and electrical components and uses outside sources for certain
finishing operations such as plating, hardening and coating of machined
components and sterilization of certain products.  The principal raw
materials used by the Company are stainless steel, aluminum, cobalt chrome
and titanium alloys.  In all, purchases from outside sources were
approximately 49% of the total cost of sales in 1994.

While the Company relies on single sources for certain purchased materials
and services, it believes alternate sources are available if needed.  The
Company has not experienced any significant difficulty in the past in
obtaining the materials necessary to meet its production schedules.

The Company's patient handling products are assembled to order, while other
products are stocked in inventory.


Regulation and Product Quality

The Medical Device Amendments of 1976 to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic
Act, the Safe Medical Devices Act of 1990, and regulations issued or proposed
thereunder, provide for regulation by the FDA of the manufacture of medical
devices, including most of the Company's products.

The FDA's "Good Manufacturing Practices" regulations set forth standards for
the Company's manufacturing processes, require the maintenance of certain
records and provide for unscheduled inspections of the Company's facilities
by the FDA.  There are also certain requirements of state, local and foreign
governments which must be complied with in the manufacturing and marketing of
the Company's products.  The Company believes that the manufacturing and
quality control procedures it employs meet the requirements of these
regulations.

Most of the Company's new products fall into FDA classifications which
require notification of and review by the FDA before marketing (submitted as
a 510(k)). The Company's Osteogenic Protein Device (see "Product
Development") requires extensive clinical testing, consisting of safety and
efficacy studies, followed by a Pre-Market Approval (PMA) application.  A
panel of industry and medical experts review the results of clinical studies
and make their recommendations to the FDA.  Upon positive recommendation by
the panel, the FDA may grant a PMA allowing the product to be marketed. 

Stryker also is subject to the laws that govern the manufacture and
distribution of medical devices of each country in which the Company
manufactures or sells products.  The member states of the European Union

                                                       Page 8

("EU") have adopted the European Medical Device Directives, which create a
single set of medical device regulations for all EU member countries.  These
regulations require companies that wish to manufacture and distribute medical
devices in EU member countries to obtain CE marks for their products by June
14, 1998.  Stryker presently is working to obtain CE marks for all products
that it will manufacture or distribute in EU member states.

Government agencies and legislative bodies in the United States and other
countries are considering various proposals designed to hold down increases
in health care costs.  It is impossible to predict at this time the long-term
impact of such cost containment measures on the Company's future business.

Employees

At December 31, 1994, the Company had 4,221 employees worldwide, including
1,407 involved in manufacturing, warehousing and distribution operations,
1,164 in marketing and sales, 255 in research, development and engineering,
352 providing physical, occupational and speech therapy and the balance in 
general management and administration.  No employees are covered by 
collective bargaining agreements.  The Company believes that its employee
relations are satisfactory.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

The Company's principal owned domestic facilities are located in Kalamazoo
and Portage, Michigan.  A 190,000 square foot Portage facility completed in
1992 houses manufacturing (80,000 square feet) and warehousing and
distribution (25,000 square feet) for surgical instrument products, with the
remaining portion of the facility used for Division offices.  The Medical
Division is located in two facilities, one in Portage which was completed in
1985 and contains manufacturing and warehousing (122,000 square feet) and
Division offices (23,000 square feet), and another in Kalamazoo which
contains manufacturing and warehousing (64,000 square feet) and offices
(22,000 square feet).  The Medical Division also leases 20,000 square feet of
warehousing space in Kalamazoo.

The Company leases 185,000 square feet in an industrial park in Allendale,
New Jersey for its orthopaedic implant business; 56,000 square feet in San
Jose, California for its endoscopic systems business; 28,000 square feet in
Clackamas, Oregon for production of maternity beds and furniture; 20,000
square feet in St. Louis, Missouri for its Medical service business; and
65,000 square feet in Arroyo, Puerto Rico for the assembly of disposable
tubing sets and other manufacturing.  The Company's 135 physical therapy
clinics are all located in leased offices.

The Company's subsidiary, Matsumoto Medical Instruments, Inc. maintains its
principal facilities in two buildings in Osaka, Japan, but also owns
buildings used for branch warehousing and sales offices in eight other cities
throughout Japan.  Of the total owned 139,000 square feet, 74,000 square feet
is devoted to warehousing, with the balance used for administrative offices. 
Matsumoto also leases 53,000 square feet at certain branch locations, with
30,000 square feet used for warehousing and 23,000 square feet used for
administrative offices.  

In Europe, the Company maintains 16,000 square feet in Bordeaux, France
(5,000 of which is leased) for its spinal implant manufacturing operation. 
Manufacturing and warehousing account for 11,000 square feet of the total and
the remainder is used for administrative offices.  In addition, the Company
maintains two buildings (one of which is leased) in Uden, The Netherlands. 
The 49,000 square foot owned facility is currently for sale.  A 20,000 square
foot leased facility contains 9,000 square feet used for manufacturing and
warehousing with the balance used for administrative offices.  The Company
also leases other foreign sales and administration offices.  

                                                       Page 9

In addition, the Company leases 12,000 square feet in Kalamazoo, Michigan for
its administrative offices.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The Company is a defendant and plaintiff in various legal actions arising in
the normal course of business.  The Company does not anticipate material
losses as a result of these actions.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

Not applicable.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

Certain information with respect to the executive officers of the Company is
set forth in Item 10 of this report.

PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
         MATTERS

The Company's common stock is traded in the over-the-counter market on The
Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol STRY.  Quarterly stock prices appearing 
under the caption "Summary of Quarterly Data" on page 40 of the 1994 Annual 
Report (page 55 of the EDGAR filing) and dividend information for the years
ended December 31, 1993 and 1994 under the caption "Ten Year Review" on pages
22 and 23 of the 1994 Annual Report (page 35 of the EDGAR filing) are 
incorporated herein by reference.  The Company's Board of Directors intends 
to consider a year-end cash dividend annually at its December meeting.

On December 31, 1994 there were 3,684 stockholders of record of the Company's
common stock.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The financial information for each of the five years in the period ended
December 31, 1994 under the caption "Ten Year Review" on pages 22 and 23 of
the 1994 Annual Report (pages 35 and 36 of the EDGAR filing) is incorporated 
herein by reference.

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
         RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The information under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations" on pages 24 through 27 of the
1994 Annual Report (pages 37 through 40 of the EDGAR filing) is incorporated
herein by reference.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The consolidated financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries and
report of independent auditors, included on pages 28 through 41 of the 1994
Annual Report (pages 41 through 56 of the EDGAR filing) are incorporated
herein by reference.

Quarterly results of operations appearing under the caption "Summary of
Quarterly Data" on page 40 of the 1994 Annual Report (page 55 of the EDGAR
filing) are incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 9.  DISAGREEMENTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

Not applicable.

                                                       Page 10

PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

Information regarding the directors of the Company appearing under the
caption "Election of Directors" and the information appearing under the
caption "Miscellaneous - Section 16 Reporting" in the 1995 proxy statement is
incorporated herein by reference.

Information regarding the executive officers of the Company appears below. 
All officers are elected annually.  Reported ages are as of January 31, 1995.

John W. Brown, age 60, has been Chairman of the Board since January 1981, and
President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since February 1977.  He
is also a director of Lunar Corporation, a medical products company, First of
America, a bank, and the Health Industry Manufacturers Association and a
Trustee of Kalamazoo College.

Dean H. Bergy, age 35, was appointed Controller upon joining the Company in
June 1994.  He had previously been a Senior Manager at Ernst & Young LLP,
independent public accountants, since October 1988.

Ronald A. Elenbaas, age 41, was appointed President of the Surgical Group in
1985 and has been a Vice President of the Company since August 1983. 
Previously he was the Director of Surgical Sales since May 1982.  Since
joining the Company in September 1975 he has held various other positions,
including Sales Representative, Marketing Product Manager, Plant Manager,
Canadian Sales Director, Assistant to the President and Director of Customer
Relations.

William T. Laube, III, age 55, was appointed President of Stryker Pacific
Group in 1985 and has been a Vice President of the Company since March
1979.  Since joining the Company in July 1975 he has held various
international sales management positions.

Edward B. Lipes, age 42, was appointed a Vice President of the Company in May
1994 and has been President of Osteonics Corp. since August 1989.  He held
the position of President, Physiotherapy Associates, Inc. upon joining the
Company in April 1988.

Julia M. Paradine-Rice, age 33, was appointed Treasurer of the Company in
June 1994.  She had previously held the position of Assistant Treasurer since
1990 and also held the position of Corporate Accounting Manager since joining
the Company in 1988.

David J. Simpson, age 48, was appointed Vice President, Chief Financial
Officer and Secretary upon joining the Company in June 1987.  He had
previously been Vice President and Treasurer of Rexnord Inc., a manufacturer
of industrial and aerospace products, since July 1985.

Thomas R. Winkel, age 42, was appointed President of Stryker Americas/Middle
East in March 1992 and has been a Vice President of the Company since
December 1984.  He had previously been Vice President, Administration since
June 1987.  Since joining the Company in October 1978 he has held various
other positions, including Assistant Controller, Secretary and Corporate
Controller.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Information regarding the compensation of the management of the Company
appearing under the captions "Director Compensation" and "Executive
Compensation" in the 1995 proxy statement is incorporated herein by
reference.

                                                       Page 11

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The information under the captions "Beneficial Ownership of More than 5% of
the Outstanding Common Stock" and "Beneficial Ownership of Management" in the
1995 proxy statement is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

Not applicable.


                                                       Page 12

PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
          (Executive compensation plans and arrangements are referenced as
          exhibits 10(i), (ii), (iii) and (iv).)

          (a)(1) and (2) -   The response to this portion of Item 14 is
                             submitted as a separate section of this report
                             following the signature page.

                  (a)(3) -   Exhibits

                 Exhibit 2 - Plan of Acquisition
                        (i)  Offer to Purchase Shares of Matsumoto
                             Medical Instruments, Inc. by Stryker
                             Corporation dated June 6, 1994--
                             Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2
                             to the Company's Form 10-Q for the
                             quarter ended June 30, 1994 (Commission
                             File No. 0-9165).

                 Exhibit 3 - Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws
                        (i)  Restated Articles of Incorporation and
                             amendment thereto dated December 28,
                             1993--Incorporated  by reference to
                             Exhibit 3(i) to the Company's Form 10-K
                             for the year ended December 31, 1993
                             (Commission File No. 0-9165).

                       (ii)  By-Laws--Incorporated  by reference to
                             Exhibit 3(ii) to the Company's Form 10-Q
                             for the quarter ended June 30, 1988
                             (Commission File No. 0-9165).

                 Exhibit 4 - Instruments defining the rights of security 
                             holders, including indentures--The Company 
                             agrees to furnish to the Commission upon request
                             a copy of each instrument pursuant to which long-
                             term debt of the Company and its subsidiaries not
                             exceeding 10% of the total assets of the Company 
                             and its consolidated subsidiaries is authorized.

                 Exhibit 10- Material contracts
                        (i)* 1988 Stock Option Plan as amended-- Incorporated  
                             by reference to Exhibit 10(i) to the Company's 
                             Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992 
                             (Commission File No. 0-9165).

                       (ii)* Supplemental Savings and Retirement Plan. 

                      (iii)* Supplemental Savings and Retirement Plan
                             (as Amended Effective January 1, 1995).

                       (iv)* Description of bonus arrangements between
                             the Company and certain officers, including 
                             Messrs. Brown, Elenbaas, Laube, Lipes, Simpson 
                             and Winkel.

                 Exhibit 11- Statement re computation of per share earnings

                        (i)  Statement Re:  Computation of earnings
                             per share of common stock.

                                                       Page 13

                 Exhibit 13- Annual report to security holders

                        (i)  Portions of the 1994 Annual Report that
                             are incorporated herein by reference.

                 Exhibit 21- Subsidiaries of the registrant

                        (i)  List of Subsidiaries.

                 Exhibit 23- Consents of experts and counsel

                        (i)  Consent of Independent Auditors.

                 Exhibit 27- Financial data schedule

                        (i)  Financial data schedule (included in
                             EDGAR filing only).

          (b)     Reports on Form 8-K - No reports on Form 8-K were required
                  to be filed in the fourth quarter of 1994.

          (c)     Exhibits - The response to this portion of Item 14 is 
                  submitted as a separate section of this report following the 
                  signature page.

          (d)     Financial statement schedules - The response to this portion 
                  of Item 14 is submitted as a separate section of this report
                  following the signature page.



*compensation arrangement


                                                       Page 14

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                                     STRYKER CORPORATION      
    


Date:    3/20/95                                       DAVID J. SIMPSON        
                                             David J. Simpson, Vice President,
                                             Chief Financial Officer and       
                                             Secretary


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.



JOHN W. BROWN                  3/20/95       DAVID J. SIMPSON          3/20/95
John W. Brown, Chairman, President           David J. Simpson, Vice President, 
  and Chief Executive Officer                 Chief Financial Officer and   
(Principal Executive Officer)                 Secretary
                                              (Principal Financial Officer)

HOWARD E. COX, JR.             3/20/95       DEAN H. BERGY             3/20/95
Howard E. Cox, Jr. - Director                Dean H. Bergy, Controller
                                              (Principal Accounting Officer) 
  

DONALD M. ENGELMAN             3/20/95       RONDA E. STRYKER          3/20/95
Donald M. Engelman, Ph.D. - Director         Ronda E. Stryker - Director



JEROME H. GROSSMAN             3/20/95       WILLIAM U. PARFET         3/20/95
Jerome H. Grossman, M.D. - Director          William U. Parfet - Director



JOHN S. LILLARD                3/20/95       
John S. Lillard - Director                   

                                                       Page 15












                       ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

                   ITEM 14(a)(1) and (2), (c) and (d)

      LIST OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

                            CERTAIN EXHIBITS

                     FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

                      YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994

                          STRYKER CORPORATION

                          KALAMAZOO, MICHIGAN


                                                       Page 16

FORM 10-K--ITEM 14(a)(1), (2) AND (d)

STRYKER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Index to Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule



The following consolidated financial statements of Stryker Corporation and
subsidiaries and report of independent auditors, included in the annual
stockholders report of the registrant for the year ended December 31, 1994,
are incorporated by reference in Item 8:

    Report of independent auditors

    Consolidated balance sheet--December 31, 1994 and 1993.

    Consolidated statement of earnings--years ended December 31, 1994, 1993
    and 1992.

    Consolidated statement of stockholders' equity--years ended December 31,
    1994, 1993 and 1992.

    Consolidated statement of cash flows--years ended December 31, 1994,
    1993 and 1992.

    Notes to consolidated financial statements--December 31, 1994.

The following consolidated financial statement schedule of Stryker Corporation 
and subsidiaries is included in Item 14(d):

    Schedule II--Valuation and qualifying accounts

All other schedules for which provision is made in the applicable accounting
regulation of the Securities and Exchange Commission are not required under
the related instructions or are inapplicable, and therefore have been
omitted.

                                                       Page 17


                                                       Page 18

FORM 10-K--ITEM 14(c) 

STRYKER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Exhibit Index


Exhibit
                                                                   Page*
  (2)      Plan of acquisition
            (i)  Offer to Purchase Shares of Matsumoto Medical 
                 Instruments, Inc. by Stryker Corporation dated 
                 June 6, 1994 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12**

  (3)      Articles of incorporation and by-laws
            (i)  Restated Articles of Incorporation and amendment 
                 thereto dated December 28, 1993. . . . . . . . .   12**

           (ii) By Laws . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12**

 (10)      Material contracts
             (i) 1988 Stock Option Plan as amended. . . . . . . .   12**

            (ii) Supplemental Savings and Retirement Plan . . . .   19

           (iii) Supplemental Savings and Retirement Plan 
                 (as Amended Effective January 1, 1995) . . . . .   26

            (iv) Description of bonus arrangements between the 
                 Company and certain officers, including 
                 Messrs. Brown, Elenbaas, Laube, Lipes, Simpson 
                 and Winkel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   33

 (11)      Statement re computation of per share earnings
             (i) Statement Re:  Computation of earnings per share 
                 of common stock. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   34

 (13)      Annual report to security holders
             (i) Portions of the 1994 Annual Report that are
                 incorporated herein by reference . . . . . . . .   35

 (21)      Subsidiaries of the registrant 
             (i) List of Subsidiaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   57

 (23)      Consents of experts and counsel
             (i) Consent of Independent Auditors  . . . . . . . .   58

 (27)      Financial data schedule
             (i) Financial data schedule (included in EDGAR 
                 filing only) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   59

 *  Page number in sequential numbering system where such exhibit can be
    found, or it is stated that such exhibit is incorporated by reference.

 ** Incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

                                                       Page 19

 
                                                             EXHIBIT 10(ii)

                               STRYKER CORPORATION
                   SUPPLEMENTAL SAVINGS AND RETIREMENT PLAN

1.   PURPOSE OF THE PLAN

     The purpose of this Stryker Corporation Supplemental Savings and 
     Retirement Plan is to provide a select group of the Company's executives
     with an opportunity to defer a portion of their annual pay and to receive
     the benefit of Company contributions, to the extent such benefits are
     unavailable to such executives under the Savings Plan (as hereinafter
     defined) as a result of limitations imposed by the Internal Revenue Code
     of 1986, as amended, or other limitations imposed by the terms of such
     plan.

2.   DEFINITIONS

     2.01 ACCOUNT shall mean the bookkeeping account maintained for a 
          Participant to record his Pay Deferrals, Matching Contributions, and
          Company Discretionary Contributions, together with earnings thereon
          credited pursuant to Section 7.03.

     2.02 ADMINISTRATOR shall mean the Company.  The Company may periodically
          delegate some or all its duties as Administrator to a committee
          appointed by the Board.

     2.03 BOARD shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.

     2.04 CODE shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from
          time to time.

     2.05 COMPANY shall mean Stryker Corporation and any successor thereto. 
          Where the context requires, "Company" shall also include any
          employer related to the Company any of whose employees ahve been
          designated as eligible to participate in the Plan.

     2.06 COMPANY DISCRETIONARY CONTRIBUTION shall mean the amount credited to
          a Participant's Account pursuant to Article 6.

     2.07 COMPENSATION shall mean "Compensation" as defined in the Savings
          Plan; provided, however, that for purposes of the Plan the
          limitation on a Participant's Compensation for a Plan Year shall be
          200% of the Section 401(a)(17) Limitation for such Plan Year. 

     2.08 DEFERABLE COMPENSATION shall mean a Participant's Compensation for a
          Plan Year that is ineligible for deferral under the Savings Plan
          because it is earned after the Participant's pay deferrals under the
          Savings Plan have attained the dollar limitation under Section
          402(g)(1) of the Code (or such lesser limitation on pay deferrals as
          may apply to the Participant under the terms of the Savings Plan)
          for such Plan Year.

     2.09 DISCRETIONARY CONTRIBUTION PERCENTAGE shall mean the employer's
          discretionary contribution for a Plan Year under the Savings Plan,
          expressed as a percentage of a participant's includible compensation
          for such Plan Year under the Savings Plan.

     2.10 EFFECTIVE DATE shall mean January 1, 1994.

     2.11 EMPLOYEE shall mean an employee of the Company.

     2.12 ENTRY DATE shall mean January 1 of any Plan Year.

                                                       Page 20

     2.13 INVESTMENT ELECTION shall mean a Participant's election under
          Article 7 of the investment fund or funds used to measure the
          investment performance of the Participant's Account.

     2.14 MATCHING CONTRIBUTION shall mean the amount credited to a
          Participant's Account pursuant to Article 5.

     2.15 PARTICIPANT shall mean an Employee who satisfies the requirements
          for participation in the Plan pursuant to Section  3.01 and whose
          Account has not been distributed.

     2.16 PAY DEFERRAL ELECTION shall mean a Participant's election pursuant
          to Section 4.01 to defer a portion of his Deferable Compensation.

     2.17 PAY DEFERRALS shall mean the amounts credited to a Participant's
          Account pursuant to Section 4.01. 

     2.18 PLAN shall mean this Stryker Corporation Supplemental Savings and
          Retirement Plan, as amended from time to time.

     2.19 PLAN YEAR shall mean the calendar year.

     2.20 SAVINGS PLAN shall mean the Stryker Corporation Savings and
          Retirement Plan for Salaried, Clerical, and Technical Employees, as
          amended from time to time.

     2.21 SECTION 401(a)(17) LIMITATION shall mean the dollar limitation
          under Section 401(a)(17) of the Code in effect for a Plan Year.

     2.22 SELECT GROUP shall mean, with respect to a Plan Year, the select
          group of management or highly compensated Employees who are
          designated by the Board of Directors as eligible to participate in
          this Plan.

     2.23 UNFORESEEABLE EMERGENCY shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in
          Section 11.03.

     2.24 VALUATION DATE shall mean the last day of each calendar quarter.

3.   PARTICIPATION

     3.01 PARTICIPATION.  Any Employee who is a member of the Select Group
          shall become eligible to participate in the Plan as of the Entry
          Date coincident with or next following the latest of (i) the
          Effective Date, (ii) the date he becomes eligible to participate in
          the Savings Plan, or (iii) the date he becomes a member of the
          Select Group.  Participation in the Plan shall terminate when all
          amounts credited to a Participant's Account have been distributed.

4.   PAY DEFERRALS

     4.01 PAY DEFERRAL ELECTIONS

     (a)  A Participant may elect to defer a portion of his Deferable
          Compensation otherwise payable during the Plan Year by making a
          written election on such form as the Administrator shall designate. 
          Such election shall specify a whole percentage of the Participant's
          Deferable Compensation which the Participant elects to defer, which
          percentage may not exceed the maximum percentage of compensation
          that may be deferred by nonhighly compensated employees under the
          terms of the Savings Plan.  Such election must be made prior to

                                                       Page 21

          the first day of such Plan Year or such earlier date as the
          Administrator may specify, and may not be modified or revoked after
          the commencement of such Plan Year except as provided in Sections
          4.02 and 11.01.

     (b)  An amount deferred pursuant to a Pay Deferral Election shall be
          withheld from the Deferable Compensation otherwise payable to the
          Participant, and shall be credited to the Participant's Account as
          of the date on which such amount was withheld.

     (c)  A Pay Deferral Election applies only to the Deferable Compensation
          for the Plan Year to which such election relates.  To defer a
          portion of his Deferable Compensation in a subsequent Plan Year a
          Participant must make a new Pay Deferral Election.

     4.02 SUSPENSION OF DEFERRALS.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
          in this Article 4, in the event the Administrator approves a 
          Participant's request for a suspension of deferrals pursuant to
          Section 11.01 on account of an Unforeseeable Emergency, the
          Participant's Pay Deferral Election shall be suspended (and the
          Participant shall be ineligible to make a new Pay Deferral Election)
          with respect to any Compensation otherwise payable during the period
          beginning on the date of such withdrawal or effective date of such
          approval and ending on the last day of the next succeeding Plan
          Year.

5.   MATCHING CONTRIBUTIONS

     5.01 For each Plan Year, the Company shall credit to the Account of each
          eligible Participant a Matching Contribution equal to the lesser of
          (i) 100% of such Participant's Pay Deferrals for such Plan Year or
          (ii) 4% of such Participant's Compensation in excess of the Section
          401(a)(17) Limitation for such Plan Year.  Such Matching 
          Contribution shall be credited to the Participant's Account by the
          March 15 following the end of such Plan Year.

     5.02 A Participant shall be eligible for a Matching Contribution with
          respect to a Plan Year only if he is eligible for a matching
          contribution under the Savings Plan for such Plan Year.

6.   COMPANY DISCRETIONARY CONTRIBUTIONS

     6.01 For each Plan Year, the Company shall credit to the Account of each
          eligible Participant a Company Discretionary Contribution equal to
          such Participant's Compensation in excess of the Section 401(a)(17)
          Limitation for such Plan Year, multiplied by the Discretionary
          Contribution Percentage for such Plan Year. Such Company
          Discretionary Contribution shall be credited to the Participant's
          Account by the March 15 following the end of such Plan Year.

     6.02 A Participant shall be eligible for a Company Discretionary
          Contribution with respect to a Plan Year only if he is eligible for
          an employer discretionary contribution under the Savings Plan for
          such Plan Year.

7.   INVESTMENT PERFORMANCE ELECTIONS

     7.01 INITIAL ELECTION.  Prior to the commencement of his participation in
          the Plan, each Participant shall file an initial Investment Election
          which shall designate from among the investment funds available for
          selection under the Plan the investment fund or funds which shall be
          used to measure the investment performance of the Participant's
          Account.

                                                       Page 22

     7.02 CHANGE IN ELECTION.  A Participant may change his Investment
          Election effective as of the first day of any calendar quarter by
          filing a written notice with the Administrator at least 30 days in
          advance of such date.

     7.03 CREDITING OF INVESTMENT RETURN.  As of each Valuation Date, each
          Participant's Account shall, under such procedures as the
          Administrator shall establish, be credited with any income, and
          debited with any loss, that would have been realized if the amounts
          credited to his Account had been invested in accordance with 
          his Investment Election.  References in the Plan to Investment
          Elections are for the sole purpose of attributing hypothetical
          investment performance to each Participant's Account.  Nothing
          herein shall require the Company to invest, earmark, or set aside
          its general assets in any specific manner.

     7.04 AVAILABLE INVESTMENT FUNDS.  The investment funds available for
          selection under the Plan shall be the investment funds (other than
          the employer stock fund) available for investment under the Savings
          Plan.

8.   ACCOUNTS  

     8.01 MAINTENANCE OF ACCOUNTS.  The Administrator shall maintain or cause
          to be maintained records showing the individual balances of each
          Account.  At least once per quarter each Participant shall be
          furnished with a statement setting forth the value of his Account.

     8.02 VESTING.  A benefit shall be payable under this Plan only to the
          extent that it is vested.  The portion of a Participant's Account
          attributable to Pay Deferrals, together with credited earnings or 
          losses thereon, shall be fully vested at all times.  The portion of
          a Participant's Account attributable to Matching Contributions and
          Company Discretionary Contributions, and credited earnings and
          losses with respect thereto, shall be vested only to the extent that
          matching contributions and employer discretionary contributions
          credited to the Participant's account under the Savings Plan are
          vested.  The nonvested portion of a Participant's Account shall be
          forfeited at the same time, and under the same conditions, as
          the nonvested portion of his account under the Savings Plan is
          forfeited.

9.   DISTRIBUTION OF BENEFITS

     9.01 BENEFIT PAYMENT ELECTION.  Prior to the commencement of his
          participation in the Plan, each Participant shall file a benefit
          payment election with the Administrator on such form as the
          Administrator shall prescribe specifying (i) whether the
          Participant's benefit is to be paid in a lump sum, in substantially
          equal annual installments, or in a combination thereof, (ii) the
          year in which such lump-sum payment is to be made or such
          installments are to commence, and (iii) if installments are elected,
          the number of such installments.  Except as provided in Section
          11.02, no portion of a Participant's benefit may be distributed
          prior to his separation from service.  Lump-sum payments may not be
          made later than, and installment payments may not extend beyond, the
          tenth anniversary of the date of the Participant's separation from
          service.

     9.02 CHANGE IN ELECTION.  A Participant's benefit payment election may be
          changed from time to time, provided, however, that no such change
          shall be effective if the Participant's separation from service from
          the Company occurs less than one year after the date such change is
          made.  In such event the Participant's benefit shall be paid in

                                                       Page 23

          accordance with his most recent election or change in election
          (other than a change in election made less than one year before his
          separation from service).

     9.03 DISTRIBUTION OF BENEFITS.  Except as otherwise provided in Article 
          10 and Section 11.02, a Participant's Account shall be distributed
          in accordance with his benefit election made in accordance with
          Section 9.01 (after giving effect to any modifications to such
          election pursuant to Section 9.02).  The payment of any installment
          or lump sum shall, in accordance with the Participant's election, be
          made either (i) within 90 days after the end of the calendar quarter
          during which the Participant separates from service or (ii) within
          the first 90 days of a calendar year commencing after the 
          Participant separates from service.

10.  DEATH OF A PARTICIPANT

    10.01 Except as otherwise provided in Section 10.02, in the event of a
          Participant's death prior to the distribution of his entire Account
          balance, the remaining balance in his Account shall be distributed
          in accordance with his benefit payment election made pursuant to
          Section 9.01 (after giving effect to any modifications to such
          election pursuant to Section 9.02).  Such distribution shall be made
          to the beneficiary designated by the Participant under the Savings
          Plan, unless the Participant has specifically designated a different
          beneficiary under this Plan in a writing filed with the
          Administrator.

    10.02 A Participant may elect to have any amount remaining in his Account
          upon his death paid to his beneficiary in a lump sum within 60 days
          after the Administrator has received notification of his death,
          rather than in accordance with his benefit payment election under
          Section 9.01.  Such a lump-sum death benefit election may be made or
          revoked at any time, provided, however, that no such election or
          revocation shall be effective if made less than one year before the
          date of the Participant's death.

11.  UNFORESEEABLE EMERGENCIES

    11.01 SUSPENSION OF DEFERRALS.  In the vent of a Participant's
          Unforeseeable Emergency, such Participant may request a suspension
          of his Pay Deferral in accordance with Section 4.02 (if a suspension
          is not already in effect pursuant to such section).  Any such
          request shall be subject to the approval of the Administrator, which
          approval shall not be granted unless such need cannot be relieved
          (i) through reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise
          or (ii) by liquidation of the Participant's assets (to the extent
          the liquidation of such assets would not itself cause severe
          financial hardship).  If the request is granted, such suspension
          shall be effective as of such date as the Administrator shall
          prescribe.

    11.02 EMERGENCY WITHDRAWAL.  In the event of a Participant's Unforeseeable
          Emergency, such Participant may request an emergency withdrawal from
          his Account.  Any such request shall be subject to the approval of
          the Administrator, which approval (a) shall not be granted unless
          the Participant's Pay Deferral Election have been suspended pursuant
          to Section 4.02, (b) shall only be granted to the extent reasonably
          needed to satisfy the need created by the Unforeseeable Emergency,
          and (c) shall not be granted to the extent that such need may be
          relieved (i) through reimbursement or compensation by insurance or
          otherwise or (ii) by liquidation of the Participant's assets (to the
          extent the liquidation of such assets would not itself cause severe
          financial hardship).

                                                       Page 24

    11.03 UNFORESEEABLE EMERGENCY.  An "Unforeseeable Emergency" means severe
          financial hardship to the Participant resulting from a sudden and
          unexpected illness or accident of the Participant or his dependent,
          loss of the Participant's property due to casualty, or other similar
          extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of
          events beyond the Participant's control.  Examples of circumstances
          not qualifying as an Unforeseeable Emergency include the need to
          send a Participant's child to college and the desire to purchase a
          home.

12. ADMINISTRATION

    The Plan shall be administered by the Administrator, which shall have
    discretionary authority to determine eligibility for benefits and to
    construe the terms of the Plan.  The Administrator's good-faith
    determination with respect to any issue relating to the interpretation of
    the Plan shall be conclusive and final.

13. GENERAL PROVISIONS

    13.01 NO CONTRACT OF EMPLOYMENT.  The establishment of the Plan shall not
          be construed as conferring any legal rights upon any Participant for
          a continuation of employment, nor shall it interfere with the rights
          of the Company to discharge a Participant and to treat him without
          regard to the effect which such treatment might have upon him as a
          Participant in the Plan.

    13.02 WITHHOLDING.  As a condition to a Participant's entitlement to
          benefits hereunder, the Company shall have the right to deduct from
          any amounts otherwise payable to a Participant, whether pursuant to
          the Plan or otherwise, or otherwise to collect from the Participant,
          any required withholding taxes with respect to benefits under the
          Plan.

    13.03 NON-ASSIGNABILITY OF BENEFITS.  Subject to any applicable law, no
          benefit under the Plan shall be subject in any manner to, nor shall
          the Company be obligated to recognize, any purported anticipation,
          alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or
          charge, and any attempt to do so shall be void.  No such benefit
          shall in any manner be liable for or subject to garnishment,
          attachment, execution, or a levy, or liable for or subject to the
          debts, contracts, liabilities, engagements or torts of the
          Participant.

    13.04 SUCCESSOR EMPLOYERS.  The Plan shall be binding upon the successors
          and assigns of the Company.  The Company shall require any successor
          (whether direct or indirect, and whether by purchase, merger, 
          consolidation, or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the
          business or assets of the Company, by written agreement to expressly
          assume and agree to perform the Company's obligations under the Plan
          in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be
          required to perform them if no such succession had taken place.  The 
          provisions of this Section 13.04 shall continue to apply to each     
          subsequent employer of the Participant hereunder in the event of any
          subsequent merger, consolidation, or transfer of assets of such
          subsequent employer.

    13.05 GOVERNING LAW.  The laws of the State of Michigan shall govern the
          construction of this Plan and the rights and the liabilities
          hereunder of the parties hereto. 

    13.06 PRONOUNS.  The masculine pronoun shall mean the feminine wherever
          appropriate.

                                                       Page 25

14. SOURCE OF BENEFITS

    The Plan is an unfunded plan maintained by the Company for the purpose of
    providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly
    compensated employees.  Benefits under the Plan shall be payable from the
    general assets of the Company except to the extent paid from the Stryker
    Corporation Supplemental Savings and Retirement Plan Trust (a grantor
    trust of the type commonly known as a "rabbi trust").  The Plan shall not
    be construed as conferring on a Participant any right, title, interest, or
    claim in or to any specific asset, reserve, account, or property or any
    kind possessed by the Company.  To the extent that a Participant or any
    other person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company, such
    right shall be no greater than the right of an unsecured general creditor.

15. EFFECTIVE DATE

    This Plan shall be effective as of January 1, 1994.

16. AMENDMENT OR TERMINATION

    The Board of Directors of the Company reserves the right to amend or
    terminate this Plan at any time; provided, however, that without such
    Participant's written consent, no amendment or termination of the Plan
    shall adversely affect the right of any Participant to receive, or
    otherwise result in a material adverse effect on such Participant's rights
    under the Plan with respect to, his accrued vested benefits as determined
    as of the date of amendment or termination.
 
      IN WITNESS OF WHICH, the Company has adopted the Plan this 21st day of
January 1994.

                                                   STRYKER CORPORATION

                                                   By:  THOMAS R. WINKEL
                                                        Thomas R. Winkel, 
                                                        Vice President

                                                       Page 26

                                                           EXHIBIT 10(iii)

                               STRYKER CORPORATION
                   SUPPLEMENTAL SAVINGS AND RETIREMENT PLAN
                    (as Amended Effective January 1, 1995)


1.  PURPOSE OF THE PLAN

    The purpose of this Stryker Corporation Supplemental Savings and
    Retirement Plan is to provide a select group of the Company's 
    executives with an opportunity to defer a portion of their annual pay 
    and to receive the benefit of Company contributions, to the extent such 
    benefits are unavailable to such executives under the Savings Plan (as 
    hereinafter defined) as a result of limitations imposed by the Internal 
    Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or other limitations imposed by the 
    terms of such plan.

2.  DEFINITIONS

     2.01 ACCOUNT shall mean the bookkeeping account maintained for a 
          Participant to record his Pay Deferrals, Matching Contributions,
          and Company Discretionary Contributions, together with earnings 
          thereon credited pursuant to Section 7.03.

     2.02 ADMINISTRATOR shall mean the Company.  The Company may 
          periodically delegate some or all its duties as
          Administrator to a committee appointed by the Board.

     2.03 BOARD shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.

     2.04 CODE shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended 
          from time to time.

     2.05 COMPANY shall mean Stryker Corporation and any successor thereto. 
          Where the context requires, "Company" shall also include any 
          employer related to the Company any of whose employees have been 
          designated as eligible to participate in the Plan.

     2.06 COMPANY DISCRETIONARY CONTRIBUTION shall mean the amount credited 
          to a Participant's Account pursuant to Article 6.

     2.07 COMPENSATION shall mean "Compensation" as defined in the Savings
          Plan; provided, however, that for purposes of the Plan the 
          limitation on a Participant's Compensation for a Plan Year shall 
          be 200% of the Section 401(a)(17) Limitation for such Plan Year.

     2.08 DEFERABLE COMPENSATION shall mean a Participant's Compensation 
          for a Plan Year that is ineligible for deferral under the Savings 
          Plan because it is earned after the Participant's pay deferrals 
          under the Savings Plan have attained the dollar limitation under 
          Section 402(g)(1) of the Code (or such lesser limitation on pay 
          deferrals as may apply to the Participant under the terms of the 
          Savings Plan) for such Plan Year.

     2.09 DISCRETIONARY CONTRIBUTION PERCENTAGE shall mean the employer's
          discretionary contribution for a Plan Year under the Savings 
          Plan, expressed as a percentage of a participant's includible 
          compensation for such Plan Year under the Savings Plan.

     2.10 EFFECTIVE DATE shall mean January 1, 1994.

     2.11 EMPLOYEE shall mean an employee of the Company.

                                                       Page 27

     2.12 ENTRY DATE shall mean January 1 of any Plan Year.

     2.13 INVESTMENT ELECTION shall mean a Participant's election under
          Article 7 of the investment fund or funds used to measure the 
          investment performance of the Participant's Account.

     2.14 MATCHING CONTRIBUTION shall mean the amount credited to a
          Participant's Account pursuant to Article 5.

     2.15 PARTICIPANT shall mean an Employee who satisfies the requirements
          for participation in the Plan pursuant to Section  3.01 and whose 
          Account has not been distributed.

     2.16 PAY DEFERRAL ELECTION shall mean a Participant's election 
          pursuant to Section 4.01 to defer a portion of his Deferable 
          Compensation.

     2.17 PAY DEFERRALS shall mean the amounts credited to a Participant's
          Account pursuant to Section 4.01.

     2.18 PLAN shall mean this Stryker Corporation Supplemental Savings and
          Retirement Plan, as amended from time to time.

     2.19 PLAN YEAR shall mean the calendar year.

     2.20 SAVINGS PLAN shall mean the Stryker Corporation 401(k) Savings and
          Retirement Plan, as amended from time to time.

     2.21 SECTION 401(a)(17) LIMITATION shall mean the dollar limitation
          under Section 401(a)(17) of the Code in effect for a Plan Year.

     2.22 SELECT GROUP shall mean, with respect to a Plan Year, the select
          group of management or highly compensated Employees who are 
          designated by the Board of Directors as eligible to participate 
          in this Plan.

     2.23 UNFORESEEABLE EMERGENCY shall have the meaning ascribed thereto 
          in Section 11.03.

     2.24 VALUATION DATE shall mean the last day of each calendar quarter.

3.  PARTICIPATION

     3.01 PARTICIPATION.  Any Employee who is a member of the Select Group
          shall become eligible to participate in the Plan as of the Entry 
          Date coincident with or next following the latest of (i) the
          Effective Date, (ii) the date he becomes eligible to participate 
          in the Savings Plan, or (iii) the date he becomes a member of
          the Select Group.  Participation in the Plan shall terminate when
          all amounts credited to a Participant's Account have been 
          distributed.

4.   PAY DEFERRALS

      4.01 PAY DEFERRAL ELECTIONS

      (a)  A Participant may elect to defer a portion of his Deferable
           Compensation otherwise payable during the Plan Year by making a 
           written election on such form as the Administrator shall 
           designate.  Such election shall specify a whole percentage of 
           the Participant's Deferable Compensation which the Participant 
           elects to defer, which percentage may not exceed the maximum 
           percentage of compensation that may be deferred by nonhighly 
           compensated employees under the terms of the Savings Plan.  Such 

                                                       Page 28

           election must be made prior to the first day of such Plan Year 
           or such earlier date as the Administrator may specify, and may 
           not be modified or revoked after the commencement of such Plan 
           Year except as provided in Sections 4.02 and 11.01.

      (b)  An amount deferred pursuant to a Pay Deferral Election shall be
           withheld from the Deferable Compensation otherwise payable to 
           the Participant, and shall be credited to the Participant's 
           Account as of the date on which such amount was withheld.

      (c)  A Pay Deferral Election applies only to the Deferable
           Compensation for the Plan Year to which such election relates.  
           To defer a portion of his Deferable Compensation in a subsequent 
           Plan Year a Participant must make a new Pay Deferral Election.

      4.02 SUSPENSION OF DEFERRALS.  Notwithstanding anything to the 
           contrary in this Article 4, in the event the Administrator 
           approves a Participant's request for a suspension of deferrals 
           pursuant to Section 11.01 on account of an Unforeseeable 
           Emergency, the Participant's Pay Deferral Election shall be 
           suspended (and the Participant shall be ineligible to make a new 
           Pay Deferral Election) with respect to any Compensation
           otherwise payable during the period beginning on the date of 
           such withdrawal or effective date of such approval and ending on 
           the last day of the next succeeding Plan Year.

5.   MATCHING CONTRIBUTIONS

      5.01 For each Plan Year, the Company shall credit to the Account of 
           each eligible Participant a Matching Contribution equal to the 
           lesser of (i) 50% of such Participant's Pay Deferrals for such 
           Plan Year or (ii) 4% of such Participant's Compensation in 
           excess of the Section 401(a)(17) Limitation for such Plan Year. 
           Such Matching Contribution shall be credited to the 
           Participant's Account by the March 15 following the end of such 
           Plan Year.

      5.02 A Participant shall be eligible for a Matching Contribution with
           respect to a Plan Year only if he is eligible for a matching 
           contribution under the Savings Plan for such Plan Year.

6.   COMPANY DISCRETIONARY CONTRIBUTIONS

      6.01 For each Plan Year, the Company shall credit to the Account of 
           each eligible Participant a Company Discretionary Contribution 
           equal to such Participant's Compensation in excess of the 
           Section 401(a)(17) Limitation for such Plan Year, multiplied by 
           the Discretionary Contribution Percentage for such Plan Year. 
           Such Company Discretionary Contribution shall be credited to the
           Participant's Account by the March 15 following the end of such 
           Plan Year.

      6.02 A Participant shall be eligible for a Company Discretionary
           Contribution with respect to a Plan Year only if he is eligible 
           for an employer discretionary contribution under the Savings 
           Plan for such Plan Year.

                                                       Page 29

7.   INVESTMENT PERFORMANCE ELECTIONS

      7.01 INITIAL ELECTION.  Prior to the commencement of his 
           participation in the Plan, each Participant shall file an 
           initial Investment Election which shall designate from among the
           investment funds available for selection under the Plan the 
           investment fund or funds which shall be used to measure the 
           investment performance of the Participant's Account.

      7.02 CHANGE IN ELECTION.  A Participant may change his Investment
           Election effective as of the first day of any calendar quarter 
           by filing a written notice with the Administrator at least 30 
           days in advance of such date.

      7.03 CREDITING OF INVESTMENT RETURN.  As of each Valuation Date, each
           Participant's Account shall, under such procedures as the 
           Administrator shall establish, be credited with any income, and 
           debited with any loss, that would have been realized if the 
           amounts credited to his Account had been invested in accordance 
           with his Investment Election.  References in the Plan to 
           Investment Elections are for the sole purpose of attributing 
           hypothetical investment performance to each Participant's 
           Account.  Nothing herein shall require the Company to invest, 
           earmark, or set aside its general assets in any specific manner.

      7.04 AVAILABLE INVESTMENT FUNDS.  The investment funds available for
           selection under the Plan shall be the investment funds (other 
           than the employer stock fund) available for investment under the 
           Savings Plan.

8.   ACCOUNTS  

      8.01 MAINTENANCE OF ACCOUNTS.  The Administrator shall maintain or 
           cause to be maintained records showing the individual balances 
           of each Account.  At least once per quarter each Participant 
           shall be furnished with a statement setting forth the value of 
           his Account.

      8.02 VESTING.  A benefit shall be payable under this Plan only to the
           extent that it is vested.  The portion of a Participant's
           Account attributable to Pay Deferrals, together with credited 
           earnings or losses thereon, shall be fully vested at all times.  
           The portion of a Participant's Account attributable to Matching
           Contributions and Company Discretionary Contributions, and
           credited earnings and losses with respect thereto, shall be 
           vested only to the extent that matching contributions and 
           employer discretionary contributions credited to the 
           Participant's account under the Savings Plan are vested.  The 
           nonvested portion of a Participant's Account shall be forfeited 
           at the same time, and under the same conditions, as the 
           nonvested portion of his account under the Savings Plan is 
           forfeited.

9.   DISTRIBUTION OF BENEFITS

      9.01 BENEFIT PAYMENT ELECTION.  Prior to the commencement of his
           participation in the Plan, each Participant shall file a benefit 
           payment election with the Administrator on such form as the 
           Administrator shall prescribe specifying (i) whether the 
           Participant's benefit is to be paid in a lump sum, in 
           substantially equal annual installments, or in a combination 
           thereof, (ii) the year in which such lump-sum payment is to be 
           made or such installments are to commence, and (iii) if 
           installments are elected, the number of such installments.  

                                                       Page 30

           Except as provided in Section 11.02, no portion of a 
           Participant's benefit may be distributed prior to his separation 
           from service.  Lump-sum payments may not be made later than, and
           installment payments may not extend beyond, the tenth 
           anniversary of the date of the Participant's separation from 
           service.

      9.02 CHANGE IN ELECTION.  A Participant's benefit payment election 
           may be changed from time to time, provided, however, that no 
           such change shall be effective if the Participant's separation 
           from service from the Company occurs less than one year after 
           the date such change is made.  In such event the Participant's
           benefit shall be paid in accordance with his most recent 
           election or change in election (other than a change in election 
           made less than one year before his separation from service).

      9.03 DISTRIBUTION OF BENEFITS.  Except as otherwise provided in
           Article 10 and Section 11.02, a Participant's Account shall be 
           distributed in accordance with his benefit election made in 
           accordance with Section 9.01 (after giving effect to any 
           modifications to such election pursuant to Section 9.02).  The 
           payment of any installment or lump sum shall, in accordance with 
           the Participant's election, be made either (i) within 90 days 
           after the end of the calendar quarter during which the 
           Participant separates from service or (ii) within the first 90 
           days of a calendar year commencing after the Participant 
           separates from service.

10.  DEATH OF A PARTICIPANT

     10.01 Except as otherwise provided in Section 10.02, in the event of
           a Participant's death prior to the distribution of his entire 
           Account balance, the remaining balance in his Account shall be 
           distributed in accordance with his benefit payment election made 
           pursuant to Section 9.01 (after giving effect to any 
           modifications to such election pursuant to Section 9.02).  Such
           distribution shall be made to the beneficiary designated by the 
           Participant under the Savings Plan, unless the Participant has 
           specifically designated a different beneficiary under this Plan 
           in a writing filed with the Administrator.

     10.02 A Participant may elect to have any amount remaining in his
           Account upon his death paid to his beneficiary in a lump sum 
           within 60 days after the Administrator has received notification 
           of his death, rather than in accordance with his benefit payment 
           election under Section 9.01.  Such a lump-sum death benefit 
           election may be made or revoked at any time, provided, however, 
           that no such election or revocation shall be effective if made 
           less than one year before the date of the Participant's death.

11.  UNFORESEEABLE EMERGENCIES

     11.01 SUSPENSION OF DEFERRALS.  In the vent of a Participant's
           Unforeseeable Emergency, such Participant may request a 
           suspension of his Pay Deferral in accordance with Section 4.02 
           (if a suspension is not already in effect pursuant to such 
           section).  Any such request shall be subject to the approval of 
           the Administrator, which approval shall not be granted unless 
           such need cannot be relieved (i) through reimbursement or 
           compensation by insurance or otherwise or (ii) by liquidation of 
           the Participant's assets (to the extent the liquidation of such 
           assets would not itself cause severe financial hardship).  If 
           the request is granted, such suspension shall be effective as of
           such date as the Administrator shall prescribe.

                                                       Page 31

     11.02 EMERGENCY WITHDRAWAL.  In the event of a Participant's 
           Unforeseeable Emergency, such Participant may request an 
           emergency withdrawal from his Account.  Any such request shall 
           be subject to the approval of the Administrator, which approval 
           (a) shall not be granted unless the Participant's Pay Deferral 
           Election have been suspended pursuant to Section 4.02, (b) shall 
           only be granted to the extent reasonably needed to satisfy the 
           need created by the Unforeseeable Emergency, and (c) shall not 
           be granted to the extent that such need may be relived (i) 
           through reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise 
           or (ii) by liquidation of the Participant's assets (to the 
           extent the liquidation of such assets would not itself cause 
           severe financial hardship).

     11.03 UNFORESEEABLE EMERGENCY.  An "Unforeseeable Emergency" means severe
           financial hardship to the Participant resulting from a sudden 
           and unexpected illness or accident of the Participant or his 
           dependent, loss of the Participant's property due to casualty, 
           or other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances
           arising as a result of events beyond the Participant's control. 
           Examples of circumstances not qualifying as an Unforeseeable 
           Emergency include the need to send a Participant's child to
           college and the desire to purchase a home.

12.  ADMINISTRATION

     The Plan shall be administered by the Administrator, which shall have
     discretionary authority to determine eligibility for benefits and to
     construe the terms of the Plan.  The Administrator's good-faith 
     determination with respect to any issue relating to the interpretation 
     of the Plan shall be conclusive and final.

13.  GENERAL PROVISIONS

     13.01 NO CONTRACT OF EMPLOYMENT.  The establishment of the Plan shall
           not be construed as conferring any legal rights upon any 
           Participant for a continuation of employment, nor shall it 
           interfere with the rights of the Company to discharge a 
           Participant and to treat him without regard to the effect which 
           such treatment might have upon him as a Participant in the Plan.

     13.02 WITHHOLDING.  As a condition to a Participant's entitlement to
           benefits hereunder, the Company shall have the right to deduct 
           from any amounts otherwise payable to a Participant, whether 
           pursuant to the Plan or otherwise, or otherwise to collect from 
           the Participant, any required withholding taxes with respect to
           benefits under the Plan.

     13.03 NON-ASSIGNABILITY OF BENEFITS.  Subject to any applicable law,
           no benefit under the Plan shall be subject in any manner to, nor 
           shall the Company be obligated to recognize, any purported 
           anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, 
           encumbrance, or charge, and any attempt to do so shall be void.  
           No such benefit shall in any manner be liable for or subject to
           garnishment, attachment, execution, or a levy, or liable for or 
           subject to the debts, contracts, liabilities, engagements or 
           torts of the Participant.

     13.04 SUCCESSOR EMPLOYERS.  The Plan shall be binding upon the
           successors and assigns of the Company.  The Company shall 
           require any successor (whether direct or indirect, and whether 
           by purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise) to all or 
           substantially all of the business or assets of the Company, by
           written agreement to expressly assume and agree to perform the

                                                       Page 32

           Company's obligations under the Plan in the same manner and to the
           same extent that the Company would be required to perform them if
           no such succession had taken place.  The provisions of this Section
           13.04 shall continue to apply to each subsequent employer of the
           Participant hereunder in the event of any subsequent merger, 
           consolidation, or transfer of assets of such subsequent employer.

     13.05 GOVERNING LAW.  The laws of the State of Michigan shall govern
           the construction of this Plan and the rights and the liabilities 
           hereunder of the parties hereto.  

     13.06 PRONOUNS.  The masculine pronoun shall mean the feminine 
           wherever appropriate.

14.  SOURCE OF BENEFITS

     The Plan is an unfunded plan maintained by the Company for the purpose 
     of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or 
     highly compensated employees.  Benefits under the Plan shall be 
     payable from the general assets of the Company except to the extent 
     paid from the Stryker Corporation Supplemental Savings and Retirement
     Plan Trust (a grantor trust of the type commonly known as a "rabbi 
     trust").  The Plan shall not be construed as conferring on a 
     Participant any right, title, interest, or claim in or to any specific 
     asset, reserve, account, or property or any kind possessed by the 
     Company.  To the extent that a Participant or any other person
     acquires a right to receive payments from the Company, such right 
     shall be no greater than the right of an unsecured general creditor.

15.  EFFECTIVE DATE

     This Plan, as amended and restated as set forth herein, shall be
     effective as of January 1, 1995.

16.  AMENDMENT OR TERMINATION

     The Board of Directors of the Company reserves the right to amend or
     terminate this Plan at any time; provided, however, that without such 
     Participant's written consent, no amendment or termination of the Plan 
     shall adversely affect the right of any Participant to receive, or 
     otherwise result in a material adverse effect on such Participant's 
     rights under the Plan with respect to, his accrued vested benefits as 
     determined as of the date of amendment or termination.

      IN WITNESS OF WHICH, the Company has adopted the Plan this 14th day of
December 1994.

                                                   STRYKER CORPORATION

                                                   By:  THOMAS R. WINKEL
                                                        Thomas R. Winkel, 
                                                        Vice President


                                                       Page 33

                                                           EXHIBIT (10)(iv)





                   DESCRIPTION OF BONUS ARRANGEMENTS


The Company has entered into bonus arrangements with certain executive
officers for 1995, including Mr. Brown, Mr. Elenbaas, Mr. Laube, Mr. Lipes,
Mr. Simpson and Mr. Winkel, based on specific performance criteria including 
sales, profits and asset management.  The aggregate amount of such bonuses is 
not expected to exceed $1,225,000.


                                                       Page 34

                                                            EXHIBIT (11)


    STATEMENT RE:  COMPUTATION OF EARNINGS PER SHARE OF COMMON STOCK


                                                       
                                               Year Ended December 31
                                        -----------------------------------
                                            1994        1993        1992  
                                        ----------   ----------  ----------

Average number of shares outstanding    48,367,000   48,356,000  47,716,000

Net earnings                           $72,400,000  $60,205,000 $47,700,000
                                       ===========  =========== ===========
Earnings per share of common stock:
   Net earnings                              $1.50        $1.25       $1.00
                                             =====        =====       =====
Primary:
  Average shares outstanding            48,367,000   48,356,000  47,716,000

  Net effect of dilutive stock options,
    based on the treasury stock method
    using average market price             737,000      536,000   1,173,000
                                       -----------   ----------  ----------
      Total Primary Shares              49,104,000   48,892,000  48,889,000
                                        ==========   ==========  ==========

Fully Diluted:
  Average shares outstanding            48,367,000   48,356,000  47,716,000

  Net effect of dilutive stock options,
    using the year-end market price, if 
    higher then average market price       770,000      586,000   1,199,000
                                        __________   __________  __________
      Total Fully Diluted Shares        49,137,000   48,942,000  48,915,000
                                        ==========   ==========  ==========


Note:   Shares subject to stock options are not included in the earnings 
        per share computation because the present effect thereof is not 
        materially dilutive.  



                                                        Page 35


                                                       Page 36



                                                       Page 45

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
STRYKER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Years Ended December 31 (in thousands)        1994       1993       1992  
--------------------------------------      --------   --------   --------
OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Net Earnings                                 $72,400    $60,205    $47,700 
Adjustments to reconcile net earnings 
  to net cash provided by operating 
  activities:
    Depreciation                              18,717     13,048     10,214
    Amortization                               2,227      3,135      1,168
    Minority interest                          4,405 
    Provision for losses on accounts
      receivable                               2,600        900        400 
    Deferred income taxes (credit)            (3,818)    (2,917)    (4,171)
    Changes in operating assets and
      liabilities, net of effects of 
      business acquisitions:
        Decrease (increase) in accounts
          receivable                           2,862    (11,305)   (20,563)
        Decrease in inventories                5,798      2,271        726 
        Increase (decrease) in accounts
          payable                             (8,594)     4,982      7,723 
        Increase (decrease) in income
          taxes                               (3,898)    11,092        632 
        Other                                  4,994      4,691      6,899 
                                            --------   --------   -------- 
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities     97,693     86,102     50,728 

INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Purchases of property, plant and equipment   (29,239)   (20,160)   (31,618)
Sales (purchases) of marketable securities    17,661    (54,264)   (21,553)
Business acquisitions, net of cash acquired  (42,557)   (34,654)    (8,736)
                                            --------   --------   --------
Net Cash Used in Investing Activities        (54,135)  (109,078)   (61,907)

FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Proceeds from borrowings                      59,919     33,563 
Payments on borrowings                       (31,771)    (2,016)    (7,418)
Dividends paid                                (3,388)    (2,898)    (2,380)
Proceeds from exercise of stock options        1,791      1,389      9,789 
Repurchases of common stock                   (3,109)
Other                                         (1,307)      (126)      (376)
                                            --------   --------   --------
Net Cash Provided by (Used in) 
  Financing Activities                        22,135     29,912       (385)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash 
  and cash equivalents                         1,376       (315)     1,734 
                                            --------   --------   --------
Increase (Decrease) in Cash and Cash
  Equivalents                                 67,069      6,621     (9,830)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning 
  of year                                     49,712     43,091     52,921 
                                            --------   --------   --------
Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of Year    $116,781    $49,712    $43,091 
                                            ========   ========   ========
     
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.



                                                       Page 46

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STRYKER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
December 31, 1994
                                                                               
                        
1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
                        
BUSINESS:  Stryker Corporation develops, manufactures and markets specialty 
surgical and medical products which are sold primarily to hospitals throughout 
the world.
                        
PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION:  The consolidated financial statements include
the accounts of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries and, effective in 
August 1994 (see Note 4), its 51% owned subsidiary, Matsumoto Medical 
Instruments, Inc., after elimination of all significant intercompany accounts 
and transactions.  Minority interest represents the minority stockholders' 
equity in Matsumoto's net earnings since August 1994 and their equity in 
Matsumoto's net assets at December 31, 1994.  The Company's 20% investment in 
Matsumoto during the period  from August 1993 to July 1994 was accounted for 
by the equity method.                                               

REVENUE RECOGNITION:  Revenue is recognized on the sale of products when the 
related goods have been shipped or services have been rendered.                
     

CASH EQUIVALENTS AND INVESTMENTS:  Cash equivalents are highly liquid 
investments with a maturity of three months or less when purchased. 
Investments include marketable equity and debt securities classified as current
assets and certain noncurrent investments included in other assets.  
                        
The Company's investments in marketable equity and debt securities are 
classified as "available-for-sale" and are carried at fair value, with the 
unrealized gains and losses, net of income taxes, reported as a separate 
component of stockholders' equity.  Interest and dividends on these securities 
are included in other income.
                        
INVENTORIES:  Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market.  Cost for 
approximately 75% (63% in 1993) of inventories is determined using the lower
of first-in, first-out (FIFO) cost or market.  Cost for certain domestic 
inventories is determined using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) cost method. The 
FIFO cost for all inventories approximates replacement cost.
                        
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT:  Property, plant and equipment is stated at
cost.  Depreciation is computed by the straight-line or declining balance 
methods over the estimated useful lives of the assets.
                                                                  
INTANGIBLE ASSETS:  Intangible assets represent the excess of purchase price 
over fair value of tangible net assets of acquired businesses.  Intangible 
assets, which include patents and intangibles not specifically identifiable, 
are being amortized using the straight-line method over periods of up to
sixteen years.
                        
INCOME TAXES:  Effective January 1, 1993, the Company adopted Financial 
Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement No. 109, "Accounting for Income 
Taxes", which requires the use of the liability method of accounting for 
deferred income taxes.  Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities 
are determined based on differences between financial reporting and tax basis 
of assets and liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax rates in
effect for the years in which the differences are expected to reverse.  Prior to
the adoption of Statement 109, income tax expense was determined using the
deferred method.  Deferred tax expense was based on items of income and expense 
that were reported in different years in the financial statements and tax 
returns and were measured at the tax rate in effect in the year the 
difference originated.

                                                       Page 47
                        
EARNINGS PER SHARE:  Earnings per share is based upon the average number of 
shares of common stock outstanding during each year.  Shares subject to option 
are not included in earnings per share computations because the present effect 
thereof is not materially dilutive.

2.  INVESTMENTS

Effective January 1, 1994, the Company adopted FASB Statement No. 115, 
"Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities, " for 
investments held as of or acquired after that date.  In accordance with the 
Statement, prior period financial statements have not been restated to reflect 
the change in accounting principle.  The beginning balance of stockholders' 
equity was increased by $1,180,000 (net of $751,000 in deferred income taxes) 
to reflect the net unrealized holding gains on securities classified as 
available-for-sale previously carried at cost.
                        
The following is a summary of the Company's investments in marketable equity 
and debt securities at December 31, 1994 (in thousands):

                                       Gross
                                     Unrealized     Estimated
                           Cost    Gains/(Losses)   Fair Value
                          -------  --------------   ----------

    Debt securities       $87,490     ($2,081)        $85,409
    Equity securities       7,700        (119)          7,581
                          -------     -------         -------

                          $95,190     ($2,200)        $92,990
                          =======      ======         =======

3.  INVENTORIES

Inventories are as follows (in thousands):

                                   December 31
                               ------------------
                                 1994       1993
                               --------   -------
     Finished goods             $86,719   $45,338
     Work-in-process              7,552    10,586
     Raw material                28,784    28,455
                               --------   -------
     FIFO cost                  123,055    84,379
     Less LIFO reserve            7,298     7,797
                               --------   -------
                               $115,757   $76,582
                               ========   =======
   
4.  BUSINESS ACQUISITIONS
                                                    
In August 1994, the Company purchased 31% of the outstanding common stock of 
Matsumoto Medical Instruments, Inc., Osaka, Japan, thereby increasing its
direct ownership interest in Matsumoto to 51%.  Matsumoto is one of the largest 
distributors of medical devices in Japan and is the exclusive distributor of 
most Stryker products in that country.  The cost of the 31% investment, which 
was based on net book value, was approximately 6.0 billion Yen ($60.7
million).  Payment of approximately 847 million Yen ($8.5 million) of the 
purchase price has been deferred to April 1995.  The acquisition was accounted 
for by the purchase method and the results of operations for Matsumoto were 
consolidated with Stryker beginning in August 1994.  If the acquisition had 
occurred on January 1, 1993, pro forma net sales for the Company would have 
been $762,341,000 for 1994 and $694,923,000 for 1993.  Pro forma net earnings
would not have differed significantly from reported results. 

                                                       Page 48
                                                    
In August 1993, the Company purchased 20% of the outstanding common stock of 
Matsumoto.  The cost of the investment, which was based on net book value, was 
approximately 3.4 billion yen ($32.8 million).  This initial investment was 
accounted for under the equity method until August 1994, when the additional 
31% interest was acquired.  The Company's share of Matsumoto's net earnings 
did not have a material impact on the Company's net earnings in 1993.
                                                    
In June 1994, the Company purchased the Steri-Shield product line, which is a 
personal protection system for operating room personnel.  The acquisition was 
accounted for by the purchase method at a total cost of $6,500,000, of which 
$5,500,000 in royalties will be paid over the next seven years.  Intangible 
assets acquired, principally patents, are being amortized over seven to ten 
years.  Pro forma consolidated results including the purchased business would 
not differ significantly from reported results.
                                                    
During 1994, 1993 and 1992, the Company's subsidiary, Physiotherapy
Associates, Inc., purchased several physical therapy clinic operations.  The 
aggregate purchase price of these clinics in 1994, 1993 and 1992 was 
approximately $7,600,000, $1,900,000 and $2,900,000, respectively.  
Intangible assets acquired, principally employment contracts and goodwill, 
are being amortized over periods ranging from one to fifteen years.  Pro- 
forma consolidated results including the purchased businesses would not 
differ significantly from reported results.
                                                    
In October 1992, the Company's subsidiary, Stryker France S.A., acquired Dimso 
S.A. and its subsidiary companies in France and Spain.  Dimso designs and 
manufactures the Diapason and Stryker 2S Spinal Implant Systems and other 
orthopaedic products.  The acquisition was accounted for by the purchase
method at a total cost of $13,000,000, with approximately $7,000,000 to be paid
over the following three years.  Intangible assets acquired, principally 
patents, are being amortized over a ten year period.  Pro forma consolidated 
results including the purchased business would not differ significantly from 
reported results.

5.  BORROWINGS
                                                    
The Company and its subsidiaries have unsecured short-term line of credit 
arrangements with banks aggregating $20,000,000 domestically and $25,700,000 
equivalent in foreign currencies.  Borrowings under these lines at December
31, 1994 were $208,000 ($777,000 at December 31, 1993) in foreign funds at an 
average interest rate of 12.8% (12.5% in 1993).  These lines generally expire 
on July 31, 1995.

Long-term debt is as follows (in thousands):

                                              December 31
                                          -----------------
                                           1994       1993
                                          -------   -------
              Bank loans                  $86,616   $30,736
              Other                        14,029     1,428
                                          -------   -------
                                          100,645    32,164
              Less current maturities       5,369       882
                                          -------   -------
                                          $95,276   $31,282
                                          =======   =======
                                                    
The bank loans represent two separate borrowings made to finance the
acquisition of the Company's 51% interest in Matsumoto Medical Instruments, 
Inc. (see Note 4).  Both loans are Japanese Yen denominated, are unsecured and 
mature in August 1998.  The first loan is from the Chicago branch of The Sanwa 
Bank, Limited, has a principal balance of $34,442,000 ($30,736,000 at 
December 31, 1993) and bears interest at a fixed annual rate of 4.76%.  The 

                                                       Page 49

second loan is a floating rate loan from the Chicago branches of The Bank of 
Tokyo, Ltd., The Mitsubishi Bank Limited and The Sanwa Bank, Limited and has 
a principal balance of $52,174,000.  The Company has fixed the effective
annual interest rate of this debt at 4.17% using an interest rate swap with a
notional amount and term equal to that of the related loan.
                                                    
Maturities of debt for the four years succeeding 1995 are: 1996 - $3,152,000; 
1997 - $52,000; 1998 - $86,673,000 and 1999 - $5,070,000.
                                                    
The carrying amounts of the Company's long-term debt and interest rate swap
approximate their fair values based on the Company's current borrowing rates 
for similar types of borrowing agreements and quoted market rates,
respectively.
                                                    
Total interest expense, which is included in other income and approximates
interest paid, was $3,677,000 in 1994, $1,067,000 in 1993 and $411,000 in
1992.
                                                    
6.  CAPITAL STOCK
                                                    
The Company has key employee and director Stock Option Plans under which
options are granted at a price not less than fair market value at date of
grant. 
The options are granted for periods of up to ten years and become exercisable 
in varying installments.  A summary of stock option activity follows:

                                                             Option
                                                Shares   Price Per Share
                                              ---------  ---------------
   Options outstanding at January 1, 1993     1,275,925   $3.20 - $38.75
   Granted                                      867,500   22.38 -  25.50
   Canceled                                    (411,300)   6.75 -  38.75
   Exercised                                    (75,600)   3.20 -  14.63
                                              ---------   --------------
   Options outstanding at December 31, 1993   1,656,525    3.20 -  34.25
   Granted                                       37,500   25.88 -  28.00
   Canceled                                     (58,000)   6.75 -  34.25
   Exercised                                    (88,040)   3.20 -  25.50
                                              ---------   --------------
   Options outstanding at December 31, 1994   1,547,985   $3.20 - $34.25
                                              =========   ==============

At December 31, 1994, options for 750,085 shares were exercisable and
1,133,600 shares were reserved for future grants.

The Company has 500,000 authorized shares of $1 par value preferred stock,
none of which are outstanding.


7.  RETIREMENT PLANS

Substantially all employees of the Company are covered by retirement plans. 
The majority of employees are covered by profit sharing or defined
contribution retirement plans.

The Company's 51% owned subsidiary, Matsumoto Medical Instruments, Inc., has 
a noncontributory defined benefit plan covering all employees who are
generally entitled, upon termination, to lump-sum or annuity payments of 
amounts determined by reference to the current level of salary, length of 
service, and the conditions under which the termination occurs.  Matsumoto's 
funding policy for the plan is to contribute actuarially determined amounts 
on a monthly basis.  In addition, certain officers of Matsumoto are 
customarily entitled to lump-sum payments under an unfunded retirement plan. 
An accrual has been provided for the expected cost of these benefits earned 
to date,  although such payments

                                                       Page 50

are subject to the approval of Matsumoto's stockholders.  Amounts accrued for
both Matsumoto retirement plans, which provide for substantially all unfunded 
obligations under the plans, totaled $16,235,000 at December 31, 1994 and are 
recorded as other noncurrent liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet.

Retirement plan expense under all of the Company's retirement plans totaled
$6,753,000 in 1994, $5,302,000 in 1993 and $4,715,000 in 1992.

8.  INCOME TAXES

Effective January 1, 1993, the Company adopted FASB Statement No. 109,
"Accounting for Income Taxes", which requires the use of the liability method 
of accounting for income taxes (see Note 1).  As permitted by Statement 109, 
the Company has elected not to restate the financial statements of any prior 
years.  The cumulative effect of the change in the method of accounting on net 
earnings was not material.

Earnings before income taxes and minority interest consist of the following
(in thousands):

                                        1994       1993     1992
                                      --------   -------   -------
     United States operations         $100,996   $88,181   $66,552
     Foreign operations                 26,579     7,884    10,388
                                      --------   -------   -------
                                      $127,575   $96,065   $76,940
                                      ========   =======   =======

The components of the provision for income taxes follow (in thousands):

                                        1994       1993      1992 
                                      --------   -------   -------
     Current:
       Federal                         $31,932   $26,114   $20,827 
       State, including Puerto Rico      5,133    10,372     7,973 
       Foreign                          17,523     2,291     4,611 
                                       -------   -------   -------
                                        54,588    38,777    33,411 
       Deferred tax expense (credit)    (3,818)   (2,917)   (4,171)
                                       -------   -------   -------
                                       $50,770   $35,860   $29,240
                                       =======   =======   =======

A reconciliation of the statutory federal income tax rate to the Company's
effective tax rate follows:

                                               1994    1993    1992
                                               -----   -----   -----  
     U.S. statutory income tax rate            35.0%   35.0%   34.0%
     Add (deduct):
       State taxes, less effect of
         federal deduction                      2.3     6.3     5.9
       Foreign income taxes at rates
         different from the U.S. 
         statutory rate                         5.4     (.8)    1.0
       Tax benefit relating to operations
         in Puerto Rico                        (2.0)   (1.8)   (1.9)
       U.S. research and development tax
         credit                                 (.6)   (1.4)    (.9)
       Earnings of Foreign Sales Corporation   (1.4)   (1.4)    (.8)
       Other                                    1.1     1.4      .7
                                               -----   -----   -----    
                                               39.8%   37.3%   38.0%
                                               =====   =====   =====

                                                       Page 51

Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences
between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting 
purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes.  The tax effect of 
significant temporary differences which comprise the Company's deferred tax 
assets and liabilities are as follows (in thousands):

                                                 December 31
                                              -----------------
                                                1994      1993 
                                              -------   -------
     Deferred tax assets:
       Inventories                            $34,475    $4,712 
       Accounts receivable and other assets     2,048     2,874 
       Other accrued expenses                  18,165     6,662 
       State taxes                              3,127     1,297 
       Other                                    2,226       920 
                                              -------   -------
         Total deferred tax assets             60,041    16,465 
                                                                               
     Deferred tax liabilities:
       Depreciation                            (1,681)     (792)
       Other                                   (2,244)     (895)
                                              -------   -------
         Total deferred tax liabilities        (3,925)   (1,687)
                                              -------   -------
           Total net deferred tax assets      $56,116   $14,778 
                                              =======   =======
                        
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are included in the consolidated balance 
sheet as follows (in thousands):
                                                                               
                                                 December 31  
                                              -----------------
                                               1994       1993 
                                              -------   -------


  Current assets -- Deferred income taxes     $54,333   $15,829 
  Noncurrent assets -- Other assets             4,438
  Noncurrent liabilities -- Other liabilities  (2,655)   (1,051)
                                              -------   -------
    Net deferred tax assets                   $56,116   $14,778 
                                              =======   =======

No provision has been made for U.S. federal and state income taxes or foreign 
taxes that may result from future remittances of the undistributed earnings 
($152,619,000 at December 31, 1994) of foreign subsidiaries because it is 
expected that such earnings will be reinvested overseas indefinitely.  
Determination of the amount of any unrecognized deferred income tax liability 
on these unremitted earnings is not practicable.
                                                                               
Total income taxes paid were $51,898,000 in 1994, $27,641,000 in
1993 and $25,133,000 in 1992.

                                                       Page 52

9.  GEOGRAPHIC DATA

Geographic area information follows (in thousands):

                                        1994       1993       1992 
                                      --------   --------   --------
     NET SALES
     United States operations:
       Domestic                       $405,549   $378,255   $330,782 
       Export                          117,669    115,977     81,513 
     Foreign operations:
       Pacific                         130,223     33,651     33,660 
       Europe                           70,366     63,366     58,010 
       Other                            12,094     11,987      9,522 
     Eliminations                      (53,981)   (45,901)   (36,433)
                                      --------   --------   --------
       Net Sales                      $681,920   $557,335   $477,054 
                                      ========   ========   ========
 
     OPERATING INCOME       
     United States operations         $109,429    $90,726    $68,759 
     Foreign operations:
       Pacific                          12,560      1,465      4,264 
       Europe                            6,554      6,571      6,998 
       Other                             1,686      1,660        213 
                                      --------    -------    -------
         Total foreign operations       20,800      9,696     11,475 
                                                                               
     Corporate expenses                 (9,753)    (8,480)    (6,533)
                                      --------    -------    -------

       Total Operating Income         $120,476    $91,942    $73,701 
                                      ========    =======    =======
                       
                        
                                        1994       1993       1992 
                                      --------   --------   --------
      ASSETS
      United States operations        $248,883   $225,587   $199,188 
      Foreign operations:
        Pacific                        281,259     12,053     12,384 
        Europe                          50,111     39,313     42,580 
        Other                            9,801      4,067      2,741 
      Corporate                        177,917    173,184     83,379 
                                      --------   --------   --------
        Total Assets                  $767,971   $454,204   $340,272 
                                      ========   ========   ========

Intercompany sales between geographic areas are included in export and foreign 
operations sales at agreed upon prices which include a profit element.
                        
For the year ended December 31, 1993, sales to Matsumoto Medical Instruments, 
Inc. were $64,300,000 or 12% of total net sales.  No customer accounted for
10% 
or more of the Company's sales in 1994 or 1992.
                        
Gains (losses) on foreign currency transactions, which are included in other 
income, totaled $586,000, $(256,000) and $188,000 in 1994, 1993 and 1992, 
respectively.
                        
Corporate assets consist primarily of domestic cash and cash equivalents and 
marketable securities and, in 1993, the investment in affiliate.

                                                       Page 53

10.  LEASES

The Company leases various manufacturing and office facilities and equipment 
under operating leases.  Future minimum lease commitments under these leases 
are as follows (in thousands):

                    1995        $10,076
                    1996          8,320
                    1997          5,625
                    1998          3,605
                    1999          1,823
                    Thereafter    1,766
                                ------- 
                                $31,215
                                =======

Rent expense totaled $14,644,000 in 1994, $10,950,000 in 1993 and $8,792,000 
in 1992.

11.  CONTINGENCIES

The Company is involved in various claims and legal actions arising in the
normal course of business.  The Company does not anticipate material losses as 
a result of these actions.

                                                       Page 54

SALES ANALYSIS, QUARTERLY DATA
(dollars in thousands, except per share data)
                                                                               
                        
                                                                               
                        
                                                                               
                        
                                                                         
PRODUCT LINE SALES (Unaudited)      1994            1993             1992
                               --------------  --------------  --------------
SURGICAL                                                               
Orthopaedic Implants, 
  Endoscopic Systems, 
  Powered Surgical Instruments 
  and Other Operating Room 
  Devices                      $544,049   80%  $447,042   80%   $394,111   83%
      
MEDICAL
Patient Care and Patient 
  Handling Equipment and 
  Physical Therapy Services     137,871   20    110,293   20      82,943   17
                               --------  ---   --------  ---    --------  ---
                               $681,920  100%  $557,335  100%   $477,054  100%
                               ========  ===   ========  ===    ========  ===


DOMESTIC/INTERNATIONAL SALES 
  (Unaudited)                       1994           1993             1992
                               --------------  --------------  --------------
Domestic                       $405,549   59%  $378,255   68%   $330,782   69%
International                   276,371   41    179,080   32     146,272   31
                               --------  ---   --------  ---    --------  ---
                               $681,920  100%  $557,335  100%   $477,054  100%
                               ========  ===   ========  ===    ========  ===

                                                       Page 55


                                                       Page 56

                      REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS




Board of Directors
Stryker Corporation

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Stryker 
Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1994 and 1993, and the related 
consolidated statements of earnings, stockholders' equity and cash flows for 
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1994.  These
financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our 
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on 
our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing 
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant 
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial 
statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable 
basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in 
all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Stryker 
Corporation and subsidiaries at December 31, 1994 and 1993, and the
consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the 
three years in the period ended December 31, 1994, in conformity with generally 
accepted accounting principles.




                                                       ERNST & YOUNG LLP
                                                       Ernst & Young LLP

Kalamazoo, Michigan
January 31, 1995

                                                       Page 57
                                                           EXHIBIT (21)

                           List of Subsidiaries


                                             State or Country of
Name of Subsidiary                              Incorporation   
----------------------------------------------------------------
Dimso Iberica S.A.                                 France
Dimso SA                                           France
Osteonics Corp.                                    New Jersey
Physiotherapy Associates, Inc.                     Michigan
Stryker Australia Pty. Ltd.                        Australia
Stryker B.V.                                       The Netherlands
Stryker (Barbados) Foreign Sales Corporation       Barbados
Stryker Canada Inc.                                Canada
Stryker China Limited                              Hong Kong
Stryker Corporation (Malaysia) SDN BHD             Malaysia
Stryker Deutschland GmbH                           Germany
Stryker Far East, Inc.                             Delaware
Stryker Foreign Sales Corporation                  U.S. Virgin Islands
Stryker France SA                                  France
Stryker Italia SRL                                 Italy
Stryker Korea Ltd.                                 Korea
Stryker Mexico, S.A. de C.V.                       Mexico
Stryker Pacific Limited                            Hong Kong
Stryker Puerto Rico, Inc.                          Delaware
Stryker SA                                         Switzerland
Stryker Sales Corporation                          Michigan
Stryker Singapore Private Limited                  Singapore

Stryker Corporation is the immediate parent and owns 100% of the outstanding
voting securities of each of the above-named subsidiaries.

Stryker is a 51% investor in:
     Matsumoto Medical Instruments, Inc.           Japan

Stryker effectively controls:
     Stryker India Medical Equipment 
       Private Limited                             India

                                                       Page 58


            EXHIBIT 23--CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT  AUDITORS
                                    
                                    
                                    
We consent to the incorporation by reference in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) 
of Stryker Corporation and subsidiaries of our report dated January 31, 1995, 
included in the 1994 Annual Report to Stockholders of Stryker Corporation and 
subsidiaries.
                                    
Our audits also included the financial statement schedule of Stryker 
Corporation and subsidiaries listed in Item 14(a).  This schedule is the 
responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express 
an opinion based on our audits.  In our opinion, the financial statement 
schedule referred to above, when considered in relation to the basic 
consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all 
material respects the information set forth therein.
                                    
We also consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration 
Statement Number 33-55662 on Form S-8 dated December 11, 1992, Registration 
Statement Number 2-96467 on Form S-8 dated April 4, 1985, and Registration 
Statement Number 33-32240 on Form S-8 dated November 20, 1989 and to the 
related prospectus for each of the registration statements, of our report 
dated January 31, 1995, with respect to the consolidated financial statements
incorporated herein by reference, and our report included in the preceding 
paragraph with respect to the financial statement schedule included in this 
Annual Report (Form 10-K) of Stryker Corporation. 
                                    
                                    

                                                          ERNST & YOUNG LLP
                                    
                                    
                                    
Kalamazoo, Michigan
March 17, 1995

                                                  Page 59
[ARTICLE] 5


