
10-K405
edgar200010k.txt
10K


                    U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PRIVATE
                              Washington, D.C.  20549

                                    FORM 10-K

x  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934 (NO FEE REQUIRED)

For the fiscal year ended     December 31, 2000
                                         OR
o  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (NO FEE REQUIRED)
For the transition period from                           to
Commission file number 0-8251

                              ADOLPH COORS COMPANY
              (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

           Colorado                                   84-0178360
(State or other jurisdiction of        (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
 incorporation or organization)

            Golden, Colorado                                  80401
(Address of principal executive offices)                   (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code       (303) 279-6565

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

   Title of each class            Name of each exchange on which registered

Class B Common Stock (non-voting),           New York Stock Exchange
        no par value

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                                       None
                                  (Title of class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  YES  X   NO

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.  (X)

State the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates
of the registrant:  All voting shares are held by Adolph Coors, Jr. Trust.

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant's
classes of common stock, as of March 15, 2001:

                     Class A Common Stock -  1,260,000 shares
                     Class B Common Stock - 36,090,195 shares

                                  PART I

ITEM 1. Business

(a)  General Development of Business

We are the third largest producer of beer in the United States and, since
our founding in 1873, we have been committed to producing the highest
quality beers. Our portfolio of brands is designed to appeal to a wide
range of consumer taste, style and price preferences. Our beverages are
sold throughout the United States and in select international markets.

Recent General Business Developments

In January 2001, we entered into a joint venture partnership agreement with
Molson, Inc. and paid $65 million for our 49.9% interest in the joint
venture. The joint venture, Molson USA, LLC, has been formed to import,
market, sell and distribute Molson's brands of beer in the United States.
Under the agreement, the joint venture owns the exclusive right to import
Molson brands into the United States, including Molson Canadian, Molson
Golden and Molson Ice. Additionally, any Molson brands that may be
developed in the future for import into the United States will be covered
under the agreement. We will be responsible for the sales of these brands.
Production of these brands will be handled in Canada by Molson, and
marketing of these brands will be managed by the joint venture.

In January 1998, we began a partnership arrangement with Molson, Inc. in
Canada for the purpose of distributing Coors products in Canada. We own
50.1% of this partnership through our 100% ownership of Coors Canada, Inc.
See further discussion of our Canadian business under section (c),
Narrative Description of Business. In December 2000, we made certain
changes to the Canadian partnership arrangement. Also in December 2000, we
entered into a brewing and packaging arrangement with Molson in which we
will have access to some of Molson's available production capacity in
Canada. The Molson capacity available to us under this arrangement is
expected to reach an annual contract brewing rate of up to 500,000 barrels
over the next few years.

In the second quarter of 2000, we made the decision to close our brewery in
Zaragoza, Spain, and sales operation in Madrid, Spain. The brewery was
acquired in March 1994 and provided services for the production and sales
to unaffiliated distributors for Coors products in Spain and certain
European markets outside of Spain. The decision to close the Spain
operations came as a result of various analyses we performed which focused
on the potential for improved distribution channels, the viability of Coors
brands in the Spain market and additional contract brewing opportunities.
These analyses conclusively demonstrated that our Spanish operations were
not viable. As a result of our decision to close the brewery, we incurred a
total charge of approximately $20.6 million in 2000, approximately $11.3
million for severance and other related closure costs, approximately $4.9
million for a fixed asset impairment charge and approximately $4.4 million
for the write-off of our cumulative translation adjustments previously
charged to equity related to our Spain operations.


Some of the following statements describe our expectations of future
products and business plans, financial results, performance and events.
Actual results may differ materially from these forward-looking statements.
Please see Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis - Cautionary
Statement Pursuant to Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for factors that may negatively impact our
performance.

(b)  Financial Information About Industry Segments

We have one reporting segment, which is focused on the continuing
operations of producing, marketing and selling malt-based beverages. See
Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for financial
information relating to our operations.

(c)  Narrative Description of Business

Coors Brewing Company - General

We produce, market and sell high-quality malt-based beverages. Our
portfolio of brands is designed to appeal to a wide range of consumer
taste, style and price preferences. Our beverages are sold throughout the
United States and in select international markets. Coors Lightr has
accounted for more than 70% of our sales volume in each of the last three
years. Premium and above-premium products accounted for more than 85% of
our total sales volume in each of the last three years. Most of our sales
are in U.S. markets; however, we are committed to building profitable sales
in international markets. Our goal is to continue growing our business and
increasing our profitability, both domestically and internationally, by
focusing on the following six key strategies:

     - producing the highest quality products;

     - focusing on high-growth, high-margin segments;

     - investing in high-potential markets and brands;

     - improving our wholesale distribution network;

     - building organizational excellence and improving our cost structure
       and efficiencies; and

     - pursuing strategic opportunities.

Our sales of malt beverages totaled 23.0 million barrels in 2000, 22.0
million barrels in 1999 and 21.2 million barrels in 1998. The barrel sales
figures for each year do not include barrel sales of a non-consolidated
joint venture. An additional 1.2 million, 1.0 million and 0.9 million
barrels were sold by this non-consolidated entity in 2000, 1999 and 1998,
respectively. See Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis, for
discussion of changes in volume.

Our Products

Our product portfolio includes 12 brands, including Coors Light, a premium
beer, which is our top-selling brand. Our other premium beers include
Original Coorsr and Coorsr Non-Alcoholic. We also offer a selection of
above-premium beers including George Killian'sr Irish RedT Lager, Blue
MoonT Belgian White Ale and Winterfestr, a specialty beer offered
seasonally. In addition, we offer Zimar and Zimar Citrus, alternative malt-
based beverages that are light and refreshing. We also compete in the
lower-priced segment of the beer market, called the popular-priced segment,
with Coors Extra Goldr and our Keystoner family of beers - Keystoner
Premium, Keystoner Light and Keystoner Ice.

In 2001, an additional brand, Coors Dry, will be phased out because of
greater opportunities posed by emphasis and focus on our other brands.

We own and operate The SandLot Breweryr at Coors Fieldr ballpark in Denver,
Colorado. This brewery, which is open year-round, makes a variety of
specialty beers and has an annual capacity of approximately 4,000 barrels.

Sales and Distribution

By federal law, beer must be distributed in the United States through a
three-tier system consisting of manufacturers, distributors and retailers.
A national network of 517 distributors currently delivers our products to
U.S. retail markets. Of these, 511 are independent businesses and the other
six are owned and operated by one of our subsidiaries. Some distributors
operate multiple branches, bringing the total number of U.S. distributor
and branch locations to 571 for the year ended December 31, 2000. As a
result of our new joint venture with Molson, we have an additional 350-400
domestic distributors that distribute Molson brands within the United
States. Additional independent distributors deliver our products to some
international markets under licensing and distribution agreements.

We establish standards and monitor distributors' methods of handling our
products to ensure the highest product quality and freshness. Monitoring
ensures adherence to proper refrigeration and rotation guidelines for our
products at both wholesale and retail locations. Distributors are required
to remove our products from retailer outlets if they have not sold within a
certain period of time.

Our highest volume states are California, Texas, Pennsylvania, New York and
New Jersey, which together comprised 45% of our total domestic volume in
2000.

We have approximately 350 full-time salespeople throughout the United
States. Our salespeople work closely with our distributors to assure that
they focus appropriately on our product and to assist them in implementing
industry best practices to improve efficiency and performance. Our sales
function is organized into two regions that manage a total of six
geographic field business areas responsible for overseeing domestic sales.
We believe this structure enables our salespeople to better anticipate
wholesaler and consumer needs and to respond to those needs locally, with
greater speed.

In addition, we have a team of category managers responsible for assisting
leading U.S. retailers, such as large supermarket chains, with managing
their beer offerings. Our category managers work with retailers to enhance
overall beer sales through optimizing space allocation, merchandising
displays, promotional campaigns and product distribution throughout the
retailer's chain. We believe that our success in category management
enhances our competitive position.

Manufacturing, Production and Packaging

Brewing Process and Raw Materials

Our ingredients and brewing process make our Rocky Mountain-style beers
unlike any other beers in the world. We also use unique packaging materials
developed to accommodate our cold shipping method.

We use all-natural ingredients to produce high quality beers. We adhere to
strict formulation and quality standards in selecting our raw materials. We
believe we have sufficient access to raw materials to meet our quality and
production requirements.

Barley is the fundamental ingredient in beer. Barley is so important to the
quality and taste of our products that we started developing our own
strains of barley in 1937. We use proprietary strains of barley, developed
by our own barley breeders and agronomists, in most of our malt beverages.
Virtually all of this barley is grown on irrigated farmland in the western
United States under contracts with area growers. The growers use only the
proprietary barley seed developed by us to produce our malting barley. We
are the only major brewer in the United States to exclusively use two-row
barley rather than six-row barley generally used by other brewers. Two-row
barley allows the seed ample room to grow and develop, which we believe
produces a more consistent, higher-quality crop and better tasting beer.

Barley must be malted to produce beer. Our malting facility in Golden
produces approximately 90% of all of our malt requirements. We also have
our own barley malted by third parties under contract. We maintain
inventory levels in facilities that we own. Our inventories are sufficient
to continue production in the event of any foreseeable disruption in barley
supply and usually exceed a 14-month supply.

We use naturally filtered water from underground aquifers to brew malt
beverages at our Golden facility. Water quality and composition have been
primary factors in all facility site selections. Water from our sources
contains minerals that help brew high-quality malt beverages.

We continually monitor the quality of the water used in our brewing and
blending processes for compliance with our own stringent quality standards,
which exceed federal and state water standards. We own water rights that we
believe are more than sufficient to meet all of our present and foreseeable
requirements for both brewing and industrial uses. We acquire water rights,
as appropriate, to provide flexibility for long-term strategic growth needs
and also to sustain brewing operations in case of a prolonged drought.

We take an average of 55 days-significantly longer than our major
competitors-to brew, age, finish and package our beers. Although our
brewing process takes longer, we believe it creates a smoother, more
drinkable product. We were the first brewer to introduce a cold-filter
process to preserve taste. We keep the product cold from the brewhouse
through packaging to retail by using insulated containers for transport and
requiring our distributors to hold our products in temperature-controlled
warehouses. Keeping our beers cold extends their freshness.

Brewing and Packaging Facilities

We have three domestic production facilities. We own and operate the
world's largest single-site brewery in Golden, Colorado. In addition, we
own and operate a packaging and brewing facility in Memphis, Tennessee, and
a packaging facility located in the Shenandoah Valley in Virginia.

We brew Coors Light, Original Coors, Coors Extra Gold, Killian's and the
Keystone brands in Golden. Approximately 62% of our beer volume brewed in
Golden is also packaged in Golden. The remainder is shipped in bulk from
the Golden brewery to either our Memphis facility or to our Shenandoah
facility for packaging.

The Memphis facility packages all products exported from the United States.
It also brews and packages our Zima, Zima Citrus, Coors Non-Alcoholic and
Blue Moon brands.

Our Shenandoah facility packages Coors Light, Keystone Light and a small
portion of Killian's volume for distribution to eastern U.S. markets.

To support the growth of our brands, we intend to increase our capital
expenditures to expand our brewing and packaging capacity. In particular,
beginning in 2001, we will be adding an additional bottle line to our
Shenandoah facility to meet growing demand and to lower our production and
distribution costs to markets in the northeastern United States. We are
improving manufacturing processes in Golden to increase brewing and
packaging capacity in our largest facility. We also anticipate that
increased output from our Memphis facility will be an important part of our
long-term capacity plan. Please see Item 7, Management's Discussion and
Analysis - Liquidity and Capital Resources for more information about our
planned capital expenditures.

Most of our glass bottle and aluminum can and end requirements are produced
in facilities that either we own or are operated by joint ventures in which
we are a partner.

Energy

We purchase electricity and steam for our Golden manufacturing facilities
from Trigen-Nations Energy Corporation, L.L.L.P. (Trigen). Coors Energy
Company, our wholly owned subsidiary, buys coal which it sells to Trigen
for Trigen's steam generator system and purchases gas for our Shenandoah
and Golden operations.

Packaging Materials

Slightly less than 60% of our products were packaged in aluminum cans in
2000. In 1994, Coors and American National Can Company formed a joint
venture to produce beverage cans and ends at our manufacturing facilities.
These cans and ends are for sale to our brewery and to outside customers.
The joint venture's initial term is seven years and can be extended for two
additional three-year terms. We have notified American National Can of our
intent to terminate the joint venture in October of 2001. We are evaluating
other alternatives, including possibly a new arrangement with Rexam LLC,
who acquired American National Can in 2000. We own the can manufacturing
facility, which produced approximately 4.0 billion aluminum cans in 2000.
We also own a manufacturing facility that provides our aluminum ends and
tabs. In 2000, we purchased most of our cans and ends from the joint
venture with American National Can, and we purchased all of the cans
produced by the joint venture. We purchased certain specialized cans and
some cans for products packaged at our Memphis and Shenandoah plants
directly from outside suppliers, including American National Can and Rexam
LLC.

We used glass bottles for approximately 29% of our products in 2000. Owens-
Brockway Glass Container, Inc. and Coors operate a joint venture, the Rocky
Mountain Bottle Company, to produce glass bottles at our glass
manufacturing facility. The initial term of the joint venture lasts until
2005 and can be extended for additional two-year periods. In 2000, Rocky
Mountain Bottle Company produced approximately 1.1 billion bottles, and we
purchased virtually all of these bottles. This fulfilled about half of our
bottle requirements in 2000. Owens has a contract to supply bottles for our
bottle requirements that are not met by Rocky Mountain Bottle Company, and
we acquired the remaining bottles from Owens.

We have arranged for sufficient container supplies with our joint venture
partners.

The remaining 11% of the volume we sold in 2000 was packaged in quarter-
and half-barrel stainless steel kegs purchased from third-party suppliers.

We purchase most of our paperboard and label packaging from Graphic
Packaging Corporation. These products include paperboard, multi-can pack
wrappers, bottle labels and other secondary packaging supplies. Graphic
Packaging supplies some unique packaging to us that, we believe, is not
currently produced by any other supplier. Our agreement with Graphic
Packaging expires in 2002. William K. Coors and Peter H. Coors serve as co-
trustees of a number of Coors family trusts that collectively control
Graphic Packaging. Please read Item 13, Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions, for more information regarding Graphic Packaging.

Product Shipment

We must ship our products greater distances than most of our competitors.
By packaging some of our products in our Memphis and Shenandoah facilities,
we reduce freight costs to certain markets.

In 2000, approximately 65% of our products were shipped by truck and
intermodal directly to distributors or to our satellite redistribution
centers. Transportation vehicles are refrigerated or properly insulated to
keep our malt beverages at required temperatures while in transit. In 2000,
we transported the remaining 35% of the products packaged at our production
facilities by railcar to either satellite redistribution centers or
directly to distributors throughout the country. Railcars assigned to us
are specially built and insulated to keep Coors products cold en route.

At December 31, 2000 we had 11 strategically located satellite
redistribution centers, which we use to receive product from production
facilities and to prepare shipments to distributors. In 2000, approximately
58% of packaged products were shipped directly to distributors and 42%
moved through the satellite redistribution centers.

International Business

We market our products to select international markets and to U.S. military
bases worldwide.

Canada

Coors Canada, a partnership between Molson and ourselves, markets Coors
Light in Canada. Coors Canada is owned 50.1% by us and 49.9% by Molson. The
partnership contracts with a Molson subsidiary for the brewing,
distribution and sale of products. It manages all marketing activities for
Coors products in Canada. Currently, Coors Light has a market share of more
than 6% and is now the number one light beer - and the number four beer
brand overall - in Canada. See also Item 1, General Development of
Business, for recent amendments in our partnership agreement between Coors
Canada and Molson.

Puerto Rico and the Caribbean

In Puerto Rico, we market and sell Coors Light to an independent local
distributor. A local team of Coors employees manages marketing and
promotional efforts in this market. Coors Light is the number-one brand in
the Puerto Rico market with more than a 50% market share in 2000.

We also sell products in several other Caribbean markets, including the
U.S. Virgin Islands, through local distributors.

Europe

In Europe, we currently focus our efforts on Ireland and Northern Ireland,
where we market the Coors Light brand. Additionally, we are currently
testing Coors Light in Scotland, and we will assess the feasibility of
expanding to the balance of the United Kingdom.

During the fourth quarter of 2000, we closed our brewery and commercial
operations in Spain. This brewery produced beer for Spain and other
European markets. Beginning in late 2000, we began sourcing beer for our
remaining European markets from our Memphis plant. The beer is then
packaged for distribution under contract in the United Kingdom by Thomas
Hardy.

Japan

Coors Japan Company, Ltd., our Tokyo-based subsidiary, is the exclusive
importer and marketer of Coors products in Japan. The Japanese business is
currently focused on Zima and Original Coors. Coors Japan sells Coors
products to independent distributors in Japan.

China

In China, we currently market Original Coors beer under a licensing
arrangement with Carlsberg-Guangdong. The arrangement is focused on select
cities and under this arrangement, we maintain representative offices that
oversee the marketing of our products in China.

Seasonality of the Business

The beer industry is subject to seasonal sales fluctuation. Our sales
volumes are normally at their lowest in the first and fourth quarters and
highest in the second and third quarters. Our fiscal year is a 52- or 53-
week year that ends on the last Sunday in December. The 2000 fiscal year
was 53 weeks, while the 1999 and 1998 fiscal years were both 52 weeks.

Research and Development

Our research and development activities relate primarily to creating and
improving products and packages. These activities are designed to refine
the quality and value of our products and to reduce costs through more
efficient processing and packaging techniques, equipment design and
improved raw materials. We spent approximately $15.9 million, $15.5 million
and $15.2 million for research and development in 2000, 1999 and 1998,
respectively. We expect to spend approximately $16.0 million on research
and product development in 2001.

To support new product development, we maintain a fully equipped pilot
brewery within the Golden facility. This facility has a 6,500 barrel annual
capacity and enables us to brew small batches of innovative products
without interrupting ongoing operations in the main brewery.

Intellectual Property

We own trademarks on the majority of the brands we produce and we have
licenses for the remainder. We also hold several patents on innovative
processes related to product formulae, can making, can decorating and
certain other technical operations. These patents have expiration dates
ranging from 2001 to 2019. In addition, we have several design patents for
innovative packaging.

Regulation

Our business is highly regulated by federal, state and local government
entities. These regulations govern many parts of our operations, including
brewing, marketing, advertising, transportation, distributor relationships,
sales and environmental impact. To operate our facilities, we must obtain
and maintain numerous permits, licenses and approvals from various
governmental agencies, including the U.S. Treasury Department; Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms; the U.S. Department of Agriculture; the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration, state alcohol regulatory agencies as well as
state and federal environmental agencies. Internationally, our business is
also subject to regulations and restrictions imposed by the laws of the
foreign jurisdictions in which we sell our products.

Governmental entities also levy taxes and may require bonds to ensure
compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Federal excise taxes on
malt beverages are currently $18 per barrel. State excise taxes also are
levied at rates that ranged in 2000 from a high of $32.65 per barrel in
Alabama to a low of $0.62 per barrel in Wyoming, with an average of $7.91
per barrel. In 2000, we incurred approximately $427 million in federal and
state excise taxes. We are aware that from time to time Congress and state
legislatures consider various proposals to increase or decrease excise
taxes on the production and sale of alcoholic beverages, including beer.
The last significant increase in federal excise taxes on beer was in 1991
when excise taxes on beer doubled.

Environmental Matters

We are subject to the requirements of federal, state, local and foreign
environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations.
Compliance with these laws and regulations did not materially affect our
2000 capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position, and we do not
anticipate that they will do so in 2001.

We are also required to obtain environmental permits from governmental
authorities for certain of our operations. We cannot assure you that we
have been or will be at all times in complete compliance with, or have
obtained, all such permits. These authorities can modify or revoke our
permits and can enforce compliance through fines and injunctions. To the
best of our knowledge, we are not in violation of any of our permits and,
we believe, we have obtained all necessary permits.

We continue to promote the efficient use of resources, waste reduction and
pollution prevention. Programs currently under way include recycling
bottles and cans and, where practical, increasing the recycled content of
product packaging materials, paper and other supplies.

See also Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis - Contingencies, for
additional discussion of our environmental contingencies.

Employees and Employee Relations

We have approximately 5,850 full-time employees. Memphis plant workers, who
comprise about 8% of our total work force, are represented by the Teamsters
and are the only significant employee group at any of our three domestic
production facilities that has union representation. This union contract
expires in 2001. We believe our people are key to our success and that
relations with our employees are good.

Competitive Conditions

Known trends and competitive conditions:  Industry and competitive
information was compiled from various industry sources, including beverage
analyst reports, Beer Marketer's Insights, Impact Databank and The Beer
Institute. While management believes that these sources are reliable, we
cannot guarantee the complete accuracy of these numbers and estimates.

2000 industry overview:  The beer industry in the United States is
extremely competitive. Industry volume growth has averaged less than 1%
annually since 1991. Therefore, growing, even maintaining, market share
requires substantial and consistent investments in marketing and sales. In
a very competitive year, 2000 saw domestic beer industry shipments increase
less than 1%, after growing 1.2% in 1999. In recent years, brewers have
focused on marketing, promotions and innovative packaging in an effort to
gain market share and less on price discounting strategies.

The industry's pricing environment continued to be positive in 2000, with
the announcement of modest price increases on specific packages in select
markets. As a result, revenue per barrel improved for major U.S. brewers
during the year. However, consumer demand continued to shift away from
short bottles and toward longneck bottles, which cost significantly more to
make and ship than short bottles. In addition, many raw material prices
increased in 2000, including aluminum, glass and fuel. In 2000, a
significant portion of our incremental gross profit generated by volume
growth and price increases was reinvested in packaging materials, as well
as in additional marketing and sales activities.

A number of important trends continued in the U.S. beer market in 2000. The
first was a trend toward lighter, more-refreshing beers. The largest beer
brands that grew in the U.S. market were again American-style light lagers,
such as Coors Light. More than 80% of our annual unit volume in 2000 was in
light beers. The second trend was toward "trading up," as consumers
continue to move away from lower-priced brands to higher-priced brands,
including imports. Import beer shipments rose more than 10% in 2000. The
industry sales trends toward lighter, more-upscale beers play to our
strengths.

The U.S. brewing industry has experienced significant consolidation in the
past several years which has removed excess capacity. Several competitors
have exited the beer business, sold brands, or closed inefficient, outdated
brewing facilities. The beer industry is also consolidating at the
wholesaler level, a trend that continued in 2000 and generally improves
economics for the combining wholesalers and their suppliers.

U.S. demographics continued to improve for the beer industry, with the
number of consumers reaching legal drinking age continuing to increase in
2000, according to U.S. Census Bureau assessments and projections. These
same projections anticipate that the 21-24 age group will continue to grow
for virtually this entire decade. This trend is important to the beer
industry because young adult males tend to consume more beer per capita
than other demographic groups.

Our competitive position:  Our malt beverages compete with numerous above-
premium, premium, low-calorie, popular-priced, non-alcoholic and imported
brands. These competing brands are produced by national, regional, local
and international brewers. In 2000, approximately 80% of U.S. beer
shipments were attributable to the top three domestic brewers:  Anheuser-
Busch, Inc.; Philip Morris, Inc., through its subsidiary Miller Brewing
Company; and Coors Brewing Company. We compete most directly with Anheuser
and Miller, the dominant companies in the U.S. industry. We are the
nation's third-largest brewer and, according to Beer Marketer's Insights
estimates, we represented approximately 11.1% of the total 2000 U.S.
brewing industry shipments of malt beverages (including exports and U.S.
shipments of imports). This compares to Anheuser's 48.3% share and Miller's
20.6% share.

Our beer shipments to wholesalers increased 4.7% in 2000, representing the
fourth consecutive year that our shipments have outpaced industry growth by
2 percentage points or more. By comparison, Anheuser's shipments increased
2.7% in 2000 and Miller's declined 2.6%, due in part to reductions in
distributor inventories. More than 85% of our unit volume was in the
premium and above-premium price categories, the highest proportion among
the largest domestic brewers. This product mix compares to 77% premium-and-
above volume for Anheuser and 61% for Miller.

We continue to face significant competitive disadvantages related to
economies of scale. Besides lower transportation costs achieved by
competitors with multiple breweries, these larger brewers also benefit from
economies of scale in advertising spending because of their greater unit
sales volumes. In an effort to achieve and maintain national advertising
exposure and grow our U.S. market share, we generally spend substantially
more to market our beer, per barrel, than our major competitors.

Although our results are primarily driven by U.S. sales, international
operations have increased in importance in recent years, including Canada,
where Coors Light is the number one light beer.

(d) Financial Information About Foreign and Domestic Operations and Export
    Sales

See Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for discussion of
sales, operating income and identifiable assets attributable to our country
of domicile, the United States, and all foreign countries.

ITEM 2. Properties

Our major facilities are:



     Facility               Location              Product
Brewery/packaging        Golden, CO               Malt beverages/packaged
                                                    malt beverages
Packaging                Elkton, VA (Shenandoah)  Packaged malt beverages
Brewery/packaging        Memphis, TN              Malt beverages/packaged
                                                    malt beverages
Can and end plants       Golden, CO               Aluminum cans and ends
Bottle plant             Wheat Ridge, CO          Glass bottles
Distribution warehouse   Anaheim, CA              Wholesale beer
distribution
                         Meridian, ID
                         Denver, CO
                         Oklahoma City, OK
                         San Bernardino, CA
                         Glenwood Springs, CO

In 2000, we closed our Zaragoza, Spain, facility, which had both brewing
and packaging operations. See discussion of our closure in Item 7,
Management's Discussion and Analysis. We own all of our facilities except
our San Bernardino, California, and Glenwood Springs, Colorado,
distribution warehouses.

We own approximately 2,400 acres of land in Golden, Colorado, which include
brewing, packaging, can manufacturing and related facilities, as well as
gravel deposits and water storage facilities. We own 2,700 acres of land in
Rockingham County, Virginia, where the Shenandoah facility is located, and
132 acres in Shelby County, Tennessee, where the Memphis facility is
located.

We own waste treatment facilities in Golden and Shenandoah that process
waste from our manufacturing operations. The Golden facility also processes
waste from the City of Golden.

We believe that all of our facilities are well maintained and suitable for
their respective operations.

In 2000, our brewing facilities operated at an estimated annual average of
approximately 87% of capacity, and our packaging facilities operated at an
estimated annual average of approximately 87% of capacity. Annual
production capacity varies due to product and packaging mix, product
sourcing and seasonality. During the peak season, our capacities were fully
utilized with current mix and sourcing.

ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings

See the Environmental section of Item 7, Management's Discussion and
Analysis, for a discussion of our obligation for potential remediation
costs at the Lowry Landfill Superfund site and other legal proceedings.

ITEM 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

None.

                                     PART II

ITEM 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder
        Matters

Our Class B common stock has traded on the New York Stock Exchange since
March 11, 1999, under the symbol "RKY" and prior to that was quoted on the
NASDAQ National Market under the symbol "ACCOB."

The approximate number of record security holders by class of stock at
March 15, 2001, is as follows:

     Title of class                      Number of record security holders
Class A common stock, voting,          All shares of this class are
$1 par value                           held by the Adolph Coors, Jr. Trust

Class B common stock, non-voting,
no par value                           2,921

Preferred stock, non-voting,
$1 par value                           None issued

The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices per share of
our Class B common stock as reported by the New York Stock Exchange for the
periods after March 10, 1999, and as reported on the NASDAQ National Market
for the periods prior to March 11, 1999:
                                                  Market price
                                           High        Low       Dividends
First quarter                           $53.75      $37.375       $ 0.165
Second quarter                          $66.5       $42.4375      $ 0.185
Third quarter                           $67.625     $57.125       $ 0.185
Fourth quarter                          $82.3125    $58.9375      $ 0.185


                                                  Market price
                                          High        Low        Dividends
First quarter                           $65.8125    $51.6875      $ 0.150
Second quarter                          $59.1875    $45.25        $ 0.165
Third quarter                           $61         $48.25        $ 0.165
Fourth quarter                          $57.6875    $47.9375      $ 0.165


ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data

Following is selected financial data for 11 years ended December 31, 2000:

(In thousands, except per share)     2000(1)     1999        1998        1997
Consolidated Statement of
  Operations Data:
Gross sales                    $2,841,738  $2,642,712  $2,463,655  $2,378,143
Beer excise taxes                (427,323)   (406,228)   (391,789)   (386,080)
Net sales                       2,414,415   2,236,484   2,071,866   1,992,063
Cost of goods sold             (1,525,829) (1,397,251) (1,333,026) (1,302,369)
Gross profit                      888,586     839,233     738,840     689,694
Other operating expenses:
Marketing, general
 and administrative              (722,745)   (692,993)   (615,626)   (573,818)
Special (charges) credits         (15,215)     (5,705)    (19,395)     31,517
Total other operating expenses   (737,960)   (698,698)   (635,021)   (542,301)
Operating income                  150,626     140,535     103,819     147,393
Other income (expense) - net       18,899      10,132       7,281        (500)
Income before income taxes        169,525     150,667     111,100     146,893
Income tax expense                (59,908)    (58,383)    (43,316)    (64,633)
Income from
  continuing operations        $  109,617  $   92,284  $   67,784  $   82,260
Per share of common stock
  - basic                      $     2.98  $     2.51  $     1.87  $     2.21
  - diluted                    $     2.93  $     2.46  $     1.81  $     2.16
Consolidated Balance Sheet Data:
  Cash and cash equivalents
   and short-term and long-term
   marketable securities       $  386,195  $  279,883  $  287,672  $  258,138
  Working capital              $  118,415  $  220,117  $  165,079  $  158,048
  Properties, at cost and net  $  735,793  $  714,001  $  714,441  $  733,117
  Total assets                 $1,629,304  $1,546,376  $1,460,598  $1,412,083
  Long-term debt               $  105,000  $  105,000  $  105,000  $  145,000
  Other long-term liabilities  $   45,446  $   52,579  $   56,640  $   23,242
  Shareholders' equity         $  932,389  $  841,539  $  774,798  $  736,568
Cash Flow Data:
  Cash provided by operations  $  285,417  $  200,068  $  203,583  $  273,803
  Cash used in investing
    activities                 $ (297,541) $ (121,043) $ (146,479) $ (141,176)
  Cash used in financing
    activities                 $  (31,556) $  (76,431) $  (66,029) $  (72,042)
Other Information:
  Barrels of malt beverages sold   22,994      21,954      21,187      20,581
  Dividends per share of
   common stock                $    0.720  $    0.645  $     0.60  $     0.55
  EBITDA (2)                   $  299,112  $  273,213  $  243,977  $  236,984
  Capital expenditures         $  154,324  $  134,377  $  104,505  $   60,373
  Operating income as a
   percentage of net sales (5)       6.9%        6.5%        5.9%        5.8%
  Total debt to total
   capitalization                   10.1%       11.1%       15.8%       19.0%

(1) 53-week year versus 52-week year.
(2) EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization and excludes special charges (credits).
(5) Excluding special charges (credits).





(In thousands, except per share)     1996        1995(1)(3)  1994(3)     1993(3)
Consolidated Statement of
  Operations Data:
Gross sales                    $2,287,338  $2,075,917  $2,050,911  $1,960,378
Beer excise taxes                (379,312)   (385,216)   (377,659)   (364,781)
Net sales                       1,908,026   1,690,701   1,673,252   1,595,597
Cost of goods sold             (1,297,661) (1,106,635) (1,073,370) (1,050,650)
Gross profit                      610,365     584,066     599,882     544,947
Other operating expenses:
Marketing, general
 and administrative              (523,250)   (518,888)   (505,668)   (467,138)
Special (charges) credits          (6,341)     15,200      13,949    (122,540)
Total other operating expenses   (529,591)   (503,688)   (491,719)   (589,678)
Operating income (loss)            80,774      80,378     108,163     (44,731)
Other expense - net                (5,799)     (7,100)     (3,943)    (12,099)
Income (loss) before income taxes  74,975      73,278     104,220     (56,830)
Income tax (expense) benefit      (31,550)    (30,100)    (46,100)     14,900
Income (loss) from
  continuing operations        $   43,425  $   43,178  $   58,120  $  (41,930)
Per share of common stock
  - basic                      $     1.14  $     1.13  $     1.52  $    (1.10)
  - diluted                    $     1.14  $     1.13  $     1.51  $    (1.10)
Consolidated Balance Sheet Data:
  Cash and cash equivalents
   and short-term and long-term
   marketable securities       $  116,863  $   32,386  $   27,168  $   82,211
  Working capital              $  124,194  $   36,530  $  (25,048) $    7,197
  Properties, at cost and net  $  814,102  $  887,409  $  922,208  $  884,102
  Total assets                 $1,362,536  $1,384,530  $1,371,576  $1,350,944
  Long-term debt               $  176,000  $  195,000  $  131,000  $  175,000
  Other long-term liabilities  $   32,745  $   33,435  $   30,884  $   34,843
  Shareholders' equity         $  715,487  $  695,016  $  674,201  $  631,927
Cash Flow Data:
  Cash provided by operations  $  194,603  $   90,097  $  186,426  $  168,493
  Cash used in investing
    activities                 $  (56,403) $ (116,172) $ (174,671) $ (119,324)
  Cash (used in) provided by
    financing activities       $  (59,284) $   30,999  $  (67,020) $   (6,627)
Other Information:
  Barrels of malt beverages sold   20,045      20,312      20,363      19,828
  Dividends per share of
   common stock                $     0.50  $     0.50  $     0.50  $     0.50
  EBITDA (2)                   $  213,725  $  191,426  $  220,979  $  197,865
  Capital expenditures         $   65,112  $  157,599  $  160,314  $  120,354
  Operating income (loss) as a
   percentage of net sales (5)       4.6%        3.9%        5.6%      (4.9%)
  Total debt to total
   capitalization                   21.2%       24.9%       20.6%       26.3%

(1) 53-week year versus 52-week year.
(2) EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization and excludes special charges (credits).
(3) Freight expense has not been reclassified out of sales and into cost of
goods sold for these years, as it is impracticable to do so due to system
conversions.
(5) Excluding special charges (credits).





(In thousands, except per share)          1992(3)(4)    1991(3)       1990(3)
Consolidated Statement of
  Operations Data:
Gross sales                         $1,927,593    $1,903,886    $1,670,629
Beer excise taxes                     (360,987)     (360,879)     (186,756)
Net sales                            1,566,606     1,543,007     1,483,873
Cost of goods sold                  (1,051,362)   (1,052,228)     (986,352)
Gross profit                           515,244       490,779       497,521
Other operating expenses:
Marketing, general
 and administrative                   (441,943)     (448,393)     (409,085)
Special charges                             --       (29,599)      (30,000)
Total other operating expenses        (441,943)     (477,992)     (439,085)
Operating income                        73,301        12,787        58,436
Other expense - net                    (14,672)       (4,403)       (5,903)
Income before income taxes              58,629         8,384        52,533
Income tax (expense) benefit           (22,900)        8,700       (20,300)
Income from
  continuing operations             $   35,729    $   17,084    $   32,233
Per share of common stock
  - basic                           $     0.95    $     0.46    $     0.87
  - diluted                         $     0.95    $     0.46    $     0.87
Consolidated Balance Sheet Data:
  Cash and cash equivalents
   and short-term and long-term
   marketable securities            $   39,669    $   14,715    $   63,748
  Working capital                   $  112,302    $  110,043    $  201,043
  Properties, at cost and net       $  904,915    $  933,692    $1,171,800
  Total assets                      $1,373,371    $1,844,811    $1,761,664
  Long-term debt                    $  220,000    $  220,000    $  110,000
  Other long-term liabilities       $   52,291    $   53,321    $   58,011
  Shareholders' equity              $  685,445    $1,099,420    $1,091,547
Cash Flow Data:
  Cash provided by operations       $  155,776    $  164,148    $  231,038
  Cash used in investing
    activities                      $ (140,403)   $ (349,781)   $ (309,033)
  Cash provided by financing
    activities                      $    9,581    $  136,600    $   97,879
Other Information:
  Barrels of malt beverages sold        19,569        19,521        19,297
  Dividends per share of
   common stock                     $     0.50    $     0.50    $     0.50
  EBITDA (2)                        $  189,168    $  151,144    $  179,455
  Capital expenditures              $  115,450    $  241,512    $  183,368
  Operating income as a
   percentage of net sales (5)            4.7%          2.7%          6.0%
  Total debt to total
   capitalization                        24.3%         19.5%          9.2%

Note:  Numbers in italics include results of discontinued operations.
(2) EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization and excludes special charges (credits).
(3) Freight expense has not been reclassified out of sales and into cost of
goods sold for these years, as it is impracticable to do so due to system
conversions.
(4) Reflects the dividend of ACX Technologies, Inc. to our shareholders during
1992.
(5) Excluding special charges (credits).

ITEM 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
         Results of Operations

INTRODUCTION

We are the third-largest producer of beer in the United States. Our
portfolio of brands is designed to appeal to a range of consumer taste,
style and price preferences. Our beverages are sold throughout the United
States and in select international markets.

This discussion summarizes the significant factors affecting our
consolidated results of operations, liquidity and capital resources for the
three-year period ended December 31, 2000, and should be read in
conjunction with the financial statements and notes thereto included
elsewhere in this report. Our fiscal year is the 52 or 53 weeks that end on
the last Sunday in December. Our fiscal year 2000 consisted of 53 weeks.
Our 1999 and 1998 fiscal years each consisted of 52 weeks.

In 2000, the Financial Accounting Standards Board's Emerging Issues Task
Force issued a pronouncement stating that shipping and handling costs
should not be reported as a reduction to gross sales within the income
statement. As a result of this pronouncement, our finished product freight
expense, which is incurred upon shipment of our product to our
distributors, is now included within Cost of goods sold in our accompanying
Consolidated Statements of Income. This expense had previously been
reported as a reduction to gross sales; prior year financial statements
have been reclassified for consistency as to where freight expense is
reported.

Summary of operating results:
                                             Fiscal year ended
                             December 31,       December 26,      December 27,
                                    2000               1999              1998
                                  (In thousands, except percentages)

Gross sales             $2,841,738         $2,642,712        $2,463,655
Beer excise taxes         (427,323)          (406,228)         (391,789)
Net sales                2,414,415  100%    2,236,484  100%   2,071,866  100%
Cost of goods sold      (1,525,829)  63%   (1,397,251)  62%  (1,333,026)  64%

Gross profit               888,586   37%      839,233   38%     738,840   36%

Other operating expenses:
Marketing, general
 and administrative       (722,745)  30%     (692,993)  31%    (615,626)  30%
Special charges            (15,215)   1%       (5,705)   --     (19,395)   1%
Total other operating
 expenses                 (737,960)  31%     (698,698)  31%    (635,021)  31%

Operating income           150,626    6%      140,535    7%     103,819    5%

Other income - net          18,899    1%       10,132    --       7,281    --

Income before taxes        169,525    7%      150,667    7%     111,100    5%

Income tax expense         (59,908)   2%      (58,383)   3%     (43,316)   2%

Net income              $  109,617    5%   $   92,284    4%  $   67,784    3%


CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - 2000 VS. 1999 AND 1999 VS. 1998

2000 vs. 1999:  Our gross and net sales for 2000 were $2,841.7 million and
$2,414.4 million, respectively, resulting in a $199.0 million and $177.9
million increase over our 1999 gross and net sales of $2,642.7 million and
$2,236.5 million, respectively. Gross and net sales were favorably impacted
by a 4.7% increase in barrel unit volume. We sold 22,994,000 barrels of
beer and other malt beverages in 2000, compared to sales of 21,954,000
barrels in 1999. Year-to-date net sales were also favorably impacted by a
continuing shift in consumer preferences toward higher-net-revenue
products, domestic price increases and a longer fiscal year (2000 consisted
of 53 weeks, versus 52 weeks in 1999). Excluding our 53rd week, unit volume
was up approximately 4.1% compared to the 52-week period ended December 26,
1999. Excise taxes as a percent of gross sales decreased slightly in 2000
compared to 1999 primarily as a result of a shift in the geographic mix of
our sales.

Cost of goods sold was $1,525.8 million in 2000, an increase of 9.2%,
compared to $1,397.3 million in 1999. Cost of goods sold as a percentage of
sales was 63.2% for 2000, compared to 62.5% for 1999. On a per barrel
basis, cost of goods sold increased 4.3% in 2000 compared to 1999. This
increase was primarily due to an ongoing mix shift in demand toward more
expensive products and packages, including longneck bottles and import
products sold by Coors-owned distributors, as well as higher aluminum,
energy and freight costs. Cost of goods sold also increased as a result of
higher labor costs in 2000 from wage increases and overtime incurred during
our peak season in order to meet unprecedented demand for our products,
higher depreciation expense because of higher capital expenditures and
additional fixed costs as a result of our 53rd week in 2000.

Gross profit for 2000, was $888.6 million, a 5.9% increase over gross
profit of $839.2 million for 1999. As a percentage of sales, gross profit
decreased to 36.8% in 2000, compared to 37.5% of net sales in 1999.

Marketing, general and administrative costs were $722.7 million in 2000
compared to $693.0 million in 1999. The $29.7 million or 4.3% increase over
the prior year was primarily due to higher spending on marketing and
promotions, both domestically and internationally. We continued to invest
behind our brands and sales forces - domestic and international - during
2000, which included reinvesting incremental revenues that were generated
from the volume and price increases achieved and discussed earlier. Our
2000 corporate overhead and information technology spending was also up
slightly over 1999.

In 2000, our net special charges were $15.2 million, or $0.13 per basic and
diluted share, after tax. We incurred a total special charge of $20.6
million triggered by our decision to close our Spain brewery and commercial
operations. The decision to close the Spain operations came as a result of
an unfavorable outlook from various analyses we performed which focused on
the potential for improved distribution channels, the viability of Coors
brands in the Spain market and additional contract brewing opportunities.
Of the approximately $20.6 million charge, approximately $11.3 million
related to severance and other related closure costs for approximately 100
employees, approximately $4.9 million related to a fixed asset impairment
charge and approximately $4.4 million for the write-off of our cumulative
translation adjustments previously recorded to equity, related to our Spain
operations. In 2000, approximately $9.6 million of severance and other
related closure costs were paid. These payments were funded from current
cash balances. The remaining $1.7 million reserve related to severance and
other related closure costs is expected to be paid by the end of the first
quarter of 2001 and will also be funded from current cash balances. Closing
our Spain operations will eliminate annual operating losses of
approximately $7.0 million to $8.0 million. The anticipated payback period
is less than three years. We intend to invest much of the annual savings
into our domestic and international businesses. The closure resulted in
small savings in 2000, and we expect greater annual savings beginning in
fiscal 2001. The Spain closure special charge was partially offset by a
credit of $5.4 million related to an insurance claim settlement.

In 1999, we recorded a special charge of $5.7 million, or $0.10 per basic
and diluted share, after tax. The special charge included $3.7 million for
severance costs from the restructuring of our engineering and construction
units and $2.0 million for distributor network improvements. Approximately
50 engineering and construction employees accepted severance packages under
this reorganization. During 1999 and 2000, approximately $0.9 million and
$2.3 million, respectively, of severance costs were paid. The remaining
$0.5 million of severance costs at December 31, 2000, are expected to be
paid in the first quarter of 2001.

As a result of these factors, our operating income was $150.6 million for
the year ended December 31, 2000, an increase of $10.1 million or 7.2% over
operating income of $140.5 million for the year ended December 26, 1999.
Excluding special charges, operating earnings were $165.8 million for 2000,
an increase of $19.6 million or 13.4% over operating earnings of $146.2
million for 1999.

Net other income was $18.9 million for 2000, compared to net other income
of $10.1 million for 1999. The significant increase in 2000 is primarily
due to higher net interest income, resulting from higher average cash
investment balances with higher average yields and lower average debt
balances in 2000 compared to 1999.

Including the impact of special items, our effective tax rate for 2000, was
35.3% compared to 38.8% for 1999. The primary reasons for the decrease in
our effective rate were: the realization of a tax benefit pertaining to the
Spain brewery closure, the resolution of an Internal Revenue Service audit,
and reduced state tax rates. Excluding the impact of special charges, our
effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2000, was 38.0%,
compared to 38.8% for the year ended December 26, 1999.

Net income for the year increased $17.3 million or 18.8% over last year.
For 2000, net income was $109.6 million, or $2.98 per basic share ($2.93
per diluted share), which compares to net income of $92.3 million, or $2.51
per basic share ($2.46 per diluted share), for 1999. Excluding special
charges, after-tax earnings for 2000, were $114.5 million, or $3.11 per
basic share ($3.06 per diluted share). This was an $18.8 million or 19.6%
increase over after-tax earnings, excluding special charges, of $95.8
million, or $2.61 per basic share ($2.56 per diluted share), for 1999.

1999 vs. 1998:  Our gross and net sales for 1999 were $2,642.7 million and
$2,236.5 million, respectively, representing a $179.1 million and $164.6
million increase over 1998. Gross and net sales were impacted favorably by
a unit volume increase of 3.6%. Net sales per barrel for 1999 were also
favorably impacted by improved net realizations per barrel due to increased
pricing, reduced domestic discounting and mix improvement toward higher-
net-revenue product sales. Excise taxes as a percent of gross sales
decreased slightly in 1999 compared to 1998 primarily as a result of a
shift in the geographic mix of our sales.

Cost of goods sold was $1,397.3 million in 1999, which was a $64.2 million
or 4.8% increase over 1998. Cost of goods sold per barrel increased due to
a shift in product demand toward more expensive products and packages,
including import beers sold by Coors-owned distributors, higher glass costs
as well as increased production and labor costs incurred in the packaging
areas during the first quarter of 1999. These increases were partially
offset by decreases primarily due to reduced aluminum material costs.

Gross profit increased 13.6% to $839.2 million from 1998 due to the 7.9%
net sales increase coupled with a lower increase in cost of goods sold of
4.8%, both discussed above. As a percentage of net sales, gross profit in
1999 increased to 37.5% from 35.7% in 1998.

Marketing, general and administrative expenses increased to $693.0 million
in 1999. Of the total $77.4 million or 12.6% increase, advertising costs
increased $47.6 million over 1998 due to increased investments behind our
core brands, both domestically and internationally. General and
administrative expenses for our international business, as well as
information technology expenses, were also higher in 1999 compared to 1998.

In 1999, we recorded a special charge of $5.7 million, or $0.10 per basic
and diluted share, after tax. The special charge included $3.7 million for
severance costs from the restructuring of our engineering and construction
units and $2.0 million for distributor network improvements. Approximately
50 engineering and construction employees accepted severance packages under
this reorganization. During 1999 and 2000, approximately $0.9 million and
$2.3 million, respectively, of severance costs were paid. The remaining
$0.5 million of severance costs at December 31, 2000, are expected to be
paid in the first quarter of 2001.

During 1998, we recorded a $17.2 million pretax charge for severance and
related costs of restructuring the production operations and a $2.2 million
pretax charge for the impairment of certain long-lived assets for one of
our distributorships. These items resulted in a total special pretax charge
of $19.4 million in 1998.

As a result of the factors noted above, operating income grew 35.4% to
$140.5 million in 1999 from $103.8 million in 1998. Excluding special
charges, operating income rose 18.7% to $146.2 million in 1999 from $123.2
million in 1998.

Net other income of $10.1 million in 1999 increased from $7.3 million in
1998. This $2.8 million increase was primarily due to reductions in net
interest expense, which was attributable to increased capitalized interest
due to higher capital spending and lower levels of debt.

Our effective tax rate decreased to 38.8% in 1999 from 39.0% in 1998
primarily due to higher tax-exempt income. The 1999 and 1998 effective tax
rates exceeded the statutory rate primarily because of state tax expense.
Our effective tax rates for fiscal years 1999 and 1998 were not impacted by
special charges.

Net income for 1999 was $92.3 million, or $2.51 per basic share ($2.46 per
diluted share), compared to $67.8 million, or $1.87 per basic share ($1.81
per diluted share), for 1998, representing increases of 34.2% (basic) and
35.9% (diluted) in earnings per share. Excluding special charges, after-tax
earnings for 1999 were $95.8 million, or $2.61 per basic share ($2.56 per
diluted share), compared to $79.6 million, or $2.19 per basic share ($2.12
per diluted share) for 1998.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Our primary sources of liquidity are cash provided by operating activities,
marketable securities and external borrowings. In 2000, our financial
condition remained strong. At the end of 2000, our cash, cash equivalents
and marketable securities totaled $386.2 million, up from $279.9 million at
the end of 1999. Although our cash and cash equivalents and working capital
balances decreased from $163.8 million and $220.1 million, respectively, in
1999 to $119.8 million and $118.4 million, respectively, in 2000, this was
largely a result of a strategic shift in our investing activities. In 2000,
we shifted from investing in shorter-term securities to investing in
longer-term securities which currently provide better yields. These long-
term securities include investment grade corporate, government agency and
municipal debt instruments. Our total investments in marketable securities
increased $150.3 million to $266.4 million at the end of 2000 compared to
$116.1 million at the end of 1999. This increase was primarily funded by
current year maturities of short-term investments, cash from operations and
distributions received from joint ventures. All of these securities can be
easily converted to cash, if necessary. Our decrease in cash and cash
equivalents and working capital was also a result of increased capital
expenditures in 2000. We believe that cash flows from operations, cash from
sales of highly liquid securities and cash provided by short-term
borrowings, when necessary, will be more than sufficient to meet our
ongoing operating requirements, scheduled principal and interest payments
on debt, dividend payments, anticipated capital expenditures and potential
repurchases of common stock under our stock repurchase plan.

Operating activities: Net cash provided by operating activities was $285.4
million for 2000, compared to $200.1 million and $203.6 million for 1999,
and 1998, respectively. Operating cash flows in 1999 were $85.3 million
lower than in 2000 because of a $48.0 million contribution we made to our
defined benefit pension plan in January 1999 with no similar contribution
being made in 2000. The 1999 contribution was made as a result of benefit
improvements made to our defined benefit pension plan that resulted in an
increase in the projected benefit obligation of approximately $48 million.
The remaining increase in 2000 operating cash flow was due to higher net
income, slightly higher depreciation expense, the non-cash portion of the
special charge related to Spain, higher cash distributions received from
our joint venture entities and working capital changes. The increase in
distributions received was a result of higher earnings of the joint
ventures in 2000 compared to 1999. The fluctuations in working capital were
primarily due to timing between the two years; our accounts receivable were
lower at December 31, 2000, as a result of the 53rd week in 2000, which
tends to be our slowest week, and our accounts payable were higher at
December 31, 2000, due to increased capital expenditures at the end of 2000
compared to 1999. These increases in operating cash flows were partially
offset by increases in the equity earnings of our joint ventures and gains
on sale of properties.

The decrease in operating cash flows in 1999 from 1998 of $3.5 million was
a result of the $48 million contribution made to our defined benefit
pension plan in January 1999, as discussed above, with no similar
contribution being made in 1998. This decrease in operating cash flows was
partially offset by working capital changes, an increase in deferred tax
expense, higher cash distributions received from our joint venture entities
and an increase in depreciation and amortization. The working capital
fluctuations were due to increased operating activity and timing of
payments between the two years. The increase in deferred tax expense was
due to timing differences arising between book income and taxable income.
The increase in distributions received was a result of higher net earnings
of the joint ventures in 1999 compared to 1998. The increase in
depreciation and amortization was due to an increase in capitalized assets
in 1999 compared to 1998.

Investing activities:  During 2000, we used $297.5 million in investing
activities compared to a use of $121.0 million in 1999 and $146.5 million
in 1998. As discussed under the Liquidity section above, we have shifted to
investing in longer-term marketable securities by investing cash from
short-term investment maturities into longer term corporate, government
agency and municipal debt instruments. The net impact of our marketable
securities activities was a cash outflow of $148.6 million compared to a
net inflow of $11.0 million in 1999 and an outflow of $39.3 million in
1998. In 1999, we allocated less of our cash resources to marketable
securities than in both 1998 and 2000, and instead allocated more resources
to cash equivalents. In 2000, we also increased our capital expenditures to
$154.3 million compared to $134.4 in 1999 and $104.5 million in 1998. Our
2000 capital expenditures included additional spending on capacity-related
projects, as well as expenditures for upgrades and improvements to our
facilities.

Financing activities:  During 2000, we used approximately $31.6 million in
financing activities, primarily for dividend payments of $26.6 million on
our Class B common stock and $20.0 million for purchases of our Class B
common stock under our stock repurchase program. These cash uses were
partially offset by cash inflows of $17.2 million related to the exercise
of stock options under our stock option plans.

During 1999, we used $76.4 million in financing activities consisting
primarily of principal payments of $40.0 million on our medium-term notes,
net purchases of $11.0 million for Class B common stock and dividend
payments of $23.7 million.

During 1998, we used $66.0 million in financing activities consisting of
principal payments of $27.5 million on our medium-term notes, net purchases
of $17.8 million for Class B common stock and dividend payments of $21.9
million.

Debt obligations:  At December 31, 2000, we had $100 million in Senior
Notes outstanding, $80 million of which is due in 2002 and the remaining
$20 million is due in 2005. Fixed interest rates on these notes range from
6.76% to 6.95%. Interest is paid semiannually in January and July. No
principal payments were due or made on our debt in 2000. In 1999, we repaid
the last $40.0 million of outstanding medium-term notes that were due.
Payments on these notes in 1998 were $27.5 million.

Our debt-to-total capitalization ratio declined to 10.1% at the end of
2000, from 11.1% at year end 1999 and 15.8% at year end 1998.

Revolving line of credit:  In addition to the Senior Notes, we have an
unsecured, committed credit arrangement totaling $200 million, all of which
was available as of December 31, 2000. This line of credit has a five-year
term which expires in 2003, with one remaining optional one-year extension.
A facilities fee is paid on the total amount of the committed credit. Under
the arrangement, we are required to maintain a certain debt-to-total
capitalization ratio and were in compliance at year end 2000.

We also have two revolving lines of credit used for our operations in
Japan. Each of these facilities provides up to 500 million yen
(approximately $4.4 million each as of December 31, 2000) in short-term
financing. As of December 31, 2000, the approximate yen equivalent of $2.6
million was outstanding under these arrangements.

Advertising and promotions:  As of December 31, 2000, our aggregate
commitments for advertising and promotions, including marketing at sports
arenas, stadiums and other venues and events, were approximately $125.5
million over the next eight years.

Stock repurchase plan:  In November 2000, the board of directors authorized
the extension of our stock repurchase program through 2001. The program
authorizes repurchases of up to $40 million of our outstanding Class B
common stock. Repurchases will be financed by funds generated from
operations or by our cash and cash equivalent balances. In 2000, we used
$20.0 million to repurchase common stock of which $17.6 million related to
repurchases under this stock purchase program.

Capital improvements:  During 2000, we spent approximately $150.3 million
in capital expenditures (excluding capital improvements for the container
joint ventures, which were recorded on the books of the respective joint
ventures). We will continue to invest in our business and we expect our
capital expenditures in 2001 to be in the range of approximately $200
million to $240 million for improving and enhancing our facilities,
infrastructure, information systems and environmental compliance.

Molson USA, LLC:  On January 2, 2001, we entered into a joint venture
partnership agreement with Molson, Inc. and paid $65 million for our 49.9%
interest in the joint venture. The joint venture, known as Molson USA, LLC,
has been formed to import, market, sell and distribute Molson's brands of
beer in the United States. We used a portion of our current cash balances
to pay the $65 million acquisition price.

Cautionary Statement Pursuant to Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995

This report contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the
federal securities laws. You can identify these statements by forward-
looking words such as "expect," "anticipate," "plan," "believe," "seek,"
"estimate," "internal," "outlook," "trends," "industry forces,"
"strategies," "goals" and similar words. These forward-looking statements
may include, among others, statements concerning our outlook for 2001;
overall volume trends; pricing trends and industry forces; cost reduction
strategies and their anticipated results; our expectations for funding our
2001 capital expenditures and operations; and other statements of
expectations, beliefs, future plans and strategies, anticipated events or
trends and similar expressions concerning matters that are not historical
facts. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and
uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the
expectations we describe in our forward-looking statements.

To improve our financial performance, we must grow premium beverage volume,
achieve modest price increases for our products and control costs. The most
important factors that could influence the achievement of these goals - and
cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the
forward-looking statements - include, but are not limited to, the
following:

- - Our success depends largely on the success of one product, the failure of
which would materially adversely affect our financial results.

- - Because our primary production facilities are located at a single site,
we are more vulnerable than our competitors to transportation disruptions
and natural disasters.

- - We are smaller than our two primary competitors, and we are more
vulnerable than our competitors to cost and price fluctuations.

- - We are vulnerable to the pricing actions of our primary competitors,
which we do not control.

- - If demand for our products continues to grow at current rates, we may
lack the capacity needed to meet demand or we may be required to increase
our capital spending significantly.

- - If any of our suppliers are unable or unwilling to meet our requirements,
we may be unable to promptly obtain the materials we need to operate our
business.

- - The government may adopt regulations that could conceivably increase our
costs or our liabilities or could limit our business activities.

- - If the social acceptability of our products declines, or if litigation is
directed at the alcoholic beverage industry, our sales volumes could
decrease and our business could be materially adversely affected.

- - Any significant shift in packaging preferences in the beer industry could
increase our costs disproportionately and could limit our ability to meet
consumer demand.

- - We depend on independent distributors to sell our products, and we cannot
provide any assurance that these distributors will sell our products
effectively.

- - Because our sales volume is more concentrated in fewer geographic areas
in the United States than our competition, any loss of market share in
the states where we are concentrated could have a material adverse effect
on our results of operations.

- - Because we lack a significant presence in international markets, we are
dependent on the U.S. market.

- - We are subject to environmental regulation by federal, state and local
agencies, including laws that impose liability without regard to fault.

These and other risks and uncertainties affecting us are discussed in
greater detail in this report and in our other filings with the Securities
and Exchange Commission.

OUTLOOK FOR 2001

Our performance in 2000 benefited from strong domestic and export volume
gains, as well as a positive industry environment. For 2001, we are
committed to the basic goal of growing our unit volume more than twice as
fast as the industry. Also in 2001, the beer price environment is again
expected to be positive. Nonetheless, increased sales of value-packs or an
increase in price discounting could have an unfavorable impact on our top-
line performance, resulting in lower margins.

The outlook for cost of goods sold in 2001 includes many of the same
challenges that we saw in 2000 - although we are working hard to reduce the
growth rate in some key areas. Following are the cost factors that we
anticipate will be most important in 2001:

- - First, in the area of operating efficiencies, we have put additional
bottle and value-pack packaging capacity on line and are working to
improve many processes to relieve stress points in our production
capacity. These projects should help us to meet growing demand at a lower
cost. During peak season 2000, we were operating close to full capacity,
which increased our costs. In 2001, savings from incremental capacity
will be largely offset by startup and other one-time expenses related to
completing these capacity projects.

- - Second, input costs as a group are likely to increase again in 2001.
Early in 2001, the outlook is for slightly higher aluminum can costs for
the year. We anticipate modestly higher glass bottle costs because of
higher natural gas rates. Paper rates are expected to be flat to down
slightly. We expect that freight rates will be up early in the year, with
rates in the back half unknown, but perhaps offering some opportunity to
moderate. Agricultural commodity costs are expected to be down slightly
due to lower prices for rice and corn.

- - Third, package and product mix shifts will increase costs in 2001. Aside
from changes in raw material rates, we plan to spend more on glass in
2001 because of the continuing shift in our package mix toward longneck
bottles, which cost more and are less profitable than most of our other
package configurations. We plan to increase longneck bottles as a percent
of our bottle mix to more than 80% this year, up from just over 70% last
year. Cost of goods sold per barrel is likely to be increased by higher
anticipated sales of import beers by Coors-owned distributorships. We
expect mix shifts to be the largest group of factors increasing our cost
of goods sold per barrel in 2001, as they were in 2000.

- - All in all, our expectations early in 2001 are for total cost of goods
sold to be up modestly per barrel for the year -- and we are focusing
throughout our operations to reduce the growth rate per barrel versus
last year. It is important to note that a large shift in raw material
prices or consumer demand toward other packages could alter this outlook.

Marketing and sales spending is expected to increase in 2001, while general
and administrative costs are expected to be flat to up slightly. We
continue to focus on reducing costs so that we can invest in our brands and
sales efforts incrementally. Additional sales and marketing spending is
determined on an opportunity-by-opportunity basis. Incremental revenue
generated by price increases is likely to be spent on advertising and
marketplace support because the competitive landscape has shifted during
the past three years toward much more marketing, promotional and
advertising spending.

Net interest income growth will slow because of our lower cash position as
a result of our $65 million payment for a 49.9% interest in our new Molson
joint venture and our increase in capital expenditures in 2000 and 2001.
The increase in our capital expenditures in 2001 will result in higher
capitalized interest, which will partially offset the slower interest
income growth. Of course, net interest income could be less favorable than
expected in 2001 if we invest a substantial portion of our cash balances in
operating assets or other investments with longer-term returns, or if
interest rates decline. Also, cash may be used to repurchase additional
shares of outstanding common stock as approved by our board of directors.

Our effective tax rate for 2001 is not expected to differ significantly
from the 2000 effective tax rate applied to income, excluding special
items. However, the level and mix of pretax income for 2001 could affect
the actual rate for the year.

In 2001, we have planned capital expenditures (excluding capital
improvements for our container joint ventures, which will be recorded on
the books of the respective joint ventures) in the range of approximately
$200 million to $240 million for improving and enhancing our facilities,
infrastructure, information systems and environmental compliance. This
capital spending plan is up from $154 million in 2000. All of the planned
increase for 2001 is the result of strong growth in consumer demand for our
products, particularly in longneck bottles and value-packs.

While most of the incremental capital spending in 2001 is intended to
increase available beer packaging capacity for 2002, a portion is focused
on increasing our brewing capacity. The largest single project is the
addition of a longneck bottle line in our Elkton, Virginia, facility.

Our 2001 capacity investments play a critical role in our long-term plan to
increase productivity and lower our costs. Additionally, some of these
investments will provide a foundation for future capacity investments. We
are approaching these capacity projects with a strong bias for utilizing
current assets fully before building new assets, and we will continue to
apply rigorous discipline to our capital process, ensuring that it is
carefully paced, competitively priced and designed to lower costs and
improve returns. We are prepared to fund our growth in 2001 and well into
the future largely from our strong operating cash flow. In addition to our
2001 planned capital expenditures, incremental strategic investments will
be considered on a case-by-case basis.

CONTINGENCIES

Environmental: We were one of numerous parties named by the Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) as a "potentially responsible party" at the Lowry
site, a landfill owned by the City and County of Denver. In 1990, we
recorded a special pretax charge of $30 million, representing our portion,
for potential cleanup costs of the site based upon an assumed present value
of $120 million in total site remediation costs. We also agreed to pay a
specified share of costs if total remediation costs exceeded this amount.

The City and County of Denver; Waste Management of Colorado, Inc.; and
Chemical Waste Management, Inc. are expected to implement site remediation.
Chemical Waste Management's projected costs to meet the remediation
objectives and requirements are currently below the $120 million assumption
used for our settlement. We have no reason to believe that total
remediation costs will result in additional liability to us.

We were one of several parties named by the EPA as a "potentially
responsible party" at the Rocky Flats Industrial Park site. In September
2000, the EPA entered into an Administrative Order on Consent with certain
parties, including our company, requiring implementation of a removal
action. Our projected costs to construct and monitor the removal action are
approximately $300,000. The EPA will also seek to recover its oversight
costs associated with the project which are not possible to estimate at
this time.

From time to time, we have been notified that we are or may be a
potentially responsible party under the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation and Liability Act or similar state laws for the
cleanup of other sites where hazardous substances have allegedly been
released into the environment. We cannot predict with certainty the total
costs of cleanup, our share of the total cost, the extent to which
contributions will be available from other parties, the amount of time
necessary to complete the cleanups or insurance coverage.

In addition, we are aware of groundwater contamination at some of our
properties in Colorado resulting from historical, ongoing or nearby
activities. There may also be other contamination of which we are currently
unaware.

In August 2000, an accidental spill into Clear Creek at our Golden,
Colorado, facility caused damage to some of the fish population in the
creek. As a result, we are required to pay certain fines or other costs by
implementing a supplemental environmental project. We settled with the
Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment regarding violations
of our permit in the amount of $98,000 on February 22, 2001. This money
will be paid to the Clear Creek Watershed Foundation to construct a waste
rock repository in Clear Creek County. We have not yet settled with the
Division of Wildlife for damage to the fish population but have proposed
funding the remaining costs for construction of the waste rock repository.

While we cannot predict our eventual aggregate cost for our environmental
and related matters in which we are currently involved, we believe that any
payments, if required, for these matters would be made over a period of
time in amounts that would not be material in any one year to our operating
results or our financial or competitive position. We believe adequate
reserves have been provided for losses that are probable.

Litigation:  We are also named as a defendant in various actions and
proceedings arising in the normal course of business. In all of these
cases, we are denying the allegations and are vigorously defending
ourselves against them and, in some instances, have filed counterclaims.
Although the eventual outcome of the various lawsuits cannot be predicted,
it is management's opinion that these suits will not result in liabilities
that would materially affect our financial position or results of
operations.

ITEM 7a. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

In the normal course of business, we are exposed to fluctuations in
interest rates, the value of foreign currencies and production and
packaging materials prices. We have established policies and procedures
that govern the management of these exposures through the use of a variety
of financial instruments. We employ various financial instruments,
including forward foreign exchange contracts, options and swap agreements,
to manage certain of the exposures when practical. By policy, we do not
enter into such contracts for the purpose of speculation and are
continually enhancing our disciplines around these risk mitigation efforts.

Our objective in managing our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates,
foreign currency exchange rates and production and packaging materials
prices is to decrease the volatility of earnings and cash flows associated
with changes in the applicable rates and prices. To achieve this objective,
we primarily enter into forward foreign exchange contracts, options and
swap agreements whose values change in the opposite direction of the
anticipated cash flows. We do not hedge the value of net investments in
foreign-currency-denominated operations and translated earnings of foreign
subsidiaries. Our primary foreign currency exposures are the Canadian
dollar and the Japanese yen.

A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate our exposure to market
risk of interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity
prices. The sensitivity analysis reflects the impact of a hypothetical 10%
adverse change in the applicable market interest rates, foreign currency
exchange rates and commodity prices. The volatility of the applicable rates
and prices are dependent on many factors that cannot be forecasted with
reliable accuracy. Therefore, actual changes in fair values could differ
significantly from the results presented in the table below.

The following table presents the results of the sensitivity analysis of our
derivative and debt portfolio:

                                            As of		        As of
Estimated fair value volatility       December 31, 2000   December 26, 1999
                                           (In millions)     (In millions)

Foreign currency risk:  forwards, options     $ (3.0)           $ (2.8)

Interest rate risk:  swaps, debt              $ (1.3)           $ (1.3)

Commodity price risk:  swaps, options         $ (9.1)           $(11.3)

ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

     Index to Financial Statements
                                                                   Page(s)

     Consolidated Financial Statements:

          Report of Independent Accountants                         32

          Consolidated Statements of Income for each of
            the three years in the period ended December 31, 2000   33

          Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2000,
            and December 26, 1999                                   34-35

          Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of
            the three years in the period ended December 31, 2000   36

          Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity
            for each of the three years in the period ended
            December 31, 2000                                       37

          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                38-63

Report of Independent Accountants



To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Adolph Coors Company:


In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and related
consolidated statements of income, shareholders' equity and cash flows
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Adolph
Coors Company and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2000, and December 26,
1999, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of
the three years in the period ended December 31, 2000, in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management; our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements
in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United
States of America which require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free
of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable
basis for our opinion.







PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Denver, Colorado
February 7, 2001

ADOLPH COORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

                                              For the years ended
                                   December 31,  December 26,  December 27,
                                          2000          1999          1998
                                    (In thousands, except per share data)

Sales - domestic and international $ 2,841,738   $ 2,642,712   $ 2,463,655
Beer excise taxes                     (427,323)     (406,228)     (391,789)
Net sales (Note 13)                  2,414,415     2,236,484     2,071,866

Cost of goods sold                  (1,525,829)   (1,397,251)   (1,333,026)

Gross profit                           888,586       839,233       738,840

Other operating expenses:
  Marketing, general and
    administrative                    (722,745)     (692,993)     (615,626)
  Special charges (Note 9)             (15,215)       (5,705)      (19,395)
     Total other operating expenses   (737,960)     (698,698)     (635,021)

Operating income                       150,626       140,535       103,819

Other income (expense):
  Interest income                       21,325        11,286        12,136
  Interest expense                      (6,414)       (4,357)       (9,803)
  Miscellaneous - net                    3,988         3,203         4,948
     Total                              18,899        10,132         7,281

Income before income taxes             169,525       150,667       111,100

Income tax expense (Note 5)            (59,908)      (58,383)      (43,316)

Net income                             109,617        92,284        67,784

Other comprehensive income (expense),
  net of tax (Note 12):
    Foreign currency translation
      adjustments                        2,632        (3,519)        1,430
    Unrealized (loss) gain on available-
      for-sale securities and
      derivative instruments              (729)        6,438           440
    Reclassification adjustments           366           --            --
Comprehensive income               $   111,886   $    95,203   $    69,654

Net income per common
  share - basic                    $      2.98   $      2.51   $      1.87
Net income per common
  share - diluted                  $      2.93   $      2.46   $      1.81

Weighted-average common
  shares-basic                          36,785        36,729        36,312
Weighted-average common
  shares-diluted                        37,450        37,457        37,515

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

ADOLPH COORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

                                             December 31,      December 26,
                                                    2000              1999
                                                         (In thousands)
Assets

Current assets:
  Cash and cash equivalents                   $  119,761        $  163,808
  Short-term marketable securities                72,759           113,185
  Accounts and notes receivable:
    Trade, less allowance for doubtful accounts
      of $139 in 2000 and $55 in 1999            104,484           123,861
    Affiliates                                     7,209            13,773
    Other, less allowance for certain claims of
      $104 in 2000 and $133 in 1999               15,385            22,026

  Inventories:
    Finished                                      40,039            44,073
    In process                                    23,735            19,036
    Raw materials                                 37,570            34,077
    Packaging materials, less allowance for
      obsolete inventories of $1,993 in 2000
      and $1,195 in 1999                           8,580            10,071
    Total inventories                            109,924           107,257

  Other supplies, less allowance for obsolete
    supplies of $1,621 in 2000 and $1,975
    in 1999                                       23,703            23,584
  Prepaid expenses and other assets               19,847            24,858
  Deferred tax asset (Note 5)                     24,679            20,469
      Total current assets                       497,751           612,821

Properties, at cost and net (Notes 2 and 13)     735,793           714,001

Excess of cost over net assets of businesses
  acquired, less accumulated amortization
  of $9,319 in 2000 and $7,785 in 1999            29,446            31,292

Long-term marketable securities                  193,675             2,890

Other assets (Note 10)                           172,639           185,372







Total assets                                  $1,629,304        $1,546,376

See notes to consolidated financial statements.





                                          December 31,         December 26,
                                                 2000                 1999
                                                      (In thousands)
Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity

Current liabilities:
  Accounts payable:
    Trade                                  $  186,105           $  155,344
    Affiliates                                 11,621               24,271
  Accrued salaries and vacations               57,041               60,861
  Taxes, other than income taxes               32,469               53,974
  Federal and state income taxes (Note 5)          --                8,439
  Accrued expenses and other liabilities       92,100               89,815
    Total current liabilities                 379,336              392,704

Long-term debt (Note 4)                       105,000              105,000
Deferred tax liability (Note 5)                89,986               78,733
Postretirement benefits (Note 8)               77,147               75,821
Other long-term liabilities                    45,446               52,579

      Total liabilities                       696,915              704,837

Commitments and contingencies
  (Notes 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10 and 14)

Shareholders' equity (Notes 6, 11 and 12):
  Capital stock:
      Preferred stock, non-voting, $1 par
       value (authorized:  25,000,000
       shares; issued and outstanding:  none)      --                   --
      Class A common stock, voting, $1
       par value (authorized, issued and
       outstanding:  1,260,000 shares)          1,260                1,260
      Class B common stock, non-voting,
       no par value, $0.24 stated value
       (authorized:  100,000,000 shares;
       issued and outstanding:  35,871,121 in
       2000 and 35,462,034 in 1999)             8,541                8,443
         Total capital stock                    9,801                9,703

  Paid-in capital                              11,203                5,773
  Retained earnings                           908,123              825,070
  Accumulated other comprehensive income        3,262                  993

      Total shareholders' equity              932,389              841,539

Total liabilities and shareholders' equity $1,629,304           $1,546,376

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

ADOLPH COORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

                                               For the years ended
                                   December 31,  December 26,  December 27,
                                          2000          1999          1998
Cash flows from operating activities:          (In thousands)
Net income                          $  109,617    $   92,284    $   67,784
  Adjustments to reconcile net
   income to net cash provided by
   operating activities:
    Equity in net earnings of joint
     ventures                          (42,395)      (36,958)      (33,227)
    Distributions from joint ventures   55,379        30,280        22,438
    Non-cash portion of special charges 11,068         4,769       10,543
    Depreciation, depletion and
     amortization                      129,283       123,770       115,815
    Net (gain) loss on sale or
     abandonment of properties and
     intangibles, net                   (4,729)        2,471         7,687
    Deferred income taxes                6,870        20,635        (8,751)
    Change in operating assets and
     liabilities:
      Accounts and notes receivable     28,260       (21,036)        2,140
      Inventories                       (3,087)       (4,373)        4,176
      Prepaid expenses and other assets  3,107       (49,786)        8,977
      Accounts payable                  18,324        35,261         9,899
      Accrued expenses and other
       liabilities                     (26,280)        2,751        (3,898)
         Net cash provided by
          operating activities         285,417       200,068       203,583

Cash flows from investing activities:
  Purchases of investments            (356,741)      (94,970)     (101,682)
  Sales and maturities of investments  208,176       105,920        62,393
  Additions to properties and intangible
    assets                            (154,324)     (134,377)     (104,505)
  Proceeds from sales of properties
    and intangible assets                6,427         3,821         2,264
  Other                                 (1,079)       (1,437)       (4,949)
         Net cash used in investing
          activities                  (297,541)     (121,043)     (146,479)

Cash flows from financing activities:
  Issuances of stock under stock
   plans                                17,232         9,728         9,823
  Purchases of stock                   (19,989)      (20,722)      (27,599)
  Dividends paid                       (26,564)      (23,745)      (21,893)
  Payments of long-term debt                --       (40,000)      (27,500)
  Other                                 (2,235)       (1,692)        1,140
         Net cash used in financing
          activities                   (31,556)      (76,431)      (66,029)

Cash and cash equivalents:
  Net (decrease) increase in cash
    and cash equivalents               (43,680)        2,594        (8,925)
  Effect of exchange rate changes on
    cash and cash equivalents             (367)        1,176            88
  Balance at beginning of year         163,808       160,038       168,875
  Balance at end of year            $  119,761    $  163,808    $  160,038

See notes to consolidated financial statements.


ADOLPH COORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

                                                       Accumulated
                                                            other
                        Common stock                       compre-
                           issued       Paid-in  Retained  hensive
                      Class A  Class B  capital  earnings   income    Total
                                     (In thousands, except per share data)

Balances, December 28,
 1997               $ 1,260  $ 8,476  $    --  $730,628  $(3,796) $736,568
Shares issued under
  stock plans                    145   17,923                       18,068
Purchases of stock              (193)  (7,418)  (19,988)           (27,599)
Other comprehensive income                                 1,870     1,870
Net income                                       67,784             67,784
Cash dividends-$0.60 per
  share                                         (21,893)           (21,893)
Balances, December 27,
  1998                1,260    8,428   10,505   756,531   (1,926)  774,798
Shares issued under
  stock plans                    110   15,895                       16,005
Purchases of stock               (95) (20,627)                     (20,722)
Other comprehensive income                                 2,919     2,919
Net income                                       92,284             92,284
Cash dividends-$0.645 per
  share                                         (23,745)           (23,745)
Balances, December 26,
  1999                1,260    8,443    5,773   825,070      993   841,539
Shares issued under
  stock plans                    181   25,336                       25,517
Purchases of stock               (83) (19,906)                     (19,989)
Other comprehensive income                                 2,269     2,269
Net income                                      109,617            109,617
Cash dividends-$0.72 per
  share                                         (26,564)           (26,564)
Balances, December 31,
  2000              $ 1,260  $ 8,541  $11,203  $908,123  $ 3,262  $932,389


See notes to consolidated financial statements.

ADOLPH COORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 1:

Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Principles of consolidation:  Our consolidated financial statements include
our accounts and our majority-owned and controlled domestic and foreign
subsidiaries. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have
been eliminated. The equity method of accounting is used for our
investments in affiliates where we have the ability to exercise significant
influence (see Note 10). We have other investments that are accounted for
at cost.

Nature of operations:  We are a multinational brewer, marketer and seller
of beer and other malt-based beverages. The vast majority of our volume is
sold in the United States to independent wholesalers. Our international
volume is produced, marketed and distributed under varying business
arrangements including export, direct investment, joint ventures and
licensing.

Fiscal year:  Our fiscal year is a 52- or 53-week period ending on the last
Sunday in December. Fiscal year ended December 31, 2000, was a 53-week
period. Fiscal years ended December 26, 1999, and December 27, 1998, were
both 52-week periods.

Investments in marketable securities:  We invest our excess cash on hand in
interest-bearing marketable securities, which include corporate, government
agency and municipal debt instruments that are investment grade. At
December 31, 2000, $72.8 million of these securities were classified as
current assets and $193.7 million were classified as non-current assets, as
their maturities exceeded one year, ranging from 2002 through 2003. All of
these securities were considered to be available-for-sale. These securities
have been recorded at fair value, based on quoted market prices, through
other comprehensive income. Unrealized gains relating to these securities
totaled $1.9 million and $0.1 million at December 31, 2000, and December
26, 1999, respectively. Net gains realized on sales of available-for-sale
securities were immaterial in 2000, 1999 and 1998.

Concentration of credit risk:  The majority of our accounts receivable
balances are from malt beverage distributors. We secure substantially all
of this credit risk with purchase money security interests in inventory and
proceeds, personal guarantees and/or letters of credit.

Inventories:  Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost
is determined by the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for substantially all
inventories.

Current cost, as determined principally on the first-in, first-out method,
exceeded LIFO cost by $42.9 million and $41.0 million at December 31, 2000,
and December 26, 1999, respectively.

Properties:  Land, buildings and machinery and equipment are stated at
cost. Depreciation is provided principally on the straight-line method over
the following estimated useful lives:  buildings and improvements, 10 to 40
years; and machinery and equipment, 3 to 20 years. Accelerated depreciation
methods are generally used for income tax purposes. Expenditures for new
facilities and improvements that substantially extend the capacity or
useful life of an asset are capitalized. Start-up costs associated with
manufacturing facilities, but not related to construction, are expensed as
incurred. Ordinary repairs and maintenance are expensed as incurred.

Derivative instruments:  In the normal course of business, we are exposed
to fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and
production and packaging materials prices. We have established policies and
procedures that govern the management of these exposures through the use of
a variety of financial instruments. We employ various financial
instruments, including forward foreign exchange contracts, options and swap
agreements, to manage certain of the exposures when practical. By policy,
we do not enter into such contracts for the purpose of speculation.

Our derivative activities are subject to the management, direction and
control of the Financial Risk Management Committee (FRMC). The FRMC is
composed of the chief financial officer and other senior financial
management of the company. The FRMC sets forth risk management philosophy
and objectives through a corporate policy; provides guidelines for
derivative-instrument usage; and establishes procedures for control and
valuation, counterparty credit approval and the monitoring and reporting of
derivative activity.

Our objective in managing our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates,
foreign currency exchange rates and production and packaging materials
prices is to decrease the volatility of earnings and cash flows associated
with changes in the applicable rates and prices. To achieve this objective,
we primarily enter into forward foreign exchange contracts, options and
swap agreements whose values change in the opposite direction of the
anticipated cash flows. Derivative instruments related to forecasted
transactions are considered to hedge future cash flows, and the effective
portion of any gains or losses are included in other comprehensive income
until earnings are affected by the variability of cash flows. Any remaining
gain or loss is recognized currently in earnings. In calculating
effectiveness, we do not exclude any component of the derivative
instruments' gain or loss from the calculation. The cash flows of the
derivative instruments are expected to be highly effective in achieving
offsetting fluctuations in the cash flows of the hedged risk. If it becomes
probable that a forecasted transaction will no longer occur, the derivative
will continue to be carried on the balance sheet at fair value, and the
gains and losses that were accumulated in other comprehensive income will
be recognized immediately in earnings. If the derivative instruments are
terminated prior to their expiration dates, any cumulative gains and losses
are deferred and recognized in earnings over the remaining life of the
underlying exposure. If the hedged assets or liabilities were to be sold or
extinguished, we would recognize the gain or loss on the designated
financial instruments concurrent with when the sale or extinguishment of
the hedged assets or liabilities would be recognized in earnings. Cash
flows from our derivative instruments are classified in the same category
as the hedged item in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.

At December 31, 2000, we have certain forward foreign exchange contracts,
options and swap agreements outstanding. Substantially all of these
instruments have been designated as cash flow hedges, and these instruments
hedge a portion of our total exposure to the variability in future cash
flows relating to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and certain
production and packaging materials prices. The terms of these derivative
instruments extend from January 2001 through August 2002 and relate to
exposures extending through March 2003 (see Note 14).

During 2000 we had certain interest rate swap agreements outstanding to
help manage our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. These swap
agreements were not designated as hedges and accordingly, all gains and
losses on these agreements were recorded in interest income in the
accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income. At December 31, 2000, we
did not have any outstanding interest rate swap agreements.

During 2000, there were no significant gains or losses recognized in
earnings for hedge ineffectiveness. Also, we did not discontinue any hedges
as a result of an expectation that the forecasted transaction would no
longer occur. Accordingly, there were no gains or losses reclassified into
earnings as a result of a discontinuance of a hedge. At December 31, 2000,
the estimated deferred net gain that is expected to be recognized over the
next 12 months, on certain forward foreign exchange contracts and
production and packaging materials derivative contracts, when the
underlying forecasted cash flow transactions occur, is $4.2 million.

Excess of cost over net assets of businesses acquired:  The excess of cost
over the net assets of businesses acquired in transactions accounted for as
purchases is being amortized on a straight-line basis, generally over a 40-
year period. During 1998, we recorded a $2.2 million impairment charge,
which has been classified as a Special charge in the accompanying
Consolidated Statements of Income, related to long-lived assets at one of
our distributorships. The long-lived assets were considered impaired in
light of both historical losses and expected future, undiscounted cash
flows. The impairment charge represented a reduction of the carrying
amounts of the impaired assets to their estimated fair market values, which
were determined using a discounted cash flow model.

Impairment policy:  We periodically evaluate our assets to assess their
recoverability from future operations using undiscounted cash flows.
Impairment is recognized in operations if a permanent diminution in value
is judged to have occurred.

Revenue recognition:  Revenue is recognized upon shipment of our product to
our distributors.

Freight expense:  In 2000, the Financial Accounting Standards Board's
Emerging Issues Task Force issued a pronouncement stating that shipping and
handling costs should not be reported as a reduction to gross sales within
the income statement. As a result of this pronouncement, our finished
product freight expense, which is incurred upon shipment of our product to
our distributors, is now included within Cost of goods sold in our
accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income. This expense had previously
been reported as a reduction to gross sales; prior year financial
statements have been reclassified to reflect this change in where freight
expense is reported.

Advertising:  Advertising costs, included in Marketing, general and
administrative, are expensed when the advertising is run. Advertising
expense was $477.3 million, $443.4 million and $395.8 million for years
2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. We had $18.7 million and $17.7 million
of prepaid advertising costs reported as current and non-current assets at
December 31, 2000, and December 26, 1999, respectively.

Research and development:  Research and project development costs, included
in Marketing, general and administrative, are expensed as incurred. These
costs totaled $15.9 million, $15.5 million and $15.2 million in 2000, 1999
and 1998, respectively.

Environmental expenditures:  Environmental expenditures that relate to
current operations are expensed or capitalized, as appropriate.
Expenditures that relate to an existing condition caused by past
operations, which do not contribute to current or future revenue
generation, are expensed. Liabilities are recorded when environmental
assessments and/or remedial efforts are probable and the costs can be
estimated reasonably.

Statement of Cash Flows:  Cash equivalents represent highly liquid
investments with original maturities of 90 days or less. The fair value of
these investments approximates their carrying value. During 1999 and 1998,
we issued restricted common stock under our management incentive program.
We did not issue any restricted stock under this plan in 2000. These
issuances, net of forfeitures, resulted in net non-cash (decreases)
increases to the equity accounts of ($5.8) million, ($0.7) million and $2.4
million in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. Also during 2000, 1999 and
1998, equity was increased by the non-cash tax effects of the exercise of
stock options under our stock plans of $14.2 million, $7.0 million and $5.9
million, respectively. Income taxes paid were $49.6 million in 2000, $42.4
million in 1999 and $39.6 million in 1998.

Use of estimates:  The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles requires our management to
make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the
financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ
from those estimates.

Reclassifications:  Certain reclassifications have been made to the 1999
and 1998 financial statements to conform with the 2000 presentation.

NOTE 2:

Properties

The cost of properties and related accumulated depreciation, depletion and
amortization consists of the following:
                                                 As of
                                 December 31,          December 26,
                                        2000                  1999
                                          (In thousands)

Land and improvements             $   93,507            $   94,687
Buildings                            508,443               501,013
Machinery and equipment            1,731,463             1,680,600
Natural resource properties            7,373                 7,423
Construction in progress              91,964                44,845
                                   2,432,750             2,328,568
Less accumulated depreciation,
 depletion and amortization       (1,696,957)           (1,614,567)

Net properties                    $  735,793            $  714,001

Interest incurred, capitalized, expensed and paid were as follows:

                                   For the years ended
                        December 31,   December 26,    December 27,
                               2000           1999            1998
                                      (In thousands)

Interest costs              $ 9,567        $ 8,478         $12,532
Interest capitalized         (3,153)        (4,121)         (2,729)

Interest expensed           $ 6,414        $ 4,357         $ 9,803

Interest paid               $ 7,664        $ 9,981         $12,808

NOTE 3:

Leases

We lease certain office facilities and operating equipment under cancelable
and non-cancelable agreements accounted for as operating leases. At
December 31, 2000, the minimum aggregate rental commitment under all non-
cancelable leases was (in thousands):

Fiscal year                                  Amount
                                         (In thousands)
2001                                         $  6,065
2002                                            5,412
2003                                            4,494
2004                                            4,337
2005                                            3,855
Thereafter                                      6,686

Total                                       $  30,849

Total rent expense was (in thousands) $11,502, $10,978 and $11,052 for
years 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

NOTE 4:

Debt

Long-term debt consists of the following:

                                                 As of
                            December 31, 2000          December 26, 1999
                            Carrying        Fair       Carrying        Fair
                              value        value         value        value
                                             (In thousands)

Senior Notes                $100,000    $100,300       $100,000    $ 99,000
Industrial development bonds   5,000       5,000          5,000       5,000

                            $105,000    $105,300       $105,000    $104,000

Fair values were determined using discounted cash flows at current interest
rates for similar borrowings.

On July 14, 1995, we completed a $100 million private placement of
unsecured Senior Notes at fixed interest rates ranging from 6.76% to 6.95%
per annum. Interest on the notes is due semiannually in January and July.
The principal amount of the Notes is payable as follows:  $80 million in
2002 and $20 million in 2005. The terms of our private placement Notes
allow for maximum liens, transactions and obligations. At December 31,
2000, we were in compliance with these requirements.

We are obligated to pay the principal, interest and premium, if any, on the
$5 million, City of Wheat Ridge, Colorado Industrial Development Bonds
(Adolph Coors Company Project) Series 1993. The bonds mature in 2013 and
are secured by a letter of credit. They are currently variable rate
securities with interest payable on the first of March, June, September and
December. The interest rate on December 31, 2000, was 5.0%. We are required
to maintain a minimum tangible net worth and a certain debt-to-total
capitalization ratio under the Bond agreements. At December 31, 2000, we
were in compliance with these requirements.

We have an unsecured, committed credit arrangement totaling $200 million,
all of which was available as of December 31, 2000. This line of credit has
a five-year term which expires in 2003, with one remaining optional one-
year extension. A facilities fee is paid on the total amount of the
committed credit. Under the arrangement, we are required to maintain a
certain debt-to-total capitalization ratio and were in compliance at year-
end 2000.

Our distribution subsidiary in Japan has two revolving lines of credit that
it utilizes in its normal operations. Each of these facilities provides up
to 500 million yen (approximately $4.4 million each as of December 31,
2000) in short-term financing. As of December 31, 2000, the approximate yen
equivalent of $2.6 million was outstanding under these arrangements and is
included in Accrued expenses and other liabilities in the accompanying
Consolidated Balance Sheets.

NOTE 5:

Income Taxes

Income tax expense (benefit) includes the following current and deferred
provisions:
                                          For the years ended
                               December 31,   December 26,   December 27,
                                      2000           1999           1998
                                             (In thousands)
Current:
  Federal                        $  29,573      $  24,088      $  35,351
  State and foreign                  9,282          6,686         10,867
Total current tax expense           38,855         30,774         46,218

Deferred:
  Federal                            6,669         19,035         (7,401)
  State and foreign                    201          1,600         (1.350)
Total deferred tax
  expense (benefit)                  6,870         20,635         (8,751)

Other:
  Allocation to paid-in capital     14,183          6,974          5,849

Total income tax expense         $  59,908      $  58,383      $  43,316

Our income tax expense varies from the amount expected by applying the
statutory federal corporate tax rate to income as follows:

                                          For the years ended
                                December 31,   December 26,    December 27,
                                       2000           1999            1998

Expected tax rate                     35.0%          35.0%           35.0%
State income taxes, net of
  federal benefit                      3.7            3.7             3.1
Effect of foreign investments         (3.1)           1.1             2.5
Non-taxable income                    (0.2)          (0.8)           (1.7)
Other, net                            (0.1)          (0.2)            0.1
  Effective tax rate                  35.3%          38.8%           39.0%

Our deferred taxes are composed of the following:

                                                       As of
                                           December 31,   December 26,
                                                  2000           1999
                                                   (In thousands)
Current deferred tax assets:
  Deferred compensation and other
    employee related                          $ 14,212       $ 12,052
  Balance sheet reserves and accruals           11,613         13,258
  Other                                             --            211
  Valuation allowance                           (1,146)        (1,146)
    Total current deferred tax assets           24,679         24,375

Current deferred tax liabilities:
  Balance sheet reserves and accruals               --          3,906

      Net current deferred tax assets         $ 24,679       $ 20,469

Non-current deferred tax assets:
  Deferred compensation and other
    employee related                          $  9,602       $ 14,578
  Balance sheet reserves and accruals            8,410          4,913
  Retirement benefits                           11,365          9,947
  Environmental accruals                         2,274          2,264
  Deferred foreign losses                        1,395          1,623
  Partnership investments                        3,297             --
    Total non-current deferred tax assets       36,343         33,325

Non-current deferred tax liabilities:
  Depreciation and capitalized interest        110,225        109,425
  Deferred benefit on foreign investment        16,104             --
  Other                                             --          2,633
    Total non-current deferred tax liabilities 126,329        112,058

     Net non-current deferred tax liabilities $ 89,986       $ 78,733

The deferred tax assets have been reduced by a valuation allowance, because
management believes it is more likely than not that such benefits will not
be fully realized. The valuation allowance remained unchanged during 2000.

In 2000, we realized a tax benefit pertaining to the Spain brewery closure.
We also resolved the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) examination of our
federal income tax returns through 1995. The IRS is currently examining the
federal income tax returns through 1998. In the opinion of management,
adequate accruals have been provided for all income tax matters and related
interest.

NOTE 6:

Stock Option, Restricted Stock Award and Employee Award Plans

At December 31, 2000, we had three stock-based compensation plans, which
are described in greater detail below. We apply Accounting Principles Board
Opinion No. 25 and related interpretations in accounting for our plans.
Accordingly, as the exercise prices upon grant are equal to quoted market
values, no compensation cost has been recognized for the stock option
portion of the plans. Had compensation cost been determined for our stock
option portion of the plans based on the fair value at the grant dates for
awards under those plans consistent with the alternative method set forth
under Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 123, our net
income and earnings per share would have been reduced to the pro forma
amounts indicated below:

                                                2000       1999      1998
                                                 (In thousands, except
                                                    per share data)

Net income                     As reported    $109,617   $ 92,284  $ 67,784
                               Pro forma      $ 96,164   $ 82,222  $ 61,484

Earnings per share - basic     As reported    $   2.98   $   2.51  $   1.87
                               Pro forma      $   2.61   $   2.24  $   1.69

Earnings per share - diluted   As reported    $   2.93   $   2.46  $   1.81
                               Pro forma      $   2.57   $   2.20  $   1.64

The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using
the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted-average
assumptions:
                                                2000       1999      1998

Risk-free interest rate                          6.72%      5.03%     5.78%
Dividend yield                                   1.27%      1.09%     1.63%
Volatility                                      31.41%     30.66%    32.56%
Expected term (years)                            6.2        7.8      10.0
Weighted average fair market value            $ 20.17    $ 23.28   $ 14.96

1990 Plan:  The 1990 Equity Incentive Plan, (1990 EI Plan) provides for two
types of grants:  stock options and restricted stock awards. The stock
options have a term of 10 years with exercise prices equal to fair market
value on the day of the grant, and one-third of the stock option grant
vests in each of the three successive years after the date of grant. During
2000, we discontinued our 1983 Stock Option Plan. No options had been
granted under this plan since 1989. The 716,886 shares available for grant
under the 1983 plan were transferred to the 1990 plan. Total authorized
shares for issuance under the 1990 EI Plan are 8 million.

A summary of the status of our 1990 EI Plan as of December 31, 2000,
December 26, 1999, and December 27, 1998, and changes during the years
ending on those dates is presented below:
                                                               Options
                                                             exercisable
                                                             at year-end
                                               Weighted-          Weighted-
                         Options                average            average
                        available  Outstanding exercise           exercise
                        for grant    options     price    Shares    price

As of December 28, 1997  4,675,195  2,252,179    $19.61   769,202    $18.25
    Granted               (794,283)   794,283     33.83
    Exercised                   --   (616,914)    18.66
    Forfeited               99,331    (99,331)    25.06
As of December 27, 1998  3,980,243  2,330,217     24.47   630,457     19.06
    Granted               (917,951)   917,951     57.86
    Exercised                   --   (494,424)    21.54
    Forfeited              110,289   (110,289)    38.00
As of December 26, 1999  3,172,581  2,643,455     36.05   881,161     23.26
    Granted             (1,179,094) 1,179,094     51.37
    Exercised                   --   (900,804)    23.80
    Forfeited              160,148   (160,148)    47.76
As of December 31, 2000  2,153,635  2,761,597    $45.91   910,548    $35.21

The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding
at December 31, 2000:

                     Options outstanding                Options exercisable
                           Weighted-
                            average     Weighted-                 Weighted-
   Range of                remaining     average                   average
   exercise               contractual   exercise                  exercise
    prices       Shares   life (years)    price          Shares     price
$16.75-$22.00    382,801       5.8        $19.59          382,801   $19.59
$26.88-$33.41    427,227       7.0        $33.35          236,933   $33.31
$35.81-$59.25  1,886,248       8.6        $53.41          268,507   $56.67
$60.53-$75.22     65,321       9.7        $65.65           22,307   $64.85
$16.75-$75.22  2,761,597       7.8        $45.91          910,548   $35.21

We issued 4,953 shares and 85,651 shares of restricted stock in 1999 and
1998, respectively, under the 1990 EI Plan. No restricted shares were
issued under this plan in 2000. For the 1999 shares, the vesting period is
two years from the date of grant. For the 1998 shares, the vesting period
is three years from the date of the grant and is either prorata for each
successive year or cliff vesting. The compensation cost associated with
these awards is amortized over the vesting period. Compensation cost
associated with these awards was immaterial in 2000, 1999 and 1998.

1991 Plan: The Equity Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (EC
Plan) provides for two grants of the Company's stock:  the first grant is
automatic and equals 20% of the director's annual retainer, and the second
grant is elective and covers all or any portion of the balance of the
retainer. A director may elect to receive his or her remaining 80% retainer
in cash, restricted stock or any combination of the two. Grants of stock
vest after completion of the director's annual term. The compensation cost
associated with the EC Plan is amortized over the director's term.
Compensation cost associated with this plan was immaterial in 2000, 1999
and 1998. Common stock reserved for the 1991 plan as of December 31, 2000,
was 29,296 shares.

1995 Supplemental Compensation Plan:  This supplemental compensation plan
covers substantially all our employees. Under the plan, management is
allowed to recognize employee achievements through awards of Coors Stock
Units (CSUs) or cash. CSUs are a measurement component equal to the fair
market value of our Class B common stock. CSUs have a one-year holding
period after which the recipient may redeem the CSUs for cash, or, if the
holder has 100 or more CSUs, for shares of our Class B common stock. No
awards were made under this plan in 2000. Awards under the plan in 1999 and
1998 were immaterial. There are 84,000 shares authorized under this plan.
The number of shares of common stock available under this plan as of
December 31, 2000, was 83,707 shares.

NOTE 7:

Employee Retirement Plans

We maintain several defined benefit pension plans for the majority of our
employees. Benefits are based on years of service and average base
compensation levels over a period of years. Plan assets consist primarily
of equity, interest-bearing investments and real estate. Our funding policy
is to contribute annually not less than the ERISA minimum funding
standards, nor more than the maximum amount that can be deducted for
federal income tax purposes. Total expense for all these plans was $14.7
million in 2000, $11.6 million in 1999 and $11.9 million in 1998. These
amounts include our matching for the savings and investment (thrift) plan
of $7.3 million in 2000, $6.1 million in 1999 and $6.1 million in 1998. The
increase in pension expense from 1999 to 2000 is primarily due to the full-
year effect of the improvements to the retirement plan benefit formula that
became effective July 1, 1999. In November 1998, our board of directors
approved changes to one of the plans that were effective July 1, 1999. The
changes increased the projected benefit obligation at the effective date by
approximately $48 million. To offset the increase in the projected benefit
obligation of the defined benefit pension plan, we made a $48 million
contribution to the plan in January 1999. In 2000, the funded position of
the Coors Retirement Plan was eroded somewhat due to the combined effects
of a lower discount rate and a challenging investment environment.

Note that the settlement rates shown in the table on the following page
were selected for use at the end of each of the years shown. Our actuary
calculates pension expense annually based on data available at the
beginning of each year, which includes the settlement rate selected and
disclosed at the end of the previous year.

                                            For the years ended
                                 December 31,   December 26,   December 27,
                                        2000           1999           1998
                                               (In thousands)
Components of net periodic
  pension cost:
Service cost-benefits earned
  during the year                   $ 16,467       $ 16,456       $ 14,449
Interest cost on projected
  benefit obligation                  44,192         38,673         33,205
Expected return on plan assets       (58,108)       (52,173)       (42,498)
Amortization of prior service cost     5,906          4,161          2,274
Amortization of net transition amount (1,690)        (1,690)        (1,691)
Recognized net actuarial loss            590             75             28

  Net periodic pension cost         $  7,357       $  5,502       $  5,767

The changes in the benefit obligation and plan assets and the funded status
of the pension plans are as follows:
                                                          As of
                                               December 31,    December 26,
                                                      2000            1999
                                                          (In thousands)
Change in projected benefit obligation:
Projected benefit obligation at
  beginning of year                              $ 548,428       $ 532,556
Service cost                                        16,467          16,456
Interest cost                                       44,192          38,673
Amendments                                             871          48,573
Actuarial loss (gain)                               31,974         (63,326)
Benefits paid                                      (27,512)        (24,504)

Projected benefit obligation at end of year      $ 614,420       $ 548,428

Change in plan assets:
Fair value of assets at beginning of year        $ 627,153       $ 480,000
Actual return on plan assets                       (20,376)        124,840
Employer contributions                               2,561          50,078
Benefits paid                                      (27,512)        (24,504)
Expenses paid                                       (3,326)         (3,261)

Fair value of plan assets at end of year         $ 578,500       $ 627,153

Funded status - (shortfall) excess               $ (35,920)      $  78,725
Unrecognized net actuarial loss (gain)               7,722        (105,473)
Unrecognized prior service cost                     53,680          58,715
Unrecognized net transition amount                     962            (728)

  Prepaid benefit cost                           $  26,444       $  31,239


                                               2000        1999       1998
Weighted average assumptions as of year-end:
Discount rate                                  7.75%       8.00%      7.00%

Rate of compensation increase                  4.75%       5.25%      4.50%

Expected return on plan assets                10.50%      10.50%     10.50%

NOTE 8:

Non-Pension Postretirement Benefits

We have postretirement plans that provide medical benefits and life
insurance for retirees and eligible dependents. The plans are not funded.

The obligation under these plans was determined by the application of the
terms of medical and life insurance plans, together with relevant actuarial
assumptions and health care cost trend rates ranging ratably from 8.0% in
2000 to 5.25% in 2007. The discount rate used in determining the
accumulated postretirement benefit obligation was 7.75%, 8.00% and 7.00% at
December 31, 2000, December 26, 1999, and December 27, 1998, respectively.
In November 1998, our board of directors approved changes to one of the
plans. The changes were effective July 1, 1999, and increased the
accumulated postretirement benefit obligation at the effective date by
approximately $6.7 million.

The changes in the benefit obligation and plan assets and the funded status
of the postretirement benefit plan are as follows:

                                             For the years ended
                                 December 31,   December 26,   December 27,
                                        2000           1999           1998
                                                 (In thousands)
Components of net periodic
  postretirement benefit cost:
Service cost - benefits earned
  during the year                   $  1,477       $  1,404       $  1,484
Interest cost on projected
  benefit obligation                   5,613          5,112          4,707
Recognized net actuarial gain            (51)          (138)          (207)
  Net periodic postretirement
    benefit cost                    $  7,039       $  6,378       $  5,984

                                                          As of
                                               December 31,    December 26,
                                                      2000            1999
                                                       (In thousands)
Change in projected postretirement
  benefit obligation:
Projected benefit obligation at beginning of year $ 72,400        $ 72,122
Service cost                                         1,477           1,404
Interest cost                                        5,613           5,112
Amendments                                              --             554
Actuarial loss (gain)                                3,264          (2,497)
Benefits paid                                       (5,004)         (4,295)
  Projected postretirement benefit
    obligation at end of year                     $ 77,750        $ 72,400

Change in plan assets:
Fair value of assets at beginning of year         $     --        $     --
Actual return on plan assets                            --              --
Employer contributions                               5,004           4,295
Benefits paid                                       (5,004)         (4,295)
  Fair value of plan assets at end of year        $     --        $     --

Funded status - shortfall                         $(77,750)       $(72,400)
Unrecognized net actuarial gain                     (4,662)         (7,958)
Unrecognized prior service cost                        261             242

Accrued postretirement benefits                    (82,151)        (80,116)

Less current portion                                 5,004           4,295

  Long-term postretirement benefits               $(77,147)       $(75,821)

Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the
amounts reported for the health care plans. A one-percentage-point change
in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:

                                          One-percentage-   One-percentage-
                                          point increase    point decrease
                                                   (In thousands)
Effect on total of service and interest
  cost components                                 $  485           $  (427)
Effect of postretirement benefit obligation       $4,120           $(3,660)

NOTE 9:

Special Charges (Credits)

Our annual results for 2000 include net pretax special charges of $15.2
million, which resulted in after-tax expense of $0.13 per basic and diluted
share. We incurred a total special charge of $20.6 million related to our
decision to close our Spain brewery and commercial operations. The brewery
was acquired in March 1994 and provided services for the production and
sales to unaffiliated distributors of Coors products in Spain and certain
European markets outside of Spain. The decision to close the Spain
operations came as a result of an unfavorable outlook from various analyses
we performed which focused on the potential for improved distribution
channels, the viability of Coors brands in the Spain market and additional
contract brewing opportunities. Of the $20.6 million charge, $11.3 million
related to severance and other related closure costs for approximately 100
employees, $4.9 million related to a fixed asset impairment charge and $4.4
million for the write-off of our cumulative translation adjustments,
previously recorded in equity, related to our Spain operations. In 2000,
approximately $9.6 million of severance and other related closure costs
were paid out. These payments were funded out of current cash balances. At
December 31, 2000, there was a remaining reserve of approximately $1.7
million for severance and other related closure costs. These costs are
expected to be paid by the end of the first quarter of 2001 and will also
be funded out of current cash balances. Our 2000 special charge was
partially offset by a credit of $5.4 million related to an insurance claim
settlement.

Our annual results for 1999 included a pretax special charge of $5.7
million, which resulted in after-tax expense of $0.10 per basic and diluted
share. Approximately $3.7 million of this charge related to a restructuring
of part of our operations which primarily included a voluntary severance
program involving our engineering and construction work force.
Approximately 50 engineering and construction employees accepted severance
packages under the voluntary program. Also included in the $5.7 million
charge was approximately $2.0 million of special charges incurred to
facilitate distributor network improvements. During 1999 and 2000 we paid
out $0.9 million and $2.3 million, respectively, of severance costs and at
December 31, 2000, a severance reserve of $0.5 million remained. These
severance costs are expected to be paid out in the first quarter of 2001.

Our annual results for 1998 included a pretax net special charge of $19.4
million, which resulted in after-tax expense of $0.32 per basic share
($0.31 per diluted share). This charge included a $17.2 million pretax
charge for severance and related costs of restructuring our production
operations. The severance costs related to the restructuring were comprised
of costs under a voluntary severance program involving our production work
force plus severance costs incurred for a small number of salaried
employees. Approximately 200 production employees accepted severance
packages under the voluntary program. These severance costs have all been
paid as of December 31, 2000. Also included in the 1998 results was a $2.2
million pretax charge for the impairment of certain long-lived assets at
one of our distributorships.

NOTE 10:

Investments

Equity method investments:  We have investments in affiliates that are
accounted for using the equity method of accounting. These investments
aggregated $56.3 million and $69.2 million at December 31, 2000, and
December 26, 1999, respectively. These investment amounts are included in
Other assets on our accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Summarized condensed balance sheet and income statement information for our
equity method investments are as follows:

Summarized condensed balance sheets:
                                                          As of
                                               December 31,    December 26,
                                                      2000            1999
                                                         (In thousands)

Current assets                                     $75,464         $99,539
Non-current assets                                 $87,353         $84,945
Current liabilities                                $34,907         $34,317
Non-current liabilities                            $   264         $    75

Summarized condensed statements of operations:

                                            For the years ended
                               December 31,    December 26,    December 27,
                                      2000            1999            1998
                                              (In thousands)

Net sales                         $490,227        $449,238        $453,246
Gross profit                      $132,805        $116,970        $ 97,478
Net income                        $ 77,575        $ 68,375        $ 59,650
Company's equity in net income    $ 42,395        $ 36,958        $ 33,227

Coors Canada, Inc. (CCI), one of our fully owned subsidiaries, formed a
partnership, Coors Canada, with Molson, Inc. to market and sell Coors
products in Canada. Coors Canada began operations January 1, 1998. CCI and
Molson have a 50.1% and 49.9% interest, respectively. CCI's investment in
the partnership is accounted for using the equity method of accounting due
to Molson's participating rights in the partnership's business operations.
The partnership agreement has an indefinite term and can be canceled at the
election of either partner. Under the partnership agreement, Coors Canada
is responsible for marketing Coors products in Canada, while the
partnership contracts with Molson Canada for brewing, distribution and
sales of these brands. Coors Canada receives an amount from Molson Canada
generally equal to net sales revenue generated from the Coors brands less
production, distribution, sales and overhead costs related to these sales.
During 2000, CCI received a distribution from the partnership of a U.S.
dollar equivalent of approximately $25.8 million. Our share of net income
from this partnership, which was approximately $25.4 million in 2000, is
included in Sales on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income.
Also see discussion in Note 13.

In December 2000, we made certain changes to the Canadian partnership
arrangement. Also in December 2000, we entered into a brewing and packaging
arrangement with Molson in which we will have access to some of Molson's
available production capacity in Canada. The Molson capacity available to
us under this arrangement is expected to reach an annual contract brewing
rate of up to 500,000 barrels over the next few years.

We operate a production joint venture partnership with Owens-Brockway Glass
Container, Inc. (Owens), the Rocky Mountain Bottle Company (RMBC), to
produce glass bottles at our glass manufacturing facility. The
partnership's initial term is until 2005 and can be extended for additional
two-year periods. RMBC has a contract to supply our bottle requirements and
Owens has a contract to supply bottles for our bottle requirements not met
by RMBC. In 2000, RMBC produced approximately 1.1 billion bottles. We
purchased all of the bottles produced by RMBC.

The expenditures under this agreement in 2000, 1999 and 1998 were
approximately $86 million, $69 million and $67 million, respectively. Our
commitment for our 2001 bottle purchases from the joint venture is
estimated to be approximately $86 million. During 2000, we received a $20.2
million cash distribution from this joint venture. Our share of net income
from this partnership is included within Cost of goods sold on the
accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income.

In 1994, we formed a 50/50 production joint venture with American National
Can Company (ANC) to produce beverage cans and ends at our manufacturing
facilities for sale to us and outside customers. In 2000, we purchased all
the cans and ends sold by the joint venture. The agreement has an initial
term of seven years and can be extended for two additional three-year
periods. In 2000, we notified ANC of our intent to terminate the joint
venture in 2001. We are evaluating other alternatives, including a new
arrangement with Rexam LLC, who recently acquired ANC. The aggregate amount
paid to the joint venture for cans and ends in 2000, 1999 and 1998 was
approximately $230 million, $223 million and $231 million, respectively.
The estimated cost in 2001 under this agreement for cans and ends is $203
million. Additionally, during 2000, we received an $8.5 million cash
distribution from this joint venture. Our share of net income from this
partnership is included within Cost of goods sold on the accompanying
Consolidated Statements of Income.

In 1992, we spun off our wholly owned subsidiary, ACX Technologies, Inc.,
which has subsequently changed its name to Graphic Packaging International
Corporation. We are a limited partner in a partnership in which a
subsidiary of Graphic Packaging is the general partner. The partnership
owns, develops, operates and sells certain real estate previously owned
directly by us. Under the agreement, cash distributions and income or
losses are allocated equally between the partners until we recover our
investment. After we recover our investment, cash distributions are split
80% to the general partner and 20% to CBC, while income or losses are
allocated in such a manner to bring our partnership interest to 20%. In
late 1999, we recovered our investment. In 2000, we received an $814,000
cash distribution from the partnership.

Cost investments: In 1991, we entered into an agreement with Colorado
Baseball Partnership 1993, Ltd. for an equity investment and multiyear
signage and advertising package. This commitment, totaling approximately
$30 million, was finalized upon the awarding of a National League baseball
franchise to Colorado in 1991. The initial investment as a limited partner
has been paid. The carrying value of this investment approximates its fair
value at December 31, 2000, and December 26, 1999. During 1998, the
agreement was modified to extend the term and expand the conditions of the
multiyear signage and advertising package. The recognition of the liability
under the multiyear signage and advertising package began in 1995 with the
opening of Coors Fieldr. This liability is included in the total
advertising and promotion commitment discussed in Note 14.

NOTE 11:

Stock Activity and Earnings Per Share

Capital stock:  Both classes of common stock have the same rights and
privileges, except for voting, which (with certain limited exceptions) is
the sole right of the holder of Class A stock.

Activity in our Class A and Class B common stock, net of forfeitures, for
each of the three years ended December 31, 2000, December 26, 1999, and
December 27, 1998, is summarized below:
                                                Common stock
                                           Class A         Class B

Balances at December 28, 1997             1,260,000      35,599,356

Shares issued under stock plans                  --         684,808
Purchases of stock                               --        (888,858)

Balances at December 27, 1998             1,260,000      35,395,306

Shares issued under stock plans                  --         478,390
Purchases of stock                               --        (411,662)

Balances at December 26, 1999             1,260,000      35,462,034

Shares issued under stock plans                  --         817,395
Purchases of stock                               --        (408,308)

Balances at December 31, 2000             1,260,000      35,871,121

At December 31, 2000, December 26, 1999, and December 27, 1998, 25 million
shares of $1 par value preferred stock were authorized but unissued.

The board of directors authorized the repurchase during 2000, 1999 and 1998
of up to $40 million each year of our outstanding Class B common stock on
the open market. During 2000, 1999 and 1998, 308,000 shares, 232,300 shares
and 766,200 shares, respectively, were repurchased for approximately $17.6
million, $12.2 million and $24.9 million, respectively, under this stock
repurchase program. In November 2000, the board of directors extended the
program and authorized the repurchase during 2001 of up to $40 million of
stock.

Earnings per share: Basic and diluted net income per common share were
arrived at using the calculations outlined below:

                                        For the years ended
                                December 31,   December 26,  December 27,
                                       2000           1999          1998
                                  (In thousands, except per share data)
Net income available to
  common shareholders              $109,617        $92,284       $67,784

Weighted-average shares
  for basic EPS                      36,785         36,729        36,312
Effect of dilutive securities:
  Stock options                         606            640         1,077
  Contingent shares not included in
   shares outstanding for basic EPS      59             88           126
Weighted-average shares
  for diluted EPS                    37,450         37,457        37,515

Basic EPS                             $2.98          $2.51         $1.87

Diluted EPS                           $2.93          $2.46         $1.81

The dilutive effects of stock options were arrived at by applying the
treasury stock method, assuming we were to repurchase common shares with
the proceeds from stock option exercises. Stock options to purchase 6,555
and 871,409 shares of common stock were not included in the computation of
2000 and 1999 earnings per share, respectively, because the stock options'
exercise prices were greater than the average market price of the common
shares.

NOTE 12:

Other Comprehensive Income

                                           Unrealized
                             Foreign     gain on available-    Accumulated
                             currency   for-sale securities       other
                          translation    and derivative      comprehensive
                          adjustments      instruments           income
                                             (In thousands)

Balances, December 28, 1997   $(3,796)       $    --               $(3,796)

Foreign currency translation
  adjustments                   2,344                                2,344
Unrealized gain on available-
  for-sale securities                            721                   721
Tax expense                      (914)          (281)               (1,195)

Balances, December 27, 1998    (2,366)           440                (1,926)

Foreign currency translation
  adjustments                  (5,745)                              (5,745)
Unrealized loss on available-
  for-sale securities                           (648)                 (648)
Unrealized gain on derivative
  instruments                                 11,159                11,159
Tax benefit (expense)           2,226         (4,073)               (1,847)

Balances, December 26, 1999    (5,885)         6,878                   993

Foreign currency translation
  adjustments                   4,460                                4,460

Unrealized gain on available-
  for-sale securities                          2,045                 2,045
Unrealized loss of derivative
  instruments                                 (3,221)               (3,221)
Reclassification adjustment for
  net gains released in net income
  on available-for-sale securities
  and derivative instruments                  (4,058)               (4,058)
Reclassification adjustment for
  accumulated translation
  adjustment of closure of Spain
  operations                    4,434                                4,434
Tax (expense) benefit          (3,380)         1,989                (1,391)

Balances, December 31, 2000   $  (371)       $ 3,633               $ 3,262

NOTE 13:

Segment and Geographic Information

We have one reporting segment relating to the continuing operations of
producing, marketing and selling malt-based beverages. Our operations are
conducted in the United States, the country of domicile, and several
foreign countries, none of which is individually significant to our overall
operations. The net revenues from external customers, operating income and
pretax income attributable to the United States and all foreign countries
for
the years ended December 31, 2000, December 26, 1999, and December 27,
1998, are as follows:
                                     2000           1999           1998
                                              (In thousands)
United States and its territories:
  Net revenues                   $2,331,693     $2,177,407     $2,028,485
  Operating income               $  163,563     $  148,823     $  103,411
  Pretax income                  $  185,082     $  161,281     $  115,880

Other foreign countries:
  Net revenues                   $   82,722     $   59,077     $   43,381
  Operating (loss) income        $  (12,937)    $   (8,288)    $      408
  Pretax (loss) income           $  (15,557)    $  (10,614)    $   (4,780)

Included in 2000, 1999 and 1998 foreign revenues are earnings from CCI, our
investment accounted for using the equity method of accounting (see Note
10). Included in operating income and pretax income are net special charges
of $15.2 million, $5.7 million and $19.4 million, for 2000, 1999 and 1998,
respectively. The 2000 net special charge included a credit of $5.4 million
related to the United States and its territories and a charge of $20.6
million related to other foreign countries. The special charges recorded in
1999 and 1998 related entirely to the United States and its territories.

The net long-lived assets located in the United States and its territories
and all other foreign countries as of December 31, 2000, and December 26,
1999, are as follows:

                                         2000           1999
                                          (In thousands)

United States and its territories     $732,171       $705,062
Other foreign countries                  3,622          8,939

  Total                               $735,793       $714,001


The total net export sales (in thousands) during 2000, 1999 and 1998 were
$202,832, $185,260 and $150,964, respectively.

NOTE 14:

Commitments and Contingencies

Insurance:  It is our policy to act as a self-insurer for certain insurable
risks consisting primarily of employee health insurance programs, workers'
compensation and general liability contract deductibles. During 2000, we
fully insured future risks for long-term disability, and, in most states,
workers' compensation, but maintained a self-insured position for workers'
compensation for certain self-insured states and for claims incurred prior
to the inception of the insurance coverage in Colorado in 1997.

Letters of credit:  As of December 31, 2000, we had approximately $5.6
million outstanding in letters of credit with certain financial
institutions. These letters generally expire within 12 months from the
dates of issuance, with expiration dates ranging from March 2001 to October
2001. These letters of credit are being maintained as security for
performance on certain insurance policies and for operations of underground
storage tanks, as well as to secure principal and interest on industrial
revenue bonds issued by us.

Financial guarantees:  We have financial guarantees outstanding on behalf
of our subsidiary, Coors Japan, and certain third parties. These subsidiary
guarantees are primarily for working capital lines of credit and payments
of certain duties and taxes. The third-party guarantees relate to bank
loans provided to companies that acquired certain strategic
distributorships. At December 31, 2000, our financial guarantees totaled
approximately $17.1 million, of which $13.9 million were on behalf of our
subsidiary, Coors Japan.

Power supplies:  In 1995, Coors Energy Company (CEC), a fully owned
subsidiary of ours, sold a portion of its coal reserves to Bowie Resources
Ltd. (Bowie). CEC also entered into a 10-year agreement to purchase 100% of
the brewery's coal requirements from Bowie. The coal then is sold to
Trigen-Nations Energy Corporation, L.L.L.P. (Trigen).

In 1995, we sold our power plant and support facilities to Trigen. In
conjunction with this sale, we agreed to purchase the electricity and steam
needed to operate the brewery's Golden facilities through 2020. Our
financial commitment under this agreement is divided between a fixed, non-
cancelable cost of approximately $13.7 million for 2001, which adjusts
annually for inflation, and a variable cost, which is generally based on
fuel cost and our electricity and steam use.

Supply contracts:  We have various long-term supply contracts with
unaffiliated third parties to purchase materials used in production and
packaging, such as starch, cans and glass. The supply contracts provide
that we purchase certain minimum levels of materials for terms extending
through 2005. The approximate future purchase commitments under these
supply contracts are:

Fiscal year                                      Amount
                                             (In thousands)
2001                                            $ 162,000
2002                                              115,000
2003                                              115,000
2004                                              115,000
2005                                               24,000

Total                                           $ 531,000

Our total purchases (in thousands) under these contracts in fiscal year
2000, 1999 and 1998 were approximately $149,000, $108,900 and $95,600,
respectively.

Graphic Packaging International Corporation:  In 1992, we spun off our
wholly owned subsidiary, ACX Technologies Inc., which has subsequently
changed its name to Graphic Packaging International Corporation. William K.
Coors is a trustee of family trusts that collectively own all of our Class
A voting common stock, approximately 31% of our Class B common stock,
approximately 43% of Graphic Packaging's common stock and 100% of Graphic
Packaging's convertible preferred stock. Peter H. Coors is also a trustee
of some of these trusts.

We have a packaging supply agreement with a subsidiary of Graphic Packaging
under which we purchase a large portion of our paperboard requirements.
This contract expires in 2002. Our purchases under the packaging agreement
in 2000 totaled approximately $112 million. We expect purchases in 2001
under the packaging agreement to be approximately $133 million.

Advertising and promotions:  We have various long-term non-cancelable
commitments for advertising and promotions, including marketing at sports
arenas, stadiums and other venues and events. At December 31, 2000, the
future commitments are as follows:

Fiscal year                                      Amount
                                             (In thousands)
2001                                            $ 37,750
2002                                              37,205
2003                                              12,432
2004                                              10,598
2005                                               8,297
Thereafter                                        19,244

Total                                           $125,526

Environmental:  We were one of numerous parties named by the Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) as a "potentially responsible party" at the Lowry
site, a landfill owned by the City and County of Denver. In 1990, we
recorded a special pretax charge of $30 million, representing our portion,
for potential cleanup costs of the site based upon an assumed present value
of $120 million in total site remediation costs. We also agreed to pay a
specified share of costs if total remediation costs exceeded this amount.

The City and County of Denver; Waste Management of Colorado, Inc.; and
Chemical Waste Management, Inc. are expected to implement site remediation.
Chemical Waste Management's projected costs to meet the remediation
objectives and requirements are currently below the $120 million
assumption. We have no reason to believe that total remediation costs will
result in additional liability to us.

We were one of several parties named by the EPA as a "potentially
responsible party" at the Rocky Flats Industrial Park site. In September
2000, the EPA entered into an Administrative Order on Consent with certain
parties, including our company, requiring implementation of a removal
action. Our projected costs to construct and monitor the removal action is
approximately $300,000. The EPA will also seek to recover its oversight
costs associated with the project which are not possible to estimate at
this time although we believe they would be immaterial to our financial
position.

From time to time, we have been notified that we are or may be a
potentially responsible party under the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation and Liability Act or similar state laws for the
cleanup of other sites where hazardous substances have allegedly been
released into the environment. We cannot predict with certainty the total
costs of cleanup, our share of the total cost, the extent to which
contributions will be available from other parties, the amount of time
necessary to complete the cleanups or insurance coverage.

In addition, we are aware of groundwater contamination at some of our
properties in Colorado resulting from historical, ongoing or nearby
activities. There may also be other contamination of which we are currently
unaware.

In August 2000, an accidental spill into Clear Creek at our Golden,
Colorado, facility caused damage to some of the fish population in the
creek. As a result, we are required to pay certain fines or other costs by
implementing a supplemental environmental project. We settled with the
Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment regarding violations
of our permit in the amount of $98,000 on February 22, 2001. This money
will be paid to the Clear Creek Watershed Foundation to construct a waste
rock repository in Clear Creek County. We have not yet settled with the
Division of Wildlife for damage to the fish population but have proposed
funding the remaining costs for construction of the waste rock repository.

While we cannot predict our eventual aggregate cost for our environmental
and related matters in which we are currently involved, we believe that any
payments, if required, for these matters would be made over a period of
time in amounts that would not be material in any one year to our operating
results or our financial or competitive position. We believe adequate
reserves have been provided for losses that are probable.

Litigation:  We are also named as a defendant in various actions and
proceedings arising in the normal course of business. In all of these
cases, we are denying the allegations and are vigorously defending
ourselves against them and, in some instances, have filed counterclaims.
Although the eventual outcome of the various lawsuits cannot be predicted,
it is management's opinion that these suits will not result in liabilities
that would materially affect our financial position or results of
operations.

Restructuring:  At December 31, 2000, we had a $2.2 million liability
related to personnel accruals as a result of a restructuring of operations
that occurred in 1993. These accruals relate to obligations under deferred
compensation arrangements and postretirement benefits other than pensions.
For the restructuring liabilities incurred during 2000, 1999 and 1998, see
discussion at Note 9.

Labor:  Approximately 8% of our work force, located principally at the
Memphis brewing and packaging facility, is represented by a labor union
with whom we engage in collective bargaining. A labor contract prohibiting
strikes took effect in early 1997 and extends to 2001.

NOTE 15:

Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)

The following summarizes selected quarterly financial information for each
of the two years in the period ended December 31, 2000.

In 2000 and 1999, certain adjustments were made which were not of a normal
and recurring nature. As described in Note 9, income in 2000 was decreased
by a net special pretax charge of $15.2 million, or $0.13 per basic share
($0.13 per diluted share) after tax, and income in 1999 was decreased by a
special pretax charge of $5.7 million, or $0.10 per basic share ($0.10 per
diluted share) after tax. Refer to Note 9 for a further discussion of
special charges.

During the fourth quarter of 2000, we reduced our total expenses by
approximately $3.1 million when certain estimates for employee benefits and
other liabilities were adjusted based upon updated information that we
received in the normal course of business. Partially as a result of these
favorable adjustments, we increased certain other spending in the fourth
quarter, primarily for advertising, for a comparable amount.

                              First     Second       Third    Fourth        Year
2000                              (In thousands, except per share data)

Gross sales             $596,789    $788,921    $773,535  $682,493  $2,841,738
Beer excise taxes       ( 91,360)   (119,108)   (116,459) (100,396)   (427,323)
Net sales                505,429     669,813     657,076   582,097   2,414,415

Cost of goods sold      (326,919)   (404,570)   (413,314) (381,026) (1,525,829)

Gross profit            $178,510    $265,243    $243,762  $201,071  $  888,586

Net income              $ 14,819    $ 48,344    $ 34,492  $ 11,962  $  109,617

Net income per
  common share-basic    $   0.40    $   1.32    $   0.94  $   0.32  $     2.98
Net income per
  common share-diluted  $   0.40    $   1.29    $   0.92  $   0.32  $     2.93

                          First      Second       Third    Fourth        Year
1999                              (In thousands, except per share data)

Gross sales             $563,774    $741,766    $697,605  $639,567  $2,642,712
Beer excise taxes        (85,972)   (115,123)   (107,029)  (98,104)   (406,228)
Net sales                477,802     626,643     590,576   541,463   2,236,484

Cost of goods sold      (310,322)   (366,295)   (367,089) (353,545) (1,397,251)

Gross profit            $167,480    $260,348    $223,487  $187,918  $  839,233

Net income              $ 11,982    $ 46,231    $ 21,836  $ 12,235  $   92,284

Net income per
  common share-basic    $   0.33    $   1.26    $   0.59  $   0.33  $     2.51
Net income per
  common share-diluted  $   0.32    $   1.23    $   0.58  $   0.33  $     2.46

NOTE 16:

Subsequent Event

In January 2001, we entered into a joint venture partnership agreement with
Molson, Inc. and paid $65 million for our 49.9% interest in the joint
venture. The joint venture, known as Molson USA, LLC, will import, market,
sell and distribute Molson's brands of beer in the United States. Under the
agreement, the joint venture owns the exclusive right to import Molson
brands into the United States, including Molson Canadian, Molson Golden,
Molson Ice and any Molson brands that may be developed in the future for
import into the United States. We will be responsible for the sales of
these brands. Production for these brands will be handled in Canada by
Molson and marketing of these brands will be managed by the joint venture.

ITEM 9. Disagreements on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

PART III

ITEM 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

(a)  Directors

WILLIAM K. COORS (Age 84) is chairman of the board of Adolph Coors Company
(ACC) and has served in such capacity since 1970. He was president
from 1989 until May 11, 2000. He has served as a director since
1940. He is the chairman of the Executive Committees of ACC and
Coors Brewing Company (CBC). He is also a director of CBC and
Graphic Packaging International, Inc. (Graphic).

PETER H. COORS (Age 54) is chairman of CBC and was chief executive officer
until May 2000. He has been a director of ACC and CBC since 1973. Prior to
1993, he served as executive vice president and chairman of the brewing
division, before it was organized as CBC. He served as interim treasurer
and chief financial officer of ACC from December 1993 to February 1995. He
has served in a number of different executive and management positions for
CBC. Since March 1996, he has been a director of U.S. Bancorp. He also has
been a director of Energy Corporation of America since March 1996.

W. LEO KIELY III (Age 54) became president and chief operating officer of
CBC as of March 1, 1993, and was named chief executive officer in
May 2000. He has been a director of ACC and CBC since August 1998.
Prior to joining CBC, he held executive positions with Frito-Lay,
Inc., a subsidiary of PepsiCo in Plano, Texas. He also serves on
the board of directors of Sunterra Resorts, Inc., and the SEI Center for
Advanced Studies Board for the Wharton School of Finance.

LUIS G. NOGALES (Age 57) has served as one of our directors since 1989. He
is a member of the Audit Committee and chairman of the Compensation
Committee. From 1990 to the present, he has served as president of
Nogales Partners, an acquisition firm. He was chairman and chief
executive officer of Embarcadero Media (1992-1997); president of
Univision, the nation's largest Spanish language television network
(1986-1988); and chairman and chief executive officer of United
Press International (1983-1986). He is also a director of Edison
International, Kaufman and Broad Home Corporation and Kaufman and
Broad S.A., and serves as trustee of the Ford Foundation and the
J. Paul Getty Trust.

PAMELA H. PATSLEY (Age 44) has served as a director since November 1996.
She chairs the Audit Committee and is a member of the Compensation
Committee. In March 2000, she became executive vice president of
First Data Corp. and president of First Data Merchant Services,
First Data Corp.'s merchant processing enterprise, which also
includes the TeleCheck check guarantee and approval business. Prior
to joining First Data, Patsley served as president, chief executive
officer and director of Paymentech. She began her Paymentech career
as a founding officer of First USA, Inc. when it was established in
1985. Before joining First USA, Patsley was with KPMG Peat Marwick.
She is also a director of Message Media, Inc.

WAYNE R. SANDERS (Age 53) has served as a director since February 1995. He
is a member of the Compensation Committee and the Audit Committee.
He is chairman of the board and chief executive officer of
Kimberly-Clark Corporation in Dallas. Sanders joined Kimberly Clark
in 1975 and has served in a number of positions there over the
years. He was named to his current position in 1992. He was elected
to Kimberly Clark's board of directors in August 1989. He is also a
director of Texas Instruments Incorporated and Chase Bank of Texas.

ALBERT C. YATES (Age 58) has served as a director since August 1998. He is
a member of the Compensation Committee and the Audit Committee. He
is president of Colorado State University in Fort Collins,
Colorado, and chancellor of Colorado State University System. He is
a member of the board of the Federal Reserve Board of Kansas City-
Denver Branch and has served on the board of First Interstate Bank.

Joseph Coors retired from our board in May 2000 and was elected a director
emeritus. William K. Coors and Joseph Coors are brothers. Peter H. Coors is
a son of Joseph Coors.

(b)  Executive Officers

Of the above directors, William K. Coors, Peter H. Coors and W. Leo Kiely
III are executive officers of ACC and CBC. The following also were
executive officers of ACC and/or CBC at March 1, 2001:

DAVID G. BARNES (Age 39) joined us in March 1999 as vice president of
finance and treasury. Prior to joining us, he was based in Hong
Kong as vice president of finance and development for Tricon Global
Restaurants. At Tricon, he also held positions as vice president of
mergers and acquisitions and vice president of planning. From 1990-
1994, he worked at Asea Brown Boveri in various strategy, planning
and development roles of increasing responsibility. He started his
career at Bain and Company where he worked as a consultant for 5
years.

CARL L. BARNHILL (Age 52) was named senior vice president of sales in May
1994. He has more than 20 years of marketing experience with
consumer goods companies. Previously, he was vice president of
selling systems development for the European and Middle East
division of Pepsi Foods International. Prior to joining Pepsi in
1993, he spent 16 years with Frito-Lay, Inc. in various senior
sales and marketing positions.

L. DON BROWN (Age 55) joined us in July 1996 as senior vice president of
container operations and technology. Mr. Brown has announced his
retirement effective in June 2001 and is currently serving in a reduced
capacity. Prior to joining us, he served as senior vice president of
manufacturing and engineering at Kraft Foods where his responsibilities
included manufacturing, engineering and operations quality functions.
During his years at Kraft from 1971-1996, he held several positions of
increasing responsibility in the manufacturing and operations areas.

PETER M. R. KENDALL (Age 54) joined us in January 1998 as senior vice
president and chief international officer. Before joining Coors, he
was executive vice president of operations and finance for Sola
International, Inc., a manufacturer and marketer of eyeglass lenses
in Menlo Park, California. From 1995-1996, Kendall was president of
international book operations for McGraw Hill Companies. From 1981-
1994, Kendall worked in leadership positions for Pepsi
International, PepsiCo and PepsiCo Wines and Spirits. Prior to
working for Pepsi, he spent six years at McKinsey & Co. in New
York.

ROBERT D. KLUGMAN (Age 53) was named our senior vice president of corporate
development in May 1994. In 1993, he served as vice president of
corporate development. Prior to 1993, he was vice president of
brand marketing, and also served as vice president of
international, development and marketing services. Before joining
us, Klugman was a vice president of client services at Leo Burnett
USA, a Chicago-based advertising agency.

OLIVIA M. THOMPSON (Age 50) was named our vice president and controller in
August 1997. Prior to joining us, she was vice president of finance
and systems for Kraft Foods, Inc.'s Foodservice Division. Ms.
Thompson also previously served as vice president of business
analysis for Kraft Foods. Prior to joining Kraft, she worked at
Inland Steel Industries, where she served as vice president of
finance and corporate controller.

M. CAROLINE TURNER (Age 51) has been senior vice president since February
1997, and general counsel since 1993. In March 2000, she was also
named Corporate Secretary. Previously, she served as vice president
and assistant secretary. Since joining us in 1986, she has served
primarily as our chief legal officer. Prior to joining us, she was
a partner at the law firm of Holme Roberts & Owen.

WILLIAM H. WEINTRAUB (Age 58) was named as our senior vice president of
marketing in 1994. He joined us as vice president of marketing in
July 1993. Prior to joining us, he directed marketing and
advertising for Tropicana Products as senior vice president. From
1982-1991, Mr. Weintraub was with the Kellogg Company, with
responsibility for marketing and sales.

TIMOTHY V. WOLF (Age 47) was named vice president and chief financial
officer of ACC and senior vice president and chief financial
officer of CBC in February 1995. Prior to CBC, he served as senior
vice president of planning and human resources for Hyatt Hotels
Corporation from 1993-1994 and in several executive positions for
The Walt Disney Company, including vice president, controller and
chief accounting officer, from 1989-1993. Prior to Disney, Wolf
spent 10 years in various financial planning, strategy and control
roles at PepsiCo. He currently serves on the Science and Technology
Commission for the State of Colorado.

Terms for all officers and directors are for a period of one year, except
that vacancies may be filled and additional officers elected at any regular
or special meeting. Directors are elected at the Annual meeting of Class A
voting shareholders held in May. There are no arrangements or
understandings between any officer or director pursuant to which any
officer or director was elected.

ITEM 11. Executive Compensation

I. SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE

                 ANNUAL COMPENSATION                LONG-TERM COMPENSATION
                                                    AWARDS         PAYOUTS

                                         OTHER  RESTRIC-  SECURITIES  LTIP  ALL
                                         ANNUAL     TED   UNDERLYING  PAY- OTHER
NAME & PRINCIPAL       SALARY     BONUS    COMP    STOCK   OPTIONS    OUTS COMP
   POSITION      YEAR   ($)      ($)(a)   ($)(b)   ($)(c)  (#)(d)    ($)  ($)(e)

William K. Coors,
Chairman of the  2000   339,360        0  153,334        0       0     0       0
Board of Adolph  1999   320,800        0        0        0       0     0       0
Coors Company    1998   307,100        0        0        0       0     0       0

Peter H. Coors,
President of
Adolph Coors
Company,
Chairman of      2000   726,750  563,760       0        0   170,908   0  78,699
Coors Brewing    1999   655,765  380,294       0        0    62,751   0  55,504
Company          1998   599,065  292,032       0  241,484    82,200   0  32,807

W. Leo Kiely III,
Vice President of
Adolph Coors
Company & CEO    2000   569,250  428,644       0        0   103,708   0  57,139
Of Coors         1999   516,750  304,722       0        0    87,429   0  41,723
Brewing Company  1998   468,000  271,500       0   76,496    50,514   0  43,653

L. Don Brown,
Senior VP,
Operations &
Technology of    2000   392,700  191,636       0        0    18,656   0  18,432
Coors Brewing    1999   367,502  166,672       0        0    15,218   0  18,132
Company (f)      1998   374,504  144,202  61,476   42,008    18,859   0  21,195

Timothy V. Wolf,
Senior VP & CFO  2000   360,500  189,525       0        0    35,024    0  11,835
of Coors Brewing 1999   343,020  160,022       0        0    28,790    0  11,535
Company          1998   326,528  130,611       0   38,033    17,081    0  13,684


(a) Amounts awarded under the Management Incentive Compensation Program.

(b) In 2000, William K. Coors received compensation under our non-qualified
supplemental executive retirement plan of $146,595. This plan is offered in
addition to the qualified retirement income plan to executive officers
whose salaries exceed $170,000. Of the payment made in 2000, $46,435
related to 1999 and $100,160 to 2000. In 1999, none of the named executives
received perquisites in excess of the lesser of $50,000 or 10% of salary
plus bonus. In 1998, L. Don Brown received perquisites including moving and
relocation expenses of $31,476.

(c) In 1999, the 45,390 shares of restricted stock which were granted to L.
Don Brown in 1996 vested. The value at vesting date was $2,282,268.
No restricted stock grants were made to any of the named executives during
2000 or 1999. In 1998, 6,743 shares of restricted stock were granted to
Peter H. Coors, 2,136 shares to W. Leo Kiely III, 1,173 shares to L. Don
Brown and 1,062 shares to Timothy V. Wolf. These restricted stock awards
have a three-year vesting period from the date of grant and are based on
continuous service during the vesting period. Dividends are paid to the
holder of the grant during the vesting period. The values of the unvested
1998 restricted stock grants as of December 31, 2000 were as follows:
Peter H. Coors - $333,779; W. Leo Kiely III - $171,548; L. Don Brown -
$94,207; and Timothy V. Wolf - $85,292.

(d) See discussion under Item 11, Part II, for options issued in 2000.

(e) The amounts shown in this column are attributable to the officer life
insurance other than group life, as well as 401(k) match.

(f) Mr. Brown has announced his retirement effective June 25, 2001. As of
the date of this filing, he is serving in a reduced capacity.

Of the named executives, Peter H. Coors receives officer life insurance
provided by us until retirement. At the time of retirement, the officer's
life insurance program terminates and a salary continuation agreement
becomes effective. The officer's life insurance provides six times the
executive base salary until retirement, at which time we become the
beneficiary. We provide term life insurance for W. Leo Kiely III, L. Don
Brown and Timothy V. Wolf. The officer's life insurance provides six times
the executive base salary until retirement when the benefit terminates. The
2000 annual benefit for each executive was: Peter H. Coors - $73,599; W.
Leo Kiely III - $52,039; L. Don Brown - $13,332; and Timothy V. Wolf -
$6,735.

Our 50% match on the first 6% of salary contributed by the officer to ACC's
qualified 401(k) plan was $5,100 each for Peter H. Coors, W. Leo Kiely III,
L. Don Brown and Timothy V. Wolf. Peter H. Coors, W. Leo Kiely III and
Timothy V. Wolf exercised stock options in 2000. See discussion in Item 11,
Part III, for stock option exercises in 2000.

In response to Code Section 162 of the Revenue Reconciliation Act of 1993,
we appointed a special compensation committee to approve and monitor
performance criteria in certain performance-based executive compensation
plans for 2000.


II. OPTION/SAR GRANTS TABLE

                Option Grants in Last Fiscal Year

                                                         Potential Realizable
                                                           Value at Assumed
                                                            Rates of Stock
                     Individual Grants                    Price Appreciation
                                                           for Option Terms
                        % of Total
             Number of   Options
            Securities   Granted
            Underlying      to     Exercise
             Options    Employees  or Base
             Granted    in Fiscal   Price   Expiration
              (#)(a)      Year    ($/Share)    Date       5%            10%

Peter H.      71,956       6.1%   $51.5938   01/03/10  $2,334,761  $5,916,743
 Coors        76,645       6.5%   $48.4375   02/17/10  $2,334,766  $5,916,756
              15,752       1.3%   $60.5313   05/24/10  $  599,644  $1,519,616
               6,555       0.6%   $75.2188   12/22/10  $  310,082  $  785,809

W. Leo Kiely  45,790       3.9%   $51.5938   01/03/10  $1,485,751  $3,765,185
 III          48,774       4.1%   $48.4375   02/17/10  $1,485,758  $3,765,202
               9,144       0.8%   $63.1563   08/17/10  $  363,187  $  920,388

L. Don Brown  18,656       1.6%   $51.5938   01/03/10  $  605,332  $1,534,031

Timothy V.    16,959       1.4%   $51.5938   01/03/10  $  550,270  $1,394,492
 Wolf         18,065       1.5%   $48.4375   02/17/10  $  550,298  $1,394,562

(a) Grants vest one-third in each of the three successive years after the
date of grant. As of December 31, 2000, the 2000 grants were 0% vested
because of the one-year vesting requirement; however, they will vest 33-
1/3% on the one-year anniversary of the grant dates.

III. OPTION/SAR EXERCISES AND YEAR-END VALUE TABLE

Aggregated Option/SAR Exercises in Last Fiscal Year and FY-End Option/SAR
Value

                                     NUMBER OF
                                     SECURITIES              VALUE OF UN-
                                   UNDERLYING UN-            EXERCISED IN-
                                   EXERCISED OPTIONS      THE-MONEY OPTIONS
           SHARES                    AT FY-END (#)             AT FY-END
         ACQUIRED ON     VALUE
          EXERCISE     REALZIED     Exer-    Unexer-     Exer-       Unexer-
NAME        (#)          (a)       cisable   cisable    cisable      cisable

Peter H.
Coors      221,256   $11,849,562   120,233   214,251   $4,668,308   $6,781,393

W. Leo
Kiely III   15,000      $544,544   158,423   178,833   $8,120,836   $5,263,142

L. Don
Brown            0             0   109,577    35,089   $6,511,526   $1,095,051

Timothy V.
Wolf        14,713      $628,026    20,983    59,912     $764,443   $1,087,457

(a) Values stated are the bargain element realized in 2000, which is the
difference between the option price and the market price at the time of
exercise.

IV. PENSION PLAN TABLE

The following table sets forth annual retirement benefits for
representative years of service and average annual earnings.

AVERAGE ANNUAL                           YEARS OF SERVICE
COMPENSATION
                            10            20            30             40

$125,000                 $25,000       $50,000       $75,000       $100,000
 150,000                  30,000        60,000        90,000        120,000
 175,000(a)               35,000        70,000       105,000        140,000(a)
 200,000(a)               40,000        80,000       120,000        160,000(a)
 225,000(a)               45,000        90,000       135,000(a)     180,000(a)
 250,000(a)               50,000       100,000       150,000(a)     200,000(a)
 275,000(a)               55,000       110,000       165,000(a)     220,000(a)
 300,000(a)               60,000       120,000       180,000(a)     240,000(a)
 325,000(a)               65,000       130,000       195,000(a)     260,000(a)
 350,000(a)               70,000       140,000(a)    210,000(a)     280,000(a)
 375,000(a)               75,000       150,000(a)    225,000(a)     300,000(a)
 400,000(a)               80,000       160,000(a)    240,000(a)     320,000(a)
 425,000(a)               85,000       170,000(a)    255,000(a)     340,000(a)
 450,000(a)               90,000       180,000(a)    270,000(a)     360,000(a)
 475,000(a)               95,000       190,000(a)    285,000(a)     380,000(a)
 500,000(a)              100,000       200,000(a)    300,000(a)     400,000(a)
 525,000(a)              105,000       210,000(a)    315,000(a)     420,000(a)
 550,000(a)              110,000       220,000(a)    330,000(a)     440,000(a)
 575,000(a)              115,000       230,000(a)    345,000(a)     460,000(a)
 600,000(a)              120,000       240,000(a)    360,000(a)     480,000(a)


(a) Maximum permissible benefit under ERISA from the qualified retirement
income plan for 2000 was $135,000. Annual compensation exceeding $170,000
is not considered in computing the maximum permissible benefit under the
qualified plan. The Company has a non-qualified supplemental retirement
plan to provide full accrued benefits to all employees in excess of IRS
maximums.

Annual average compensation covered by the qualified and non-qualified
retirement plans and credited years of service for individuals named in
Item 11(a) are as follows:  William K. Coors - $317,420 and 61 years; Peter
H. Coors - $655,527 and 29 years; W. Leo Kiely III - $518,000 and 7 years;
L. Don Brown - $378,235 and 5 years; and Timothy V. Wolf - $343,349 and 6
years.

Our principal retirement income plan is a defined benefit plan. The amount
of contribution for officers is not included in the above table since total
plan contributions cannot be readily allocated to individual employees. In
November 1998, our board of directors approved changes to one of our
defined benefit pension plans. The changes were effective July 1, 1999, and
will generally increase the benefits by approximately 20%. Also in conjunction
with this plan amendment, a $48 million contribution was made in January 1999
and that contribution's ratio to total compensation was approximately 20%.
Covered compensation is defined as the total base salary (average of three
highest consecutive years out of the last 10) of employees participating in the
plan, including commissions but excluding bonuses and overtime pay.
Compensation also includes amounts deferred by the individual under Internal
Revenue Code Section 401(k) and any amounts deferred into a plan under
Internal Revenue Code Section 125. Normal retirement age under the plan is 65.
An employee with at least 5 years of vesting service may retire as early as age
55. Benefits are reduced for early retirement based on an employee's age and
years of service at retirement; however, benefits are not reduced if: (1) the
employee is at least age 62 when payments commence; or (2) the employee's
age plus years of service equal at least 85 and the employee has worked for
us at least 25 years. The amount of pension actuarially accrued under the
pension formula is based on a single life annuity.

In addition to the annual benefit from the qualified retirement plan, Peter
H. Coors is covered by a salary continuation agreement. This agreement
provides for a lump sum cash payment to the officer upon normal retirement
in an amount actuarially equivalent in value to 30% of the officer's last
annual base salary, payable for the remainder of the officer's life, but
not less than 10 years. The interest rate used in calculating the lump sum
is determined using 80% of the annual average yield of the 10-year Treasury
constant maturities for the month preceding the month of retirement. Using
2000 eligible salary amounts as representative of the last annual base
salary, the estimated lump sum amount for Peter H. Coors would be based
upon an annual benefit of $222,750, paid upon normal retirement.

V. COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS

We adopted the Equity Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (EC
Plan) effective as amended and restated August 14, 1997. The EC Plan
provides for two grants of ACC's Class B common stock (non-voting) to non-
employee (NE) directors. The first grant is automatic and equals 20% of the
annual retainer. The second grant is elective and allows the NE directors
to take a portion, or all, of the remaining annual retainer in stock.
Amounts of both grants are determined by the fair market value of the
shares on the date of grant. Shares received under either grant may not be
sold or disposed of before completion of the annual term. We reserved
50,000 shares of stock to be issued under the EC Plan. The NE directors'
annual retainer is $36,000.

In 2000, the NE members of the board of directors were paid 50% of the
$36,000 annual retainer for the 1999-2000 term and 50% of the $36,000
annual retainer for the 2000-2001 term, as well as reimbursement of
expenses incurred to perform their duties as directors. Directors who are
our full-time employees receive $18,000 annually. All directors are
reimbursed for any expenses incurred while attending board or committee
meetings and in connection with any other business.

VI. EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS AND TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT ARRANGEMENTS

Except for agreements with certain of our executive officers relating to their
employment upon a change of control of our Company, we have no agreements with
executives or employees providing employment for a set period. The change in
control agreements, which apply to certain officers of Coors Brewing Company,
generally provide that, for a period of 2 years following a change of control
as defined in the agreements, the officer will be entitled to certain
compensation upon certain triggering events. These events include: termination
without cause, resignation for good reason, or resignation by the officer for
any reason during a 30 day window beginning one year after a change of
control. Upon a triggering event, officers would be paid a multiple of their
annual salary and bonus, plus health, pension and life insurance benefits for
additional years. For the chairman and the chief executive officer, the
compensation would equal three times annual salary and bonus, plus benefits for
the equivalent of three years coverage, plus three years credit for additional
service toward pension benefits. All other officers who are party to these
agreements would receive two times annual salary and bonus, plus two years
equivalent benefit coverage, plus credit for two years additional service
toward pension benefits.

Under our equity incentive plan, vesting of stock options held by a participant
would not be accelerated upon a change of control unless the transaction were
not approved by the Board. Under the agreements, if the Board is unsuccessful
in negotiating a one-year exercise period for substitute options issued
following a change of control, then vesting of any substitute options received
by the officer from the successor company would be accelerated if the officer
is terminated without cause or resigns for good reason within two years of the
change of control. The agreements also contain other provisions including
payment of outplacement fees, a gross-up provision for any excise tax that is
triggered by payments under the CIC agreement and the reimbursement of
reasonable legal fees incurred by the officer in any dispute about the
agreement.

The standard severance program for officers is one year of base salary plus
a prorated portion of any earned bonus for the year of severance.

Under the 1990 Equity Incentive Plan, if there is a change in our
ownership, the options and restricted shares vest immediately.

VII. COMPENSATION COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS AND INSIDER PARTICIPATION

Luis G. Nogales, Pamela H. Patsley, Wayne R. Sanders and Albert C. Yates
served on the Compensation Committee during 2000.

VIII. AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT

The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors is composed of four
independent directors and operates under a written charter adopted by the
Board of Directors. The Audit Committees' primary duties and
responsibilities are to:

- - monitor the integrity of our financial reporting process, the system of
internal controls and significant legal matters and ethics.
- - review and appraise the independence and performance of our internal
auditors and independent accountants.
- - provide an open avenue of communication for the independent accountants,
financial and senior management, internal auditors and the Board of
Directors.

The Committee held seven meetings during the fiscal year ended December 31,
2000. Discussions were held with our management and the independent
auditors. Management represented to the Committee that our consolidated
financial statements were prepared in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. The Committee has reviewed and discussed the
consolidated financial statements with our management and the independent
auditors. The Committee discussed with the independent auditors matters
required to be discussed by Statement on Auditing Standards No. 61
(Communication with Audit Committees).

In addition, the Committee has discussed with the independent auditors the
auditors' independence, including the matters in the written disclosures
and the letter we received from the auditors, as required by Independence
Standards Board Standard No. 1 (Independence Discussions with Audit
Committees). The fees billed by the auditors for non-audit services were
also considered in the discussions of independence.

Based on the Committees' reviews and discussions referred to above, the
Committee recommended that the Board of Directors include our audited
consolidated financial statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2000.

Submitted by the Audit Committee,
Pamela H. Patsley (Chair)
Luis G. Nogales
Wayne R. Sanders
Albert C. Yates


IX.  INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS' FEES

During fiscal year 2000, fees billed for professional services rendered by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, our independent public accountants, were as
follows:

- -Audit fees                                                $    623,182
- -Financial information systems design and
   implementation fees                                                0
- -All other fees                                               1,675,833
Total fees                                                 $  2,299,015

ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

(a)(b) Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

The following table sets forth information as of March 15, 2001, as to the
beneficial ownership of Class A Stock and Class B Stock by beneficial owners of
more than five percent of our Class A Stock and Class B Stock, each director,
our named executive officers and by all directors and executive officers as
group. Unless otherwise indicated, the person or persons named have sole voting
and investment power and that person's address is c/o Adolph Coors Company, 311
10th Street, P.O. Box 4030, Golden, Colorado 80401. Shares of common stock
subject to options currently exercisable or exercisable within 60 days
following the date of the tables are deemed outstanding for computing the
share ownership and percentage of the person holding such options, but are
not deemed outstanding for computing the percentage of any other person.

                                Amount and Nature of Beneficial Ownership
                                Number of   Percent   Number of   Percent
                                Class A       of       Class B      of
Name of Beneficial Owner         Shares    Class (1)   Shares     Class (1)

Adolph Coors, Jr. Trust,
William K. Coors, Jeffrey H.
Coors, Peter H. Coors, J.
Bradford Coors and Melissa E.
Coors, trustees               1,260,000(2)   100.0%    2,940,000(2)     8.1%

William K. Coors                      0        0.0%    2,910,787(2)(3)  8.0%
Peter H. Coors                        0        0.0%    2,945,325(2)(4)  8.1%
May K. Coors Trust(5)                 0        0.0%    2,589,980        7.2%
W. Leo Kiely III                      0        0.0%      250,348(6)       *
Luis G. Nogales                       0        0.0%        2,429(7)       *
Pamela H. Patsley                     0        0.0%        1,748(7)       *
Wayne R. Sanders                      0        0.0%        5,846(7)       *
Albert C. Yates                       0        0.0%          565(7)       *
L. Don Brown                          0        0.0%       35,860(8)       *
Timothy V. Wolf                       0        0.0%       50,349(9)       *

All directors and executive
officers as a group,
including persons named above
(19 persons)                          0        0.0%   13,257,679       35.9%

*  Less than one percent.

(1) Based solely upon reports of beneficial ownership required filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 13d-1 under the Securities
and Exchange Act of 1934, we do not believe that any other person beneficially
owned, as of March 15, 2001, greater than five percent of our outstanding Class
B Stock.

(2) William K. Coors and Peter H. Coors disclaim beneficial ownership of the
shares held by the Adolph Coors, Jr. Trust.

(3) This includes 2,589,980 shares owned by the May K. Coors Trust of which
William K. Coors disclaims beneficial ownership. It does not include an
aggregate of 14,160,114 shares of Class B common stock owned by a number of
other trusts that hold the shares for the benefit of certain Coors family
members. William K. Coors is a beneficiary of certain of these trusts. The
Commission does not require disclosure of these shares.

(4) This includes 2,589,980 shares owned by the May K. Coors Trust of which
Peter H. Coors disclaims beneficial ownership. It does not include an aggregate
of 4,801,691 shares of Class B common stock owned by a number of other trusts
that hold the shares for the benefit of certain Coors family members. Peter H.
Coors is a beneficiary of certain of these trusts. The Commission does not
require disclosure of these shares. This includes 2,660 shares held in the
names of Peter H. Coors's wife and some of his children, as to which he
disclaims beneficial ownership. This number includes options to purchase
214,501 shares of Class B common stock exercisable within 60 days.

(5) William K. Coors, Joseph Coors, Jr., Jeffrey H. Coors and Peter H. Coors
serve as co-trustees.

(6) This number includes options to purchase 235,925 shares of Class B common
stock exercisable within 60 days.

(7) These shares were issued as restricted stock under our 1991 Equity
Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors. Vesting in the restricted stock
occurs at the end of the one-year term for outside directors. These numbers
include the following number of shares which will vest in May 2001: Luis G.
Nogales, 122; Pamela H. Patsley, 292; Wayne R. Sanders, 122; Albert C. Yates,
365.

(8) This number includes options to purchase 35,222 shares of Class B common
stock exercisable within 60 days. Mr. Brown has announced his retirement
effective June 2001 and is currently serving in a reduced capacity.

(9) This number includes options to purchase 47,948 shares of Class B common
stock exercisable within 60 days.

(c)  Changes in Control

There are no arrangements that would later result in a change of our
control.

ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

(a)  Transactions with Management and Others

None.

(b)  Certain Business Relationships

In 1992, we spun off our wholly owned subsidiary, ACX Technologies, Inc.,
which has subsequently changed its name to Graphic Packaging International
Corporation. William K. Coors is a trustee of family trusts that
collectively own all of our Class A voting common stock, approximately 31%
of our Class B common stock, approximately 43% of Graphic Packaging's
common stock and 100% of Graphic Packaging's convertible preferred stock.
Peter H. Coors is also a trustee of some of these trusts.

We have a packaging supply agreement with a subsidiary of Graphic Packaging
under which we purchase a large portion of our paperboard requirements.
This contract expires in 2002. Our purchases under the packaging agreement
in 2000 totaled approximately $112 million. We expect purchases in 2001
under the packaging agreement to be approximately $133 million.

We are also a limited partner in a real estate development partnership in
which a subsidiary of Graphic Packaging is the general partner. The
partnership owns, develops, operates and sells certain real estate
previously owned directly by us. In 2000, we received distributions of
$814,000 from this partnership.

(c)  Indebtedness of Management

No member of management or another with a direct or indirect interest in us
was indebted to us in excess of $60,000 in 2000.

PART IV

ITEM 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)  The following documents are filed as part of this report:

     (1)  Financial Statements:  See index of financial statements in Item
8.

     (2)  Financial Statement Schedules:

          Schedule II  -  Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or the
required information is shown in the financial statements or notes thereto.




Report of Independent Accountants on
Financial Statement Schedule



To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Adolph Coors Company:


Our audits of the consolidated financial statements referred to in our
report dated February 7, 2001, appearing on page 32 of this Form 10-K also
included an audit of the financial statement schedule listed in Item
14(a)(2) of this Form 10-K. In our opinion, this financial statement
schedule presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set
forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated
financial statements.






PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Denver, Colorado
February 7, 2001







SCHEDULE II

ADOLPH COORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

                                    Additions
                        Balance at  charged to                Balance
                        beginning   costs and                  at end
                         of year    expenses      Deductions  of year
Allowance for doubtful                      (In thousands)
accounts

Year ended

December 31, 2000          $   55      $   84      $   -- (a)  $  139

December 26, 1999          $  299      $   53     ($  297)(a)  $   55

December 27, 1998          $  557      $   42     ($  300)(a)  $  299



Allowance for certain
claims

Year ended

December 31, 2000          $  133      $   --     ($   29)(a)  $  104

December 26, 1999          $  584      $   44     ($  495)(a)  $  133

December 27, 1998          $1,500      $  400     ($1,316)(a)  $  584



Allowance for obsolete
inventories and supplies

Year ended

December 31, 2000          $3,170      $2,664     ($2,220)(a)  $3,614

December 26, 1999          $4,986      $3,778     ($5,594)(a)  $3,170

December 27, 1998          $5,214      $4,569     ($4,797)(a)  $4,986


(a) Write-offs of uncollectible accounts, claims or obsolete inventories
and supplies.

(3)  Exhibits:

Exhibit  3.1   -  Amended and restated Articles of Incorporation of Adolph
                  Coors Company. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to
                  Registration Statement on Form S-3, SEC file No. 333-48194
                  filed October 27, 2000)

Exhibit  3.2   -  By-laws, as amended and restated in May 2000. (Incorporated
                  by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Registration Statement on
                  Form S-3, SEC file No. 333-48194 filed October 27, 2000)

Exhibit 10.1*  -  1983 non-qualified Adolph Coors Company Stock Option Plan,
                  as amended effective February 13, 1992. (Incorporated by
                  reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Form 10-K for the fiscal year
                  ended December 29, 1991)

Exhibit 10.2*  -  Adolph Coors Company 1990 Equity Incentive Plan.
                  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to Form 10-K for
                  the fiscal year ended December 28, 1997)

Exhibit 10.3   -  Form of Coors Brewing Company Distributorship Agreement.
                  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to Form 10-K
                  for the fiscal year ended December 29, 1996)

Exhibit 10.4   -  Adolph Coors Company Equity Compensation Plan for Non-
                  Employee Directors (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                  10.12 to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 28,
                  1997)

Exhibit 10.5   -  Distribution Agreement, dated as of October 5, 1992,
                  between the Company and ACX Technologies, Inc.
                  (Incorporated herein by reference to the Distribution
                  Agreement included as Exhibits 2, 19.1 and 19.1A to the
                  Registration Statement on Form 10 filed by ACX
                  Technologies, Inc. (file No. 0-20704) with the Commission
                  on October 6, 1992, as amended)

Exhibit 10.6   -  Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of October 23, 1997.
                  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.15 to Form 10-K
                  for the fiscal year ended December 28, 1997)

Exhibit 10.7   -  Adolph Coors Company Stock Unit Plan. (Incorporated by
                  reference to Exhibit 10.16 to Form 10-K for the fiscal year
                  ended December 28, 1997)

Exhibit 10.8*  -  Adolph Coors Company 1998 Deferred Compensation Plan.
                  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.21 to Form 10-K
                  for the fiscal year ended December 27, 1998)

Exhibit 10.9*  -  Coors Brewing Company 2000 Annual Management Incentive
                  Compensation Plan.

Exhibit 10.10* -  1999 Amendment to Adolph Coors Company 1990 Equity
                  Incentive Plan. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6
                  to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 27, 1998)

Exhibit 10.11  -  1999 Amendment to Adolph Coors Company Stock Unit Plan.
                  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16 to Form 10-K for
                  the fiscal year ended December 27, 1998)

Exhibit 10.12  -  1999 Amendment to Adolph Coors Company Equity Compensation
                  Plan for Non-Employee Directors. (Incorporated by reference
                  to Exhibit 10.12 to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                  December 27, 1998)

Exhibit 10.13  -  Adolph Coors Company Water Augmentation Plan. (Incorporated
                  by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to Form 10-K for the fiscal
                  year ended December 31, 1989)

Exhibit 10.14  -  Supply Agreement between Coors Brewing Company and Graphic
                  Packaging Corporation dated September 1, 1998.
                  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to current
                  report on Form 8-K filed November 2, 1998 by ACX
                  Technologies, Inc., SEC file No. 001-14060)

Exhibit 10.15  -  2000 Amendment to Adolph Coors Company 1990 Equity
                  Incentive Plan. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12
                  to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 26, 1999)

Exhibit 10.16  -  Audit Committee Charter adopted May 11, 2000.

Exhibit 10.17  -  Amendment to Adolph Coors Company Deferred Compensation
                  Plan approved February 16, 2001.

Exhibit 10.18  -  Form of change in control agreements for Chairman and for
                  Chief Executive Officer.

Exhibit 10.19  -  Form of change in control agreements for other officers.

Exhibit 10.20  -  2001 Amendment to Adolph Coors Company 1990 Equity
                  Incentive Plan approved February 16, 2001.

Exhibit 21     -  Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

Exhibit 23     -  Consent of Independent Accountants.


*Represents a management contract.


(b)  Reports on Form 8-K

None.

(c)  Other Exhibits

None.

(d)  Other Financial Statement Schedules

None.

EXHIBIT 21

ADOLPH COORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT



The following table lists our significant subsidiaries and the respective
jurisdictions of their organization or incorporation as of December 31, 2000.
All subsidiaries are included in our consolidated financial statements.

                                                      State/country of
                                                      organization or
                Name                                  incorporation
Coors Brewing Company                                 Colorado
   Coors Distributing Company                         Colorado
   Coors Japan Company, Ltd.                          Japan
Coors Canada, Inc.                                    Canada

EXHIBIT 23

Consent of Independent Accountants



We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in  the Registration
Statements on Form S-3 (Nos. 33-33831 and 333-48194) and in the
Registration Statements on Form S-8 (Nos. 33-35035,33-40730, 33-59979, 333-
45869 and 333-38378) of Adolph Coors Company of our report dated February
7, 2001, relating to the consolidated financial statements which appear in
this Annual Report on Form 10K.

We also consent to the incorporation by reference of our report dated
February 7, 2001, relating to the financial statement schedule, which
appears in this Form 10K.








PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Denver, Colorado
March 30, 2001

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


ADOLPH COORS COMPANY


By  /s/ William K. Coors

       William K. Coors
       Chairman

By  /s/ Peter H. Coors

       Peter H. Coors
       President

By  /s/ Timothy V. Wolf

       Timothy V. Wolf
       Vice President and
       Chief Financial Officer
       (Principal Financial Officer)


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following directors on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.


By  /s/ W. Leo Kiely III                   By  /s/ Luis G. Nogales


       W. Leo Kiely III                           Luis G. Nogales
       Vice President and                         Director
       Director

By  /s/ Pamela H. Patsley                  By  /s/ Wayne R. Sanders


       Pamela H. Patsley                          Wayne R. Sanders
       Director                                   Director

By  /s/ Albert C. Yates


       Albert C. Yates
       Director

March 30, 2001


