
10-K
edgar10k.txt
10K

                    U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              Washington, D.C.  20549

                                    FORM 10-K

x  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934 (NO FEE REQUIRED)

For the fiscal year ended     December 30, 2001
                                         OR
o  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (NO FEE REQUIRED)
For the transition period from                        to

                         Commission file number 0-8251
                              ADOLPH COORS COMPANY
              (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

           Colorado                              84-0178360
(State or other jurisdiction of       (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
 incorporation or organization)

 311 Tenth Street, Golden, Colorado                        80401
(Address of principal executive offices)                   (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code    (303) 279-6565

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

     Title of each class         Name of each exchange on which registered

Class B Common Stock (non-voting),        New York Stock Exchange
        no par value

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                                    None
                               (Title of class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  YES  X   NO

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.  ()

State the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates
of the registrant:  N/A.  All voting shares are held by Adolph Coors, Jr.
Trust.

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant's
classes of common stock, as of March 15, 2002:

                     Class A Common Stock -  1,260,000 shares
                     Class B Common Stock - 34,750,352 shares

                                  PART I

ITEM 1. Business

(a)  General Development of Business

Since our founding in 1873, we have been committed to producing the highest
quality beers. Our portfolio of brands is designed to appeal to a wide
range of consumer taste, style and price preferences. Historically, our
beverages have been sold throughout the United States and in select
international markets. Unless otherwise noted in this report, any
description of us includes both Adolph Coors Company (ACC) and Coors
Brewing Company (CBC), ACC's wholly owned subsidiary, but does not include
Coors Brewers Limited as it was acquired in February, 2002.

Recent General Business Developments

Carling Brewers:  In February 2002, we completed the acquisition of the
Carling business from Interbrew S.A. for 1.2 billion British pounds sterling
(approximately $1.7 billion), plus associated fees and expenses. The purchase
price is subject to adjustment based on the value of certain items, as
defined in the purchase agreement, as of the acquisition date. The Carling
business, (subsequently renamed Coors Brewers Limited) includes the majority
of the assets that previously made up Bass Brewers, including the Carling,
Worthington and Caffrey's brand beers; the United Kingdom (U.K.)
distribution rights to Grolsch (via a joint venture with Grolsch N.V.);
several other beer and flavored-alcohol beverage (FAB) brands; related
brewing and malting facilities in the U.K.; and a 49.9% interest in the
distribution logistics provider Tradeteam. The brand rights for Carling,
which is the largest acquired brand by volume, are mainly for territories
in Europe.

Coors Brewers, with its headquarters in Burton-on-Trent, England, is the
U.K.'s second-largest beer company, with 2001 volume of approximately 9
million barrels (excluding factored brands), or l9%, of the U.K. beer
market, which is Western Europe's second-largest market. The Coors Brewers
business is almost exclusively in England and Wales.

The Coors Brewers brand portfolio consists of 20 U.K. beer brands and four
FAB brands with strong offerings in each of its target segments. Its
mainstream lager, Carling, is currently the number-one beer sold in the
U.K. based on volume. Grolsch is the U.K.'s fastest growing premium lager,
with volume increasing fourfold since 1994. Coors Brewers leading position
in the ale segment is driven by a combination of Worthington, the U.K.'s
number-two mainstream ale brand in the On Trade (on-premise) channel, and
Caffrey's, the U.K.'s leading premium ale by volume. In addition, Coors
Brewers is the only U.K. brewer with a successful range of internally
developed FABs.

Like other brewers, Coors Brewers wholesales a range of beers, wines,
spirits and soft drinks (factored products) to enhance service and
profitability by offering a wide range of products to its On Trade
customers.

Coors Brewers currently operates four breweries in the U.K. with production
capacity of more than 12 million barrels. The Burton-on-Trent brewery has
the largest capacity and is located in the Midlands, in central England,
which facilitates cost-efficient distribution throughout the U.K. Other
breweries are located in Tadcaster (Yorkshire), Cape Hill (Birmingham) and
Alton (Hampshire). Two of the breweries have can and bottle packaging
facilities, and there is a broad range of brewing and packaging operations
across the four sites. Additionally, the company operates three malting
facilities located in Burton, Shobnall and Alloa.

In March 2002, we announced plans to close our Cape Hill brewery and Alloa
malting facility. A majority of the production at the Cape Hill brewery
relates to brands that were retained by Interbrew. The production at the
Alloa malting facility will be moved to one of the other existing malting
facilities. These closures will remove excess capacity from the Coors
Brewers system.

The Coors Brewers distribution operation is run by Tradeteam, a joint
venture with Exel Logistics in which Coors Brewers owns 49.9%. Tradeteam
operates a system of satellite warehouses and the transportation fleet for
deliveries between the Coors Brewers breweries and customers. Additionally,
Tradeteam manages the transportation of certain raw materials such as malt
to the Coors Brewers breweries.

EDS Information Services, LLC (EDS):  During the third quarter of 2001, we
finalized our contract with EDS to outsource certain functions of our
information technology infrastructure. We believe this new arrangement will
allow us to focus on our core business while having access to the expertise
and resources of a world-class information technology provider.

Ball Corporation:  Effective January 1, 2002, we became an equal member
with Ball Corporation (Ball) in a Colorado limited liability company, Rocky
Mountain Metal Container, LLC (RMMC). Also effective on January 1, 2002, we
entered into a can and end supply agreement with RMMC (the Supply
Agreement). Under that Supply Agreement, RMMC will supply us with
substantially all of the can and end requirements for our Golden brewery.
RMMC will manufacture these cans and ends at our existing manufacturing
facilities, which RMMC is operating under a use and license agreement. We
have the right to purchase Ball's interest in RMMC under certain
conditions. If we do not exercise that right, Ball may have the right to
purchase our interest in RMMC. Our prior joint venture was with American
National Can Company (subsequently acquired by Rexam LLC). In August 2001,
we purchased Rexam's interest in the joint venture.

Molson USA, LLC:  In January 2001, we entered into a joint venture
agreement with Molson, Inc. and paid $65 million for a 49.9% interest in
the joint venture. The joint venture, Molson USA, LLC (MUSA), was formed to
import, market and sell Molson's brands of beer in the United States,
including Molson Canadian, Canadian Light, Molson Golden and Molson Ice.
Under the agreement, the joint venture owns the exclusive right to import
Molson brands into the United States. Additionally, any Molson brands that
may be developed in the future for import into the United States are
covered under the agreement. We are responsible for the sales activities in
the United States for the brands and products that are manufactured in
Canada by Molson under the agreement. Decisions related to marketing of the
brands are made both by Molson and us through the joint venture.

Coors Canada:  In January 1998, we formed Coors Canada, a partnership
arrangement, with Molson, Inc. in Canada to distribute Coors products in
Canada. We own 50.1% of this partnership through our 100% ownership of
Coors Canada, Inc. In December 2000, we entered into a five year brewing
and packaging arrangement with Molson in which we will have access to some
of Molson's available production capacity in Canada. The Molson capacity
available to us under this arrangement in 2001 was 250,000 barrels, none of
which was used by us. Starting in 2002, available capacity increases to
500,000 barrels. Currently, we pay Molson a fee for holding this capacity
aside for our future use.

Spain:  In 2000, we closed our brewery in Zaragoza, Spain, and sales
operation in Madrid, Spain. In 2001, the plant and related fixed assets
were sold.

Some of the following statements describe our expectations of future
products and business plans, financial results, performance and events.
Actual results may differ materially from these forward-looking statements.
Please see Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis - Cautionary
Statement Pursuant to Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995, for factors that may negatively impact our
performance. The following statements are expressly made subject to those
and other risk factors.

(b)  Financial Information About Industry Segments

We have one reporting segment, which is focused on the malt beverage
business. See Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for
financial information relating to our operations.

We are still evaluating the impact of acquiring the Coors Brewers business
on our segment reporting for 2002. At this time, we anticipate having two
reportable operating segments:  the Americas and Europe.

(c)  Narrative Description of Business

As noted above in Item 1(a), General Development of Business, Recent
General Business Developments, we acquired the Carling business portion of
Bass Brewers in February 2002. Except where otherwise noted, the
disclosures in this Item (c) relate to the business of Coors Brewing
Company as it pertains to our one reporting segment that existed as of
December 30, 2001.

Coors Brewing Company - General

We produce, market and sell high-quality malt-based beverages. Our
portfolio of brands is designed to appeal to a wide range of consumer
taste, style and price preferences. Our beverages are sold throughout the
United States and in select international markets. Coors Light has
accounted for more than 70% of our sales volume in each of the last four
years. Premium and above-premium products accounted for more than 85% of
our total sales volume in each of the last four years. Most of our sales
are in U.S. markets; however, we are committed to building profitable sales
in international markets. Our goal is to continue growing our business and
increasing our profitability, both domestically and internationally, by
focusing on the following key strategies:

     - producing the highest quality products;

     - focusing on high-growth, high-margin segments;

     - investing in high-potential markets and brands;

     - improving our wholesale distribution network;

     - reducing costs and improving productivity;

     - building organizational excellence; and,

     - pursuing strategic opportunities.

Our sales of malt beverages totaled 22.7 million barrels in 2001, 23.0
million barrels in 2000 and 22.0 million barrels in 1999. The barrel sales
figures for each year do not include barrel sales of a non-consolidated
Canadian partnership. An additional 1.3 million, 1.2 million and 1.0
million barrels were sold by this non-consolidated entity in 2001, 2000 and
1999, respectively. See Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis, for
discussion of changes in volume.

Our Products

Our top-selling brand is Coors Light, a premium beer, and our other
products include an additional 10 brands. Our other premium beers include
Coors Original and Coors Non-Alcoholic. We also offer a selection of
above-premium beers including George Killian's Irish Red Lager and Blue
Moon Belgian White Ale. In addition, we offer Zima and Zima Citrus,
alternative malt-based beverages that are light, refreshing products and
have long competed in the malternative category. We also compete in the
lower-priced segment of the beer market, called the popular-priced segment,
with Extra Gold and our Keystone family of beers - Keystone Premium,
Keystone Light and Keystone Ice.

In 2001, the Coors Dry and Winterfest brands, were phased out because of
greater emphasis and focus on other brands.

We own and operate The SandLot Brewery at Coors Field ballpark in Denver,
Colorado. This brewery, which is open year-round, makes a variety of
specialty beers and has an annual capacity of approximately 4,000 barrels.

Sales and Distribution

By federal law, beer must be distributed in the United States through a
three-tier system consisting of manufacturers, distributors and retailers.
Currently, a national network of 494 distributors delivers our U.S.
manufactured products to U.S. retail markets. Of these, 492 are independent
businesses and the other two are owned and operated by one of our
subsidiaries. Some distributors operate multiple branches, bringing the
total number of U.S. distributor and branch locations to 562 for the year
ended December 30, 2001. As a result of our new Molson USA joint venture,
we have an additional 237 domestic distributors, including branches, that
distribute Molson brands (but not Coors brands) within the United States.
Additional independent distributors deliver our products to some
international markets under licensing and distribution agreements.

In the past three years, consolidation among U.S. wholesalers has
accelerated. As a result of this trend, approximately 45% of our U.S.
distributors (which sell nearly 40% of our volume) now also distribute
Miller Brewing Company products. We view this consolidation trend
positively because it generally improves the economics of the combined
distributorships, which allows them to compete more effectively against the
market leader's distributors.

We establish standards and monitor distributors' methods of handling our
products to ensure the highest product quality and freshness. Monitoring
ensures adherence to proper refrigeration and rotation guidelines for our
products at both wholesale and retail locations. Distributors are required
to remove our products from retailer outlets if they have not sold within a
certain period of time.

Our highest volume states are California, Texas, Pennsylvania, New York and
New Jersey, which together comprised 44% of our total domestic volume in
2001.

We have more than 300 full-time salespeople throughout the United States.
Our salespeople work closely with our distributors to assure that they
focus appropriately on our product and to assist them in implementing
industry best practices to improve efficiency and performance. Our sales
function is organized into two regions that manage a total of six
geographic field business areas responsible for overseeing domestic sales.
We believe this structure enables our salespeople to better anticipate
wholesaler and consumer needs and to respond to those needs locally, with
greater speed.

In addition, we have a team of category managers responsible for assisting
leading U.S. retailers, such as large supermarket chains, with managing
their beer offerings. Our category managers work with retailers to enhance
overall beer sales through optimizing space allocation, merchandising
displays, promotional campaigns and product distribution throughout each
retailer's chain. We believe that our success in category management
enhances our competitive position.

Manufacturing, Production and Packaging

Brewing Process and Raw Materials

Our ingredients and brewing process make our beers unlike any other beers
in the world. We also use unique packaging materials developed to
accommodate our cold packaging and shipping.

We use the highest quality ingredients to produce our beers. We adhere to
strict formulation and quality standards in selecting our raw materials. We
believe we have sufficient access to raw materials to meet our quality and
production requirements.

Along with water, barley is the fundamental ingredient in beer. Barley is
so important to the quality and taste of our products that we started
developing our own strains of barley in 1937. We use proprietary strains of
barley, developed by our own barley breeders and agronomists, for most of
our malt beverages. Virtually all of this barley is grown on irrigated
farmland in the western United States under contracts with area growers.
The growers use only our proprietary barley seed developed by us to produce
our malting barley. We are the only major brewer in the United States to
exclusively use two-row barley rather than the six-row barley that is more
commonly used among brewers. Two-row barley allows the seed ample room to
grow and develop, which we believe produces a more consistent, higher-
quality crop and better tasting beer. Our malting facility in Golden
produces approximately 80% of all of our malt requirements for our U.S.
products. We also have our own barley malted by third parties under
contract. We maintain inventory levels in facilities that we own. Our
inventories are sufficient to continue production in the event of any
foreseeable disruption in barley supply and currently exceed a 14-month
supply.

We use naturally filtered water from underground aquifers to brew malt
beverages at our Golden facility. Water quality and composition have been
primary factors in all facility site selections. Water from our sources
contains minerals that help brew high-quality malt beverages.

We continually monitor the quality of the water used in our brewing process
for compliance with our own stringent quality standards, which exceed
federal and state water standards. We own water rights that we believe are
more than sufficient to meet all of our present and foreseeable
requirements for both brewing and industrial uses. We acquire water rights,
as appropriate, to provide flexibility for long-term strategic growth needs
and also to sustain brewing operations in case of a prolonged drought.

We take an average of 55 days -- significantly longer than our major
competitors -- to brew, age, finish and package our beers. We believe this
unique process creates a smoother, more drinkable product. We were the
first brewer to introduce a cold-filter process to preserve taste. We keep
the product cold -- from the brewhouse through packaging to retail -- by
using insulated containers for transport and by requiring our distributors
to hold our products in temperature-controlled warehouses.

Brewing and Packaging Facilities

We have three domestic production facilities. We own and operate the
world's largest single-site brewery in Golden, Colorado. In addition, we
own and operate a packaging and brewing facility in Memphis, Tennessee, and
a packaging facility located in the Shenandoah Valley in Virginia.

We brew Coors Light, Coors Original, Extra Gold, Killian's and the Keystone
brands in Golden. Approximately 60% of our beer volume brewed in Golden is
also packaged there. The remainder is shipped in bulk from the Golden
brewery to either our Memphis facility or to our Shenandoah facility for
packaging.

The Memphis facility packages all products exported from the United States.
It also brews and packages our Zima, Zima Citrus, Coors Non-Alcoholic and
Blue Moon brands for domestic and international distribution. Coors Light
is brewed in Memphis for export only.

Our Shenandoah facility packages Coors Light, Keystone Light and a small
portion of Killian's volume for distribution to eastern U.S. markets.

To continue the brand growth that we have experienced over the past several
years, we increased our 2001 capital expenditures to expand our brewing and
packaging capacity. In particular, we added a third bottle line to our
Shenandoah facility and have added brewing capacity to our Memphis facility
to meet growing demand and to lower our production and distribution costs
to markets in the northeastern United States. We are improving
manufacturing processes in Golden, which will increase brewing and
packaging capacity in our largest facility. We also anticipate that further
increasing brewing and packaging capacity at our Memphis facility will be
an important part of our mid- and long-term capacity plan. Please see Item
7, Management's Discussion and Analysis - Liquidity and Capital Resources,
for more information about our planned capital expenditures.

Energy

We purchase electricity and steam for our Golden manufacturing facilities
from Trigen-Nations Energy Corporation, L.L.L.P. (Trigen). Coors Energy
Company, our wholly owned subsidiary, buys coal, which it sells to Trigen
for Trigen's steam generator system, and purchases gas for our Shenandoah
and Golden operations.

Packaging Materials

Aluminum cans:  Approximately 60% of our products were packaged in aluminum
cans in 2001. A substantial portion of those cans were purchased from a
joint venture between Coors and Rexam LLC, which operated at our
manufacturing facilities. In August 2001, we purchased Rexam's interest in
the joint venture.

We own the manufacturing facilities that produced the majority of our
aluminum can, end and tab requirements. In 2001, we purchased all of the
cans, and most of the ends, produced by these facilities which were
operated in 2001 through the joint venture with Rexam. In addition, we
purchased certain specialized cans and some cans for products packaged at
our Memphis and Shenandoah plants directly from Rexam LLC.

In 2001, we replaced our joint venture with Rexam by forming RMMC with
Ball. Effective January 1, 2002, RMMC will operate our existing can and end
facilities in Golden, Colorado, one of the largest aluminum can
manufacturing facilities in the world. RMMC is structured and has an
incentive to reduce manufacturing costs, as well as provide improved
sourcing patterns, particularly to our Shenandoah and Memphis facilities.
In addition to our supply agreement with RMMC, we also have commercial
supply agreements with Ball and Rexam to purchase cans and ends in excess
of those that are supplied through RMMC.

Glass bottles:  We used glass bottles for approximately 29% of our products
in 2001. We operate a production joint venture with Owens-Brockway Glass
Container, Inc. (Owens), the Rocky Mountain Bottle Company (RMBC), to
produce glass bottles at our glass manufacturing facility. The initial term
of the joint venture expires in 2005 and can be extended for additional
two-year periods. In 2001, we purchased all of the bottles produced by
RMBC, approximately 1.1 billion bottles, which fulfilled about half of our
bottle requirements. The remaining bottle requirements were met through a
supply contract with Owens.

Other packaging:  The remaining 11% of the volume we sold in 2001 was
packaged in quarter- and half-barrel stainless steel kegs purchased from
third-party suppliers.

We purchase most of our paperboard and label packaging from a subsidiary of
Graphic Packaging International Corporation (GPIC). These products include
paperboard, multi-can pack wrappers, bottle labels and other secondary
packaging supplies. We have begun negotiations to renew this contract which
expires in 2002. We expect it to be renewed prior to expiration. William K.
Coors and Peter H. Coors serve as co-trustees of a number of Coors family
trusts that collectively control GPIC. Please read Item 13, Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions, for more information regarding
GPIC.

Product Shipment

We ship our products greater distances than most of our competitors. By
packaging more of our products in our Memphis and Shenandoah facilities, we
reduce freight costs to certain markets.

In 2001, approximately 64% of our products were shipped by truck and
intermodal directly to distributors or to our satellite redistribution
centers. Transportation vehicles are refrigerated or properly insulated to
keep our malt beverages cold while in transit. The remaining 36% of the
products packaged at our production facilities were shipped by railcar to
either satellite redistribution centers or directly to distributors
throughout the country. Railcars assigned to us are specially built and
insulated to keep our products cold en route.

At December 30, 2001, we had 11 strategically located satellite
redistribution centers, which we use to receive product from production
facilities and to prepare shipments to distributors. Subsequent to year-
end, we have 10 satellite redistribution centers resulting from the
consolidation of two of our western distribution centers. In 2001,
approximately 50% of packaged products were shipped directly to
distributors and 50% moved through the satellite redistribution centers.

International Business

We market our products in select international markets and to U.S. military
bases worldwide.

Europe

See discussion regarding the acquisition of the Carling business in England
and Wales at Item 1(a), General Development of Business, Recent General
Business Developments.

Exclusive of the new Coors Brewers business, our efforts in Europe,
relating to our U.S. brands, are focused on marketing Coors Light in the
Republic of Ireland. Additionally, we are testing Coors Light in Scotland
and Northern Ireland, and we will assess the feasibility of expanding the
sale of Coors Light to the balance of the U.K.

During 2000, we closed our brewery and commercial operations in Spain. In
2001, we sold the related land, buildings and equipment. This brewery
produced beer for Spain and other European markets. Beginning in late 2000,
we began sourcing beer for our remaining European markets from our Memphis
plant. The beer is then packaged for distribution under contract in the
U.K. by Thomas Hardy Packaging Limited.

We are developing plans for integrating our current European business with
Coors Brewers.

Canada

Coors Canada, our partnership with Molson, manages all marketing activities
for our products in Canada. We own 50.1% of this partnership and Molson
owns the remaining 49.9%. The partnership contracts with a Molson
subsidiary for the brewing, distribution and sale of products. This non-
consolidated entity had sales of 1.3 million, 1.2 million and 1.0 million
barrels in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively, and partnership net revenue
per barrel was $22.79 in 2001, $21.99 in 2000 and $20.52 in 1999. Coors
Light currently has a market share of more than 7% and is the number-one
light beer -- and the number-four beer brand overall -- in Canada.

Puerto Rico and the Caribbean

In Puerto Rico, we market and sell Coors Light through an independent local
distributor. A local team of our employees manages marketing and
promotional efforts in this market. Coors Light is the number one brand in
the Puerto Rico market with more than a 55% market share in 2001.

We also sell our products in several other Caribbean markets, including the
U.S. Virgin Islands, through local distributors.

Japan

Coors Japan Company, Ltd., our Tokyo-based subsidiary, is the exclusive
importer and marketer of our products in Japan. The Japanese business is
currently focused on Zima and Coors Original. Coors Japan sells our
products to independent distributors in Japan.
China

In August 2001, we formed a new subsidiary, Coors Beer & Beverages (Suzhou)
Co., Ltd., to market and distribute Coors Original in China. In October
2001, we commenced a brewing agreement with Lion Nathan Beer and Beverages
(Suzhou) Co. Ltd. to supply the China market.

Prior to October 2001, we marketed Coors Original beer under a licensing
arrangement with Carlsberg-Guangdong. This arrangement was mutually
terminated as permitted by its terms in October 2001.

Seasonality of the Business

The beer industry is subject to seasonal sales fluctuation. Our sales
volumes are normally at there lowest in the first and fourth quarters and
highest in the second and third quarters. Our fiscal year is a 52- or 53-
week year that ends on the last Sunday in December. The 2001 and 1999
fiscal years were both 52 weeks, while the 2000 fiscal year was 53 weeks.

Research and Development

Our research and development activities relate primarily to creating and
improving products and packages. These activities are designed to refine
the quality and value of our products and to reduce costs through more
efficient processing and packaging techniques, equipment design and
improved raw materials. We spent approximately $16.5 million, $16.9 million
and $16.5 million for research and development in 2001, 2000 and 1999,
respectively. We expect to spend approximately $16 million on research and
product development in 2002.

To support new product development, we maintain a fully equipped pilot
brewery within the Golden facility. This facility has a 6,500-barrel annual
capacity and enables us to brew small batches of innovative products
without interrupting ongoing operations in the main brewery.

Intellectual Property

We own trademarks on the majority of the brands we produce and we have
licenses for the remainder. We also hold several patents on innovative
processes related to product formula, can making, can decorating and
certain other technical operations. These patents have expiration dates
ranging from 2002 to 2021. These expirations are not expected to have a
significant impact on our business.

Regulation

Our business is highly regulated by federal, state and local government
entities. These regulations govern many parts of our operations, including
brewing, marketing and advertising, transportation, distributor
relationships, sales and environmental issues. To operate our facilities,
we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, licenses and approvals from
various governmental agencies, including the U.S. Treasury Department;
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms; the U.S. Department of
Agriculture; the U.S. Food and Drug Administration; state alcohol
regulatory agencies as well as state and federal environmental agencies.
Internationally, our business is also subject to regulations and
restrictions imposed by the laws of the foreign jurisdictions in which we
sell our products.

Governmental entities also levy taxes and may require bonds to ensure
compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Federal excise taxes on
malt beverages are currently $18 per barrel. State excise taxes also are
levied at rates that ranged in 2001 from a high of $32.65 per barrel in
Alabama to a low of $0.62 per barrel in Wyoming, with an average of $7.91
per barrel. In 2001, we incurred approximately $413 million in federal and
state excise taxes. We realize that from time to time Congress and state
legislatures consider various proposals to increase or decrease excise
taxes on the production and sale of alcohol beverages, including beer. The
last significant increase in federal excise taxes on beer was in 1991, when
these taxes doubled.

Environmental Matters

We are subject to the requirements of federal, state, local and foreign
environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations.
Compliance with these laws and regulations did not materially affect our
2001 capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position, and we do not
anticipate that they will do so in 2002.

We are also required to obtain environmental permits from governmental
authorities for certain of our operations. We cannot provide assurance that
we have been or will be at all times in complete compliance with, or have
obtained, all such permits. These authorities can modify or revoke our
permits and can enforce compliance through fines and injunctions. We are
not in violation of any of our permits and, we believe, we have obtained or
are in the process of obtaining all necessary permits, to the best of our
knowledge.

We continue to promote the efficient use of resources, waste reduction and
pollution prevention. We currently conduct several programs including
recycling bottles and cans and, where practical, increasing the recycled
content of product packaging materials, paper and other supplies.

See also Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis - Contingencies, for
additional discussion of our environmental contingencies.

Employees and Employee Relations

We have approximately 5,500 employees, excluding Coors Brewers Limited.
Memphis hourly employees, who constitute about 8% of our total work force,
are represented by the Teamsters union and are the only significant
employee group at any of our three domestic production facilities having
union representation. The Memphis union contract was renegotiated in early
2001. The new contract expires in 2005. We believe our people are
absolutely key to our success and that relations with our employees are
good.

Competitive Conditions

Known trends and competitive conditions:  Industry and competitive
information in this section and elsewhere in this report was compiled from
various industry sources, including beverage analyst reports, Beer
Marketer's Insights, Beer Marketer Survey, Impact Databank and The Beer
Institute. While management believes that these sources are reliable, we
cannot guarantee the complete accuracy of these numbers and estimates.

2001 industry overview: The beer industry in the United States is extremely
competitive. Industry volume growth has averaged less than 1% annually
since 1991. Therefore, growing or even maintaining market share requires
substantial and consistent investments in marketing and sales. In a very
competitive year, U.S. beer industry shipments increased less than 1% in
2001, after growing 0.8% in 2000. In recent years, brewers have focused on
marketing, promotions and innovative packaging in an effort to gain market
share with less use of price discounting strategies.

The industry's pricing environment continued to be positive in 2001, with
modest price increases on specific packages in select markets. As a result,
revenue per barrel improved for major U.S. brewers during the year.
However, for the industry in general, many raw material prices increased in
2001, including aluminum, glass and energy. In addition, consumer demand
continued to shift away from short bottles and toward longneck bottles,
which cost significantly more to make and ship than short bottles.

A number of important trends affected the U.S. beer market in 2001. The
first was a continuing sales shift toward lighter, more-refreshing
beverages. Virtually all of the growth in the category was achieved by
American-style light lagers (domestic and imported) and new alternative
malt beverages. More than 80% of our annual unit volume in 2001 was in
light beers. The second trend was toward "trading up," as consumers
continued to move away from lower-priced brands to higher-priced brands,
including imports and alternative malt beverages. Import beer shipments
rose nearly 10% in 2001. Long-term industry sales trends toward lighter,
more-upscale beers generally play to our strengths.

The U.S. brewing industry has experienced significant consolidation in the
past several years, which has removed excess capacity. Several competitors
have exited the beer business, sold brands or closed inefficient, outdated
brewing facilities. In 2001, beer industry consolidation at the wholesaler
level maintained a quick pace. This consolidation generally improves
economics for the combining wholesalers and their suppliers.

U.S. demographics continued to improve for the beer industry, with the
number of consumers reaching legal drinking age continuing to increase in
2001, according to U.S. Census Bureau assessments and projections. These
same projections anticipate that the 21 to 24 age group will continue to
grow for most of this decade. This trend is important to the beer industry
because young adults tend to consume more beer per capita than other
demographic groups.

Our competitive position: Our malt beverages compete with numerous above-
premium, premium, low-calorie, popular-priced, non-alcoholic and imported
brands. These competing brands are produced by national, regional, local
and international brewers. In 2001, approximately 80% of U.S. beer
shipments were attributed to the top three domestic brewers: Anheuser-
Busch, Inc.; Philip Morris, Inc., through its subsidiary Miller Brewing
Company; and Coors Brewing Company. We compete most directly with Anheuser
and Miller, the dominant companies in the U.S. industry. According to Beer
Marketer's Insights estimates, we are the nation's third-largest brewer,
selling approximately 11.1% of the total 2001 U.S. brewing industry
shipments of malt beverages (including exports and U.S. shipments of
imports). This compares to Anheuser's 48.6% share and Miller's 19.6% share.

Our beer shipments to wholesalers decreased 1.2% in 2001, primarily because
fiscal 2000 was 53 weeks, while fiscal 2001 was 52 weeks. On a comparable-
calendar basis, our 2001 beer shipments were down 0.1% from a year earlier
because of slower sales of our products other than Coors Light and Keystone
Light. By comparison, Anheuser's domestic shipments increased 1.2% in 2001
and Miller's declined 2.4%. More than 85% of our unit volume was in the
premium and above-premium price categories, the highest proportion among
the major domestic brewers.

We continue to face competitive disadvantages related to economies of
scale. Besides lower transportation costs achieved by competitors with
multiple, geographically dispersed breweries, these larger brewers also
benefit from economies of scale in advertising spending because of their
greater unit sales volumes. To achieve and maintain national advertising
exposure and grow our U.S. market share, we generally spend substantially
more per barrel to market our products than our major competitors.

Although our results are primarily driven by U.S. sales, international
operations have increased in importance in recent years, including in
Canada, where Coors Light is the number-one light beer. We anticipate that
the acquisition of Coors Brewers will substantially increase the
contribution of our international operations to our total results. See Item
1.(a), General Development of Business, Recent general business
developments and Note 17, Subsequent Event, in the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements, for discussion relative to the Carling
acquisition.

(d) Financial Information About Foreign and Domestic Operations and Export
    Sales

See Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for discussion of
sales, operating income and identifiable assets attributable to our country
of domicile, the United States, and all foreign countries.

ITEM 2. Properties

As of December 30, 2001, our major facilities were:

     Facility              Location             Product
Brewery/packaging       Golden, CO              Malt beverages/packaged
                                                  malt beverages
Packaging               Elkton, VA (Shenandoah) Packaged malt beverages
Brewery/packaging       Memphis, TN             Malt beverages/packaged
                                                  malt beverages
Can and end plants      Golden, CO              Aluminum cans and ends
Bottle plant            Wheat Ridge, CO         Glass bottles
Distribution warehouse  Meridian, ID            Wholesale beer distribution
                        Denver, CO
                        Glenwood Springs, CO

In 2001, we sold our distribution operations in Anaheim, California, and
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, but retained ownership of the facilities. We are
in the process of selling the land and buildings associated with these
previously owned distributors and in the short-term are leasing these
facilities to the buyers of the distributor operations. Also in 2001, we
sold the entire San Bernardino, California, distribution operation and
facility. We own all of our remaining distribution facilities except our
Glenwood Springs, Colorado, distribution warehouse that is leased. The
lease was due to expire on September 30, 2002, and has been renegotiated
for an additional five-year period commencing October 1, 2002, and
terminating on September 30, 2007.

We own approximately 1,900 acres of land in Golden, Colorado, which include
brewing, packaging, can manufacturing and related facilities, as well as
gravel deposits and water storage facilities. We own 2,200 acres of land in
Rockingham County, Virginia, where the Shenandoah facility is located, and
132 acres in Shelby County, Tennessee, where the Memphis facility is
located.

We own waste treatment facilities in Golden and Shenandoah that process
waste from our manufacturing operations. The Golden facility also processes
waste from the City of Golden.

We believe that all of our facilities are well maintained and suitable for
their respective operations.

After being capacity constrained in our operations during peak season in
recent years, in 2001 we spent $244.5 million on capital improvement
projects, approximately two-thirds of which was related to improving
production capacity, flexibility and efficiency. With these important
capabilities in place, we now have ample capacity in brewing, packaging and
warehousing to more efficiently meet expected growth in consumer demand for
our products, including during the peak summer selling season. During 2002,
we currently anticipate capital spending in the range of $135 to $145
million in our North American business. Combined with the capacity work
completed in 2001, this level of capital spending will allow us to grow
this business and improve its efficiency in the years ahead. As a result,
we currently plan capital spending for our North American business in the
range of 2002 levels for at least the next several years.

ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings

We were one of a number of entities named by the Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA) as a potentially responsible party (PRP) at the Lowry
Superfund site. This landfill is owned by the City and County of Denver
(Denver), and was managed by Waste Management of Colorado, Inc. (Waste). In
1990, we recorded a special pretax charge of $30 million, a portion of
which was put into a trust in 1993 as part of an agreement with Denver and
Waste to settle the outstanding litigation related to this issue.

Our settlement was based on an assumed cost of $120 million (in 1992
adjusted dollars). It requires us to pay a portion of future costs in
excess of that amount.

In January 2002, in response to the EPA's five-year review conducted in
2001, Waste provided us with updated annual cost estimates through 2032. We
have reviewed these cost estimates in the assessment of our accrual related
to this issue. In determining that the current accrual is adequate, we
eliminated certain costs included in Waste's estimates, primarily trust
management costs that will be accrued as incurred, certain remedial costs
for which technology has not yet been developed and income taxes which we
do not believe to be an included cost in the determination of when the $120
million threshold is reached. We generally used a 2% inflation rate for
future costs, and discounted certain operations and maintenance costs at
the site that we deemed to be determinable, at a 5.46% risk-free rate of
return. Based on these assumptions, the present value and gross amount of
discounted costs are approximately $1 million and $4 million, respectively.
We did not assume any future recoveries from insurance companies in the
estimate of our liability.

There are a number of uncertainties at the site, including what additional
remedial actions will be required by the EPA, and what costs are included
in the determination of when the $120 million threshold is reached. Because
of these issues, the estimate of our liability may change as facts further
develop, and we may need to increase the reserve. While we cannot predict
the amount of any such increase, an additional accrual of as much as $25
million is reasonably possible based on our preliminary evaluation, with
additional cash contributions beginning as early as 2013.

We were one of several parties named by the EPA as a PRP at the Rocky Flats
Industrial Park site. In September 2000, the EPA entered into an
Administrative Order on Consent with certain parties, including our
company, requiring implementation of a removal action. Our projected costs
to construct and monitor the removal action are approximately $300,000. The
EPA will also seek to recover its oversight costs associated with the
project, which are not possible to estimate at this time. However, we
believe they would be immaterial to our operating results, cash flows and
financial position.

In August 2000, an accidental spill into Clear Creek at our Golden,
Colorado, facility caused damage to some of the fish population in the
creek. A settlement reached in February 2001 with the Colorado Department
of Public Health and Environment was modified based on public comment,
including comments by the EPA. As a result, permit violations that occurred
several years prior to the accidental spill were included in the
settlement, as well as economic benefit penalties related to those prior
violations. A total civil penalty of $100,000 was assessed in the final
settlement with the Department reached in August 2001. In addition, we will
undertake an evaluation of our process wastewater treatment plant. On
December 21, 2001, we settled with the Colorado Division of Wildlife for
the loss of fish in Clear Creek. We have agreed to construct, as a pilot
project, a tertiary treatment wetland area to evaluate the ability of a
wetland to provide additional treatment to the effluent from our waste
treatment facilities. We will also pay for the stocking of game fish in the
Denver metropolitan area and the cost of two graduate students to assist in
the research of the pilot project. The anticipated costs of the project are
estimated to be approximately $500,000. The amounts of these settlements
have been fully accrued as of December 30, 2001.

From time to time, we have been notified that we are or may be a PRP under
the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act or
similar state laws for the cleanup of other sites where hazardous
substances have allegedly been released into the environment. We cannot
predict with certainty the total costs of cleanup, our share of the total
cost (if any), the extent to which contributions will be available from
other parties, the amount of time necessary to complete the cleanups or
insurance coverage.

In addition, we are aware of groundwater contamination at some of our
properties in Colorado resulting from historical, ongoing or nearby
activities. There may also be other contamination of which we are currently
unaware.

While we cannot predict our eventual aggregate cost for our environmental
and related matters in which we are currently involved, we believe that any
payments, if required, for these matters would be made over a period of
time in amounts that would not be material in any one year to our operating
results, cash flows or our financial or competitive position. We believe
adequate reserves have been provided for losses that are probable and
estimable.

ITEM 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

None.



PART II

ITEM 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder
Matters

Our Class B non-voting common stock has traded on the New York Stock
Exchange since March 11, 1999, under the symbol "RKY" and prior to that was
quoted on the NASDAQ National Market under the symbol "ACCOB."

The approximate number of record security holders by class of stock at
March 15, 2002, is as follows:

     Title of class                     Number of record security holders

Class A common stock, voting,          All shares of this class are
no par value                           held by the Adolph Coors, Jr. Trust

Class B common stock, non-voting,
no par value                           2,916

Preferred stock, non-voting,
no par value                           None issued

The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices per share of
our Class B common stock as reported by the New York Stock Exchange:

                                                  Market price
                                          High         Low       Dividends
First quarter                           $78.25      $61.375       $ 0.185
Second quarter                          $67.11      $49.39        $ 0.205
Third quarter                           $52.40      $43.59        $ 0.205
Fourth quarter                          $59.27      $43.83        $ 0.205

                                                  Market price
                                          High         Low       Dividends
First quarter                           $53.75      $37.375       $ 0.165
Second quarter                          $66.50      $42.4375      $ 0.185
Third quarter                           $67.625     $57.125       $ 0.185
Fourth quarter                          $82.3125    $58.9375      $ 0.185

ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data

The table below summarizes selected financial information for us for the 5
years ended as noted. For further information, refer to our consolidated
financial statements and notes thereto presented under Item 8, Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data.

                                              2001        2000(1)     1999
Consolidated Statement of
  Operations Data:                       (in thousands, except per share)
Gross sales                             $2,842,752  $2,841,738  $2,642,712
Beer excise taxes                         (413,290)   (427,323)   (406,228)
Net sales                                2,429,462   2,414,415   2,236,484
Cost of goods sold                      (1,537,623) (1,525,829) (1,397,251)
Gross profit                               891,839     888,586     839,233
Other operating expenses:
Marketing, general and administrative     (717,060)   (722,745)   (692,993)
Special (charges) credits                  (23,174)    (15,215)     (5,705)
Other operating expenses                  (740,234)   (737,960)   (698,698)
Operating income                           151,605     150,626     140,535
Other income (expense)-net                  46,408      18,899      10,132
Income before income taxes                 198,013     169,525     150,667
Income tax expense                         (75,049)    (59,908)    (58,383)
Income from continuing operations       $  122,964  $  109,617  $   92,284
Per share of common stock - basic       $     3.33  $     2.98  $     2.51
Per share of common stock - diluted     $     3.31  $     2.93  $     2.46
Consolidated Balance Sheet Data:
  Cash and cash equivalents and
   short-term and long-term marketable
   securities                           $  309,705  $  386,195  $  279,883
  Working capital                       $   88,984  $  118,415  $  220,117
  Properties, at cost, net              $  869,710  $  735,793  $  714,001
  Total assets                          $1,739,692  $1,629,304  $1,546,376
  Long-term debt (4)                    $   20,000  $  105,000  $  105,000
  Other long-term liabilities (4)       $   47,480  $   45,446  $   52,579
  Shareholders' equity                  $  951,312  $  932,389  $  841,539
Cash Flow Data:
  Cash provided by operations           $  193,396  $  280,731  $  211,324
  Cash used in investing activities     $ (196,749) $ (297,541) $ (121,043)
  Cash used in financing activities     $  (38,844) $  (26,870) $  (87,687)
Other Information:
  Barrels of malt beverages sold            22,713      22,994      21,954
  Dividends per share of common stock   $    0.800  $    0.720  $    0.645
  EBITDA (2)                            $  300,208  $  298,112  $  273,213
  Capital expenditures                  $  244,548  $  154,324  $  134,377
  Total debt to total capitalization (3)      9.9%       10.1%       11.1%


(1) 53-week year versus 52-week year.
(2) EBITDA is not a measure of financial performance under generally accepted
accounting principles. EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization and excludes special (charges) credits, which are
shown above, and gains on sales of distributorships in 2001 and 2000.
(3) Total capitalization is defined as total debt plus shareholders' equity.
(4) See Note 17, Subsequent Events, in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for discussion of debt incurred relative to the Carling acquisition.


                                                        1998        1997
Consolidated Statement of
  Operations Data:                          (in thousands, except per share)
Gross sales                                       $2,463,655  $2,378,143
Beer excise taxes                                   (391,789)   (386,080)
Net sales                                          2,071,866   1,992,063
Cost of goods sold                                (1,333,026) (1,302,369)
Gross profit                                         738,840     689,694
Other operating expenses:
Marketing, general and administrative               (615,626)   (573,818)
Special (charges) credits                            (19,395)     31,517
Other operating expenses                            (635,021)   (542,301)
Operating income                                     103,819     147,393
Other income (expense)-net                             7,281        (500)
Income before income taxes                           111,100     146,893
Income tax expense                                   (43,316)    (64,633)
Income from continuing operations                 $   67,784  $   82,260
Per share of common stock - basic                 $     1.87  $     2.21
Per share of common stock - diluted               $     1.81  $     2.16
Consolidated Balance Sheet Data:
  Cash and cash equivalents and
   short-term and long-term marketable
   securities                                     $  287,672  $  258,138
  Working capital                                 $  165,079  $  158,048
  Properties, at cost, net                        $  714,441  $  733,117
  Total assets                                    $1,460,598  $1,412,083
  Long-term debt (4)                              $  105,000  $  145,000
  Other long-term liabilities (4)                 $   56,640  $   23,242
  Shareholders' equity                            $  774,798  $  736,568
Cash Flow Data:
  Cash provided by operations                     $  198,215  $  273,803
  Cash used in investing activities               $ (146,479) $ (141,176)
  Cash used in financing activities               $  (60,661) $  (72,042)
Other Information:
  Barrels of malt beverages sold                      21,187      20,581
  Dividends per share of common stock             $    0.600  $    0.550
  EBITDA (2)                                      $  243,977  $  236,984
  Capital expenditures                            $  104,505  $   60,373
  Total debt to total capitalization (3)               15.8%       19.0%


(1) 53-week year versus 52-week year.
(2) EBITDA is not a measure of financial performance under generally accepted
accounting principles. EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization and excludes special (charges) credits, which are
shown above, and gains on sales of distributorships in 2001 and 2000.
(3) Total capitalization is defined as total debt plus shareholders' equity.
(4) See Note 17, Subsequent Events, in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for discussion of debt incurred relative to the Carling acquisition.

 ITEM 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
         Results of Operations

INTRODUCTION

As noted in Item 1(a) General Development of Business, Recent General
Business Developments, we acquired the Carling business in England and
Wales from Interbrew S.A. on February 2, 2002. Because the acquisition was
finalized in 2002, the operating results and financial position of the
Carling business are not included in our 2001, 2000 or 1999 results
discussed below. This acquisition will have a significant impact on our
future operating results and financial condition. The Carling business,
which was subsequently renamed Coors Brewers Ltd., generated sales volume
of approximately 9 million barrels in 2001. Since 1995, business has, on
average, grown its volumes by 1.9% per annum, despite an overall decline in
the U.K. beer market over the same period. This acquisition was funded
through cash and third-party debt. The borrowings will have a significant
impact on our capitalization, interest coverage and free cash flow trends.
See further discussion of this impact in the Liquidity and Capital
Resources section below.

Critical Accounting Policies

Our discussions and analysis of financial condition and results of
operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have
been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements
requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported
amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related
disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we
evaluate the continued appropriateness of our accounting policies and
estimates, including those related to customer programs and incentives, bad
debts, inventories, product retrieval, investments, intangible assets,
income taxes, pension and other post-retirement benefits and contingencies
and litigation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on
various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the
circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments
about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily
apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ materially from
these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.

We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more
significant estimates and judgments used in the preparation of our
consolidated financial statements:

Revenue recognition:  Revenue is recognized upon shipment of our product to
distributors. If we believe that our products do not meet our high quality
standards, we retrieve those products and they are destroyed. Any retrieval
of sold products is recognized as a reduction of sales at the value of the
original sales price and is recorded at the time of the retrieval. Using
historical results and production volumes, we estimate the costs that are
probable of being incurred for product retrievals and record those costs in
Cost of goods sold in the Consolidated Income Statements each period.

Valuation allowance:  We record a valuation allowance to reduce our
deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be
realized. While we consider future taxable income and ongoing prudent and
feasible tax planning strategies in assessing the need for the valuation
allowance, in the event we were to determine that we would be able to
realize our deferred tax assets in the future in excess of its net recorded
amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset would increase income in
the period such determination was made. Likewise, should we determine that
we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax asset
in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset would be charged to
income in the period such determination was made.

Allowance for obsolete inventory:  We write down our inventory for
estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference
between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon
assumptions about historic usage, future demand and market conditions. If
actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by
management, additional inventory write-downs may be required.

Reserves for insurance deductibles:  We carry deductibles for workers'
compensation, automobile and general liability claims up to a maximum
amount per claim. The undiscounted estimated liability is accrued based on
an actuarial determination. This determination is impacted by assumptions
made and actual experience.

Contingencies, environmental and litigation reserves:  When we determine
that it is probable that a liability for environmental matters or other
legal actions has been incurred and the amount of the loss is reasonably
estimable, an estimate of the required remediation costs is recorded as a
liability in the financial statements. Costs that extend the life, increase
the capacity or improve the safety or efficiency of company-owned assets or
are incurred to mitigate or prevent future environmental contamination may
be capitalized. Other environmental costs are expensed when incurred.

Goodwill and intangible asset valuation:  Goodwill and other intangible
assets, with the exception of the pension intangible asset and water
rights, are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated future
periods to be benefited, generally 40 years for goodwill and up to 20 years
for trademarks, naming and distribution rights. We periodically evaluate
whether events and circumstances have occurred that indicate the remaining
estimated useful life of goodwill and other intangibles may warrant
revision or that their remaining balance may not be recoverable. In
evaluating impairment, we estimate the sum of the expected future cash
flows, undiscounted and without interest charges, derived from these
intangibles over their remaining lives. In July 2001, the Financial
Accounting Standards Board's issued of Statement of Financial Accounting
Standard (SFAS) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. SFAS 142
will be effective for us beginning in the first quarter of 2002, and
requires goodwill and intangible assets that have indefinite lives to not
be amortized but be reviewed annually for impairment, or more frequently if
impairment indicators arise. Although we have yet to complete our analysis
of these assets and the related amortization expense under the new rules,
we anticipate that a significant part of the goodwill and other intangible
assets on our books at year-end will no longer be subject to amortization.
Our analysis has not identified any goodwill or other intangible assets
that would be considered impaired under SFAS 142.

In 2000, the Financial Accounting Standards Board's Emerging Issues Task
Force issued a pronouncement stating that shipping and handling costs
should not be reported as a reduction to gross sales within the income
statement. As a result of this pronouncement, our finished product freight
expense, which is incurred upon shipment of our product to our
distributors, is now included within Cost of goods sold in our accompanying
Consolidated Statements of Income. Prior to 2000, this expense had
previously been reported as a reduction to gross sales; fiscal year 1999
financial statements have been reclassified for consistent presentation of
where freight expense is reported.

Summary of operating results:
                                             Fiscal year ended
                             December 30,       December 31,      December 26,
                                    2001               2000              1999
                                  (In thousands, except percentages)
Gross sales             $2,842,752         $2,841,738        $2,642,712
Beer excise taxes         (413,290)          (427,323)         (406,228)
Net sales                2,429,462  100%    2,414,415  100%   2,236,484  100%
Cost of goods sold      (1,537,623)  63%   (1,525,829)  63%  (1,397,251)  62%

Gross profit               891,839   37%      888,586   37%     839,233   38%

Other operating expenses:
Marketing, general
 and administrative       (717,060)  30%     (722,745)  30%    (692,993)  31%
Special charges            (23,174)   1%      (15,215)   1%      (5,705)   --
Total other operating
 expenses                 (740,234)  31%     (737,960)  31%    (698,698)  31%

Operating income           151,605    6%      150,626    6%     140,535    7%

Other income - net          46,408    2%       18,899    1%      10,132    --

Income before taxes        198,013    8%      169,525    7%     150,667    7%

Income tax expense         (75,049)   3%      (59,908)   2%     (58,383)   3%

Net income              $  122,964    5%   $  109,617    5%  $   92,284    4%


CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - 2001 VS. 2000 AND 2000 VS. 1999

This discussion summarizes the significant factors affecting our
consolidated results of operations, liquidity and capital resources for the
three-year period ended December 30, 2001, and should be read in
conjunction with the financial statements and notes thereto included
elsewhere in this report. Our fiscal year is the 52 or 53 weeks that end on
the last Sunday in December. Our 2001 and 1999 fiscal years each consisted
of 52 weeks whereas our 2000 fiscal year consisted of 53 weeks.

2001 VS. 2000:

Gross and Net Sales

Our gross and net sales were $2,842.8 million and $2,429.5 million,
respectively, for the 52-week fiscal year ended December 30, 2001,
resulting in a $1.1 million and $15.1 million increase over our 2000 gross
and net sales of $2,841.7 million and $2,414.4 million, respectively. Net
revenue per barrel increased 1.9% over 2000. Sales volume totaled
22,713,000 barrels in 2001, a 1.2% decrease from 2000. Excluding the extra
week in fiscal year 2000, net sales volume decreased 0.1% in 2001. The
relatively soft volume in 2001 resulted from the following factors: our
competitors' introduction of new flavored malt-based beverages which
garnered some attention from distributors and retailers and lessening some
attention from core beer brands; unseasonably cold weather early in the
year in most parts of the United States; and weak economic conditions in
some of our key markets, including California and Texas. The increase in
net sales and net revenue per barrel over last year was due to higher
domestic pricing of approximately 2% and less promotional discounting,
partially offset by a mix shift away from higher-priced brands and
geographies. Excise taxes as a percent of gross sales were 14.5% in 2001
compared with 15.0% in 2000. The decline was mainly due to the change in
our geographic sales mix.

Cost of Goods Sold and Gross Profit

Cost of goods sold increased by 0.8% to $1,537.6 million from $1,525.8
million in 2000. Cost of goods sold as a percentage of net sales was 63.3%
in 2001 compared with 63.2% in 2000. On a per barrel basis, cost of goods
sold increased 2% over 2000. This increase was primarily due to higher
packaging material costs for aluminum cans and glass bottles, in addition
to higher raw materials, energy and labor costs. The continuing shift in
our package mix toward more expensive longneck bottles also increased costs
slightly. These increases were partially offset by distribution
efficiencies from new information systems and processes designed to reduce
transportation costs, the benefits from not incurring the 53rd week of costs
and closing our Spain brewing and commercial operations in 2000.

Gross profit as a percentage of net sales of 36.7% in 2001 was virtually
unchanged from prior year's 36.8%.

Marketing, General and Administrative Expenses

Marketing, general and administrative expenses were $717.1 million in 2001
compared with $722.7 million in 2000. The $5.6 million decrease was mostly
due to lower costs for advertising and promotions and the favorable impact
from the sale of our company-owned distributorships which resulted in less
advertising and overhead costs. In addition, overhead expenses declined due
to 52 weeks in 2001 versus 53 weeks in the prior year. These favorable
variances were partially offset by higher costs related to information
systems, market research and professional fees.

Special Charges

Our net special charges were $23.2 million in 2001 compared to special
charges of $15.2 million in 2000. The following is a summary of special
charges incurred during these years:

Information technology:  We entered into a contract with EDS Information
Services, LLC (EDS), effective August 1, 2001, to outsource certain
information technology functions. We incurred outsourcing costs during the
year of approximately $14.6 million. These costs were mainly related to a
$6.6 million write-down of the net book value of information technology
assets that were sold to and leased back from EDS, $5.3 million of one-time
implementation costs and $2.7 million of employee transition costs and
professional fees associated with the outsourcing project. We believe this
new arrangement will allow us to focus on our core business while having
access to the expertise and resources of a world-class information
technology provider.

Restructure charges:  In the third quarter of 2001, we recorded $1.6
million of severance costs for approximately 25 employees, primarily due to
the restructuring of our purchasing organization. During the fourth quarter
of 2001, we announced plans to restructure certain production areas. These
restructurings, which began in October 2001 and have continued through
April 2002, will result in the elimination of approximately 90 positions.
As a result, we recorded associated employee termination costs of
approximately $4.0 million in the fourth quarter. Similar costs of
approximately $0.4 million related to employee terminations in other
functions were also recorded in the fourth quarter. We expect all 2001
severance to be paid by the second quarter of 2002. We continue to evaluate
our entire supply chain with the goal of becoming a more competitive and
efficient organization.

Can and end plant joint venture:  In the third quarter of 2001, we recorded
$3.0 million of special charges related to the dissolution of our existing
can and end joint venture as part of the restructuring of this part of our
business that will allow us to achieve operational efficiencies. Effective
January 1, 2002, we entered into a partnership agreement with Ball
Corporation, one of the world's leading suppliers of metal and plastic
packaging to the beverage and food industries, for the manufacture and
supply of aluminum cans and ends for our domestic business.

Property abandonment:  In 2001, we recorded a $2.3 million charge for a
portion of certain production equipment that was abandoned and will no
longer be used.

Spain closure: In 2000, we recorded a total pretax special charge of $20.6
million related to the closure of our Spain brewing and commercial
operations. Of the total charge, $11.3 million related to severance and
other related closure costs for approximately 100 employees, $4.9 million
related to a fixed asset impairment charge and $4.4 million for the write-
off of our cumulative translation adjustments previously recorded to equity
related to our Spain operations. All severance and related closure costs
were paid by July 1, 2001, out of current cash balances. The closure
resulted in savings of approximately $7 million in 2001 and only modest
savings in 2000. These savings were invested back into our domestic and
international businesses. In December 2001, the plant and related fixed
assets were sold for approximately $7.2 million resulting in a net gain,
before tax, of approximately $2.7 million.

Insurance settlement:  In 2000, we received an insurance claim settlement
of $5.4 million that was credited to special charges.

Operating Income

As a result of the factors noted above, operating income was $151.6 million
for the year ended December 30, 2001, an increase of $1.0 million or 0.7%
over operating income of $150.6 million for the year ended December 31,
2000. Excluding special charges, operating income was $174.8 million, an
$9.0 million or 5.4% increase over operating earnings of $165.8 million in
2000.

Other Income (Expense), Net

Other income (expense), net consists of items such as interest income,
equity income on certain unconsolidated affiliates and gains and losses
from divestitures and foreign currency exchange transactions. Net other
income was $46.4 million in 2001 compared with income of $18.9 million in
2000. The $27.5 million increase was mainly due to $27.7 million of gains
recognized from the sale of company-owned distributorships coupled with a
$2.0 million gain from the sale of certain non-essential water rights. In
addition, as part of our tax strategy to utilize certain capital loss
carryforwards, we recognized gains of $4.0 million from the sale of
marketable securities. Partially offsetting these gains were net foreign
currency exchange losses of $0.3 million primarily related to a derivative
transaction performed in anticipation of the Carling acquisition, a write-
off of mineral land reserves of $1.0 million, an equity loss from the
Molson USA joint venture of $2.2 million and goodwill amortization of $1.6
million related to this investment.

Income Taxes

Our reported effective tax rate for 2001 was 37.9% compared to 35.3% in
2000. In 2000, our rate was affected by the favorable settlement of certain
tax issues related to the Spain brewery closure, the resolution of an
Internal Revenue Service audit and reduced state tax rates. Excluding the
impact of special charges, our effective tax rate for 2001 was 37.9%
compared to 38.0% in 2000.

Net Income

Net income for the year increased $13.3 million, or 12.2%, over the prior
year. For 2001, net income was $123.0 million, or $3.33 per basic share
($3.31 per diluted share), which compares to net income of $109.6 million,
or $2.98 per basic share ($2.93 per diluted share), for 2000. Adjusting for
the impact of share repurchases of approximately 1,500,000 shares, net
income per share, would have been $3.29 per basic share ($3.27 per diluted
share) in 2001. Excluding special charges and gains on sales of
distributorships, after-tax earnings for 2001 were $120.2 million, or $3.26
per basic share ($3.23 per diluted share). This was a $6.3 million or 5.5%
increase over 2000 of $113.9 million, or $3.10 per basic share ($3.04 per
diluted share).

2000 VS. 1999:

Gross and Net Sales

Our gross and net sales for 2000 were $2,841.7 million and $2,414.4
million, respectively, resulting in a $199.0 million and $177.9 million
increase over our 1999 gross and net sales of $2,642.7 million and $2,236.5
million, respectively. Net revenue per barrel was 3.1% higher than 1999.
Gross and net sales were favorably impacted by a 4.7% increase in barrel
unit volume. We sold 22,994,000 barrels of beer and other malt beverages in
2000 compared to sales of 21,954,000 barrels in 1999. Net sales in 2000
were also favorably impacted by a continuing shift in consumer preferences
toward higher-net-revenue products, domestic price increases and a longer
fiscal year (2000 consisted of 53 weeks versus 52 weeks in 1999). Excluding
our 53rd week, unit volume was up approximately 4.1% compared to the 52-week
period ended December 26, 1999. Excise taxes as a percent of gross sales
decreased slightly in 2000 compared to 1999 primarily as a result of a
shift in the geographic mix of our sales.

Cost of Goods Sold and Gross Profit

Cost of goods sold was $1,525.8 million in 2000, an increase of 9.2%
compared to $1,397.3 million in 1999. Cost of goods sold as a percentage of
net sales was 63.2% for 2000 compared to 62.5% for 1999. On a per barrel
basis, cost of goods sold increased 4.3% in 2000 compared to 1999. This
increase was primarily due to an ongoing mix shift in demand toward more
expensive products and packages, including longneck bottles and import
products sold by Coors-owned distributors, as well as higher aluminum,
energy and freight costs. Cost of goods sold also increased as a result of
higher labor costs in 2000 from wage increases and overtime incurred during
our peak season to meet unprecedented demand for our products, higher
depreciation expense because of higher capital expenditures and additional
fixed costs as a result of our 53rd week in 2000.

Gross profit for 2000, was $888.6 million, a 5.9% increase over gross
profit of $839.2 million for 1999. As a percentage of net sales, gross
profit decreased to 36.8% in 2000 compared to 37.5% of net sales in 1999.

Marketing, General and Administrative Expenses

Marketing, general and administrative costs were $722.7 million in 2000
compared to $693.0 million in 1999. The $29.7 million or 4.3% increase over
the prior year was primarily due to higher spending on marketing and
promotions, both domestically and internationally. We continued to invest
behind our brands and sales forces -- domestic and international -- during
2000, which included reinvesting incremental revenues that were generated
from the volume and price increases achieved and discussed earlier. Our
2000 corporate overhead and information technology spending was also up
slightly over 1999.

Special Charges

In 2000, our net special charges were $15.2 million. We incurred a total
special charge of $20.6 million triggered by our decision to close our
Spain brewery and commercial operations. Of the approximately $20.6 million
charge, approximately $11.3 million related to severance and other related
closure costs for approximately 100 employees, approximately $4.9 million
related to a fixed asset impairment charge and approximately $4.4 million
for the write-off of our cumulative translation adjustments previously
recorded to equity related to our Spain operations. In 2000, approximately
$9.6 million of severance and other related closure costs were paid with
the remaining $1.7 million reserve being paid during the first quarter of
2001. These payments were funded from current cash balances. Closing our
Spain operations eliminated annual operating losses of approximately $7.0
million to $8.0 million. The anticipated payback period is less than three
years. We intend to invest much of the annual savings into our domestic and
international businesses. The closure resulted in small savings in 2000.
The Spain closure special charge was partially offset by an unrelated
insurance claim settlement credit of $5.4 million.

In 1999, we recorded a special charge of $5.7 million. The special charge
included $3.7 million for severance costs from the restructuring of our
engineering and construction units and $2.0 million for distributor network
improvements. Approximately 50 engineering and construction employees
accepted severance packages under this reorganization. Amounts paid related
to this restructuring were approximately $0.2 million, $2.3 million and
$0.9 million during 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

Operating Income

As a result of these factors, our operating income was $150.6 million for
the year ended December 31, 2000, an increase of $10.1 million or 7.2% over
operating income of $140.5 million for the year ended December 26, 1999.
Excluding special charges, operating earnings were $165.8 million for 2000,
an increase of $19.6 million or 13.4% over operating earnings of $146.2
million for 1999.

Other Income (Expense), Net

Net other income was $18.9 million for 2000, compared with net other income
of $10.1 million for 1999. The significant increase in 2000 was primarily
due to higher net interest income, resulting from higher average cash
investment balances with higher average yields and lower average debt
balances in 2000 compared to 1999.

Income Taxes

Our reported effective tax rate for 2000, was 35.3% compared to 38.8% for
1999. The primary reasons for the decrease in our effective rate were the
realization of a tax benefit pertaining to the Spain brewery closure, the
resolution of an Internal Revenue Service audit and reduced state tax
rates. Excluding the impact of special charges, our effective tax rate for
the year ended December 31, 2000, was 38.0%, compared to 38.8% for the year
ended December 26, 1999.

Net Income

Net income for the year increased $17.3 million or 18.7% over the prior
year. For 2000, net income was $109.6 million, or $2.98 per basic share
($2.93 per diluted share), which compares to net income of $92.3 million,
or $2.51 per basic share ($2.46 per diluted share), for 1999. Excluding
special charges and gains of sales of distributorships, after-tax earnings
for 2000, were $113.9 million, or $3.10 per basic share ($3.04 per diluted
share). This was an $18.1 million or 18.9% increase over after-tax
earnings, excluding special charges, of $95.8 million, or $2.61 per basic
share ($2.56 per diluted share), for 1999.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Our primary sources of liquidity are cash provided by operating activities,
marketable securities and external borrowings, including a new revolving
credit facility that became effective after year-end. At the end of 2001,
our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled $309.7
million, down from $386.2 million at the end of 2000. Additionally, cash
and cash equivalents declined from $119.8 million in 2000 to $77.1 million
in 2001. At December 30, 2001, working capital was $89.0 million compared
to $118.4 million at December 31, 2000. The decrease in cash and cash
equivalents was primarily due to the following: the payment of $65 million
for the purchase of a 49.9% interest in Molson USA, LLC, a joint venture
with Molson, Inc.; higher capital expenditures of $244.5 million; and $72.3
million of stock repurchases. Proceeds from the sale of our company-owned
distributorships positively impacted our cash balance. The decrease in
working capital was due to the reclassification of $80 million of debt from
long term to current, as this amount is due in July 2002; higher accounts
payable resulting mostly from increased capital expenditures, higher cash
overdraft balances (which are classified as financing activities in the
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows), coupled with liabilities assumed
relative to our purchase of Rexam's interest in our prior can joint
venture. Lower sales in 2001, driven primarily by a slight softening in
demand, resulted in a decrease in accounts receivable. Inventories
increased due to an inventory transfer from our prior can joint venture
related to our purchase of Rexam's interest in that joint venture. At
December 30, 2001, our total investment in marketable securities was $232.6
million, all of which were classified as current assets. At December 31,
2000, the amount in current was $72.8 million. In January 2002, these
securities were sold, resulting in a net gain of $4.0 million, of which
approximately half of these proceeds were used in the Carling acquisition
and the remaining amount was applied towards operating cash requirements.
In March 2002, all obligations under the terms of our Colorado Industrial
Revenue bonds were prepaid totaling approximately $5.0 million and the debt
was terminated. As part of the settlement and indemnification agreement
related to the Lowry Superfund site with the City and County of Denver and
Waste Management of Colorado, Inc., we agreed to post a letter of credit
equal to the present value of our share of future estimated costs if
estimated future costs exceed a certain amount and our long-term credit
rating falls to a certain level. The future estimated costs now exceed the
level provided in the agreement, however, our credit rating remains above
the level that would require this letter of credit to be obtained. Based on
our preliminary evaluation, should our credit rating fall below the level
stipulated by the agreement, it is reasonably possible that the letter of
credit that would be issued could be for as much as $10 million. For more
information on the Lowry Superfund site see the Environmental Contingencies
section below.

We believe that cash flows from operations, cash from the sale or maturity
of marketable securities, all of which are highly liquid, and cash provided
by short-term borrowings through our revolver financing, when necessary,
will be sufficient to meet our ongoing operating requirements, scheduled
principal and interest payments on debt, dividend payments and anticipated
capital expenditures. However, our liquidity could be significantly
impacted by a decrease in demand for our products, which could arise from
competitive circumstances, a decline in the societal acceptability views of
alcohol beverages, any shift away from light beers and any of the other
factors we describe in the section titled "Risk Factors". We also have
recently entered into new credit facilities in connection with the
acquisition of the Coors Brewers business. These facilities contain
financial and operating covenants, and provide for scheduled repayments,
that could impact our liquidity on an ongoing basis.

Operating Activities

The net cash provided by operating activities for each of the three years
presented reflects our net income adjusted for non-cash items. Net cash
provided by operating activities was $193.4 million for 2001, compared to
$280.7 million and $211.3 million for 2000 and 1999, respectively.
Operating cash flows were $87.3 million lower in 2001 than in 2000 as
higher net income of $13.3 million was more than offset by a decline in
cash distributions received from our joint venture entities and lower
depreciation expense. Also in 2001, we realized significant gains on the
sale of properties and securities, and our net deferred tax liability
decreased from year-end 2000 mainly due to the realization of certain tax
benefits. The gains from the sale of properties were mainly due to the sale
of three company-owned distributorships for $27.7 million. Operating cash
flows in 1999 were $67.4 million lower than in 2000 because of a $48.0
million contribution we made to our defined benefit pension plan in January
1999 with no similar contribution being made in 2000. The 1999 contribution
was made as a result of benefit improvements made to our defined benefit
pension plan that resulted in an increase in the projected benefit
obligation of approximately $48.0 million. The remaining increase in 2000
operating cash flow was due to higher net income, higher depreciation
expense, the non-cash portion of the special charge related to Spain,
higher cash distributions received from our joint venture entities and
working capital changes. The increase in distributions received was a
result of higher earnings of the joint ventures in 2000 compared to 1999.
The fluctuations in working capital were primarily due to timing between
the two years; our accounts receivable were lower at December 31, 2000, as
a result of the 53rd week in 2000, which tends to be our slowest week, and
our accounts payable were higher at December 31, 2000, due to increased
capital expenditures at the end of 2000 compared to 1999. These increases
in operating cash flows were partially offset by increases in the equity
earnings of our joint ventures and gains on sale of properties.

Investing Activities

During 2001, we used $196.7 million in investing activities compared to a
use of $297.5 million in 2000 and $121.0 million in 1999. The $100.8
million decrease from 2000 to 2001 was primarily due to proceeds from the
sale of properties, mainly three of our company-owned distributorships, and
lower net investment activity in 2001. In 2001, our net cash proceeds from
marketable securities activity was $39.9 million compared to a net cash use
of $148.6 million in 2000. In 2000, we shifted to investing in longer-term
marketable securities by investing cash from short-term investment
maturities into longer term corporate, government agency and municipal debt
instruments, all of which are highly liquid. This change in investment
strategy resulted in a higher cash outflow for purchases of securities in
2000 compared to 2001. Cash used in 2001 for investing activities consisted
of the $65 million payment made to acquire our 49.9% interest in Molson
USA, a joint venture with Molson, Inc. and increased capital expenditures
of $244.5 million compared to $154.3 in 2000. A significant portion of our
2001 capital expenditures were for capacity-related projects that were
started late in 2000 and in early 2001. Net cash used in investing was
$176.5 million higher in 2000 compared to 1999 mostly due to our change in
investment strategy in 2000 which resulted in a higher net cash outflow for
purchases of securities in 2000 compared to 1999 of $159.6 million, coupled
with higher capital expenditures.

Financing Activities

Net cash used in financing activities was $38.8 million in 2001, consisting
primarily of $72.3 million for purchases of our Class B common stock under
our stock repurchase program, dividend payments of $29.5 million on our
Class B common stock, partially offset by cash inflows of $51.6 million
related to an increase in cash overdrafts over year-end 2000; and $10.7
million associated with the exercise of stock options under our stock
option plans.

During 2000, we used approximately $26.9 million in financing activities,
primarily for dividend payments of $26.6 million on our Class B common
stock and $20.0 million for purchases of our Class B common stock under our
stock repurchase program. These cash uses were partially offset by cash
inflows of $17.2 million related to the exercise of stock options under our
stock option plans.

During 1999, we used $87.7 million in financing activities consisting
primarily of principal payments of $40.0 million on our medium-term notes,
net purchases of $11.0 million for Class B common stock, dividend payments
of $23.7 million and a decrease in cash overdrafts of $11.3 million.

Debt Obligations

At December 30, 2001, we had $100 million in unsecured Senior Notes
outstanding, $80 million of which is due in July 2002. The remaining $20
million is due in 2005. Fixed interest rates on these notes range from
6.76% to 6.95%. Interest is paid semiannually in January and July. No
principal payments were due or made on our debt in 2001 or 2000.

Our affiliate, RMMC has planned capital improvements of approximately $50.0
million over the first three years of its operations. RMMC will fund these
improvements using third-party financing. This debt will be secured by the
joint venture's various supply and access agreements with no recourse to
either Coors or Ball. This debt will not be included in our financial
statements.

In connection with our acquisition of the Coors Brewers business, we
entered into new senior unsecured credit facilities under which we borrowed
$800 million of term debt and $750 million of short-term bridge debt. The
new facilities also provide up to $300 million of revolving borrowing, none
of which has been drawn to date. For more information about our senior
unsecured credit facilities, see Note 17, Subsequent Event, in the Notes to
the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Subsequent to our acquisition of the Coors Brewers business from Interbrew
S.A., Standard and Poor's (S&P) affirmed its BBB+ corporate rating while
Moody's downgraded our senior unsecured rating to Baa2 from Baa1. The
Moody's downgrade reflects the large size of the acquisition relative to
our existing business, and the competitive challenges we continue to face
in the U.S. market. It also reflects the significant increase in debt that
will result, as well as the decrease in our financial flexibility. The
rating continues to reflect our successful franchise in the U.S. market,
the Coors Brewers strong position in the U.K. market and the product and
geographic diversification that Coors Brewers adds.

Our debt-to-total capitalization ratio declined to 9.9% at the end of 2001,
from 10.1% at year-end 2000 and 11.1% at year-end 1999. At February 2,
2002, following the acquisition of the Coors Brewers business, our debt-to-
total capitalization ratio was approximately 63%.

Revolving Line of Credit

In addition to the Senior Notes, at December 30, 2001, we had an unsecured,
committed credit arrangement totaling $200 million, all of which was
available as of December 30, 2001. This line of credit had a five-year term
expiring in 2003. A facilities fee was paid on the total amount of the
committed credit. Under the arrangement, we were required to maintain a
certain debt-to-total capitalization ratio and were in compliance at year-
end 2001. In February 2002, this credit facility was terminated and
replaced by the credit agreements associated with the purchase of Coors
Brewers.

Financial Guarantees

We have a 1.1 million yen financial guarantee outstanding on behalf of our
subsidiary, Coors Japan. This subsidiary guarantee is primarily for two
working capital lines of credit and payments of certain duties and taxes.
One of the lines provides up to 500 million yen and the other provides up
to 400 million yen (approximately $6.8 million in total as of December 30,
2001) in short-term financing. As of December 30, 2001, the approximate yen
equivalent of $3.0 million was outstanding under these arrangements and is
included in Accrued expenses and other liabilities in the accompanying
Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Advertising and Promotions

As of December 30, 2001, our aggregate commitments for advertising and
promotions, including marketing at sports arenas, stadiums and other venues
and events, were approximately $91.5 million over the next eight years.

Stock Repurchase Plan

In November 2000, the board of directors authorized the extension of our
stock repurchase program through 2001. The program authorizes repurchases
of up to $40 million of our outstanding Class B common stock. In the third
quarter of 2001, our board of directors increased the amount authorized for
stock repurchases in 2001 from $40 million to $90 million. The authorized
increase was in response to the market conditions following the events of
September 11, 2001. Repurchases were financed by funds generated from
operations or by our cash and cash equivalent balances. During 2001, we
used $72.3 million to repurchase common stock under this stock purchase
program. Even though the board of directors extended the program in
November 2001, and authorized the repurchase during 2002 of up to $40
million of stock, we have decided to suspend our share repurchases until
debt levels resulting from the acquisition of the Coors Brewers business
from Interbrew are reduced.

Capital Expenditures

After being capacity constrained in our operations during peak season in
recent years, in 2001 we spent $244.5 million on capital improvement
projects, approximately two-thirds of which was related to improving
production capacity, flexibility and efficiency. With these important
capabilities in place, we now have ample capacity in brewing, packaging and
warehousing to more efficiently meet expected growth in consumer demand for
our products, including during the peak summer selling season. During 2002,
we currently anticipate capital spending in the range of $135 to $145
million in our North American business. Combined with the capacity work
completed in 2001, this level of capital spending will allow us to grow
this business and improve its efficiency in the years ahead. As a result,
we currently plan capital spending for our North American business in the
range of 2002 levels for at least the next several years.

Molson USA, LLC

On January 2, 2001, we entered into a joint venture partnership agreement
with Molson, Inc. and paid $65 million for a 49.9% interest in the joint
venture. The joint venture, known as Molson USA, LLC, was formed to import,
market, sell and distribute Molson's brands of beer in the United States.
We used a portion of our current cash balances to pay the $65 million
acquisition price.

Pension Plan Assets

In 2001, the funded position of the Coors Retirement Plan was eroded
somewhat due to the combined effects of a lower discount rate and a
challenging investment environment. This resulted in the recognition of an
additional minimum liability, resulting from the excess of our accumulated
benefit obligation over the fair value of plan assets. For pension plans
with accumulated obligations in excess of plan assets, the projected
benefit obligation was $659.1 million and the accumulated benefit
obligation was $567.2 million. The amounts recognized in the consolidated
statement of financial position for accrued pension liability, additional
minimum liability, accumulated other comprehensive loss, prepaid benefit
cost and intangible asset in 2001 are $61.9 million, $29.8 million, $13.7
million ($8.5 million, net of tax), $21.5 million and $48.3 million,
respectively. For further information regarding pension plan assets, refer
to Note 7, Employee Retirement Plans, and Note 13, Other Comprehensive
Income, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments

Contractual cash obligations(2):

                                        Payments due by period
                                  Less than      1-3      4-5     After
                            Total  1 year       years    years  5 years
                                           (in thousands)
Long term debt         $ 105,000   $85,000   $ 20,000 $     --  $    --
Capital lease
  obligations              9,377     4,298      5,079       --       --
Operating leases          30,763     7,069     11,832    9,393    2,469
Other long term
  obligations(1)       1,283,015   657,757    455,363  153,395   16,500
    Total obligations $1,428,155  $754,124   $492,274 $162,788  $18,969


Other commercial commitments(2):

                               Amount of commitment expiration per period
                       Total amounts  Less than    1-3       4-5      After
                        committed      1 year    years     years    5 years
                                          (in thousands)
Standby letters of
  credit                    $ 5,751    $ 5,336     415        --         --
Guarantees                    3,038      3,038      --        --         --
    Total commercial
      commitments           $ 8,789    $ 8,374   $ 415     $  --    $    --


(1) See Note 15, Commitments and Contingencies, in the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.

(2) Amounts do not include commitments related to the acquisition of the
Coors Brewers business, see Note 17, Subsequent Event, in the Notes to
the Consolidated Financial Statements.



Cautionary Statement Pursuant to Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995

This report contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of
Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934. You can identify these statements by forward-looking
words such as "expect," "anticipate," "plan," "believe," "seek,"
"estimate," "outlook," "trends," "industry forces," "strategies," "goals"
and similar words. Statements that we make in this report that are not
statements of historical fact may also be forward-looking statements. In
particular, statements that we make under the headings "Narrative
Description of Business," "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and "Outlook for 2002"
relating to our overall volume trends, consumer preferences, pricing trends
and industry forces, cost reduction strategies and anticipated results, our
expectation for funding our 2002 capital expenditures and operations, our
debt service capabilities, our shipment level and profitability, increased
market share and the sufficiency of capital to meet working capital,
capital expenditures requirements and our strategies are forward-looking
statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of our future
performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that may cause
our actual results to differ materially from the expectations we describe
in our forward-looking statements. There may be events in the future that
we are not able to predict accurately, or over which we have no control.
You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. We do
not promise to notify you if we learn that our assumptions or projections
are wrong for any reason. You should be aware that the factors we discuss
in "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this report could cause our actual
results to differ from any forward-looking statements.

Our actual results for future periods could differ materially from the
opinions and statements expressed with respect to future periods. In
particular, our future results could be affected by factors related to our
acquisition of the Coors Brewers business in the U.K., including
integration problems, unanticipated liabilities and the substantial amount
of indebtedness incurred to finance the acquisition, which could, among
other things, hinder our ability to adjust rapidly to changing market
conditions, make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn and place us
at a competitive disadvantage relative to less leveraged competitors.

To improve our financial performance, we must grow premium beverage volume,
achieve modest price increases for our products and control costs. The most
important factors that could influence the achievement of these goals and
cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the
forward looking statements, include, but are not limited to, the matters we
discussed in "Risk Factors".

OUTLOOK FOR 2002

Overall, 2001 represented a challenging year for our company, particularly
in the area of sales growth. However, in the fourth quarter of 2001, we
began to see improved sales trends in our business and in the beer
industry.

We are cautiously optimistic that improved U.S. industry growth, when
combined with our new advertising and sales efforts, will allow us in 2002
to achieve our long-standing goal of growing our unit volume 1% to 2%
faster than the U.S. beer industry. Despite widespread U.S. economic
weakness, the industry pricing environment continued to be favorable late
in 2001 and early in 2002. An increase in the level of promotional
discounting or the degree of value-pack activity could have an unfavorable
impact on sales and margins. Geographic and product mix continued to have a
modest negative impact on net sales per barrel late in 2001, with sales
shifting toward lower-revenue geographies and products. Also important, the
comparative net-sales-per-barrel impact of the sale of company-owned U.S.
distributorships that we experienced in the fourth quarter of 2001 -- a
reduction of about 2.5 % -- is likely to continue for the next three
quarters, with slight easing in the third quarter of 2002 and significant
easing in the fourth quarter. The disposition of Coors-owned
distributorships reduces the growth in our sales per barrel primarily
because the volumes sold by these distributorships represents much higher
revenue-per-barrel business than our average and because the non-Coors
brand volumes (for example, import beers) sold by these distributorships
are not included in our reported unit volume.

The current outlook for U.S. cost of goods is more encouraging than we have
seen in the past few years. Following are the five cost factors that we
think will be most important in 2002:

- - First, we are beginning to achieve significant operating efficiencies.
Our operations teams have begun to achieve success in a number of areas,
particularly with distribution costs and related supply-chain work. Some
of these savings have started to become significant, especially in the
fourth quarter of 2001. During the past two years, we have been focused
on adding production capacity, culminating with the start-up of the new
bottle line in our Shenandoah facility this spring. Now, we will focus on
utilizing the capacity we have in the most efficient way possible.

- - Second, input costs, including packaging materials, agricultural
commodities and fuel, are stabilizing. Early in 2002, the outlook is for
approximately flat can costs, assuming aluminum ingot prices stay near
their current levels. We anticipate modestly higher glass bottle costs,
with little change in paper packaging rates and agricultural commodity
costs in 2002. Fuel costs are always difficult to forecast, but the
outlook at this point is about the same as in 2001. Changes in oil or
natural gas prices could alter this outlook.

- - Third, mix shifts will also affect costs, but probably less than in the
past few years. Aside from changes in raw material rates, we plan to
spend more on glass in 2002 because of the continuing shift in our
package mix toward longneck bottles (LNNRs), which cost more and are less
profitable than most of our other package configurations. We anticipate
increasing LNNRs to more than 80% of our bottle mix this year. This
represents a significant slowdown in this mix shift toward LNNRs as we
complete the phase-out of the shorter convenience bottles.

- - Fourth, labor-related costs are expected to increase due to higher
pension and health care costs, as well as higher crewing related to
capacity expansion projects completed in 2001.

- - Fifth, we anticipate that the sale of our distributorships in 2001 will
be the largest single factor affecting reported cost of goods in 2002.
The fourth quarter 2001 impact of about (3%) offers the best template for
the first three quarters of 2002, with this factor essentially
normalizing early in the fourth quarter of 2002. The disposition of
Coors-owned distributorships reduces the growth in our cost of goods sold
per barrel primarily because the volumes sold by these distributorships
represents much higher cost-per-barrel business than our average and
because the non-Coors brand volumes (for example, import beers) sold by
these distributorships are not included in our reported unit volume.

Bringing together all of these factors, we plan to continue to make
progress in reducing costs in key areas of our company in 2002. Overall, we
see substantial additional potential to reduce our cost of doing business.

Marketing and sales spending in North America is expected to increase in
2002. We continue to focus on reducing costs so that we can invest in our
brands and sales efforts incrementally. Additional sales and marketing
spending is determined on an opportunity-by-opportunity basis. Incremental
revenue generated by price increases is likely to be spent on advertising
and marketplace support because the competitive landscape has shifted
during the past four years toward much more marketing, promotional and
advertising spending. General and administrative costs are expected to
increase due to higher labor benefit costs and spending on systems to
support our supply chain initiatives.

Interest expense will greatly exceed interest income in 2002 due to the
additional debt we incurred to complete the Carling acquisition. We also
reduced cash balances to complete this transaction. We will be keenly
focused on generating cash and paying down debt for the next few years.

In 2002, we have planned capital expenditures (excluding capital
improvements for our container joint ventures, which will be recorded on
the books of the respective joint ventures) for our North American business
in the range of approximately $135 to $145 million for improving and
enhancing our facilities, infrastructure, information systems and
environmental compliance. This capital spending plan is down from $244.5
million in 2001. All of the planned reduction for 2002 is the result of
completing capacity-related projects in 2001. Based on preliminary
analysis, we anticipate 2002 capital spending in our U.K. business will be
in the range of $80 to $90 million.

The impact of Coors Brewers on our 2002 outlook will depend substantially
on business plans being developed in early 2002.

CONTINGENCIES

Environmental:  We were one of a number of entities named by the
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) as a potentially responsible party
(PRP) at the Lowry Superfund site. This landfill is owned by the City and
County of Denver (Denver), and was managed by Waste Management of Colorado,
Inc. (Waste). In 1990, we recorded a special pretax charge of $30 million,
a portion of which was put into a trust in 1993 as part of an agreement
with Denver and Waste to settle the outstanding litigation related to this
issue.

Our settlement was based on an assumed cost of $120 million (in 1992
adjusted dollars). It requires us to pay a portion of future costs in
excess of that amount.

In January 2002, in response to the EPA's five-year review conducted in
2001, Waste provided us with updated annual cost estimates through 2032. We
have reviewed these cost estimates in the assessment of our accrual related
to this issue. In determining that the current accrual is adequate, we
eliminated certain costs included in Waste's estimates, primarily trust
management costs that will be accrued as incurred, certain remedial costs
for which technology has not yet been developed and income taxes which we
do not believe to be an included cost in the determination of when the $120
million threshold is reached. We generally used a 2% inflation rate for
future costs, and discounted certain operations and maintenance costs at
the site that we deemed to be determinable, at a 5.46% risk-free rate of
return. Based on these assumptions, the present value and gross amount of
discounted costs are approximately $1 million and $4 million, respectively.
We did not assume any future recoveries from insurance companies in the
estimate of our liability.

There are a number of uncertainties at the site, including what additional
remedial actions will be required by the EPA, and what costs are included
in the determination of when the $120 million threshold is reached. Because
of these issues, the estimate of our liability may change as facts further
develop, and we may need to increase the reserve. While we cannot predict
the amount of any such increase, an additional accrual of as much as $25
million is reasonably possible based on our preliminary evaluation, with
additional cash contributions beginning as early as 2013.

We were one of several parties named by the EPA as a PRP at the Rocky Flats
Industrial Park site. In September 2000, the EPA entered into an
Administrative Order on Consent with certain parties, including our
company, requiring implementation of a removal action. Our projected costs
to construct and monitor the removal action are approximately $300,000. The
EPA will also seek to recover its oversight costs associated with the
project which are not possible to estimate at this time. However, we
believe they would be immaterial to our operating results, cash flows and
financial position.

In August 2000, an accidental spill into Clear Creek at our Golden,
Colorado, facility caused damage to some of the fish population in the
creek. A settlement reached in February 2001 with the Colorado Department
of Public Health and Environment was modified based on public comment,
including comments by the EPA. As a result, permit violations that occurred
several years prior to the accidental spill were included in the
settlement, as well as economic benefit penalties related to those prior
violations. A total civil penalty of $100,000 was assessed in the final
settlement with the Department reached in August 2001. In addition, we will
undertake an evaluation of our process wastewater treatment plant. On
December 21, 2001, we settled with the Colorado Division of Wildlife for
the loss of fish in Clear Creek. We have agreed to construct, as a pilot
project, a tertiary treatment wetlands area to evaluate the ability of a
wetlands to provide additional treatment to the effluent from our waste
treatment facilities. We will also pay for the stocking of game fish in the
Denver metropolitan area and the cost of two graduate students to assist in
the research of the pilot project. The anticipated costs of the project are
estimated to be approximately $500,000. The amounts of these settlements
have been fully accrued as of December 30, 2001.

From time to time, we have been notified that we are or may be a PRP under
the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act or
similar state laws for the cleanup of other sites where hazardous
substances have allegedly been released into the environment. We cannot
predict with certainty the total costs of cleanup, our share of the total
cost, the extent to which contributions will be available from other
parties, the amount of time necessary to complete the cleanups or insurance
coverage.

In addition, we are aware of groundwater contamination at some of our
properties in Colorado resulting from historical, ongoing or nearby
activities. There may also be other contamination of which we are currently
unaware.

While we cannot predict our eventual aggregate cost for our environmental
and related matters in which we are currently involved, we believe that any
payments, if required, for these matters would be made over a period of
time in amounts that would not be material in any one year to our operating
results, cash flows or our financial or competitive position. We believe
adequate reserves have been provided for losses that are probable and
estimable.

Litigation:  We are also named as a defendant in various actions and
proceedings arising in the normal course of business. In all of these
cases, we are denying the allegations and are vigorously defending
ourselves against them and, in some instances, have filed counterclaims.
Although the eventual outcome of the various lawsuits cannot be predicted,
it is management's opinion that these suits will not result in liabilities
that would materially affect our financial position, results of operations
or cash flows.

Risk Factors

You should carefully consider the following factors and the other
information contained within this document:

We have a substantial amount of indebtedness.

Because of the acquisition of the Coors Brewers business, we will have
indebtedness that is substantial in relation to our stockholders' equity.
As of February 2, 2002, we have total debt of more than $1.7 billion.
Furthermore, our debt agreements permit us to incur additional indebtedness
in the future. Our consolidated indebtedness may have the effect,
generally, of restricting our flexibility in responding to changing market
conditions and could make us vulnerable in the event of a general downturn
in economic conditions or our business.

Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to us,
including:

- - a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be
dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our debt,
reducing the funds available to us for other purposes including
expansion through acquisitions, marketing spending and expansion of
our product offerings; and

- - we may be more leveraged than some of our competitors, which may
place us at a competitive disadvantage.

Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our obligations with
respect to our indebtedness will depend on our financial and operating
performance, which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions
and to financial, business and other factors beyond our control.

Our ability to successfully integrate the Coors Brewers business and to
implement our business strategy with respect to the Coors Brewers business
could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.

While we believe that the acquisition of the Coors Brewers business will
provide us with significant opportunities to increase our revenues, there
can be no assurances that these benefits will be realized or that we will
not face difficulty in integrating the Coors Brewers business. Acquisitions
involve a number of special risks, including the risk that acquired
businesses will not achieve the results we expect, the risk that we may not
be able to retain key personnel of the acquired business, unanticipated
events or liabilities, and the potential disruption of our business.

If we are unable to successfully integrate the Coors Brewers business, we
may not realize anticipated revenue growth, which may negatively impact our
profitability. The occurrence of any of the events referred to in the risks
described above or other unforeseen developments in connection with the
acquisition and integration of the Coors Brewers business could materially
and adversely affect our results of operations.

In addition, we have not previously operated a business the size of Coors
Brewers in the U.K. If we are unable to retain key personnel of the
acquired business, we may be unable to realize the benefits that we expect
from the acquisition. If the costs of operating the acquired business are
higher than we expect, our business, financial position and results of
operations may be adversely affected.

Loss of the Coors Brewers Limited management team could negatively impact our
ability to successfully operate the U.K. business.

The successful operation and integration of the Coors Brewers business is
dependent, to a great extent, upon retention of the current management team.
Although current management has committed to staying with us, the loss of one
or more members could have a material adverse impact on the success of the
Coors Brewers business until proper replacements could be found.

Our success depends largely on the success of one product in the U.S. and in
the U.K. the failure of which would materially adversely affect our financial
results.

Although we currently have 11 products in our U.S. portfolio, Coors Light
represented more than 70% of our sales volume for 2001. A key factor in our
growth is based on consumer taste preferences that are beyond our control.
Our primary competitors' portfolios are more evenly diversified than ours.
As a consequence, if consumer tastes shift to another style of beer, the
loss of sales from Coors Light would have a disproportionately negative
impact on our business compared to the business of our principal
competitors. We cannot assure that the Coors Light brand will maintain
market share or continue to grow.

We cannot provide assurance that our acquisition of Coors Brewers will
mitigate our reliance on a single product to any significant degree or
offset the impact of any potential loss of market share or sales of Coors
Light. Moreover, Carling lager is the best-selling brand in the U.K. and
represented more than 50% of the Coors Brewers sales volume in the U.K.
Consequently, any material shift in consumer preferences in the U.K. away
from Carling would have a disproportionately negative impact on that
business.

Because our primary production facility in the U.S. and the Coors Brewers
production facilities in the U.K. are each located at a single site, we are
more vulnerable than our competitors to transportation disruptions and natural
disasters.

Our primary U.S. production facilities are located in Golden, Colorado,
where we brew more than 90% of our volume in the U.S. and package
approximately 60% of our products sold in the U.S.  Our centralized
operations in the U.S. require us to ship our products greater distances
than our competitors. We ship approximately 64% of our products by truck
and intermodal directly to distributors and satellite redistribution
centers. The remaining 36% of our products are transported by railcar to
distributors and satellite redistribution centers. If our transportation
system in the U.S. is disrupted as a result of labor strikes, work
stoppages, or for any other reason, our business and financial results
would be negatively impacted.

The Coors Brewers production facilities in the U.K. are located in Burton-
on-Trent, England. Although these facilities are composed of two breweries,
they are located side-by-side. These two breweries account for the majority
of our production in the U.K.

Because these operations are both centralized, we would experience
proportionately greater disruption and losses than our competitors if these
primary production facilities in the U.S. or the U.K. were damaged by
natural disasters or other catastrophes.

We are significantly smaller than our two primary competitors in the U.S., and
we are more vulnerable than our competitors to cost and price fluctuations.

The beer industry is highly competitive. At the retail level, we compete on
the basis of quality, taste, advertising, price, packaging innovation and
retail execution by our distributors. Competition in our various markets
could cause us to reduce pricing, increase capital and other expenditures
or lose market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on
our business and financial results.

In the U.S., we compete primarily with Anheuser-Busch Companies, Inc. and
Miller Brewing Co., the top two brewers in the U.S. Both of our primary
competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, production,
distribution and other resources than we have. As a consequence, we face
significant competitive disadvantages related to their greater economies of
scale. To remain competitive, we must spend substantially more per barrel
on advertising due to our smaller scale. In addition, we are subject to
being outspent by our competitors in advertising, promotions and
sponsorships. Aggressive marketing campaigns by our competitors could
requires us to spend additional amounts on marketing or cause us to lose
market share, which would adversely affect our profit margins.

The concentration of our operations at one location contributes to higher
costs per barrel than our primary competitors due to a number of factors.
These factors include, but are not limited to, higher transportation costs
and the need to maintain satellite redistribution centers. Our primary
competitors have multiple geographically dispersed breweries and packaging
facilities. Therefore, they have lower transportation costs and less need
for satellite redistribution centers. As a result of our higher costs per
barrel and resulting lower margins, we are more vulnerable to cost and
price fluctuations than our major competitors. Any significant increase in
costs, such as fuel or packaging costs, or significant decrease in prices
that we can charge for our products, would have a disproportionately
material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial
condition.

We are vulnerable to the pricing actions of our primary competitors, which are
beyond our control.

An improved pricing environment over the past several years has allowed us
to make moderate, consistent increases in beer prices. These pricing
increases have contributed to our improved profitability. The market may
not continue to accept price increases, and our competitors may move away
from price increases and implement competitive strategies that involve
price discounting. Any material negative change in the current pricing
environment could have a material adverse affect on our results of
operations.

If any of our suppliers are unable or unwilling to meet our requirements, we
may be unable to promptly obtain the materials we need to operate our business.

We purchase most of our paperboard and label packaging for our U.S.
products from Graphic Packaging International Corporation. William K. Coors
and Peter H. Coors serve, along with other Coors family members, as co-
trustees of a number of Coors family trusts which collectively control both
Graphic Packaging and us. Graphic Packaging supplies unique packaging to us
that is not currently produced by any other supplier. Our agreement with
Graphic Packaging expires in 2002. We have begun negotiations to extend
this agreement. Because we do not believe there is another readily
available source for this packaging, the loss of Graphic Packaging as our
supplier without sufficient time to develop an alternative source for our
packaging requirements, or a significant increase in prices charged by
Graphic Packaging, would likely have a material adverse effect on our
business.

We are dependent on our suppliers for all of the raw materials used in our
products as well as for all packaging materials. We currently purchase
nearly all of our aluminum cans in the U.S. from our joint venture with
Ball Corporation and more than half of our glass bottles from our joint
venture with Owens-Brockway Glass Container, Inc.. We also have agreements
to purchase substantially all of our remaining can and bottle needs from
these joint venture partners.

Coors Brewers has only a single source for their can supply. The loss of
this supplier without sufficient time to develop an alternative source
would likely have a material adverse effect on their business.

As with most agricultural products, the supply and price of raw materials
used to produce our products can be affected by a number of factors beyond
our control, including frosts, droughts, other weather conditions, economic
factors affecting growth decisions, various plant diseases and pests. To
the extent that any of the foregoing affects the ingredients we use to
produce our products, our results of operations could be materially and
adversely affected.

The government may adopt regulations that could increase our costs or our
liabilities or could limit our business activities.

Our business is highly regulated by national and local government entities.
These regulations govern many parts of our operations, including brewing,
marketing and advertising, transportation, distributor relationships, sales
and environmental issues. We cannot assure you that we have been or will at
all times be in compliance with all regulatory requirements or that we will
not incur material costs or liabilities in connection with regulatory
requirements. The beer industry could be subjected to changes or additions
to governmental regulations. For example, we could face new labeling or
packaging requirements or restrictions on advertising and promotions that
could adversely affect the sale of our products.

Governmental entities also levy taxes and may require bonds to ensure
compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Various legislative
authorities in both the U.S. and the U.K. from time to time consider
various proposals to impose additional excise taxes on the production and
sale of alcohol beverages, including beer. The last significant increase in
federal excise taxes on beer was in 1991 when Congress doubled federal
excise taxes on beer. We cannot assure you that the operations of our
breweries and other facilities will not become subject to increased
taxation by federal, state or local authorities. Any significant increases
could have a materially adverse impact on our financial results.

If the social acceptability of our products declines, or if litigation is
directed at the alcohol beverage industry, our sales volumes could decrease and
our business could be materially adversely affected.

In recent years, there has been increased social and political attention
directed to the alcohol beverage industry. We believe that this attention
is the result of public concern over alcohol-related problems, including
drunk driving, underage drinking and health consequences from the misuse of
alcohol. If the social acceptability of beer were to decline significantly,
sales of our products could materially decrease. Similarly, recent
litigation against the tobacco industry has directed increased attention to
the alcohol beverage industry. If our industry were to become involved in
litigation similar to that of the tobacco industry, our business could be
materially adversely affected.

Any significant shift in packaging preferences in the beer industry could
disproportionately increase our costs and could limit our ability to meet
consumer demand.

Any significant shift in packaging preferences by retailers and consumers
could disproportionately increase our costs and may affect our ability to
meet consumer demand, which could have a material adverse effect on our
results of operations. Reconfiguring our packaging facilities to produce
different types or amounts of packaging than we currently produce would
likely increase our costs. In addition, we may not be able to complete any
necessary changes quickly enough to keep pace with shifting consumer
preferences. Our primary competitors are larger and may be better able to
accommodate a packaging preference shift. If we are not able to respond
quickly to a packaging preference shift, our sales and market share could
decline.

We depend on independent distributors to sell our products and we cannot
provide any assurance that these distributors will effectively sell our
products.

We sell all of our products in the U.S. to wholesale distributors for
resale to retail outlets. We are highly dependent on independently-owned
distributors. Distributors that we own account for less than 5% of our
total domestic volume. Some of our distributors are at a competitive
disadvantage because they are significantly smaller than the largest
distributors in their markets. Our distributors also sell products that
compete with our products. We cannot control or provide any assurance that
these distributors will not give our competitors' products higher priority,
thereby reducing their efforts to sell our products. In addition, the
regulatory environment of many states makes it very difficult to change
distributors. In most cases, poor performance by a distributor is not
grounds for replacement. Consequently, if we are not allowed or are unable
to replace unproductive or inefficient distributors, our business,
financial position, and results of operation may be adversely affected.

Unlike the U.S., in the U.K. Coors Brewers wholesales its products directly
to retail outlets and is not dependent upon wholesalers. In the U.K., Coors
Brewers distributes its products through Tradeteam, its joint venture with
Exel Logistics. Tradeteam operates a system of satellite warehouses and a
transportation fleet for delivery between Coors Brewers and customers.
Coors Brewers is reliant exclusively upon Tradeteam for these services.

Because our sales volume is more concentrated in a few geographic areas in the
U.S., any loss of market share in the states where we are concentrated would
have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.

Although we sell beer nationwide and in select international markets, only
a few states, California, Texas, Pennsylvania, New York and New Jersey,
together represented 44% of our total domestic volume in 2001. We have
relatively low market share in the Midwest and Southeast regions of the
U.S. Any loss of market share in our core states could have a material
adverse effect on our results of operations.

We are subject to environmental regulation by federal, state and local
agencies, including laws that impose liability without regard to fault.

Our operations are subject to federal, state, local, and foreign
environmental laws and regulations regarding, among other things, the
generation, use, storage, disposal, emission, release and remediation of
hazardous and non-hazardous substances, materials or wastes as well as the
health and safety of our employees. Under certain of these laws, namely the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act and
its state counterparts, we could be held liable for investigation and
remediation of hazardous substance contamination at our currently or
formerly owned or operated facilities or at third-party waste disposal
sites, as well as for any personal or property damage arising out of such
contamination regardless of fault. From time to time, we have been notified
that we are or may be a potentially responsible party under the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act.
Although we believe that none of the sites in which we are currently
involved will materially affect our business, financial condition or
results of operations, we cannot predict with certainty the total costs of
cleanup, our share of the total costs, the extent to which contributions
will be available from other parties, the amount of time necessary to
complete the cleanups or insurance coverage. In addition, we could be named
a potentially responsible party at sites in the future and the costs
associated with such future sites may be material.

Environmental laws and regulations are complex and change frequently. While
we have budgeted for future capital and operating expenditures to maintain
compliance with these environmental laws and regulations, we cannot assure
you that we will not incur any environmental liability or that these
environmental laws and regulations will not change or become more stringent
in the future in a manner that could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition or results of operations.

Consolidation of pubs and growth in the size of pub chains in the U.K. could
result in less bargaining strength on pricing.

The trend toward consolidation of pubs, away from independent pub and club
operations, is increasing in the U.K. One result of this trend is that
these pub chains are larger entities, and could have stronger price
negotiating power, than independent businesses. If the trend continues, it
could impact Coors Brewers' ability to obtain favorable pricing both on-
trade and off-trade (due to spillover effect of reduced negotiating
leverage) and could reduce profit margins for us and industry wide for
brewers.

We may experience labor disruptions in the U.K.

Approximately, 31% of the Coors Brewers 3,150 employees are unionized
compared to approximately 8% of our 5,500 employees in the U.S. Although we
believe relations with our employees are very good both in the U.S. and in
the U.K., the Coors Brewers operations could be affected to a somewhat
greater degree by labor strikes, work stoppages or other similar employee-
related issues.

ITEM 7a. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

In the normal course of business, we are exposed to fluctuations in
interest rates, the value of foreign currencies and production and
packaging materials prices. To manage these exposures when practical, we
have established policies and procedures that govern the management of
these exposures through the use of a variety of financial instruments. By
policy, we do not enter into such contracts for the purpose of speculation.

Our objective in managing our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates,
foreign currency exchange rates and production and packaging materials
prices is to decrease the volatility of earnings and cash flows associated
with changes in the applicable rates and prices. To achieve this objective,
we primarily enter into forward contracts, options and swap agreements
whose values change in the opposite direction of the anticipated cash
flows. We do not hedge the value of net investments in foreign-currency-
denominated operations and translated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. Our
primary foreign currency exposures were the Canadian dollar (CAD), the
Japanese yen (YEN) and the British pound (GBP).

In December 2001, we entered into a foreign currency forward sale agreement
to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in the British pound exchange rate
related to acquisition of certain Coors Brewers' assets. Also in
anticipation of the Carling acquisition, we entered into a commitment with
a lender for the financing of this transaction. Included within the
commitment letter is a foreign currency written option which reduced our
exposure on the U.S. dollar borrowing to fund the Coors Brewers
transaction. The derivatives resulting from these agreements do not qualify
for hedge accounting and, accordingly, were marked to market at year-end.
The associated $0.3 million net expense was recorded in other income in the
accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income.

Subsequent to year-end, the foreign currency swap settled on January 12,
2002, and the written option included in the loan commitment expired on
February 11, 2002, resulting in a combined loss and amortization expense of
$1.2 million to be realized during the first quarter of 2002.

Derivatives are either exchange-traded instruments that are highly liquid,
or over-the-counter instruments with highly rated financial institutions.
No credit loss is anticipated because the counterparties to over-the-
counter instruments generally have long-term ratings from S&P or Moody's
that are no lower than A or A2, respectively. Additionally, most
counterparty fair value positions favorable to us and in excess of certain
thresholds are collateralized with cash, U.S. Treasury securities or
letters of credit. We have reciprocal collateralization responsibilities
for fair value positions unfavorable to us and in excess of certain
thresholds. At December 30, 2001, we had zero counterparty collateral and
had none outstanding.

A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate our exposure to market
risk of interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity
prices. The sensitivity analysis reflects the impact of a hypothetical 10%
adverse change in the applicable market interest rates, foreign currency
exchange rates and commodity prices. The volatility of the applicable rates
and prices are dependent on many factors that cannot be forecast with
reliable accuracy. Therefore, actual changes in fair values could differ
significantly from the results presented in the table below. See Item 8,
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 1, Summary of Accounting
Policies, and Note 12, Derivative Instruments, in the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.

The following table presents the results of the sensitivity analysis of our
derivative and debt portfolio:

                                             As of		    As of
Estimated fair value volatility       December 30, 2001   December 31, 2000
                                                 (In millions)
Foreign currency risk:
  forwards, option                         $(22.2)           $ (3.0)
Interest rate risk:  swaps, debt           $ (0.4)           $ (1.3)
Commodity price risk:  swaps, options      $(12.2)           $ (9.1)

ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

     Index to Financial Statements
                                                                   Page(s)

     Consolidated Financial Statements:

          Report of Independent Accountants                         49

          Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive
            Income for each of the three years in the period
            ended December 30, 2001                                 50

          Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 30, 2001,
            and December 31, 2000                                   51-52

          Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of
            the three years in the period ended December 30, 2001   53

          Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity
            for each of the three years in the period ended
            December 30, 2001                                       54

          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                55-88


Report of Independent Accountants



To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Adolph Coors Company:


In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the
related consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income of
shareholders' equity and of cash flows present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Adolph Coors Company and its
subsidiaries at December 30, 2001, and December 31, 2000, and the results
of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 30, 2001, in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America. These financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company's management; our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based
on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance
with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America
which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements,
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We
believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.







PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Denver, Colorado
February 6, 2002

ADOLPH COORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

                                              For the years ended
                                   December 30,  December 31,  December 26,
                                          2001          2000          1999
                                    (In thousands, except per share data)

Sales - domestic and international $ 2,842,752   $ 2,841,738   $ 2,642,712
Beer excise taxes                     (413,290)     (427,323)     (406,228)
Net sales (Note 14)                  2,429,462     2,414,415     2,236,484
Cost of goods sold                  (1,537,623)   (1,525,829)   (1,397,251)

Gross profit                           891,839       888,586       839,233

Other operating expenses:
  Marketing, general and
    administrative                    (717,060)     (722,745)     (692,993)
  Special charges (Note 9)             (23,174)      (15,215)       (5,705)
     Total other operating expenses   (740,234)     (737,960)     (698,698)

Operating income                       151,605       150,626       140,535

Other income (expense):
  Gain on sales of distributorships     27,667         1,000            --
  Interest income                       16,409        21,325        11,286
  Interest expense                      (2,006)       (6,414)       (4,357)
  Miscellaneous - net                    4,338         2,988         3,203
     Total                              46,408        18,899        10,132
Income before income taxes             198,013       169,525       150,667
Income tax expense (Note 5)            (75,049)      (59,908)      (58,383)

Net income (Note 7)                    122,964       109,617        92,284

Other comprehensive income (expense),
  net of tax (Note 13):
    Foreign currency translation
      adjustments                           14         2,632        (3,519)
    Unrealized (loss) gain on available-
      for-sale securities                3,718         1,268          (397)
    Unrealized (loss) gain on derivative
      instruments                       (6,200)       (1,997)        6,835
    Minimum pension liability
      adjustment                        (8,487)           --            --
    Reclassification adjustments        (4,898)          366            --
Comprehensive income               $   107,111   $   111,886   $    95,203

Net income per share - basic       $      3.33   $      2.98   $      2.51
Net income per share - diluted     $      3.31   $      2.93   $      2.46

Weighted-average shares - basic         36,902        36,785        36,729
Weighted-average shares - diluted       37,177        37,450        37,457

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

ADOLPH COORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

                                             December 30,      December 31,
                                                    2001              2000
                                                    (In thousands)
Assets

Current assets:
  Cash and cash equivalents                   $   77,133        $  119,761
  Short-term marketable securities               232,572            72,759
  Accounts and notes receivable:
    Trade, less allowance for doubtful accounts
      of $91 in 2001 and $139 in 2000             94,985           104,484
    Affiliates                                       223             7,209
    Other, less allowance for certain claims of
      $111 in 2001 and $104 in 2000               13,524            15,385

  Inventories:
    Finished                                      32,438            40,039
    In process                                    23,363            23,735
    Raw materials                                 41,534            37,570
    Packaging materials, less allowance for
      obsolete inventories of $2,188 in 2001
      and $1,993 in 2000                          17,788             8,580
    Total inventories                            115,123           109,924

  Maintenance and operating supplies,
      less allowance for obsolete supplies
        of $2,182 in 2001 and $1,621in 2000       23,454            23,703
  Prepaid expenses and other assets               21,722            19,847
  Deferred tax asset (Note 5)                     27,793            24,679
      Total current assets                       606,529           497,751

Properties, at cost and net (Notes 2 and 14)     869,710           735,793
Goodwill and other intangibles, less
  accumulated amortization of $9,049 in
  2001 and $12,981 in 2000 (Notes 1 and 7)        86,289            54,795
Investments in joint ventures, less
  accumulated amortization of $1,625 in
  2001 (Note 10)                                  94,785            56,342
Long-term marketable securities                       --           193,675

Other assets                                      82,379            90,948







Total assets                                  $1,739,692        $1,629,304

See notes to consolidated financial statements.



                                          December 30,         December 31,
                                                 2001                 2000
Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity             (In thousands)

Current liabilities:
  Accounts payable:
    Trade                                  $  219,381           $  186,105
    Affiliates                                  3,112               11,621
  Accrued salaries and vacations               56,767               57,041
  Taxes, other than income taxes               31,271               32,469
  Accrued expenses and other
    liabilities (Notes 3 and 4)               122,014               92,100
  Current portion of long-term debt (Note 4)   85,000                   --
    Total current liabilities                 517,545              379,336

Long-term debt (Note 4)                        20,000              105,000
Deferred tax liability (Note 5)                61,635               89,986
Deferred pension and
  postretirement benefits (Note 7, 8 and 13)  141,720               77,147
Other long-term liabilities (Note 3)           47,480               45,446

      Total liabilities                       788,380              696,915

Commitments and contingencies
  (Notes 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10 and 15)

Shareholders' equity (Notes 6, 11 and 13):
  Capital stock:
    Preferred stock, non-voting, no par
     value (authorized:  25,000,000
     shares; issued and outstanding:  none)        --                   --
    Class A common stock, voting, no
     par value (authorized, issued and
     outstanding:  1,260,000 shares)            1,260                1,260
    Class B common stock, non-voting,
     no par value, $0.24 stated value
     (authorized:  200,000,000 shares;
     issued and outstanding:  34,689,410
     in 2001 and 35,871,121 in 2000)            8,259                8,541
         Total capital stock                    9,519                9,801

  Paid-in capital                                  --               11,332
  Unvested restricted stock                      (597)                (129)
  Retained earnings                           954,981              908,123
  Accumulated other comprehensive income      (12,591)               3,262

      Total shareholders' equity              951,312              932,389

Total liabilities and shareholders' equity $1,739,692           $1,629,304

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

ADOLPH COORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

                                                      For the years ended
                                        December 30,  December 31,  December 26,
                                               2001          2000          1999
Cash flows from operating activities:                    (In thousands)
Net income                               $  122,964    $  109,617    $   92,284
 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net
  cash provided by operating activities:
   Equity in net earnings of joint ventures (43,630)      (42,395)      (36,958)
   Distributions from joint ventures          39,453        55,379        30,280
   Impairment and non-cash portion
     of special charges                       6,591        11,068         4,769
   Depreciation, depletion and amortization 121,091       129,283       123,770
   Gains on sales of securities              (4,042)           --            --
   Net (gain) loss on sale or abandonment of
    properties and intangibles, net         (30,467)       (4,729)        2,471
   Deferred income taxes                    (19,176)        6,870        20,635
   Change in operating assets and liabilities:
     Accounts and notes receivable             (836)       21,696       (19,159)
     Affiliate accounts receivable            6,986         6,564        (1,877)
     Inventories                             (5,199)       (3,087)       (4,373)
     Prepaid expenses and other assets       (6,024)        3,107       (49,786)
     Accounts payable                       (36,053)          988        59,082
     Affiliate accounts payable               8,509        12,650       (12,565)
     Accrued expenses and other liabilities  33,229       (26,280)        2,751
      Net cash provided by operating
        activities                          193,396       280,731       211,324

Cash flows from investing activities:
  Purchases of investments                 (228,237)     (356,741)      (94,970)
  Sales and maturities of investments       268,093       208,176       105,920
  Additions to properties and intangible
    assets                                 (244,548)     (154,324)     (134,377)
  Proceeds from sales of properties
    and intangible assets                    63,529         6,427         3,821
  Investment in Molson USA, LLC             (65,000)           --            --
  Other                                       9,414        (1,079)       (1,437)
      Net cash used in investing activities(196,749)     (297,541)     (121,043)

Cash flows from financing activities:
  Issuances of stock under stock plans       10,701        17,232         9,728
  Purchases of treasury stock               (72,345)      (19,989)      (20,722)
  Dividends paid                            (29,510)      (26,564)      (23,745)
  Payments of long-term debt                     --            --       (40,000)
  Overdraft balances                         51,551         4,686       (11,256)
  Other                                         759        (2,235)       (1,692)
      Net cash used in financing activities (38,844)      (26,870)      (87,687)

Cash and cash equivalents:
  Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash
    equivalents                             (42,197)      (43,680)        2,594
  Effect of exchange rate changes on
    cash and cash equivalents                  (431)         (367)        1,176
  Balance at beginning of year              119,761       163,808       160,038
  Balance at end of year                 $   77,133    $  119,761    $  163,808

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

ADOLPH COORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

                                                              Accumulated
                                                                 other
                 Common stock              Unvested             compre-
                    issued       Paid-in  Restricted  Retained  hensive
                Class A Class B  capital    Stock     earnings   income   Total
                                     (In thousands, except per share data)
Balances at
 December 27,
 1998         $ 1,260 $ 8,428 $ 10,505  $       --  $756,531 $ (1,926) $774,798
Shares issued
  under stock plans,
  including related
  tax benefit             110   15,895                                   16,005
Purchases of stock        (95) (20,627)                                 (20,722)
Other comprehensive
  income                                                        2,919     2,919
Net income                                            92,284             92,284
Cash dividends-
  $0.645 per share                                   (23,745)           (23,745)
Balances at
 December 26,
 1999           1,260   8,443    5,773          --   825,070      993   841,539
Shares issued
  under stock plans,
  including related
  tax benefit             181   25,465        (129)                       25,517
Purchases of stock        (83) (19,906)                                 (19,989)
Other comprehensive
  income                                                        2,269     2,269
Net income                                           109,617            109,617
Cash dividends-
  $0.72 per share                                    (26,564)           (26,564)
Balances at
  December 31,
  2000          1,260   8,541   11,332        (129)  908,123    3,262   932,389
Shares issued
  under stock plans,
  including related
  tax benefit              75   13,463        (651)      780             13,667
Amortization of
  restricted stock                             183      (183)                --
Purchases of stock       (357) (24,795)              (47,193)           (72,345)
Other comprehensive
  income                                                      (15,853)  (15,853)
Net income                                           122,964            122,964
Cash dividends-
  $0.80 per share                                    (29,510)           (29,510)
Balances at
 December 30,
 2001         $ 1,260 $ 8,259 $     --  $     (597) $954,981 $(12,591) $951,312

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

ADOLPH COORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 1:

Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Principles of consolidation:  Our consolidated financial statements include
our accounts and our majority-owned and controlled domestic and foreign
subsidiaries. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have
been eliminated. The equity method of accounting is used for our
investments in affiliates where we have the ability to exercise significant
influence (see Note 10, Investments). We have other investments that are
accounted for at cost.

Nature of operations:  We are a multinational brewer, marketer and seller
of beer and other malt-based beverages. The vast majority of our volume is
sold in the United States to independent wholesalers. Our international
volume is produced, marketed and distributed under varying business
arrangements including export, direct investment, joint ventures and
licensing.

Fiscal year:  Our fiscal year is a 52- or 53-week period ending on the last
Sunday in December. Fiscal years ended December 30, 2001, and December 26,
1999, were both 52-week periods. Fiscal year ended December 31, 2000, was a
53-week period.

Use of estimates:  The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make
estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions affect the
reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent
assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Reclassifications:  Certain reclassifications have been made to the 2000
and 1999 financial statements to conform with the 2001 presentation.

Cash and cash equivalents:  Cash equivalents represent highly liquid
investments with original maturities of 90 days or less. The fair value of
these investments approximates their carrying value.

Investments in marketable securities:  We invest our excess cash on hand in
interest-bearing marketable securities, which include corporate, government
agency and municipal debt instruments that are investment grade. All of
these securities were considered to be available-for-sale. These securities
have been recorded at fair value, based on quoted market prices, through
other comprehensive income. Unrealized gains, recorded in Accumulated other
comprehensive income, relating to these securities totaled $6.0 million and
$2.0 million at December 30, 2001, and December 31, 2000, respectively. Net
gains recognized on sales for available-for-sale securities were $4.0
million in 2001. Net gains realized on sales of available-for-sale
securities were immaterial in 2000 and 1999. The cost of securities sold is
based on the specific identification method. At December 30, 2001, all
$232.6 million of these securities were classified as current assets. In
January 2002, all of these securities were sold, at a gain of $4.0 million.
Approximately half of the related funds were used in the Carling
acquisition and the remaining funds were used to cover general operating
cash requirements.

Concentration of credit risk:  The majority of our accounts receivable
balances are from malt beverage distributors. We secure substantially all
of this credit risk with purchase money security interests in inventory and
proceeds, personal guarantees and/or letters of credit.

Inventories:  Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost
is determined by the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for substantially all
inventories. Current cost, as determined principally on the first-in,
first-out method, exceeded LIFO cost by $41.5 million and $42.9 million at
December 30, 2001, and December 31, 2000, respectively.

Properties:  Land, buildings and machinery and equipment are stated at
cost. Depreciation is provided principally on the straight-line method over
the following estimated useful lives:  buildings and improvements, 10 to 40
years; and machinery and equipment, 3 to 20 years. Certain equipment held
under capital lease is classified as equipment and amortized using the
straight-line method over the lease term and the related obligation is
recorded as a liability. Lease amortization is included in depreciation
expense. Accelerated depreciation methods are generally used for income tax
purposes. Expenditures for new facilities and improvements that
substantially extend the capacity or useful life of an asset are
capitalized. Start-up costs associated with manufacturing facilities, but
not related to construction, are expensed as incurred. Ordinary repairs and
maintenance are expensed as incurred.

Goodwill and other intangible assets:  Goodwill and other intangible
assets, with the exception of the pension intangible asset and water
rights, were amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated future
periods to be benefited, generally 40 years for goodwill and up to 20 years
for trademarks, naming and distribution rights whose related weighted
average life is 14 years. Please see the Recent accounting pronouncement
section below for information regarding the impact of the Financial
Accounting Boards' Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No.
142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets on this policy.

System development costs:  We capitalize certain system development costs
that meet established criteria, in accordance with Statement of Position
(SOP) 98-1, Accounting for the Costs of Computer Systems Developed or
Obtained for Internal Use. Amounts capitalized in Machinery and equipment
are amortized to expense on a straight-line basis over three to five years.
At December 30, 2001 and December 31, 2000 amounts capitalized were $8.4
million and $3.2 million, respectively. Related amortization expense was
$2.2 million and $0.8 million for fiscal years 2001 and 2000, respectively.
There were no amounts capitalized in 1999. System development costs not
meeting the criteria in SOP 98-1, including system reengineering, are
expensed as incurred.

Overdraft balances:  Under our cash management system, checks issued
pending clearance that result in overdraft balances for accounting purposes
are included in the Trade accounts payable balance. The amounts
reclassified were $70.5 million and $18.9 million at December 30, 2001 and
December 31, 2000, respectively.

Derivative instruments:  Our objective in managing our exposure to
fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and
production and packaging materials prices is to decrease the volatility of
earnings and cash flows associated with changes in the applicable rates and
prices. To achieve this objective, we primarily enter into forward
contracts, options and swap agreements whose values change in the opposite
direction of the anticipated cash flows. Derivative instruments, which we
designate as hedges of forecasted transactions and which qualify for hedge
accounting treatment under Statement of Financial Accounting Standard
(SFAS) No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities (which we adopted on January 1, 1999), are considered cash flows
hedges, and the effective portion of any gains or losses are included in
Accumulated other comprehensive income until earnings are affected by the
variability of cash flows. Any remaining gain or loss is recognized in
current earnings. In calculating effectiveness for SFAS 133 purposes, we do
not exclude any component of the derivative instruments' gain or loss from
the calculation. The cash flows of the derivative instruments are expected
to be highly effective in achieving offsetting fluctuations in the cash
flows of the hedged risk. If it becomes probable that a forecasted
transaction will no longer occur, the derivative will continue to be
carried on the balance sheet at fair value, and the gains and losses that
were accumulated in other comprehensive income will be recognized
immediately in earnings. If the derivative instruments are terminated prior
to their expiration dates, any cumulative gains and losses are deferred and
recognized in earnings over the remaining life of the underlying exposure.
If the hedged assets or liabilities are sold or extinguished, we recognize
in earnings the gain or loss on the designated financial instruments
concurrent with the sale or extinguishment of the hedged assets or
liabilities. Cash flows from our derivative instruments are classified in
the same category as the hedged item in the Consolidated Statements of Cash
Flows. See Note 12, Derivative Instruments, for additional information
regarding our derivative holdings.

Impairment policy:  When events or changes in circumstances indicate that
the carrying amount of long-lived assets, including goodwill or other
intangible assets, may not be recoverable, an evaluation is performed to
determine if an impairment exists. We compare the carrying amount of the
assets to the undiscounted expected future cash flows. If this comparison
indicates that an impairment exists, the assets are written down to fair
value. Fair value would typically be calculated using discounted expected
future cash flows. All relevant factors are considered in determining
whether impairment exits.

Revenue recognition:  Revenue is recognized upon shipment of our product to
our distributors.

Freight expense:  In 2000, the Financial Accounting Standards Board's
Emerging Issues Task Force issued a pronouncement stating that shipping and
handling costs should not be reported as a reduction to gross sales within
the income statement. As a result of this pronouncement, our finished
product freight expense, which is incurred upon shipment of our product to
our distributors, is now included within Cost of goods sold in our
accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income. This expense had previously
been reported as a reduction to gross sales; financial statements for all
periods presented herein have been reclassified to reflect this change.

Advertising:  Advertising costs, included in Marketing, general and
administrative, are expensed when the advertising is run. Advertising
expense was $465.2 million, $477.3 million and $443.4 million for years
2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. Prepaid advertising costs of $30.4
million ($5.6 million in current and $24.8 million in long term) and
$36.2 million ($7.4 million in current and $28.8 million in long term) were
included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 30, 2001, and
December 31, 2000, respectively.

Research and development:  Research and project development costs, included
in Marketing, general and administrative, are expensed as incurred. These
costs totaled $16.5 million, $16.9 million and $16.5 million in 2001, 2000
and 1999, respectively.

Environmental expenditures: Environmental expenditures that relate to an
existing condition caused by past operations, which contribute to current
or future revenue generation, are capitalized; whereas expenditures that do
not contribute to current or future revenue generation are expensed.
Liabilities are recorded when environmental assessments and/or remedial
efforts are probable and the costs can be estimated reasonably.

Statement of Cash Flows: During 2001 and 1999, we issued restricted common
stock under our management incentive program. The non-cash impact of these
issuances, net of forfeitures and tax withholding, was $1.2 million and
$0.7 million in 2001 and 1999, respectively. We did not issue any
restricted stock under this plan in 2000,however, restricted forfeitures
and tax withholding resulted in a non-cash decrease to the equity accounts
of $5.8 million. Also during 2001, 2000 and 1999, equity was increased by
the tax benefit on the exercise of stock options under our stock plans of
$4.4 million, $14.2 million and $7.0 million, respectively. Income taxes
paid were $83.2 million in 2001, $49.6 million in 2000 and $42.4 million in
1999. See Note 15, Other Comprehensive Income, for other non-cash items.

Recent accounting pronouncements:  In July 2001, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board issued SFAS 141, Business Combinations. SFAS 141 requires
that the purchase method of accounting be used for all business
combinations initiated after June 30, 2001. In connection with the Carling
acquisition, we will adopt SFAS 141 (See Note 17, Subsequent Event).

In July 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 142,
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. SFAS 142, which will be effective for
us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2002, and requires goodwill and
intangible assets that have indefinite lives to not be amortized but to be
reviewed annually for impairment, or more frequently if impairment
indicators arise. During 2001, we recorded approximately $3 million of
amortization related to goodwill and other intangible assets. Although we
have yet to complete our analysis of these assets and the related
amortization expense under the new rules for 2002, we anticipate that a
significant part of the goodwill and other intangible assets on our books
at the end of the year will no longer be subject to amortization. Our
analysis to date has not identified any goodwill or other intangible assets
that will be considered impaired under SFAS 142.

In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 143,
Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, which addresses accounting and
financial reporting for obligations associated with the retirement of
tangible long-lived assets. This statement is effective for us beginning in
the second quarter of 2002, and we are evaluating the impact, if any, that
the implementation will have on our financial statements.

In August 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No.
144, Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, which addresses
accounting and financial reporting for the impairment or disposal of long-
lived assets. This statement is effective for us beginning in the first
quarter of 2002, and we are evaluating the impact, if any, that the
implementation will have on our financial statements.

NOTE 2:

Properties

The cost of properties and related accumulated depreciation, depletion and
amortization consists of the following:

                                                 As of
                                 December 30,          December 31,
                                        2001                  2000
                                          (In thousands)

Land and improvements             $   94,321            $   93,507
Buildings                            506,537               508,443
Machinery and equipment            1,783,527             1,731,463
Natural resource properties            6,798                 7,373
Construction in progress             141,663                91,964
                                   2,532,846             2,432,750
Less accumulated depreciation,
 depletion and amortization       (1,663,136)           (1,696,957)

Net properties                    $  869,710            $  735,793

In 2001, we sold our distribution operations in Anaheim and San Bernardino,
California, and Oklahoma City, Oklahoma for total proceeds of $59.4
million, resulting in a net gain, before tax, of approximately $27.7
million. We are in the process of selling the land and buildings associated
with these previously owned distributors and in the short-term are leasing
these facilities to the buyers of the distributor operations.

Interest incurred, capitalized, expensed and paid were as follows:

                                   For the years ended
                        December 30,   December 31,    December 26,
                               2001           2000            1999
                                      (In thousands)

Interest incurred           $ 8,653        $ 9,567         $ 8,478
Interest capitalized         (6,647)        (3,153)         (4,121)

Interest expensed           $ 2,006        $ 6,414         $ 4,357

Interest paid               $ 7,570        $ 7,664         $ 9,981

NOTE 3:

Leases

We lease certain office facilities and operating equipment under cancelable
and non-cancelable agreements accounted for as capital and operating
leases. In 2001, information and technology equipment, included in
properties, totaling $10.2 million was sold and leased back under a non-
cash capital lease agreement with EDS Information Services, LLC. Capital
lease amortization of $1.8 million for 2001 was included in accumulated
amortization. Current and long term capital lease obligations are included
in Accrued expenses and other liabilities and Other long term liabilities,
respectively, in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Future minimum lease
payments under scheduled capital and operating leases that have initial or
remaining non-cancelable terms in excess of one year are as follows (in
thousands):

                                             Capital            Operating
Fiscal year                                  leases               leases
                                                   (In thousands)
2002                                        $  4,298            $   7,069
2003                                           4,688                6,173
2004                                             391                5,659
2005                                              --                4,868
2006                                              --                4,525
Thereafter                                        --                2,469
Total                                          9,377            $  30,763
Amounts representing interest                   (986)
Obligations under capital lease                8,391
Obligation due within one year                (3,621)
Long-term obligations under capital leases  $  4,770

Total rent expense was (in thousands) $11,763, $11,502 and $10,978 for the
years 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

NOTE 4:

Debt

Long-term debt consists of the following:

                                                As of
                             December 30, 2001          December 31, 2000
                            Carrying        Fair       Carrying        Fair
                              value        value         value        value
                                             (In thousands)

Senior Notes                 $20,000     $20,850       $100,000    $100,300
Industrial development bonds      --          --          5,000       5,000

                             $20,000     $20,850       $105,000    $105,300

Fair values were determined using discounted cash flows at current interest
rates for similar borrowings.

Senior Notes:  At December 30, 2001, we had $100 million in unsecured
Senior Notes at fixed interest rates ranging from 6.76% to 6.95% per annum.
Interest on the notes is due semiannually in January and July. The
principal amount of the Notes outstanding is payable as follows: $80
million in July of 2002, classified as current in Current portion of long-
term debt, and $20 million in July of 2005, classified as Long-term debt.
The terms of our private placement Notes allow for maximum liens,
transactions and obligations. We were in compliance with these requirements
at year-end 2001. No principal payments were due or made in 2001 or 2000.

Colorado Industrial Revenue Bonds (IRB):  We were obligated to pay the
principal, interest and premium, if any, on the $5 million, City of Wheat
Ridge, IRB (Adolph Coors Company Project) Series 1993. The bonds were
scheduled to mature in 2013 and were secured by a letter of credit. At
December 30, 2001, they were variable rate securities with interest payable
on the first of March, June, September and December. The interest rate on
December 30, 2001, was approximately 3%. We were required to maintain a
minimum tangible net worth and a certain debt-to-total capitalization ratio
under the bond agreements. At December 30, 2001, we were in compliance with
these requirements. In March 2002, all obligations under the terms of the
IRB were prepaid and the debt was terminated.

Line of credit:  At December 30, 2001, we had an unsecured, committed
credit arrangement totaling $200 million, all of which was available as of
December 30, 2001. This line of credit had a five-year term which was
scheduled to expire in 2003. A facilities fee was paid on the total amount
of the committed credit. Under the arrangement, we were required to
maintain a certain debt-to-total capitalization ratio and were in
compliance at year-end 2001. In February 2002, this credit facility was
terminated and replaced by the credit agreements associated with the
Carling acquisition.

Financial guarantees:  We have a 1.1 million yen financial guarantee
outstanding on behalf of our subsidiary, Coors Japan. This subsidiary
guarantee is primarily for two working capital lines of credit and payments
of certain duties and taxes. One of the lines provides up to 500 million
yen and the other provides up to 400 million yen (approximately $6.8
million in total as of December 30, 2001) in short-term financing. As of
December 30, 2001, the approximate yen equivalent of $3.0 million was
outstanding under these arrangements and is included in Accrued expenses
and other liabilities in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Subsequent event: Please refer to Note 17 for additional information
regarding the debt obligations that have resulted from our acquisition of
Coors Brewers.

NOTE 5:

Income Taxes

Income tax expense (benefit) includes the following current and deferred
provisions:
                                          For the years ended
                               December 30,   December 31,   December 26,
                                      2001           2000           1999
                                             (In thousands)
Current:
  Federal                        $  74,140      $  29,573      $  24,088
  State                             13,841          9,230          5,119
  Foreign                            1,878             52          1,567
Total current tax expense           89,859         38,855         30,774

Deferred:
  Federal                          (16,171)         6,669         19,035
  State                             (3,005)           283          3,460
  Foreign                               --            (82)        (1,860)
Total deferred tax
  (benefit) expense                (19,176)         6,870         20,635

Other:
  Allocation to paid-in capital      4,366         14,183          6,974

Total income tax expense         $  75,049      $  59,908      $  58,383

Our income tax expense varies from the amount expected by applying the
statutory federal corporate tax rate to income as follows:

                                          For the years ended
                                December 30,   December 31,    December 26,
                                       2001           2000            1999

Expected tax rate                     35.0%          35.0%           35.0%
State income taxes, net of
  federal benefit                      3.6            3.7             3.7
Effect of foreign investments         (0.5)          (3.1)            1.1
Non-taxable income                    (0.1)          (0.2)           (0.8)
Other, net                            (0.1)          (0.1)           (0.2)
  Effective tax rate                  37.9%          35.3%           38.8%


Our deferred taxes are composed of the following:

                                                      As of
                                           December 30,   December 31,
                                                  2001           2000
                                                 (In thousands)
Current deferred tax assets:
  Deferred compensation and other
    employee related                          $ 14,046       $ 14,212
  Balance sheet reserves and accruals           11,607         10,467
  Write-off of foreign account receivable        7,002          7,002
  Valuation allowance                           (7,002)        (7,002)
    Total current deferred tax assets           25,653         24,679

Current deferred tax liabilities:
  Balance sheet reserves and accruals            2,140             --

     Net current deferred tax assets          $ 27,793       $ 24,679

Non-current deferred tax assets:
  Deferred compensation and other
    employee related                          $ 19,106       $  9,602
  Balance sheet reserves and accruals            1,980          8,410
  Retirement benefits                           10,507         11,365
  Environmental accruals                         2,200          2,274
  Deferred foreign losses                        1,087          1,395
  Partnership investments                           --          3,297
    Total non-current deferred tax assets       34,880         36,343

Non-current deferred tax liabilities:
  Depreciation and capitalized interest         96,515        110,225
  Deferred tax on foreign investment                --         16,104
    Total non-current deferred tax liabilities  96,515        126,329

     Net non-current deferred tax liabilities $ 61,635       $ 89,986

The current deferred tax assets related to the foreign accounts receivable
have been reduced by a valuation allowance because management believes it
is more likely than not that such benefits will not be fully realized.

In 2000, we realized a tax benefit pertaining to the Spain brewery closure.
We also resolved substantially all of the issues raised by the Internal
Revenue Service examination of our federal income tax returns through 1998.
One issue relating to the tax treatment of a Korean investment is currently
being appealed to the Internal Revenue Service appeals office. The Internal
Revenue Service is currently examining the federal income tax returns for
1999 through 2000. In the opinion of management, adequate accruals have
been provided for all income tax matters and related interest.

NOTE 6:

Stock Option, Restricted Stock Award and Employee Award Plans

At December 30, 2001, we had three stock-based compensation plans, which
are described in greater detail below. We apply Accounting Principles Board
Opinion No. 25 and related interpretations in accounting for our plans.
Accordingly, as the exercise prices upon grant are equal to quoted market
values, no compensation cost has been recognized for the stock option
portion of the plans. Had compensation cost been determined for our stock
option portion of the plans based on the fair value at the grant dates for
awards under those plans consistent with the alternative method set forth
under Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 123, our net
income and earnings per share would have been reduced to the pro forma
amounts indicated below:

                                             For the years ended
                                   December 30,  December 31,  December 26,
                                          2001          2000          1999
                                    (In thousands, except per share data)

Net income            As reported     $122,964      $109,617      $ 92,284
                      Pro forma       $106,420      $ 96,164      $ 82,222

Earnings per share -  As reported     $   3.33      $   2.98      $   2.51
  basic               Pro forma       $   2.88      $   2.61      $   2.24

Earnings per share -  As reported     $   3.31      $   2.93      $   2.46
  diluted             Pro forma       $   2.86      $   2.57      $   2.20

The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using
the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted-average
assumptions:
                                               2001       2000      1999

Risk-free interest rate                         5.01%      6.72%     5.03%
Dividend yield                                  0.96%      1.27%     1.09%
Volatility                                     30.70%     31.41%    30.66%
Expected term (years)                           5.40       6.20      7.80
Weighted average fair market value           $ 20.65    $ 20.17   $ 23.28


1990 Plan:  The 1990 Equity Incentive Plan (1990 EI Plan) provides for two
types of grants:  stock options and restricted stock awards. The stock
options have a term of 10 years with exercise prices equal to fair market
value on the day of the grant, and one-third of the stock option grant
vests in each of the three successive years after the date of grant. Total
authorized shares of Class B common stock for issuance under the 1990 EI
Plan were 10.8 million shares.


A summary of the status of our 1990 EI Plan as of December 30, 2001,
December 31, 2000, and December 26, 1999, and changes during the years
ending on those dates is presented below:
                                                              Options
                                                            exercisable
                                                            at year-end
                                               Weighted-          Weighted-
                         Options               average            average
                        available Outstanding  exercise           exercise
                        for grant   options      price   Shares    price

As of December 27, 1998 3,980,243   2,330,217   $24.47   630,457    $19.06
    Granted              (917,951)    917,951    57.86
    Exercised                  --    (494,424)   21.54
    Forfeited             110,289    (110,289)   38.00
As of December 26, 1999 3,172,581   2,643,455    36.05   881,161     23.26
    Transferred           716,886          --       --
    Granted            (1,179,094)  1,179,094    51.37
    Exercised                  --    (900,804)   23.80
    Forfeited             160,148    (160,148)   47.76
As of December 31, 2000 2,870,521   2,761,597    45.91   910,548     35.21
    Authorized          2,033,114          --       --
    Granted            (1,660,150)  1,660,150    67.28
    Exercised                  --    (331,758)   32.38
    Forfeited             268,709    (268,709)   59.50
As of December 30, 2001 3,512,194   3,821,280   $55.41 1,374,961    $43.68


The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding
at December 30, 2001:

                     Options outstanding                Options exercisable
                           Weighted-
                            average     Weighted-                 Weighted-
   Range of                remaining     average                   average
   exercise               contractual   exercise                  exercise
    prices       Shares   life (years)    price          Shares     price
$16.75-$22.00    239,855      4.8        $20.12          239,855   $20.12
$26.88-$33.41    325,468      6.0        $33.35          325,468   $33.35
$37.22-$59.25  1,796,429      7.8        $53.07          792,237   $54.51
$63.16-$75.22  1,459,528      9.1        $69.00           17,401   $68.99
$16.75-$75.22  3,821,280      8.0        $55.41        1,374,961   $43.68

We issued 10,750 shares and 4,953 shares of restricted stock in 2001 and
1999, respectively, under the 1990 EI Plan. No restricted shares were
issued under this plan in 2000. For the 2001 shares, the vesting period is
three years from the date of grant. For the 1999 shares, the vesting period
is two years from the date of grant. The compensation cost associated with
these awards is amortized over the vesting period. Compensation cost
associated with these awards was immaterial in 2001, 2000 and 1999.

1991 Plan: The Equity Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (EC
Plan) provides for two grants of the company's stock:  the first grant is
automatic and equals 20% of the director's annual retainer, and the second
grant is elective and covers all or any portion of the balance of the
retainer. A director may elect to receive his or her remaining 80% retainer
in cash, restricted stock or any combination of the two. Grants of stock
vest after completion of the director's annual term. The compensation cost
associated with the EC Plan is amortized over the director's term.
Compensation cost associated with this plan was immaterial in 2001, 2000
and 1999. Common stock reserved for the 1991 plan as of December 30, 2001,
was 28,273 shares.

1995 Supplemental Compensation Plan:  This supplemental compensation plan
covers substantially all our employees. Under the plan, management is
allowed to recognize employee achievements through awards of Coors Stock
Units (CSUs) or cash. CSUs are a measurement component equal to the fair
market value of our Class B common stock. CSUs have a one-year holding
period after which the recipient may redeem the CSUs for cash, or, if the
holder has 100 or more CSUs, for shares of our Class B common stock. No
awards were made under this plan in 2001 or 2000. Awards under the plan in
1999 were immaterial. There are 84,000 shares authorized under this plan.
The number of shares of common stock available under this plan as of
December 30, 2001, was 83,707 shares.

NOTE 7:

Employee Retirement Plans

We maintain several defined benefit pension plans for the majority of our
employees. Benefits are based on years of service and average base
compensation levels over a period of years. Plan assets consist primarily
of equity, interest-bearing investments and real estate. Our funding policy
is to contribute annually not less than the ERISA minimum funding
standards, nor more than the maximum amount that can be deducted for
federal income tax purposes. Total expense for all these plans was $18.6
million in 2001, $14.7 million in 2000 and $11.6 million in 1999. These
amounts include our matching for the savings and investment (thrift) plan
of $6.4 million in 2001, $7.3 million in 2000 and $6.1 million in 1999. The
increase in pension expense from 2000 to 2001 is primarily due to the
decline in the market value of plan investments. In 2001, the funded
position of the Coors Retirement Plan declined somewhat due to the combined
effects of a lower discount rate and a challenging investment environment.
This resulted in the recognition of an additional minimum liability,
resulting from the excess of our accumulated benefit obligation over the
fair value of plan assets. The amounts recognized in the consolidated
statement of financial position for accrued pension liability, additional
minimum liability, accumulated other comprehensive loss, prepaid benefit
cost and intangible asset in 2001 are $61.9 million, $29.8 million, $8.5
million (net of tax), $21.5 million and $48.3 million, respectively.

Note that the settlement rates shown in the table on the following page
were selected for use at the end of each of the years shown. Pension
expense is actuarially calculated annually based on data available at the
beginning of each year, which includes the settlement rate selected and
disclosed at the end of the previous year.


                                           For the years ended
                                December 30,   December 31,   December 26,
                                       2001           2000           1999
                                              (In thousands)
Components of net periodic
  pension cost:
Service cost-benefits earned
  during the year                  $ 17,913       $ 16,467       $ 16,456
Interest cost on projected
  benefit obligation                 46,374         44,192         38,673
Expected return on plan assets      (58,342)       (58,108)       (52,173)
Amortization of prior service cost    5,945          5,906          4,161
Amortization of net transition amount   241         (1,690)        (1,690)
Recognized net actuarial loss           110            590             75

  Net periodic pension cost        $ 12,241       $  7,357       $  5,502

The changes in the projected benefit obligation and plan assets and the
funded status of the pension plans are as follows:
                                                        As of
                                             December 30,    December 31,
                                                    2001            2000
                                                     (In thousands)
Actuarial present value of accumulated
  benefit obligation:                           $567,155        $537,791

Change in projected benefit obligation:
Projected benefit obligation at
  beginning of year                            $ 614,420       $ 548,428
Service cost                                      17,913          16,467
Interest cost                                     46,374          44,192
Amendments                                            --             871
Actuarial loss                                    10,116          31,974
Benefits paid                                    (29,717)        (27,512)

Projected benefit obligation at end of year    $ 659,106       $ 614,420

Change in plan assets:
Fair value of assets at beginning of year      $ 578,500       $ 627,153
Actual return on plan assets                     (25,047)        (20,376)
Employer contributions                             7,306           2,561
Benefits paid                                    (29,717)        (27,512)
Expenses paid                                     (4,042)         (3,326)

Fair value of plan assets at end of year       $ 527,000       $ 578,500

Reconciliation of funded status:
Funded status -- (shortfall) excess            $(132,106)      $ (35,920)
Unrecognized net actuarial loss (gain)           105,082           7,722
Unrecognized prior service cost                   47,841          53,680
Unrecognized net transition amount                   722             962

  Net amount recognized                        $  21,539       $  26,444


                                                        As of
                                             December 30,    December 31,
                                                    2001            2000
                                                     (In thousands)
Amounts recognized in the statement of
  financial position consist of:
Non-current prepaid benefit cost                $ 21,539        $ 26,444
Non-current accrued benefit liability cost       (61,959)             --
Non-current intangible asset                      48,291              --
Accumulated other comprehensive income            13,668              --

  Net amount recognized                         $ 21,539        $ 26,444


                                              2001        2000       1999

Weighted average assumptions as of year-end:
Discount rate                                  7.25%       7.75%     8.00%

Rate of compensation increase                  4.10%       4.75%     5.25%

Expected return on plan assets                10.50%      10.50%    10.50%

NOTE 8:

Non-Pension Postretirement Benefits

We have postretirement plans that provide medical benefits and life
insurance for retirees and eligible dependents. The plans are not funded.

The obligation under these plans was determined by the application of the
terms of medical and life insurance plans, together with relevant actuarial
assumptions and health care cost trend rates ranging ratably from 8.50% in
2001 to 5.00% in 2007. The discount rate used in determining the
accumulated postretirement benefit obligation was 7.25%, 7.75% and 8.00% at
December 30, 2001, December 31, 2000, and December 26, 1999, respectively.

The changes in the benefit obligation and plan assets and the funded status
of the postretirement benefit plan are as follows:

                                             For the years ended
                                 December 30,   December 31,   December 26,
                                        2001           2000           1999
                                                (In thousands)
Components of net periodic
  postretirement benefit cost:
Service cost -- benefits earned
  during the year                   $  1,447       $  1,477       $  1,404
Interest cost on projected
  benefit obligation                   6,782          5,613          5,112
Recognized net actuarial gain            (19)           (51)          (138)
  Net periodic postretirement
    benefit cost                    $  8,210       $  7,039       $  6,378


                                                          As of
                                                December 30,   December 31,
                                                       2001           2000
                                                        (In thousands)
Change in projected postretirement
  benefit obligation:
Projected benefit obligation at beginning of year $  77,750       $ 72,400
Service cost                                          1,447          1,477
Interest cost                                         6,782          5,613
Actuarial loss                                       21,476          3,264
Benefits paid                                        (5,300)        (5,004)
  Projected postretirement benefit
    obligation at end of year                     $ 102,155       $ 77,750

Change in plan assets:
Employer contributions                            $   5,300       $  5,004
Benefits paid                                        (5,300)        (5,004)
  Fair value of plan assets at end of year        $      --       $     --

Funded status -- shortfall                        $(102,155)      $(77,750)
Unrecognized net actuarial (gain) loss               16,813         (4,662)
Unrecognized prior service cost                         281            261

Accrued postretirement benefits                     (85,061)       (82,151)

Less current portion                                  5,300          5,004

  Long-term postretirement benefits               $ (79,761)      $(77,147)

Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the
amounts reported for the health care plans. A one-percentage-point change
in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:

                                          One-percentage-   One-percentage-
                                          point increase    point decrease
                                                   (In thousands)
Effect on total of service and interest
  cost components                                 $  528           $  (470)
Effect on postretirement benefit obligation       $4,777           $(4,323)

NOTE 9:

Special Charges (Credits)

Our annual results for 2001, 2000 and 1999 include net pretax special
charges of $23.2 million, $15.2 million and 5.7 million, respectively. The
following is a summary of special charges incurred during those years:

Information technology:  We entered into a contract with EDS Information
Services (EDS), effective August 1, 2001, to outsource certain information
technology functions. We incurred outsourcing transition costs in the year
of approximately $14.6 million. These costs were mainly related to a $6.6
million write-down of the net book value of information technology assets
that were sold to and leased back from EDS, $5.3 million of one-time
implementation costs and $2.7 million of employee transition costs and
professional fees associated with the outsourcing project. We believe this
arrangement will allow us to focus on our core business while having access
to the expertise and resources of a world-class information technology
provider.

Restructure charges:  In 2001, we incurred total restructuring special
charges of $6.0 million. In the third quarter of 2001, we recorded $1.6
million of severance costs for approximately 25 employees, primarily due to
the restructuring of our purchasing organization. During the fourth quarter
of 2001, we announced plans to restructure certain production areas. These
restructurings, which began in October 2001 and have continued through
April 2002, will result in the elimination of approximately 90 positions.
As a result of these plans, we recorded associated employee termination
costs of approximately $4.0 million in the fourth quarter. Similar costs of
approximately $0.4 million related to employee terminations in other
functions were also recorded in the fourth quarter. We paid $3.8 million of
this severance in 2001 and expect the remaining severance to be paid by the
second quarter of 2002, out of current cash balances.

In 1999, we recorded a special charge of $5.7 million. The special charge
included $3.7 million for severance costs from the restructuring of our
engineering and construction units and $2.0 million for distributor network
improvements. Approximately 50 engineering and construction employees were
severed under this reorganization. During 2001, 2000 and 1999,
approximately $0.2 million, $2.3 million and $0.9 million, respectively, of
severance costs were paid and no further amounts are due.

Can and end plant joint venture:  In the third quarter of 2001, we recorded
$3.0 million of special charges related to the dissolution of our existing
can and end joint venture as part of the restructuring of this part of our
business.

Property abandonment:  In 2001, we recorded a $2.3 million charge for a
portion of certain production equipment that was abandoned and will no
longer be used.

Spain closure:  In 2000, we incurred a total special charge of $20.6
million triggered by our decision to close our Spain brewery and commercial
operations. Of the total charge, $11.3 million related to severance and
other related closure costs for approximately 100 employees, $4.9 million
related to a fixed asset impairment charge and $4.4 million for the write-
off of our cumulative translation adjustments previously recorded to equity
related to our Spain operations. In 2000, approximately $9.6 million of
severance and other related closure costs were paid with the remaining $1.7
million reserve being paid during the first quarter of 2001. These payments
were funded from current cash balances. In December 2001, the plant and
related fixed assets were sold for approximately $7.2 million resulting in
a net gain, before tax, of approximately $2.7 million.

Insurance settlement: In 2000, we received an insurance claim settlement of
$5.4 million that was credited to special charges.


NOTE 10:

Investments

Equity method investments

We have investments in affiliates that are accounted for using the equity
method of accounting. These investments aggregated $94.8 million and $56.3
million at December 30, 2001, and December 31, 2000, respectively.

Summarized condensed balance sheet information for our equity method
investments are as follows:

                                                        As of
                                             December 30,    December 31,
                                                    2001            2000
                                                      (In thousands)

Current assets                                   $59,234         $75,464
Non-current assets                               $53,307         $87,353
Current liabilities                              $31,031         $34,907
Non-current liabilities                          $   231         $   264

Summarized condensed income statement information for our equity method
investments are as follows:

                                            For the years ended
                               December 30,    December 31,    December 26,
                                      2001            2000            1999
                                              (In thousands)

Net sales                         $544,341        $490,227        $449,238
Gross profit                      $177,211        $132,805        $116,970
Net income                        $ 80,127        $ 77,575        $ 68,375
Company's equity in net income    $ 43,630        $ 42,395        $ 36,958


Coors Canada: Coors Canada, Inc. (CCI), one of our wholly owned
subsidiaries, formed a partnership, Coors Canada, with Molson, Inc. to
market and sell our products in Canada. Coors Canada began operations
January 1, 1998. CCI and Molson have a 50.1% and 49.9% interest,
respectively. CCI's investment in the partnership is accounted for using
the equity method of accounting due to Molson's participating rights in the
partnership's business operations. The partnership agreement has an
indefinite term and can be canceled at the election of either partner.
Under the partnership agreement, Coors Canada is responsible for marketing
our products in Canada, while the partnership contracts with Molson Canada
for brewing, distribution and sales of these brands. Coors Canada receives
an amount from Molson Canada generally equal to net sales revenue generated
from our brands less production, distribution, sales and overhead costs
related to these sales. CCI received distributions from the partnership of
a U.S. dollar equivalent of approximately $27.9 million, $25.8 million and
$21.0 million for 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. Our share of net
income from this partnership, which was approximately $29.2 million, $25.4
million and $21.5 million for 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively, is
included in Sales on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income.
Also see discussion in Note 14, Segment and Geographic Information.

In December 2000, we entered into a five year brewing and packaging
arrangement with Molson in which we will have access to some of Molson's
available production capacity in Canada. The Molson capacity available to
us under this arrangement in 2001 was 250,000 barrels, none of which was
used by us.  Starting in 2002, this available capacity increases up to
500,000 barrels. Currently, we pay Molson a fee for holding this capacity
aside for our future use. The annual fee, starting in 2002, is 1.5 million
Canadian dollars, which results in an annual commitment of approximately $1
million. As of December 30, 2001, we are fully accrued for all fees
required under the terms of this agreement.

Molson USA, LLC:  In January 2001, we entered into a joint venture
partnership agreement with Molson, Inc. and paid $65 million for our 49.9%
interest in the joint venture. The joint venture, Molson USA, LLC, has been
formed to import, market, sell and distribute Molson's brands of beer in
the United States. Approximately, $63.9 million of our initial investment
was considered goodwill, which was being amortized on a straight-line basis
over a life of 40 years. Amortization expense in 2001 was $1.6 million.
(Please refer to the Recent accounting pronouncement section of Note 1 for
discussion regarding changes in accounting for Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets). During 2001, we received no distributions from the
partnership and our share of the net loss was approximately $2.2 million.
This net loss is included in Other income (expense) on the accompanying
Consolidated Statements of Income. As a result of the 2001 operating loss,
we considered whether our investment was impaired under Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 18, The Equity Method of Accounting for
Investments in Common Stock, and determined that it was not. Any potential
decline in value during the year cannot be determined to be other than
temporary based on our short experience with the joint venture and our
continuing commitment to its success. The recoverability of our investment
in the joint venture will be further evaluated during 2002.

Rocky Mountain Bottle Company:  We operate a 50/50 production joint venture
with Owens-Brockway Glass Container, Inc. (Owens), the Rocky Mountain
Bottle Company (RMBC), to produce glass bottles at our glass manufacturing
facility. The initial term of the joint venture expires in 2005 and can be
extended for additional two-year periods. RMBC has a contract to supply our
bottle requirements and Owens has a contract to supply the majority of our
bottles for our bottle requirements not met by RMBC. In 2001, we purchased
all of the bottles produced by RMBC, approximately 1.1 billion bottles.

The expenditures under this agreement in 2001, 2000 and 1999 were
approximately $92 million, $86 million and $69 million, respectively. Cash
distributions received from this joint venture were $9.1 million and $20.3
million in 2001 and 2000, respectively. No distributions were received in
1999. Our share of net income from this partnership was $10.9 million, $9.8
million and $9.0 million in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively, and is
included within Cost of goods sold on the accompanying Consolidated
Statements of Income.

Valley Metal Container Partnership:  In 1994, we formed a 50/50 production
joint venture with American National Can Company (ANC), called Valley Metal
Container Partnership, to produce beverage cans and ends at our
manufacturing facilities for sale to us and outside customers. ANC was
subsequently acquired by Rexam LLC. We purchased Rexam's interest in the
joint venture at the end of its term in August 2001. The aggregate amount
paid to the joint venture for cans and ends in 2001, 2000 and 1999 was
approximately $149 million, $230 million and $223 million, respectively.
The 2001 amount reflects only what was paid to the joint venture prior to
its expiration in August. In addition, we received cash distributions from
this joint venture of $2.5 million, $8.5 million and $7.5 million in 2001,
2000 and 1999, respectively. Our share of net income from this joint
venture was $5.7 million, $7.2 million and $6.0 million for 2001, 2000 and
1999, respectively, and is included within Cost of goods sold on the
accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income.

Rocky Mountain Metal Container: Effective January 1, 2002, we became an
equal member with Ball Corporation (Ball) in a Colorado limited liability
company, Rocky Mountain Metal Container, LLC (RMMC). Also effective on
January 1, 2002, we entered into a can and end supply agreement with RMMC
(the Supply Agreement). Under that Supply Agreement, RMMC agreed to supply
us with substantially all of the can and end requirements for our Golden
Brewery. RMMC will manufacture these cans and ends at our existing
manufacturing facilities, which RMMC is operating under a use and license
agreement. We have the right to purchase Ball's interest in RMMC under
certain conditions. If we do not exercise that right, Ball may have the
right to purchase our interest in RMMC. RMMC plans to reduce manufacturing
costs, and has planned capital improvements to the facilities in the amount
of approximately $50 million over the first three years of its operations.
RMMC will fund such improvements with third party financing. RMMC's debt
will not be included on our financial statements.

Graphic Packaging International Corporation:  In 1992, we spun off our
wholly owned subsidiary, ACX Technologies, Inc., which has subsequently
changed its name to Graphic Packaging International Corporation (GPIC). We
are also a limited partner in a real estate development partnership in
which a subsidiary of GPIC is the general partner. The partnership owns,
develops, operates and sells certain real estate previously owned directly
by us. We received cash distributions of $0.8 million and $1.8 million in
2000 and 1999, respectively. We did not receive income in 2001 or 2000. We
received income of $0.5 million in 1999.

Cost investments

Colorado Rockies Baseball:  In 1991, we entered into an agreement with
Colorado Baseball Partnership 1993, Ltd. for an investment and multiyear
signage and advertising package. This commitment, totaling approximately
$30 million, was finalized upon the awarding of a National League baseball
franchise to Colorado in 1991. The initial investment as a limited partner
has been paid. We believe that the carrying amount is not in excess of fair
value. During 1998, the agreement was modified to extend the term and
expand the conditions of the multiyear signage and advertising package. The
recognition of the liability under the multiyear signage and advertising
package began in 1995 with the opening of Coors Fieldr. This liability is
included in the total advertising and promotion commitment discussed in
Note 15, Commitments and Contingencies.


NOTE 11:

Stock Activity and Earnings Per Share

Capital stock:  Both classes of common stock have the same rights and
privileges, except for voting, which (with certain limited exceptions) is
the sole right of the holder of Class A stock.

Activity in our Class A and Class B common stock, net of forfeitures, for
each of the three years ended December 30, 2001, December 31, 2000, and
December 26, 1999, is summarized below:
                                                Common stock
                                           Class A         Class B

Balances at December 27, 1998             1,260,000      35,395,306

Shares issued under stock plans                  --         478,390
Purchases of stock                               --        (411,662)

Balances at December 26, 1999             1,260,000      35,462,034

Shares issued under stock plans                  --         817,395
Purchases of stock                               --        (408,308)

Balances at December 31, 2000             1,260,000      35,871,121

Shares issued under stock plans                  --         324,926
Purchases of stock                               --      (1,506,637)

Balances at December 30, 2001             1,260,000      34,689,410

At December 30, 2001, December 31, 2000, and December 26, 1999, 25 million
shares of no par value preferred stock were authorized but unissued.

The board of directors authorized the repurchase during 2001, 2000 and 1999
of up to $40 million each year of our outstanding Class B common stock on
the open market. In September 2001, the board of directors increased the
authorized 2001 expenditure limit for the repurchase of outstanding shares
of Class B common stock to $90 million. During 2001, 2000 and 1999,
1,500,000 shares, 308,000 shares and 232,300 shares, respectively, were
repurchased for approximately $72.3 million, $17.6 million and $12.2
million, respectively, under this stock repurchase program. In addition to
the repurchase program, we purchased 41,845 restricted shares for $2.4
million in 2000 and 164,117 restricted shares for $8.5 million in 1999.
Pursuant to our by-laws restricted shares must first be offered to us for
repurchase. Even though in November 2001, the board of directors extended
the program and authorized the repurchase during 2002 of up to $40 million
of stock, we decided to suspend our share repurchases until we reduce debt
levels resulting from the acquisition of the Coors Brewers business from
Interbrew. See discussion of the Carling acquisition in Note 17, Subsequent
Event.


Earnings per share: Basic and diluted net income per common share were
arrived at using the calculations outlined below:

                                        For the years ended
                                December 30,   December 31,  December 26,
                                       2001           2000          1999
                                  (In thousands, except per share data)
Net income available to
  common shareholders              $122,964       $109,617       $92,284

Weighted-average shares
  for basic EPS                      36,902         36,785        36,729
Effect of dilutive securities:
  Stock options                         266            606           640
  Contingent shares not included in
   shares outstanding for basic EPS       9             59            88
Weighted-average shares
  for diluted EPS                    37,177         37,450        37,457

Basic EPS                             $3.33          $2.98         $2.51

Diluted EPS                           $3.31          $2.93         $2.46

The dilutive effects of stock options were arrived at by applying the
treasury stock method, assuming we were to repurchase common shares with
the proceeds from stock options exercised. Stock options to purchase
2,199,173 and 6,555 shares of common stock were not included in the
computation of 2001 and 2000 earnings per share, respectively, because the
stock options' exercise prices were greater than the average market price
of the common shares.

NOTE 12:

Derivative Instruments

In the normal course of business, we are exposed to fluctuations in
interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and production and
packaging materials prices. To manage these exposures when practical, we
have established policies and procedures that govern the management of
these exposures through the use of a variety of financial instruments, as
noted in detail below. By policy, we do not enter into such contracts for
the purpose of speculation.

Our derivative activities are subject to the management, direction and
control of the Financial Risk Management Committee (FRMC). The FRMC is
composed of the chief financial officer and other senior financial
management of the company. The FRMC sets forth risk management philosophy
and objectives through a corporate policy; provides guidelines for
derivative-instrument usage; and establishes procedures for control and
valuation, counterparty credit approval and the monitoring and reporting of
derivative activity.

At December 30, 2001, and December 31, 2000, we had certain forward
contracts, options and swap agreements outstanding. Substantially all of
these instruments have been designated as cash flow hedges and these
instruments hedge a portion of our total exposure to the variability in
future cash flows relating to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and
certain production and packaging materials prices.

The following table summarizes the aggregate notional principal amounts,
fair values and maturities of our derivative financial instruments
outstanding on December 30, 2001, and December 31, 2000 (in thousands):

                                  Notional
                                 principal
                                amounts(USD)   Fair values    Maturity
December 30, 2001

Foreign currency management
    Option(1)                    1,705,000        (1,023)        02/02
    Forwards                       217,370         2,336   01/02-04/03

Commodity pricing management
    Swaps                          132,477       (10,563)  02/02-02/04

December 31, 2000

Foreign currency management
    Forwards                        28,958         1,054   01/01-01/02

Commodity pricing management
    Swaps                           86,621         4,574   02/01-08/02

(1) The foreign exchange option for $1.7 billion notional was purchased to
hedge our exposure to fluctuations in the British pound exchange rate
related to acquisition of certain Coors Brewers assets.

Maturities of derivative financial instruments held on December 30, 2001,
are as follows (in thousands):

                              2002(2)     2003      2004

                             ($6,473)  ($3,053)    ($123)

(2) Amount includes the estimated deferred net loss of $6.1 million that is
expected to be recognized over the next 12 months, on certain forward
foreign exchange contracts and production and packaging materials
derivative contracts, when the underlying forecasted cash flow transactions
occur.

In December 2001, we entered into a foreign currency forward sale agreement
to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in the British pound exchange rate
related to acquisition of certain Coors Brewers assets. Also, in
anticipation of the Carling acquisition, we entered into a commitment with
a lender for the financing of this transaction. Included within the
commitment letter is a foreign currency written option which reduced our
exposure on the U.S. dollar borrowing to fund the Coors Brewers
transaction. The derivatives resulting from these agreements do not qualify
for hedge accounting and, accordingly, were marked to market at year-end.
The associated $0.3 million net expense was recorded in other income in the
accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income.

Subsequent to year-end, the foreign currency swap settled on January 12,
2002, and the written option included in the loan commitment expired on
February 11, 2002, resulting in a combined loss and amortization expense of
$1.2 million to be realized during the first quarter of 2002.

During 2000, we had certain interest rate swap agreements outstanding to
help manage our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. These swap
agreements were not designated as hedges and accordingly, all gains and
losses on these agreements were recorded in interest income in the
accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income. We did not have any
interest rate swap agreements outstanding during 2001, at December 30, 2001
or at December 31, 2000.

During 2001 and 2000, there were no significant gains or losses recognized
in earnings for hedge ineffectiveness or for discontinued hedges as a
result of an expectation that the forecasted transaction would no longer
occur.

Derivatives are either exchange-traded instruments that are highly liquid,
or over-the-counter instruments with highly rated financial institutions.
No credit loss is anticipated as the counterparties to over-the-counter
instruments generally have long-term ratings from S&P or Moody's, that are
no lower than A or A2, respectively. Additionally, most counterparty fair
value positions favorable to us and in excess of certain thresholds are
collateralized with cash, U.S. Treasury securities or letters of credit. We
have reciprocal collateralization responsibilities for fair value positions
unfavorable to us and in excess of certain thresholds. At December 30,
2001, we had zero counterparty collateral and had none outstanding.


Note 13:

Other Comprehensive Income
                                      Unrealized
                                         gain
                                      (loss) on
                                      available-
                                       for-sale
                            Foreign   securities   Minimum   Accumulated
                            currency      and      pension       other
                          translation  derivative  liability comprehensive
                          adjustments instruments adjustment     income
                                          (In thousands)
Balances, December 27, 1998   $(2,366)    $   440    $    --      $ (1,926)

Foreign currency translation
  adjustments                  (5,745)                              (5,745)
Unrealized loss on available-
  for-sale securities                        (648)                    (648)
Unrealized gain on derivative
  instruments                              11,159                   11,159
Tax benefit (expense)           2,226      (4,073)                  (1,847)

Balances, December 26, 1999    (5,885)      6,878          --          993

Foreign currency translation
  adjustments                   4,460                                4,460
Unrealized gain on available-
  for-sale securities                       2,045                    2,045
Unrealized loss on derivative
  instruments                              (3,221)                  (3,221)
Reclassification adjustment--
  available-for-sale securities
  and derivative instruments               (4,058)                  (4,058)
Reclassification adjustment--
  accumulated translation
  adjustment - closure of Spain
  operations                    4,434                                4,434
Tax (expense) benefit          (3,380)      1,989                   (1,391)

Balances, December 31, 2000      (371)      3,633          --        3,262

Foreign currency translation
  adjustments                      22                                   22
Unrealized gain on available-
  for-sale securities                       5,997                    5,997
Unrealized loss on derivative
  instruments                             (10,000)                 (10,000)
Minimum pension liability adjustment                  (13,668)     (13,668)
Reclassification adjustment--
  available-for-sale securities            (4,042)                  (4,042)
Reclassification adjustment--
  derivative instruments                   (3,858)                  (3,858)
Tax (expense) benefit              (8)      4,523       5,181        9,696

Balances, December 30, 2001   $  (357)    $(3,747)   $ (8,487)    $(12,591)

NOTE 14:

Segment and Geographic Information

We have one reporting segment relating to the continuing operations of
producing, marketing and selling malt-based beverages. Our operations are
conducted in the United States, the country of domicile, and several
foreign countries, none of which is individually significant to our overall
operations. The net revenues from external customers, operating income and
pretax income attributable to the United States and all foreign countries
for the years ended December 30, 2001, December 31, 2000, and December 26,
1999, are as follows:
                                     2001           2000           1999
                                              (In thousands)
United States and its territories:
  Net revenues                   $2,353,843     $2,331,693     $2,177,407
  Operating income               $  133,361     $  163,563     $  148,823
  Pretax income                  $  182,317     $  185,082     $  161,281

Other foreign countries:
  Net revenues                   $   75,619     $   82,722     $   59,077
  Operating income (loss)        $   18,244     $  (12,937)    $   (8,288)
  Pretax income (loss)           $   15,696     $  (15,557)    $  (10,614)

Included in 2001, 2000 and 1999 foreign revenues are earnings from CCI, our
investment accounted for using the equity method of accounting (see Note
10, Investments). Included in operating income and pretax income are net
special charges of $23.2 million, $15.2 million and $5.7 million, for 2001,
2000 and 1999, respectively (see Note 9, Special Charges). The 2001 net
special charge included a charge of $25.9 million related to the United
States and its territories and a credit of $2.7 million related to other
foreign countries. The 2000 net special charge included a credit of $5.4
million related to the United States and its territories and a charge of
$20.6 million related to other foreign countries. The special charges
recorded in 1999 related entirely to the United States and its territories.

The net long-lived assets, including Property, Goodwill and other
intangible assets, located in the United States and its territories and all
other foreign countries as of December 30, 2001, December 31, 2000 and
December 26, 1999 are as follows:

                                      2001           2000          1999
                                               (In thousands)

United States and its territories     $955,615       $786,966    $758,875
Other foreign countries                    384          3,622       8,939

  Total                               $955,999       $790,588    $767,814


The total net export sales (in thousands) during 2001, 2000 and 1999 were
$205,187, $202,832 and $185,260, respectively.

We are currently evaluating the impact the Carling acquisition will have on
our number of reporting segments for 2002. At this time, we anticipate
having two reportable operating segments: the Americas and Europe. See Note
17, Subsequent Event, for discussion of the Carling acquisition.

NOTE 15:

Commitments and Contingencies

Insurance:  It is our policy to be self-insured for certain insurable risks
consisting primarily of employee health insurance programs, as well as
workers' compensation, general liability and property insurance
deductibles. During 2001, we fully insured future risks for long-term
disability, and, in most states, workers' compensation, but maintained a
self-insured position for workers' compensation for certain self-insured
states and for claims incurred prior to the inception of the insurance
coverage in Colorado in 1997.

Letters of credit:  As of December 30, 2001, we had approximately $5.8
million outstanding in letters of credit with certain financial
institutions. These letters expire in March 2003. These letters of credit
are being maintained as security for performance on certain insurance
policies and for operations of underground storage tanks, as well as to
collateralize principal and interest on industrial revenue bonds issued by
us.

As part of the settlement and indemnification agreement related to the
Lowry landfill site with the City and County of Denver and Waste Management
of Colorado, Inc., we agreed to post a letter of credit equal to the
present value of our share of future estimated costs if estimated future
costs exceed a certain amount and our long-term credit rating falls to a
certain level. Although future estimated costs now exceed the level
provided in the agreement, our credit rating remains above the level that
would require this letter of credit to be obtained. Based on our
preliminary evaluation, should our credit rating fall below the level
stipulated by the agreement, it is reasonably possible that the letter of
credit that would be issued could be for as much as $10 million. For
additional information see the Environmental section below.

Financial guarantees: We have a 1.1 million yen financial guarantee
outstanding on behalf of our subsidiary, Coors Japan. This subsidiary
guarantee is primarily for two working capital lines of credit and payments
of certain duties and taxes. One of the lines provides up to 500 million
yen and the other provides up to 400 million yen (approximately $6.8
million in total as of December 30, 2001) in short-term financing. As of
December 30, 2001, the approximate yen equivalent of $3.0 million was
outstanding under these arrangements and is included in Accrued expenses
and other liabilities in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Power supplies: Coors Energy Company (CEC), a fully owned subsidiary of
ours, entered into a 10-year agreement to purchase 100% of the brewery's
coal requirements from Bowie Resources Ltd. (Bowie). The coal then is sold
to Trigen-Nations Energy Corporation, L.L.L.P. (Trigen).

We have an agreement to purchase the electricity and steam needed to
operate the brewery's Golden facilities through 2020 from Trigen. Our
financial commitment under this agreement is divided between a fixed, non-
cancelable cost of approximately $14.6 million for 2002, which adjusts
annually for inflation, and a variable cost, which is generally based on
fuel cost and our electricity and steam use. Total purchases, fixed and
variable, under this contract in 2001, 2000 and 1999 were $29.8 million,
$28.4 million and $26.3 million, respectively.

Supply contracts:  We have various long-term supply contracts with
unaffiliated third parties and our joint ventures to purchase materials
used in production and packaging, such as starch, cans and glass. The
supply contracts provide that we purchase certain minimum levels of
materials for terms extending through 2005. The approximate future purchase
commitments under these supply contracts are:

Fiscal year                                      Amount
                                             (In thousands)
2002								$ 478,800
2003								  195,750
2004                                              195,750
2005                                               93,500
Total								$ 963,800

Our total purchases under these contracts in 2001, 2000 and 1999 were
approximately $243.3 million, $235.0 million and $177.9 million,
respectively.

Brewing and packaging contract:  In December 2000, we entered into a five
year brewing and packaging arrangement with Molson in which we will have
access to some of Molson's available production capacity in Canada. The
Molson capacity available to us under this arrangement in 2001 was 250,000
barrels, none of which was used by us. Starting in 2002, this available
capacity increases up to 500,000 barrels. Currently, we pay Molson a fee
for holding this capacity aside for our future use. The annual fee starting
in 2002 is 1.5 million Canadian dollars which results in an annual
commitment of approximately $1 million. As of December 30, 2001, we are
fully accrued for all fees required under the terms of this agreement.

Third-party logistics contract:  We are consolidating our California and
Colorado finished goods warehouse network and EXEL, Inc. is providing
warehouse services in Ontario, California, for us under a seven-year
operating agreement. The operating costs which total $2.6 million have been
agreed to for the first year of operation. We will be conducting an annual
review of the scope of services with EXEL to determine pricing for the
following years. Any increases are limited to 3% annually.

Graphic Packaging International Corporation:  We have a packaging supply
agreement with a subsidiary of Graphic Packaging International Corporation
(GPIC) under which we purchase a large portion of our paperboard
requirements. We have begun negotiations to extend the term of this
contract which expires in 2002. We expect it to be renewed prior to
expiration. Our purchases under the packaging agreement in 2001, 2000 and
1999 totaled approximately $125 million, $112 million and $107 million,
respectively. We expect purchases in 2002 under the packaging agreement to
be approximately $118 million. Related accounts receivable balances
included in Affiliates Accounts Receivable on the Consolidated Balance
Sheets were immaterial in 2001 and 2000. Related accounts payable balances
included in Affiliates Accounts Payable on the Consolidated Balance Sheets
were $0.5 million and $1.3 million in 2001 and 2000, respectively. William
K. Coors is a trustee of family trusts that collectively own all of our
Class A voting common stock, approximately 31% of our Class B common stock,
approximately 42% of GPIC's common stock and 100% of GPIC's series B
preferred stock, which is currently convertible into 48,484,848 shares of
GPIC's common stock. If converted, the trusts would own approximately 78%
of GPIC's common stock. Peter H. Coors is also a trustee of some of these
trusts.

Advertising and promotions:  We have various long-term non-cancelable
commitments for advertising and promotions, including marketing at sports
arenas, stadiums and other venues and events. At December 30, 2001, the
future commitments are as follows:

Fiscal year                                      Amount
                                             (In thousands)
2002                                            $ 40,909
2003                                              11,512
2004                                              10,618
2005                                               9,221
2006                                               7,933
Thereafter                                        11,299
  Total                                         $ 91,492

Environmental: We were one of a number of entities named by the
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) as a potentially responsible party
(PRP) at the Lowry Superfund site. This landfill is owned by the City and
County of Denver (Denver), and was managed by Waste Management of Colorado,
Inc. (Waste). In 1990, we recorded a special pretax charge of $30 million,
a portion of which was put into a trust in 1993 as part of an agreement
with Denver and Waste to settle the outstanding litigation related to this
issue.

Our settlement was based on an assumed cost of $120 million (in 1992
adjusted dollars). It requires us to pay a portion of future costs in
excess of that amount.

In January 2002, in response to the EPA's five-year review conducted in
2001, Waste provided us with updated annual cost estimates through 2032. We
have reviewed these cost estimates in the assessment of our accrual related
to this issue. In determining that the current accrual is adequate, we
eliminated certain costs included in Waste's estimates, primarily trust
management costs that will be  accrued as incurred, certain remedial costs
for which technology has not yet been developed and income taxes which we
do not believe to be an included cost in the determination of when the $120
million threshold is reached. We generally used a 2% inflation rate for
future costs, and discounted certain operations and maintenance costs at
the site that we deemed to be determinable, at a 5.46% risk-free rate of
return. Based on these assumptions, the present value and gross amount of
discounted costs are approximately $1 million and $4 million, respectively.
We did not assume any future recoveries from insurance companies in the
estimate of our liability.

There are a number of uncertainties at the site, including what additional
remedial actions will be required by the EPA, and what costs are included
in the determination of when the $120 million threshold is reached. Because
of these issues, the estimate of our liability may change as facts further
develop, and we may need to increase the reserve. While we cannot predict
the amount of any such increase, an additional accrual of as much as $25
million is reasonably possible based on our preliminary evaluation, with
additional cash contributions beginning as early as 2013.

We were one of several parties named by the EPA as a PRP at the Rocky Flats
Industrial Park site. In September 2000, the EPA entered into an
Administrative Order on Consent with certain parties, including our
company, requiring implementation of a removal action. Our projected costs
to construct and monitor the removal action are approximately $300,000. The
EPA will also seek to recover its oversight costs associated with the
project which are not possible to estimate at this time. However, we
believe they would be immaterial to our operating results, cash flows and
financial position.

In August 2000, an accidental spill into Clear Creek at our Golden,
Colorado, facility caused damage to some of the fish population in the
creek. A settlement reached in February 2001 with the Colorado Department
of Public Health and Environment was modified based on public comment,
including comments by the EPA. As a result, permit violations that occurred
several years prior to the accidental spill were included in the
settlement, as well as economic benefit penalties related to those prior
violations. A total civil penalty of $100,000 was assessed in the final
settlement with the Department reached in August 2001. In addition, we will
undertake an evaluation of our process wastewater treatment plant. On
December 21, 2001, we settled with the Colorado Division of Wildlife for
the loss of fish in Clear Creek. We have agreed to construct, as a pilot
project, a tertiary treatment wetlands area to evaluate the ability of a
wetlands to provide additional treatment to the effluent from our waste
treatment facilities. We will also pay for the stocking of game fish in the
Denver metropolitan area and the cost of two graduate students to assist in
the research of the pilot project. The anticipated costs of the project are
estimated to be approximately $500,000. The amounts of these settlements
have been fully accrued as of December 30, 2001.

From time to time, we have been notified that we are or may be a PRP under
the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act or
similar state laws for the cleanup of other sites where hazardous
substances have allegedly been released into the environment. We cannot
predict with certainty the total costs of cleanup, our share of the total
cost, the extent to which contributions will be available from other
parties, the amount of time necessary to complete the cleanups or insurance
coverage.

In addition, we are aware of groundwater contamination at some of our
properties in Colorado resulting from historical, ongoing or nearby
activities. There may also be other contamination of which we are currently
unaware.

While we cannot predict our eventual aggregate cost for our environmental
and related matters in which we are currently involved, we believe that any
payments, if required, for these matters would be made over a period of
time in amounts that would not be material in any one year to our operating
results, cash flows or our financial or competitive position. We believe
adequate reserves have been provided for losses that are probable and
estimable.

Litigation:  We are also named as a defendant in various actions and
proceedings arising in the normal course of business. In all of these
cases, we are denying the allegations and are vigorously defending
ourselves against them and, in some instances, have filed counterclaims.
Although the eventual outcome of the various lawsuits cannot be predicted,
it is management's opinion that these suits will not result in liabilities
that would materially affect our financial position, results of operations
or cash flows.

Restructuring:  At December 30, 2001, we had a $2.2 million liability
related to personnel accruals as a result of a restructuring of operations
that occurred in 1993. These accruals relate to obligations under deferred
compensation arrangements and postretirement benefits other than pensions.
For the restructuring liabilities incurred during 2001, 2000 and 1999, see
discussion in Note 9, Special Charges.

Labor:  Approximately 8% of our work force, located principally at the
Memphis brewing and packaging facility, is represented by a labor union
with whom we engage in collective bargaining. A labor contract prohibiting
strikes was negotiated in early 2001. The new contract expires in 2005.


NOTE 16:

Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)

The following summarizes selected quarterly financial information for each
of the two years in the period ended December 30, 2001.

Income in 2001 was decreased by a net special pretax charge of $23.2
million and income in 2000 was decreased by a net special pretax charge of
$15.2 million. Refer to Note 9 for a further discussion of special charges.

During the fourth quarter of 2000, we reduced our total expenses by
approximately $3.1 million when certain estimates for employee benefits and
other liabilities were adjusted based upon updated information that we
received in the normal course of business.

                            First      Second       Third    Fourth        Year
2001                                (In thousands, except per share data)

Gross sales              $637,828    $809,729    $742,654  $652,541  $2,842,752
Beer excise taxes         (94,128)   (117,029)   (107,991)  (94,142)   (413,290)
Net sales                 543,700     692,700     634,663   558,399   2,429,462

Cost of goods sold       (351,153)   (424,880)   (402,306) (359,284) (1,537,623)

Gross profit             $192,547    $267,820    $232,357  $199,115  $  891,839

Net income               $ 18,328    $ 49,852    $ 38,916  $ 15,868  $  122,964

Net income per
  common share--basic    $   0.49    $   1.34    $   1.05  $   0.44  $     3.33
Net income per
  common share--diluted  $   0.49    $   1.33    $   1.05  $   0.44  $     3.31


                            First      Second       Third    Fourth        Year
2000                             (In thousands, except per share data)

Gross sales              $596,789    $788,921    $773,535  $682,493  $2,841,738
Beer excise taxes         (91,360)   (119,108)   (116,459) (100,396)   (427,323)
Net sales                 505,429     669,813     657,076   582,097   2,414,415

Cost of goods sold       (326,919)   (404,570)   (413,314) (381,026) (1,525,829)

Gross profit             $178,510    $265,243    $243,762  $201,071  $  888,586

Net income               $ 14,819    $ 48,344    $ 34,492  $ 11,962  $  109,617

Net income per
  common share--basic    $   0.40    $   1.32    $   0.94  $   0.32  $     2.98
Net income per
  common share--diluted  $   0.40    $   1.29    $   0.92  $   0.32  $     2.93


NOTE 17:

Subsequent Event

On February 2, 2002, we acquired 100% of the outstanding shares of Bass
Holdings Ltd. and certain other intangible assets from Interbrew S.A. as
well as paying off certain intercompany loan balances with Interbrew for a
total purchase price of 1.2 billion British pounds sterling (approximately
$1.7 billion), plus associated fees and expenses and a restructuring
provision. The purchase price is subject to adjustment based on the value
of working capital, certain intercompany trade balances and undistributed
earnings from joint ventures as of the acquisition date. This acquisition
resulted in us obtaining the United Kingdom (U.K.) based Carling business. The
Carling Brewers' business, subsequently renamed Coors Brewers Limited,
includes the majority of the assets that previously made up Bass Brewers,
including the Carling, Worthington and Caffrey's brand beers; the U.K.
distribution rights to Grolsch (via a joint venture with Grolsch N.V.);
several other beer and flavored-alcoholic beverage brands; related brewing
and malting facilities in the U.K.; and a 49.9% interest in the distribution
logistics provider, Tradeteam. Coors Brewers is the second-largest brewer in
the U.K. and Carling lager is the best-selling beer brand in the U.K. The brand
rights for Carling, which is the largest acquired brand by volume, are
mainly for territories in Europe. The addition of Coors Brewers reduces our
reliance on one product in North America and also creates a broader, more
diversified company in a consolidating global beer market.

The following table summarizes the preliminary estimated fair values of the
assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition. We are
in the process of obtaining third-party valuations of certain tangible and
intangible assets and of pension and other liabilities, and analyzing other
market or historical information for certain estimates. We are also
finalizing the tax and financing structure of the acquired business and
evaluating certain restructuring plans. Accordingly, the allocation of the
purchase price is subject to change. Also, as noted above, the purchase
price is subject to further adjustments, which have not yet been finalized
with Interbrew. These adjustments will result in further change to the
purchase price allocation.

                                           As of February 2, 2002
                                               (In millions)

     Current assets                                 $         547
     Property, plant and equipment                            445
     Other assets                                             444
     Intangible assets                                        415
     Goodwill                                                 532
       Total assets acquired                                2,383
     Current liabilities                                     (428)
     Non-current liabilities                                 (238)
       Total liabilities assumed                             (666)
         Net assets acquired                        $       1,717



Of the $415 million of acquired intangible assets, approximately $389
million has been assigned to brand names and distribution rights. The
remaining $26 million was assigned to patents and technology and
distribution channels. The respective lives of these assets and the
resulting amortization is still being evaluated.

In March 2002, we announced plans to close our Cape Hill brewery and Alloa
malting facility. A majority of the production at the Cape Hill brewery
relates to brands that were retained by Interbrew. The production at the
Alloa malting facility will be moved to one of the other existing malting
facilities. The plan to close these sites and the associated exit costs
have been reflected in the purchase price allocation above.

We funded the acquisition with approximately $150 million of cash on hand
and approximately $1.55 billion of combined debt as described below at the
prevailing exchange rate:
                                                   Facility
                                                   Currency          Balance
 Term                                            Denomination     (In millions)
5 year    Amortizing term loan                       USD             $   478
5 year    Amortizing term loan (228 million pounds)  GBP                 322
9 month   Bridge facility                            USD                 750
                                                                     $ 1,550

In conjunction with the term loan and bridge facility, we incurred
financing fees of approximately $9 million and $500,000, respectively.
These fees will be amortized over the respective term of the borrowing.
There is an additional financing fee on the bridge facility of
approximately $1.1 million if the facility is not repaid by May 15, 2002.
We expect to refinance our nine month bridge facility through issuance of
long-term financing prior to maturity.

Amounts outstanding under both our term loan and our bridge facility bear
interest, at our option, at a rate per annum equal to either an adjusted
LIBOR or an alternate rate, in each case plus an additional margin. The
additional margin is set based upon our investment grade. If our investment
grade changes, the additional margin is subject to adjustment. Interest is
payable quarterly unless the selected LIBOR is for a time period less than
90 days, in which case the interest is payable in the time period
corresponding to the selected LIBOR.


Our term loan is payable quarterly in arrears beginning March 28, 2003,
pursuant to the amortization schedule below, and matures February 1, 2007.

                                Amortization
                                rate of term
    Year of annual payments         loans
              2003                   15%
              2004                   20%
              2005                   25%
              2006                   30%
              2007                   10%
                                    100%

We and all of our existing and future, direct and indirect, domestic
subsidiaries, other than immaterial domestic subsidiaries, have guaranteed
our term loan.

Our term loan requires us to meet certain periodic financial tests,
including maximum total leverage ratio and minimum interest coverage ratio.
There are also certain restrictions on indebtedness, liens and guarantees;
mergers, consolidations and some types of acquisitions and assets sales;
dividends and stock repurchases; and certain types of business in which we
can engage. We expect to timely repay this facility in accordance with its
terms.

ITEM 9. Disagreements on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.


PART III

ITEM 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

(a)  Directors

WILLIAM K. COORS (Age 85) is Chairman of the Board of Adolph Coors Company
(ACC) and has served in such capacity since 1970. He has served as
a director since 1940. He was President from 1989 until May 11,
2000. He is the Chairman of the Executive Committees of ACC and
Coors Brewing Company (CBC). He is also a director of CBC and
Graphic Packaging International Corporation. He is the uncle of
Peter H. Coors.

PETER H. COORS (Age 55) is President of ACC and chairman of CBC. He was
Chief Executive Officer from December 1992 to May 2000. He has been
a director of ACC and CBC since 1973. Prior to 1993, he served as
Executive Vice President and Chairman of the brewing division,
before it was organized as CBC. He served as interim treasurer and
Chief Financial Officer of ACC from December 1993 to February 1995.
He has served in a number of different executive and management
positions for CBC. Since March 1996, he has been a director of U.S.
Bancorp. He also has been a director of Energy Corporation of
America since March 1996, and was appointed to the board of H.J.
Heinz & Co. in 2001. He is the nephew of William K. Coors.

W. LEO KIELY III (Age 55) was appointed President and Chief Operating
Officer of CBC as of March 1, 1993, and was named Chief Executive
Officer of CBC in May 2000. He also is a vice president of ACC, and
has been a director of ACC and CBC since August 1998. Prior to
joining CBC, he held executive positions with Frito-Lay, Inc., a
subsidiary of PepsiCo in Plano, Texas. He also serves on the board
of directors of Sunterra Resorts, Inc. and the SEI Center for
Advanced Studies Board for the Wharton School of Finance.

FRANKLIN W. HOBBS (Age 54) was appointed a director of ACC and CBC in 2001
and is a member of the Compensation and Human Resources Committee.
He graduated from Harvard College and Harvard Business School and
is currently the Chief Executive Officer and director for the
investment bank, Houlihan Lokey Howard & Zukin. He served in roles
of increasing responsibility at the investment bank, Dillon, Read &
Co., Inc. from 1972 through 2000, finally serving as chairman of
UBS Warburg following a series of mergers between Dillon Read, and
SBC Warburg, and later with Union Bank of Switzerland. He also
serves on the board of directors of Lord Abbett Group of Mutual
Funds and the Board of Overseers at Harvard College.

PAMELA H. PATSLEY (Age 45) has served as a director of both ACC and CBC
since November 1996. She chairs the Audit Committee and is a member
of the Compensation and Human Resources Committee. In March 2000,
she became Senior Executive Vice President of First Data Corp. and
president of First Data Merchant Services, First Data Corp.'s
merchant processing enterprise, which also includes the TeleCheck
check guarantee and approval business. Prior to joining First Data,
She served as President, Chief Executive Officer and director of
Paymentech. She began her Paymentech career as a founding officer
of First USA, Inc. when it was established in 1985. Before joining
First USA, she was with KPMG Peat Marwick.

WAYNE R. SANDERS (Age 54) has served as a director of ACC and CBC since
February 1995. He is a member of the Compensation and Human
Resources Committee and the Audit Committee. He is Chairman of the
Board and since 1991 has been Chief Executive Officer of Kimberly-
Clark Corporation in Dallas. He joined Kimberly-Clark in 1975 and
has served in a number of positions. He was elected to Kimberly-
Clark's board of directors in August 1989. He is also a director of
Texas Instruments Incorporated and Chase Bank of Texas.

ALBERT C. YATES (Age 59) has served as a director of ACC and CBC since
August 1998. He was appointed chairman of the Compensation and
Human Resources Committee in November 2001 and is a member of the
Audit Committee. He is President of Colorado State University in
Fort Collins, Colorado, and Chancellor of the Colorado State
University System. He was a member of the board of the Federal
Reserve Board of Kansas City-Denver Branch and has served on the
board of First Interstate Bank.

Luis G. Nogales retired from the boards of ACC and CBC in November 2001.
Joseph Coors retired from our board in May 2000 and was elected a director
emeritus.

(b)  Executive Officers

Of the above directors, William K. Coors, Peter H. Coors and W. Leo Kiely
III are executive officers of ACC and CBC. The following also were
executive officers of ACC and/or CBC at March 1, 2002:

RONALD G. ASKEW (Age 47) was appointed Chief Marketing Officer of CBC in
October 2001. He was a founder and served as chief executive
officer of The Integer Group, in Denver, Colorado, a marketing and
advertising agency that services large accounts including Coors
Brewing Company, from 1993 to October 2001. Before forming The
Integer Group, he was director of account services for Tracy-Locke
Advertising and DDB Worldwide in Dallas. He also served as a vice
president for Frito-Lay, Inc. in marketing and new business
development.

DAVID G. BARNES (Age 40) joined us in March 1999 as Vice President and
Treasurer of ACC, and Vice President of Finance and Treasurer of
CBC. From 1994 to 1999, he was Vice President of Finance and
Development for Tricon Global Restaurants. At Tricon, he also held
positions as Vice President of Mergers and Acquisitions and Vice
President of Planning. From 1990 to 1994, he worked at Asea Brown
Boveri in various strategy, planning and development roles of
increasing responsibility. He started his career at Bain and
Company as a consultant for five years.

CARL L. BARNHILL (Age 53) joined CBC in May 1994 as Senior Vice President
of Sales. He has more than 20 years of marketing experience with
consumer goods companies. Previously, he was Vice President of
Selling Systems Development for the European and Middle East
division of Pepsi Foods International. Prior to joining Pepsi in
1993, he spent 16 years with Frito-Lay, Inc. in various senior
sales and marketing positions.

PETER M. R. KENDALL (Age 55) joined us in January 1998 as Senior Vice
President and Chief International Officer of CBC. In 2002, he was
appointed Chief Executive Officer of Coors Brewers Limited, our
principal United Kingdom subsidiary, and is also Senior Vice
President, U.K. and Europe. He is also a vice president of ACC.
Before joining Coors, he was Executive Vice President of Operations
and Finance for Sola International, Inc., a manufacturer and
marketer of eyeglass lenses in Menlo Park, California. From 1995 to
1996, he was President of International Book Operations for McGraw
Hill Companies. From 1981-1994, he worked in leadership positions
for Pepsi International, PepsiCo and PepsiCo Wines and Spirits.
Prior to working for Pepsi, he spent six years at McKinsey & Co. in
New York.

ROBERT D. KLUGMAN (Age 54) was named our Senior Vice President of Corporate
Development of CBC in May 1994. In 2002, he was named Senior Vice
President of International and Corporate Development, following the
acquisition of the Carling Brewers' business from Interbrew S.A. He
also serves as a vice president of ACC. Prior to that, he was Vice
President of Brand Marketing, and also served as Vice President of
International, Development and Marketing Services. Before joining
us, he was a Vice President of Client Services at Leo Burnett USA,
a Chicago-based advertising agency.

KATHERINE L. MACWILLIAMS (Age 46) joined Coors Brewing Company in April
1996 as Vice President and Treasurer. In 1999, she was named Vice
President, International Finance, and in April 2001, Vice
President, International and Control. Prior to joining Coors, she
served as Vice President of Capital Markets for UBS Securities in
New York. In addition, she has held a wide range of financial
positions with The First National Bank of Chicago, Sears Roebuck
and Co. and Ford Motor Company. She is a past board member (1989 to
1992) of the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc.
and a current director (since January 1997) of the Selected family
of mutual funds, where she chairs the Audit Committee.

ROBERT M. REESE (Age 52) joined the company in December 2001 as Vice
President and Chief Legal Officer. He also serves as Senior Vice
President and Chief Legal Officer of CBC. Prior to joining us, he
was associated with Hershey Foods Corporation from 1978 to 2001,
serving most recently as Senior Vice President of Public Affairs,
General Counsel and Secretary.

MARA SWAN (Age 42) was appointed Senior Vice President and Chief People
Officer of CBC in March 2002. She joined Coors in November 1994 as
a director of human resources responsible for the sales and
marketing area and most recently was Vice President, Human
Resources. Prior to that, she worked for 11 years at Miller Brewing
Company in Milwaukee where she held various positions in human
resources. Her most recent assignments at Miller included human
resources manager for operations and personnel services manager for
marketing.

RONALD A. TRYGGESTAD (Age 45) was named Vice President and Controller of
CBC and Controller of ACC in May 2001. He joined the company in
December 1997 as the director of tax. Prior to joining CBC, he was
with Total Petroleum, Inc. from 1994 to 1997, serving there as
Director of Tax and Internal Audit. He also worked for Shell Oil
Company from 1990 through 1993, and Price Waterhouse from 1982
through 1989.

TIMOTHY V. WOLF (Age 48) was named Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer of ACC and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer of CBC in February 1995. Prior to CBC, he served as Senior
Vice President of Planning and Human Resources for Hyatt Hotels
Corporation from 1993 to 1994 and in several executive positions
for The Walt Disney Company, including vice president, controller
and chief accounting officer, from 1989 to 1993. Prior to Disney,
he spent 10 years in various financial planning, strategy and
control roles at PepsiCo. He currently serves on the Science and
Technology Commission for the state of Colorado.

Caroline Turner, former Senior Vice President and General Counsel, and
William Weintraub, former Senior Vice President of Marketing, both retired
from the company in 2001.

Olivia Thompson, former Controller, was named Vice President of Process
Development in 2001, reporting to Leo Kiely.

Terms for all officers and directors are for a period of one year, except
that vacancies may be filled and additional officers elected at any regular
or special meeting. Directors of ACC are elected at the annual meeting of
the Class A voting shareholder held in May. There are no arrangements or
understandings between any officer or director pursuant to which any
officer or director was elected.

Based upon our review of Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed by certain beneficial
owners of our Class B common stock, we have determined that there was a
failure to file a Form 5 on a timely basis with the SEC as required under
Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 for one transaction on
behalf of Pamela Patsley, Wayne Sanders, Luis Nogales, Albert Yates, David
Barnes and Peter Kendall, and a Form 4 for one transaction on behalf of
Peter Coors. Forms 5 were filed immediately when the omissions were
discovered in March 2002. We are not aware of any failure by the Section 16
reporting persons to file a required form pursuant to Section 16.


ITEM 11. Executive Compensation

I. SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE

                      ANNUAL COMPENSATION         LONG -TERM COMPENSATION
                                              AWARDS              PAYOUTS
                                     OTHER              SECURITIES          ALL
                                     ANNUAL RESTRICTED  UNDERLYING  LTIP   OTHER
NAME & PRINCIPAL       SALARY  BONUS  COMP    STOCK       OPTIONS  PAYOUTS  COMP
POSITION         YEAR   ($)    ($)(1)  ($)   ($)(2)      (#)(3)      ($)  ($)(4)

Peter H. Coors,  2001 760,500  452,272  0         0      125,000      0   78,699
President of     2000 726,750  563,760  0         0      170,908      0   78,699
Adolph Coors     1999 655,765  380,291  0         0       62,751      0   55,504
Company,
Chairman of Coors
Brewing Company

W. Leo Kiely     2001 686,456  407,423  0         0      120,000      0   57,139
III,  Vice       2000 569,250  428,644  0         0      103,708      0   57,139
President of     1999 516,750  304,722  0         0       87,429      0   41,723
Adolph Coors
Company & CEO of
Coors Brewing
Company

Timothy V. Wolf, 2001 371,000  163,899  0        0        20,000      0   11,835
CFO of Adolph    2000 360,500  189,525  0        0        35,024      0   11,835
Coors Company,   1999 343,020  160,022  0        0        28,790      0   11,535
Senior VP & CFO
of Coors Brewing
Company

Peter M. R.      2001 358,280  133,647  0        0        25,000      0   30,171
Kendall, Senior  2000 348,140  180,758  0        0        33,823      0   30,171
VP of Coors      1999 331,500  139,317  0        0        27,844      0   29,871
Brewing Company,
CEO of Coors
Brewers Limited

Carl L.          2001 343,200  128,022  0        0        30,000      0   14,275
Barnhill,        2000 336,600  180,758  0        0        33,022      0   14,275
Senior VP of     1999 311,280  139,317  0        0        25,064      0   19,601
Sales of Coors
Brewing Company

William H.       2001 364,000  135,781  0        0        25,000      0   21,355
Weintraub(5),    2000 357,000  186,244  0        0        35,024      0   21,355
Senior VP of     1999 327,376  145,123  0        0        26,109      0   21,055
Marketing of
Coors Brewing
Company


(1) Amounts awarded under the Management Incentive Compensation Program.

(2) In 2001, the shares of restricted stock which were granted in 1998
vested. The values at the vesting dates were as follows:  Peter H. Coors,
$285,226; W. Leo Kiely III, $146,594; Timothy V. Wolf, $72,885; Peter M. R.
Kendall, $311,287; Carl L. Barnhill, $117,495 and William H. Weintraub,
$70,071. No restricted stock grants were made to any of the named
executives during 1999 to 2001.

(3) See discussion under Item 11, Part II, for options issued in 2001.

(4) The amounts shown in this column are attributable to the officer life
insurance other than group life, as well as 401(k) match.

(5) William H. Weintraub, former Senior Vice President of Marketing,
retired from the company in 2001.

We provide term officer life insurance for all the named active executives.
The officer's life insurance provides six times the executive base salary
until retirement when the benefit terminates. The 2001 annual benefit for
each executive was: Peter H. Coors, $73,599; W. Leo Kiely III, $52,039;
Timothy V. Wolf, $6,735; Peter M. R. Kendall, $25,071; Carl L. Barnhill,
$9,175 and William H. Weintraub, $16,255.

Our 50% match on the first 6% of salary contributed by the officer to ACC's
qualified 401(k) plan was $5,100 each for Peter H. Coors, W. Leo Kiely III,
Timothy V. Wolf, Peter M. R. Kendall, Carl L. Barnhill and William H.
Weintraub. Peter H. Coors, W. Leo Kiely III, Peter M.R. Kendall and William
H. Weintraub exercised stock options in 2001. See discussion in Item 11,
Part III, for stock option exercises in 2001.

In response to Code Section 162 of the Revenue Reconciliation Act of 1993,
we appointed a special compensation committee of the board to approve and
monitor performance criteria in certain performance-based executive
compensation plans for 2001.


II. OPTION/SAR GRANTS TABLE

                   Option Grants in Last Fiscal Year

                                                      POTENTIAL REALIZABLE VALUE
          INDIVIDUAL GRANTS                            AT ASSUMED RATES OF STOCK
                                                        PRICE APPRECIATION FOR
                                                              OPTION TERM
             NUMBER OF   % OF TOTAL
             SECURITIES   OPTIONS
             UNDERLYING  GRANTED TO  EXERCISE
              OPTIONS    EMPLOYEES   OR BASE
              GRANTED    IN FISCAL    PRICE   EXPIRATION
NAME           (#)(1)      YEAR    ($/SHARE)    DATE          5%        10%

Peter H. Coors  125,000     7.53%   $69.0950    02/16/11  $5,431,684 $13,764,954
W. Leo Kiely
  III           120,000     7.23%   $69.0950    02/16/11  $5,214,417 $13,214,356
Timothy V.
  Wolf           20,000     1.20%   $69.0950    02/16/11  $  869,069  $2,202,393
Peter M. R.
  Kendall        25,000     1.51%   $69.0950    02/16/11  $1,086,337  $2,752,991
Carl L.
  Barnhill       30,000     1.80%   $69.0950    02/16/11  $1,303,604  $3,303,589
William H.
  Weintraub      25,000     1.51%   $69.0950    02/16/11  $1,086,337  $2,752,991

(1) Grants vest one-third in each of the three successive years after the
date of grant. As of December 30, 2001, no 2001 grants were vested because
of the one-year vesting requirement; however, they will vest 33-1/3% on the
one-year anniversary of the grant dates.

III. OPTION/SAR EXERCISES AND YEAR-END VALUE TABLE

Aggregated Option/SAR Exercises in Last Fiscal Year and FY-End Option/SAR
Value

                   SHARES            NUMBER OF SECURITIES
                  ACQUIRED          UNDERLYING UNEXERCISED  VALUE OF UNEXERCISED
                     ON      VALUE       OPTIONS                IN-THE-MONEY
                  EXERCISE  REALIZED    AT FY-END (#)         OPTIONS AT FY-END
                     (#)      (1)      Exer-   Unexer-       Exer-       Unexer-
                                     cisable   cisable     cisable       cisable

Peter H. Coors      7,047 $  35,253  191,702   244,983   $2,475,341   $  461,563
W. Leo Kiely III   15,000 $ 468,989  223,973   218,283   $3,977,910   $  293,723
Timothy V. Wolf         0 $       0   47,948    52,947   $  416,833   $  108,787
Peter M. R.
  Kendall          17,512 $ 591,314   29,837    56,830   $   52,531   $  105,055
Carl L. Barnhill        0 $       0   58,788    60,369   $  917,632   $  102,565
William H.
  Weintraub        22,074 $ 704,514   23,427    57,053   $   37,261   $  108,787

(1) Values stated are the bargain element realized in 2001, which is the
difference between the option price and the market price at the time of
exercise.

IV. PENSION PLAN TABLE

The following table sets forth annual retirement benefits for
representative years of service and average annual earnings.


AVERAGE ANNUAL                YEARS OF SERVICE
COMPENSATION         10        20          30         40
$125,000          $25,000   $50,000     $75,000    $100,000
 150,000           30,000    60,000      90,000     120,000
 175,000(1)        35,000    70,000     105,000     140,000
 200,000(1)        40,000    80,000     120,000     160,000(1)
 225,000(1)        45,000    90,000     135,000     180,000(1)
 250,000(1)        50,000   100,000     150,000(1)  200,000(1)
 275,000(1)        55,000   110,000     165,000(1)  220,000(1)
 300,000(1)        60,000   120,000     180,000(1)  240,000(1)
 325,000(1)        65,000   130,000     195,000(1)  260,000(1)
 350,000(1)        70,000   140,000     210,000(1)  280,000(1)
 375,000(1)        75,000   150,000(1)  225,000(1)  300,000(1)
 400,000(1)        80,000   160,000(1)  240,000(1)  320,000(1)
 425,000(1)        85,000   170,000(1)  255,000(1)  340,000(1)
 450,000(1)        90,000   180,000(1)  270,000(1)  360,000(1)
 475,000(1)        95,000   190,000(1)  285,000(1)  380,000(1)
 500,000(1)       100,000   200,000(1)  300,000(1)  400,000(1)
 525,000(1)       105,000   210,000(1)  315,000(1)  420,000(1)
 550,000(1)       110,000   220,000(1)  330,000(1)  440,000(1)
 575,000(1)       115,000   230,000(1)  345,000(1)  460,000(1)
 600,000(1)       120,000   240,000(1)  360,000(1)  480,000(1)

(1) Maximum permissible benefit under ERISA from the qualified retirement
income plan for 2001 was $140,000. Annual compensation exceeding $170,000
is not considered in computing the maximum permissible benefit under the
qualified plan. We have a non-qualified supplemental retirement plan to
provide full accrued benefits to all employees in excess of Internal
Revenue Service maximums.

Annual compensation covered by the qualified and non-qualified retirement
plans and credited years of service for the named executive officers are as
follows:  William K. Coors, $345,602 and 62 years; Peter H. Coors, $742,500
and 30 years; W. Leo Kiely III, $686,456 and 8 years; Timothy V. Wolf,
$371,000 and 7 years; Peter M. R. Kendall, $358,280 and 4 years; Carl L.
Barnhill, $343,200 and 7 years; and William H. Weintraub, $364,000 and 8
years.

Our principal retirement income plan is a defined benefit plan. The amount
of contribution for officers is not included in the above table since total
plan contributions cannot be readily allocated to individual employees.
Covered compensation is defined as the total base salary (average of three
highest consecutive years out of the last 10) of employees participating in
the plan, including commissions but excluding bonuses and overtime pay.
Compensation also includes amounts deferred by the individual under
Internal Revenue Code Section 401(k) and any amounts deferred into a plan
under Internal Revenue Code Section 125. Normal retirement age under the
plan is 65. An employee with at least 5 years of vesting service may retire
as early as age 55. Benefits are reduced for early retirement based on an
employee's age and years of service at retirement; however, benefits are
not reduced if (1) the employee is at least age 62 when payments commence;
or (2) the employee's age plus years of service equal at least 85 and the
employee has worked for us at least 25 years. The amount of pension
actuarially accrued under the pension formula is based on a single life
annuity.

In addition to the annual benefit from the qualified retirement plan, Peter
H. Coors is covered by a salary continuation agreement. This agreement
provides for a lump sum cash payment to the officer upon normal retirement
in an amount actuarially equivalent in value to 30% of the officer's last
annual base salary, payable for the remainder of the officer's life, but
not less than 10 years. The interest rate used in calculating the lump sum
is determined using 80% of the annual average yield of the 10-year Treasury
constant maturities for the month preceding the month of retirement. Using
2001 eligible salary amounts as representative of the last annual base
salary, the estimated lump sum amount for Peter H. Coors would be based
upon an annual benefit of $222,750, paid upon normal retirement.

V. COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS

We adopted the Equity Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (EC
Plan) effective as amended and restated August 14, 1997. The EC Plan
provides for two grants of ACC's Class B common stock (non-voting) to non-
employee (NE) directors. The first grant is automatic and equals 20% of the
annual retainer. The second grant is elective and allows the NE directors
to take a portion, or all, of the remaining annual retainer in stock.
Amounts of both grants are determined by the fair market value of the
shares on the date of grant. Shares received under either grant may not be
sold or disposed of before completion of the annual term. We reserved
50,000 shares of stock to be issued under the EC Plan. The NE directors'
annual retainer is $36,000.

In 2001, the NE members of the board of directors, excluding Franklin
Hobbs, were paid 50% of the $36,000 annual retainer for the 2000-2001 term
and 50% of the $36,000 annual retainer for the 2001-2002 term, as well as
reimbursement of expenses incurred to perform their duties as directors.
Franklin Hobbs, who joined the board in December 2001, elected to receive
his compensation entirely in stock. He received a grant of 278 shares
valued at $15,000 which will become unrestricted in May 2002. Directors who
are our full-time employees receive $18,000 annually. All directors are
reimbursed for any expenses incurred while attending board or committee
meetings and in connection with any other company business.

VI. EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS AND TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT ARRANGEMENTS

Except for agreements with certain of our executive officers, including the
named active executive officers, relating to their employment upon a change
of control of our company, we have no agreements with executives or
employees providing employment for a set period. The change in control
agreements, which apply to certain officers of Coors Brewing Company,
generally provide that for a period of two years following a change of
control as defined in the agreements, the officer will be entitled to
certain compensation upon certain triggering events. These events include
termination without cause, resignation for good reason or resignation by
the officer for any reason during a 30 day window beginning one year after
a change of control. Upon a triggering event, officers would be paid a
multiple of their annual salary and bonus, plus health, pension and life
insurance benefits for additional years. For the chairman and the chief
executive officer, the compensation would equal three times annual salary
and bonus, plus benefits for the equivalent of three years coverage, plus
three years credit for additional service toward pension benefits. All
other officers, including named active officers, who are party to these
agreements would receive two times annual salary and bonus, plus two years
equivalent benefit coverage, plus credit for two years additional service
toward pension benefits.

VII. COMPENSATION COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS AND INSIDER PARTICIPATION

Luis G. Nogales, Pamela H. Patsley, Wayne R. Sanders and Albert C. Yates
served on the Compensation and Human Resources Committee during 2001.

VIII. AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT

The Audit Committee of our board of directors is composed of a minimum of
three independent directors and operates under a written charter adopted by
the board of directors. The Audit Committee's primary duties and
responsibilities are to:

   - monitor the integrity of our financial reporting process, the system
of internal controls and significant legal matters and ethics;

   - review and appraise the independence and performance of our internal
auditors and independent accountants; and

   - provide an open avenue of communication for the independent
accountants, financial and senior management, internal auditors and
the board of directors.

The committee held eight meetings during the fiscal year ended December 30,
2001. Discussions were held with management and the independent auditors.
Management represented to the committee that our consolidated financial
statements were prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. The committee has reviewed and discussed the consolidated
financial statements with our management and the independent auditors. The
committee has discussed with the independent auditors matters required to
be discussed by Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) No. 61, Communication
with Audit Committees, as amended by SAS 90, Audit Committee
Communications.

In addition, the committee has discussed with the independent auditors the
auditors' independence, including the matters in the written disclosures
and the letter we received from the auditors, as required by Independence
Standards Board Standard No. 1, Independence Discussions with Audit
Committees. The fees billed by the auditors for non-audit services were
also considered in the discussions of independence.

In addition to ongoing discussions with management, the committee also held
a special meeting on March 22, 2002, to review the audited consolidated
financial statements for the year ended December 30, 2001. Based on the
committee's reviews and discussions referred to above, the committee
recommended that the board of directors include such financial statements
in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2001.

Submitted by the Audit Committee
Pamela H. Patsley (Chair)
Wayne R. Sanders
Albert C. Yates

IX.  INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS' FEES

Audit fees:  Aggregate fees for professional services rendered by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in connection with its audit of our consolidated
financial statements for fiscal year 2001 and the quarterly reviews of our
financial statements included in Forms 10-Q were $511,600.

Financial information systems design and implementation fees:
PricewaterhouseCoopers rendered no professional services to us in
connection with the design and implementation of financial information
systems in fiscal year 2001.

All other fees:  Fees of $544,212 were billed for fiscal year 2001. These
were primarily for: (1) audit related fees of $99,550 for issuance of
consents, audits of our employee benefit plans and financial statements of
certain subsidiaries during the year, and audit related accounting
projects; (2) income tax compliance and related tax services of $101,207
and (3) other related fees of $343,455 for supply chain consulting and
other special project assistance.

ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

(a)(b) Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

The following table sets forth information as of March 8, 2002, as to the
beneficial ownership of Class A stock and Class B stock by beneficial
owners of more than 5% of our Class A stock and Class B stock, each
director, our named executive officers and by all directors and executive
officers as a group. Unless otherwise indicated, the person or persons
named have sole voting and investment power and that person's address is
c/o Adolph Coors Company, 311 10th Street, P.O. Box 4030, Golden, Colorado
80401. Shares of common stock subject to options currently exercisable or
exercisable within 60 days following the date of the tables are deemed
outstanding for computing the share ownership and percentage of
the person holding such options, but are not deemed outstanding for
computing the percentage of any other person.


                  	     Amount and nature of beneficial ownership
                             Number of   Percent                        Percent
                             Class A       of        Number of             of
Name of beneficial owner      shares    class(1)  Class B shares        class(1)
Adolph Coors, Jr. Trust,
William K. Coors,
Jeffrey H. Coors,
Peter H. Coors, J.
Bradford Coors and
Melissa E. Coors,
trustees                  1,260,000(2)   100.0%     2,940,000(2)       	8.5%

May K. Coors Trust(5)             0        0.0%     2,589,980           7.2%
Capital Research and
  Management Company              0        0.0%     2,035,000(1,11)	5.8%
The Growth Fund of
  America                         0        0.0%     1,785,000(1,11)	5.1%
William K. Coors                  0        0.0%       320,807(2,3)        *
Peter H. Coors                    0        0.0%       442,454(2,4)	1.3%
W. Leo Kiely III                  0        0.0%       342,087(6)          *
Franklin W. Hobbs                 0        0.0%           278(7)          *
Pamela H. Patsley                 0        0.0%         2,372(7)          *
Wayne R. Sanders                  0        0.0%         6,106(7)          *
Albert C. Yates                   0        0.0%         1,345(7)          *
Carl L. Barnhill                  0        0.0%        92,913(8)          *
Peter M.R. Kendall                0        0.0%        61,447(9)          *
Timothy V. Wolf                   0        0.0%        78,327(10)         *
William H. Weintraub              0        0.0%        53,752(12)         *

All directors and
executive officers as a
group, including persons
named above (18 persons)          0        0.0%     1,573,475 (2,4)    4.3%

*  Less than 1%.

(1) Except as set forth above and based solely upon reports of beneficial
ownership required filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
pursuant to Rule 13d-1 under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, we do
not believe that any other person beneficially owned, as of March 8, 2002,
greater than 5% of our outstanding Class A stock or Class B stock.

(2) William K. Coors and Peter H. Coors disclaim beneficial ownership of
the shares held by the Adolph Coors, Jr. Trust.

(3) This does not include 2,589,980 shares of Class B common stock owned by
the May K. Coors Trust or 1,260,000 shares of Class A common stock or
2,940,000 shares of Class B common stock owned by the Adolph Coors, Jr.
Trust, as to all of which William K. Coors disclaims beneficial ownership.
It does not include an aggregate of 5,700,114 shares of Class B common
stock owned by a number of other trusts that hold the shares for the
benefit of certain Coors family members, as to all of which William K.
Coors disclaims beneficial ownership. William K. Coors is a beneficiary of
certain of these trusts. The commission does not require disclosure of
these shares. If William K. Coors were to be attributed beneficial
ownership of the shares held by these trusts, he would beneficially own
100% of the Class A common stock and 33.3% of the Class B common stock

(4) This does not include 2,589,980 shares of Class B common stock owned by
the May K. Coors Trust or 1,260,000 shares of Class A common stock or
2,940,000 shares of Class B common stock owned by the Adolph Coors, Jr.
Trust, as to all of which Peter H. Coors disclaims beneficial ownership. It
does not include an additional aggregate of 5,700,114 shares of Class B
common stock owned by a number of other trusts that hold the shares for the
benefit of certain Coors family members, as to all of which Peter H. Coors
disclaims beneficial ownership. Peter H. Coors is a trustee or beneficiary
of certain of these trusts. The commission does not require disclosure of
these shares. This includes 2,660 shares held in the names of Peter H.
Coors's wife and some of his children, as to which he disclaims beneficial
ownership. This number includes options to purchase 303,819 shares of Class
B common stock exercisable within 60 days. If Peter H. Coors were to be
attributed beneficial ownership of the shares held by these trusts, he
would beneficially own 100% of the Class A common stock and 33.4% of the
Class B common stock.

(5) William K. Coors, Joseph Coors, Jr., Jeffrey H. Coors and Peter H.
Coors serve as co-trustees.

(6) This number includes currently exercisable options to purchase 324,639
shares of Class B common stock.

(7) These shares were issued as restricted stock under our 1991 Equity
Compensation Plan for Non-Employee directors. Vesting in the restricted
stock occurs at the end of the one-year term for outside directors. These
numbers include the following number of shares which will vest in May 2002:
Franklin W. Hobbs, 278; Pamela H. Patsley, 332; Wayne R. Sanders, 138;
Albert C. Yates, 415.

(8) This number includes currently exercisable options to purchase 88,151
shares of Class B common stock.

(9) This number includes currently exercisable options to purchase 58,727
shares of Class B common stock.

(10) This number includes options to purchase 75,887 shares of Class B
common stock currently exercisable or exercisable within 60 days.

(11) The shares held by the Capital Research and Management Company include
the 1,785,000 shares (5.1% of total outstanding) held by The Growth Fund of
America, which is managed by Capital Research and Management Company. The
source of this information is a joint Schedule 13 received by us February
14, 2002, filed by Capital Research and Management Company and The Growth
Fund of America, Inc.

(12) This number includes options to purchase 52,139 shares of Class B
common stock currently exercisable or exercisable within 60 days.

(c)  Changes in Control

There are no arrangements that would later result in a change of our
control.

ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

(a)  Transactions with Management and Others

None.

(b)  Certain Business Relationships

In 1992, we spun off our wholly owned subsidiary, ACX Technologies, Inc.,
which has subsequently changed its name to Graphic Packaging International
Corporation (GPIC). William K. Coors is a trustee of family trusts that
collectively own all of our Class A voting common stock, approximately 31%
of our Class B common stock, approximately 42% of GPIC's common stock and
100% of GPIC's series B preferred stock which is currently convertible into
48,484,848 shares of GPIC's common stock. If converted, the trusts would
own approximately 78% of GPIC's common stock. Peter H. Coors is also a
trustee of some of these trusts.

We have a packaging supply agreement with a subsidiary of GPIC under which
we purchase a large portion of our paperboard requirements. We have begun
negotiations to extend the term of this contract which expires in 2002. We
expect it to be renewed prior to expiration. Our purchases under the
packaging agreement in 2001, 2000 and 1999 totaled approximately $125
million, $112 million and $107 million, respectively. We expect purchases
in 2002 under the packaging agreement to be approximately $118 million.
Related accounts receivable balances included in Affiliates Accounts
Receivable on the Consolidated Balance Sheets were immaterial in 2001 and
2000. Related accounts payable balances included in Affiliates Accounts
Payable on the Consolidated Balance Sheets were $0.5 million and $1.3
million in 2001 and 2000, respectively.

We are also a limited partner in a real estate development partnership in
which a subsidiary of GPC is the general partner. The partnership owns,
develops, operates and sells certain real estate previously owned directly
by us. In 2001, we received no distributions from this partnership.

(c)  Indebtedness of Management

No member of management or another with a direct or indirect interest in us
was indebted to us in excess of $60,000 in 2001.

	PART IV

ITEM 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)  The following documents are filed as part of this report:

     (1) Financial Statements: See index of financial statements in Item 8.

     (2) Financial Statement Schedules:

         Schedule II  -  Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or the
required information is shown in the financial statements or notes thereto.


Report of Independent Accountants on
Financial Statement Schedule



To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Adolph Coors Company:


Our audits of the consolidated financial statements referred to in our
report dated February 6, 2002, appearing in this Form 10-K also included an
audit of the financial statement schedule listed in Item 14(a)(2) of this
Form 10-K. In our opinion, this financial statement schedule presents
fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when
read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.






PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Denver, Colorado
February 6, 2002




SCHEDULE II

ADOLPH COORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

                                    Additions
                        Balance at  charged to                Balance
                        beginning   costs and                 at end
                         of year     expenses   Deductions(1) of year
Allowance for doubtful                      (In thousands)
accounts

Year ended

December 30, 2001          $  139      $  119     ($  167)     $   91

December 31, 2000          $   55      $   84      $   --      $  139

December 26, 1999          $  299      $   53     ($  297)     $   55




Allowance for certain
claims

Year ended

December 30, 2001          $  104      $   50     ($   43)     $  111

December 31, 2000          $  133      $   --     ($   29)     $  104

December 26, 1999          $  584      $   44     ($  495)     $  133




Allowance for obsolete
inventories and supplies

Year ended

December 30, 2001          $3,614      $3,361     ($2,605)     $4,370

December 31, 2000          $3,170      $2,664     ($2,220)     $3,614

December 26, 1999          $4,986      $3,778     ($5,594)     $3,170



(1) Write-offs of uncollectible accounts, claims or obsolete inventories
and supplies.


(3)  Exhibits:

     Exhibit  2.1  -- Share Purchase Agreement between Coors Worldwide, Inc.
                      and Adolph Coors Company and Interbrew, S.A., Interbrew
                      UK Holdings Limited, Brandbrew S.A., and Golden
                      Acquisition Limited dated December 24, 2001 and amended
                      February 1, 2002 (filed by amendment pursuant to
                      confidential treatment request).

     Exhibit  3.1  -- Amended and restated Articles of Incorporation of Adolph
                      Coors Company effective May 17, 2001.

     Exhibit  3.2  -- By-laws, as amended and restated May 10, 2000.
                      (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to
                      Registration Statement on Form S-3, SEC file No. 333-
                      48194 filed October 27, 2000)

     Exhibit 10.1* -- 2001 amendment to Adolph Coors Company 1990 Equity
                      Incentive Plan. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                      10.20 to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
                      31, 2000)

     Exhibit 10.2  -- Form of Coors Brewing Company Distributorship Agreement.
                      (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to Form 10-K
                      for the fiscal year ended December 29, 1996)

     Exhibit 10.3  -- Adolph Coors Company Equity Compensation Plan for Non-
                      Employee Directors (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                      10.12 to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
                      28, 1997) and 1999 Amendment (Incorporated by reference
                      to Exhibit 10.12 to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                      December 27, 1998)

     Exhibit 10.4  -- Distribution Agreement, dated as of October 5, 1992,
                      between the Company and ACX Technologies, Inc.
                      (Incorporated herein by reference to the Distribution
                      Agreement included as Exhibits 2, 19.1 and 19.1A to the
                      Registration Statement on Form 10 filed by ACX
                      Technologies, Inc. (file No. 0-20704) with the
                      commission on October 6, 1992, as amended)

     Exhibit 10.5* -- Adolph Coors Company Stock Unit Plan. (Incorporated by
                      reference to Exhibit 10.16 to Form 10-K for the fiscal
                      year ended December 28, 1997) and 1999 Amendment
                      (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16 to Form 10-K
                      for the fiscal year ended December 27, 1998)

     Exhibit 10.6* -- 2001 amendment to Adolph Coors Company Deferred
                      Compensation Plan. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                      10.17 to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
                      31, 2000)

     Exhibit 10.7* -- Coors Brewing Company 2001 Annual Management Incentive
                      Compensation Plan.

     Exhibit 10.8  -- Adolph Coors Company Water Augmentation Plan.
                      (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to Form 10-K
                      for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1989)

     Exhibit 10.9  -- Supply Agreement between Coors Brewing Company and
                      Graphic Packaging International Corporation dated
                      September 1, 1998. (Incorporated by reference to
                      Exhibit 10.1 to current report on Form 8-K filed
                      November 2, 1998, by ACX Technologies, Inc., SEC file
                      No. 001-14060)

     Exhibit 10.10 -- Form of 2001 change-in-control agreements for Chairman
                      and for Chief Executive Officer. (Incorporated by
                      reference to Exhibit 10.18 to Form 10-K for the fiscal
                      year ended December 31, 2000)

     Exhibit 10.11 -- Form of 2001 change-in-control agreements for other
                      officers. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.19 to
                      Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000)

     Exhibit 10.12 -- Supply agreement between Coors Brewing Company and  Ball
                      Metal Beverage Container Corp. dated November 12, 2001
                      (filed pursuant to confidential treatment request).

     Exhibit 10.13 -- Supply Agreement between Rocky Mountain Metal Container,
                      LLC and Coors Brewing Company dated November 12, 2001
                      (filed pursuant to confidential treatment request).

     Exhibit 10.14 -- Agreement between Coors Brewing Company and EDS
                      Information Services, LLC effective August 1, 2001
                      (filed by amendment pursuant to confidential treatment
                      request).

     Exhibit 10.15 -- Credit Agreement dated as of February 1, 2002 among
                      Adolph Coors Company, Coors Brewing Company, Golden
                      Acquisition Limited, the lenders party thereto, Deutsche
                      Bank Alex. Brown Inc., as Syndication Agent, JPMorgan
                      Chase Bank, as Administrative Agent, and J.P. Morgan
                      Europe Limited, as London Agent.

     Exhibit 10.16 -- Bridge Credit Agreement dated as of February 1, 2002
                      among Adolph Coors Company, Coors Brewing Company, the
                      lenders party thereto, Morgan Stanley Senior Funding,
                      Inc., as Syndication Agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, as
                      Administrative Agent, and J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as
                      London Agent.

     Exhibit 10.17*-- Coors Brewing Company 2002 Coors Incentive Plan.

     Exhibit 21    -- Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

     Exhibit 23    -- Consent of Independent Accountants.

*Represents a management contract.


(b)  Reports on Form 8-K

A current report on Form 8-K dated December 24, 2001, was filed to announce
that we had executed a letter of intent with Interbrew S.A. for the
purchase of the Carling Brewers' portion of the Bass Brewers business.

A current report on Form 8-K dated February 2, 2002, was filed announcing
the close of the acquisition of the Carling Brewers' business.

(c)  Other Exhibits

None.

(d)  Other Financial Statement Schedules

None.

EXHIBIT 21

ADOLPH COORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT



The following table lists our significant subsidiaries and the respective
jurisdictions of their organization or incorporation as of December 30,
2001. All subsidiaries are included in our consolidated financial
statements.

                                                      State/country of
                                                      organization or
                Name                                  incorporation
Coors Brewing Company                                 Colorado
   Coors Distributing Company                         Colorado
   Coors Worldwide, Inc.                              Colorado
      Coors International Market Development, LLLP    Colorado
   Coors Japan Company, Ltd.                          Japan
Coors Canada, Inc.                                    Canada


EXHIBIT 23

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS



We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration
Statements on Form S-8 (Nos. 33-35035, 33-40730, 33-59979, 333-45869 and
333-38378) of Adolph Coors Company of our report dated February 6, 2002,
relating to the consolidated financial statements which appear in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.

We also consent to the incorporation by reference of our report dated
February 6, 2002, relating to the financial statement schedule, which
appears in this Form 10-K.








PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Denver, Colorado
March 29, 2002


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


ADOLPH COORS COMPANY


By  /s/ William K. Coors

       William K. Coors
       Chairman and Director

By  /s/ Peter H. Coors

       Peter H. Coors
       President and Director
       (Principal Executive Officer)

By  /s/ Timothy V. Wolf

       Timothy V. Wolf
       Vice President and
       Chief Financial Officer
       (Principal Financial Officer)
       (Principal Accounting Officer)


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following directors on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.


By  /s/ W. Leo Kiely III                   By  /s/ Franklin W. Hobbs


       W. Leo Kiely III                           Franklin W. Hobbs
       Vice President and                         Director
       Director

By  /s/ Pamela H. Patsley                  By  /s/ Wayne R. Sanders


       Pamela H. Patsley                          Wayne R. Sanders
       Director                                   Director

By  /s/ Albert C. Yates


       Albert C. Yates
       Director

March 28, 2002






