
10-K
FORM 10-K





                     U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              Washington, D.C.  20549

                                    FORM 10-K

X     ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES         
      EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (FEE REQUIRED)

      For the fiscal year ended December 26, 1993

                                         OR

      TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
      EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (NO FEE REQUIRED)

For the transition period from                          to                    

Commission file number 0-8251

                              ADOLPH COORS COMPANY                            
              (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

           Colorado                                    84-0178360         
(State or other jurisdiction of         (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
 incorporation or organization)

         Golden, Colorado                                      80401         
(Address of principal executive offices)                     (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code      (303) 279-6565       

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
                                     
     Title of each class      Name of each exchange on which registered   
            None                               None              

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                 Class B Common Stock (non-voting), no par value             

                                  (Title of class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  YES  X   NO    

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.   X   

State the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates
of the registrant:  All voting shares are held by Adolph Coors, Jr. Trust.

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant's classes
of common stock, as of March 18, 1994:  

                     Class A Common Stock -  1,260,000 shares
                     Class B Common Stock - 36,994,811 shares


                                     PART I

ITEM 1.   Business

(a)     General Development of Business

Founded in 1873, Adolph Coors Company ("ACC" or the "Company") through its
principal operating subsidiary, Coors Brewing Company ("CBC" or the
"company"), produces and markets beer and other malt-based beverages.  The
Company's business was conducted as a partnership or sole proprietorship
until 1913, when it incorporated under the laws of the State of Colorado. 
During the 1980's, the Company developed a number of technology-based
businesses.  At the end of 1992, ACC spun off its aluminum, packaging,
ceramics and other technology businesses in a tax-free distribution to
shareholders. The spin-off was accomplished through a dividend of the shares
of common stock in a new public company, ACX Technologies, Inc. ("ACX
Technologies" or "ACXT"). ACXT owns Graphic Packaging Corporation, Golden
Aluminum Company, Coors Porcelain Company (dba Coors Ceramics Company) and a
number of developmental businesses which were formerly owned by ACC.

CBC remains as the single direct subsidiary of ACC.  CBC owns Coors
Distributing Company, and a number of smaller subsidiaries, including Ford
Street Management Company; Wannamaker Ditch Company; Rocky Mountain Water
Company; CBC International, Inc.; Coors Energy Company; and Coors
Transportation Company.  In 1992, substantially all of the assets of Coors
Energy Company and Coors Transportation Company were sold.

(b)     Financial Information About Industry Segments

The Company has continuing operations in a single industry segment, the
production and marketing of beer and other malt-based beverages.

(c)     Narrative Description of Business

Coors Brewing Company - General 

CBC is engaged in the production and marketing of high quality malt-based
beverage products.  CBC has a number of distinctive brands that satisfy
developing consumer demands and trends.  The company's malt-based beverage
products include a number of premium, specialty and import beers, a premium
Clearmalt beverage, popular-priced and value-added beers and non-alcoholic
brews. Sales of malt beverage products totaled 19.8 million barrels in 1993,
a 1.3% increase compared to 19.6 million barrels in 1992.

Due to the seasonality of the beer industry, CBC's sales volumes are normally
at their lowest in the first and fourth quarters and highest in the second
and third quarters. The fiscal year of the Company is a 52- or 53-week period
ending on the last Sunday in December. 

In 1993, company management focused on the need to balance volume gains with
improved returns to shareholders and a number of steps were taken toward that
end. Highlights for 1993 include the following: additions of new senior
management personnel; profitability improvement initiatives; initial
restructuring of field sales operations to drive decision-making and
accountability closer to the retail level; the announcement and/or
introduction of seven new products; and the announcement of an agreement in
principle to purchase a 500,000 barrel brewery in Spain. The company also
revised its executive compensation plan to strengthen the link between
incentive compensation and improved returns, beginning in 1994.    

The profitability improvement initiatives included a reduction in general and
administrative expense accomplished by means of voluntary retirement and
severance packages and other initiatives.  The company recorded a
restructuring charge of $109.5 million in the fourth quarter of 1993,
resulting in a net loss for the year.  The restructuring charge includes
$70.2 million for voluntary separation incentives and $39.3 million for
workplace redesign, asset write-downs and other expenses related to the
profit improvement initiatives.  In addition, other special charges unrelated
to the profit improvement initiatives totalled $13 million, primarily for the
write-down of certain distributor assets and a provision for environmental
enhancements.  A total of 679 employees elected to accept one of the
voluntary packages.   

Marketing and Operations

Product portfolio:  There are 17 products in the CBC brand portfolio. The
company produces and markets 11 products in the premium/super-premium malt
beverage category, including Original Coors, Coors Light, Coors Extra Gold,
Coors Dry, Coors Artic Ice, non-alcoholic Coors Cutter, Zima Clearmalt,
Killian's Irish Red Lager, Winterfest, Eisbock and Castlemaine XXXX. CBC also
distributed a non-alcoholic beverage called Moussy under license with Sibra
Holding S.A., of Switzerland. CBC offers three products in the popular-priced
category: Keystone, Keystone Light and Keystone Dry. In 1993, the company
introduced two value-added beers, Shulers and Shulers Light. 

Original Coors, Coors Light, Coors Extra Gold, Coors Dry, Coors Cutter and
the Keystone brands are marketed nationwide. Distribution of Zima is being
expanded nationwide in 1994. With the exception of Coors Artic Ice, Schulers
and Schulers Light, which are in limited introductory markets, other Coors
malt beverage products are sold in most states.

Brand performance: Coors Light is the biggest selling brand in CBC's product
portfolio, accounting for approximately two-thirds of the company's total
sales.  Other brands with improved volume in 1993 were Killian's Irish Red
and Zima.

Zima is a clear, lightly carbonated alcohol beverage that offers consumers an
innovative alternative to their traditional alcohol beverage choices.  Based
on positive consumer response, Zima, introduced into 3 test markets in the
fall of 1992, was expanded into an additional 30% of the U.S. in April and
October of 1993. In December, CBC announced its plans to expand distribution
of Zima nationally in the first quarter of 1994. 

The volume decline of the Original Coors brand moderated in 1993 as this
brand maintained sales to its core group of loyal customers.  The company
also gained incremental volume in 1993 from the test marketing of two new,
value-added beers, Shulers and Shulers Light, as well as the U.S.
introduction of Castlemaine XXXX, as part of a joint venture with Lion Nathan
International of New Zealand. 

New products/opportunities: CBC has announced plans for the national
expansion of Zima during the first quarter of 1994. The company has also
introduced to nine test markets the first domestically brewed ice beer using
proprietary ice brewing technology licensed from Labatt Breweries of Canada.
Unlike other domestic brewers of ice beer, Coors utilizes a patented ice
machine from the Netherlands that takes beer to its freezing point by
regulating the temperature to about minus four degrees celsius. Named Coors
Artic Ice, this new product is the only U.S.-brewed ice beer to be brewed
cold, shipped cold and sold cold. In order to tap into the fast-growing
popularity of special-occasion brews, UniBev Limited, an arm of CBC that
focuses on the import and specialty beer market, will introduce three new
seasonal beers to complement the well-established Coors Winterfest brand.
Each of these beers -- Eisbock a springtime bock, a summertime wheat beer and
a fall Oktoberfest beer -- will be brewed in limited quantities for their
respective seasons.

Domestic sales: The company's highest volume sales are in the states of
California, Texas, Pennsylvania and a number of eastern states.  CBC utilizes
a field sales force made up of regional directors, division managers and area
sales managers to ensure maximum customer contact and satisfaction.  Field
staff operated out of four regional offices that offered training, marketing
and merchandising support and customer service. In May of 1993, in an effort
to increase its share of the growing import and specialty beer market, CBC
announced the formation of UniBev Limited, a new arm of the company's
International Import Division. UniBev will provide CBC with a separate
umbrella organization to market specialty, import and licensed beer brands in
the U.S. In early 1994, CBC took the first step in a field restructuring
designed to move accountability and decision making closer to the retail
level. The company has established two test field business units (FBUs) with
accountability for market and bottom line performance in their respective
regions (Texas and California/Hawaii).  The company intends to establish more
FBUs over time. 

International marketing/partnerships: With domestic beer sales virtually
flat, international markets offer considerable potential to CBC. CBC exports
Coors products to 14 markets outside of the United States, including American
Samoa, the Bahamas, Bahrain, Bermuda, Cayman Islands, France, Greece, Guam,
Ireland, Italy, Panama, Puerto Rico and the U.S. and British Virgin Islands.
In addition, CBC exports its products to approximately 250 U.S. military
bases worldwide. 

CBC also has existing licensing agreements with a number of international
brewers. CBC has licensed Molson Breweries of Canada Limited to brew and
distribute Original Coors and Coors Light in Canada and Asahi Breweries Ltd.
to brew and distribute Original Coors in Japan. In early 1994, the company
announced that it had licensed proprietary ice brewing technology from Labatt
Breweries of Canada. 

In September 1992, a joint venture between CBC and Scottish & Newcastle
Breweries of Scotland began to brew and distribute Coors Extra Gold in the
United Kingdom. Coors Extra Gold was introduced in Scotland and northwest
England in August 1992, and in 1993 the company expanded distribution into
the rest of the United Kingdom.  In June of 1993, CBC announced the launch of
Coors Extra Gold into Ireland; the brand is brewed by Scottish & Newcastle in
the U.K. and distributed under license by Murphy Brewery Ireland Ltd.,
Dublin.  In September, CBC announced that it would produce and market
Castlemaine XXXX (an Australian lager) in the U.S. through a joint venture
with Lion Nathan International of New Zealand. CBC also owns the exclusive
North American distribution rights for a non-alcoholic beverage called Moussy
from Sibra Holding S.A., of Switzerland.

Beginning in 1991, CBC took a significant equity position in a foreign
brewing facility through a joint venture with Jinro Limited of the Republic
of Korea.  Jinro-Coors Brewing Company is one-third owned by CBC and two-
thirds owned by Jinro Limited. In the second quarter of 1994, Jinro-Coors
will complete construction of a 1.8 million barrel brewery in South Korea.
The new brewery will produce several new local beers and a Coors brand for
Korea's fast-growing beer market.

Late in 1993, CBC signed an agreement in principle with El Aguila S.A., based
in Madrid, Spain, for the purchase of a 500,000-barrel brewery in Zaragoza,
Spain. This is discussed in greater detail below. 

Production/packaging capacity:  CBC currently has three domestic production
facilities. It owns and operates the world's largest single-site brewery in
Golden, Colorado, a packaging and brewing facility in Memphis, Tennessee, and
a third facility that currently operates as a packaging plant and
distribution facility near Elkton, Virginia (referred to as the Shenandoah
facility).  Together, the three facilities provide sufficient brewing and
packaging capacity to meet consumer demand for Coors products into the
foreseeable future.

The Golden, Colorado, brewery is the source for all brands with the Coors
name, except for Coors Cutter, the company's non-alcoholic beverage.  The
majority of the company's beer is packaged in Golden.  The remainder is
shipped in bulk from the Colorado brewery to the Shenandoah and Memphis
facilities for blending, finishing and packaging. The Memphis facility, which
was purchased from The Stroh Brewery Company in 1990, is currently packaging
all Coors products for export outside of the United States and producing Zima
Clearmalt, Castlemaine XXXX and Coors Cutter.  Depending on product mix and
market opportunities, the full utilization of brewing capacity in Memphis may
require incremental upgrades in plant and equipment. 

In November, CBC announced that it had signed an agreement in principle with
El Aguila S.A., based in Madrid, Spain, for the purchase of a 500,000-barrel
brewery in Zaragoza, Spain. The purchase is expected to be finalized in the
first half of 1994; no purchase price has been disclosed. Under terms of the
agreement, Coors Extra Gold will be brewed in Zaragoza for distribution in
Spain. Sales and distribution will be handled in Spain by El Aguila. This
arrangement would provide significant cost and other advantages over
exporting beer from U.S. facilities. Fifty-one percent of El Aquila S.A. is
owned by Amsterdam-based Heineken, N.V., the world's second-largest brewer. 
The sale is expected to close early in the company's second fiscal quarter. 

Other company operations: Significant portions of CBC's aluminum can, glass
bottle and malt requirements are produced in its own facilities.  The CBC can
manufacturing facility produces approximately 3.6 billion aluminum cans per
year; the bottle manufacturing plant produces approximately 780 million
bottles per year.  Bottles manufactured by the company are made with an
average total recycled content of 35%. To assist in its goal of manufacturing
bottles with 50% recycled content, in 1992 CBC announced its intent to build
a glass recycling facility in Wheat Ridge, Colorado.  Construction of the
facility will be completed mid-year in 1994 and should double the amount of
glass the company can recycle annually.

CBC also has its own waste treatment facilities, which process waste from the
company's manufacturing operations as well as municipal waste from the nearby
City of Golden. The company also owns and operates its own power plant.

The company continues to explore opportunities to improve asset utilization,
including the divestiture of non-core assets and continuing improvement in
capacity utilization through innovative joint ventures and alliances.

Brewing Company subsidiaries: Coors Distributing Company (CDC) is CBC's
largest subsidiary.  CDC owns and operates distributorships in four markets
across the United States. As part of CBC's corporate restructuring, CDC
recently sold three of its company-owned distributorships. Together, CDC
operations in 1993 accounted for approximately 5% of the company's total beer
sales. 

In late 1992, Coors Energy Company (CEC) became a subsidiary of CBC.  During
1992, CEC sold substantially all of its oil and gas exploration and
production assets.  CEC retained a transmission pipeline to bring natural gas
to various company facilities in Colorado and, through a subsidiary,
continues to operate a gas transmission pipeline to provide for the natural
gas needs of CBC's Shenandoah facility.  CEC also operates an ash disposal
site for the company's use in Colorado. 

Also in 1992, Coors Transportation Company (CTC) sold substantially all of
its assets and operations.

Other subsidiary operations of CBC include Ford Street Management Company (a
distributor development company); Wannamaker Ditch Company and Rocky Mountain
Water Company, (which carry processed water from Clear Creek to various Coors
reservoirs).

Raw Materials

CBC uses all-natural ingredients in the production of its malt beverages. In
addition, the company has one of the longest beer brewing cycles in the
industry.  CBC adheres to strict formulation and quality standards in
selecting its raw materials.

Barley, rice, starch, hops:  CBC uses a proprietary strain of barley
developed by the company's agronomists in all its malt beverage products. 
Virtually all of this barley is grown on irrigated farmland in the western
United States under contractual agreements with area farmers. As part of the
1993 restructuring, CBC consolidated some of its barley operations to achieve
improved efficiencies. 

Rice and refined cereal starch, which are considered to be interchangeable in
CBC's brewing process, are purchased from several suppliers. Both foreign and
domestic hops are purchased from various suppliers.  The 1993 restructuring
plan included reductions in commodities inventories.

Water:  CBC utilizes naturally filtered water from underground aquifers to
brew malt beverages at its Golden, Colorado, facility.  Water from private
deep wells is used for final blending and packaging operations for malt
beverages packaged at plants located outside Colorado.  Water quality and
composition were primary factors in all facility site selections. Water from
the company's sources in Golden, Memphis and Shenandoah is soft, with the
required balance of minerals and dissolved solids to brew quality pilsner
beers. CBC continually monitors the quality of all the water used in its
brewing and packaging processes for compliance with the company's own
stringent quality standards as well as federal and state water standards. CBC
owns water rights believed to be adequate to meet all of the company's
present requirements for both brewing and industrial uses; however, it
continues to acquire water rights and add water reservoir capacity to provide
for long-term strategic growth plans and to sustain brewing operations in the
event of a prolonged drought. 

Packaging materials:  During 1993, approximately 56% of Coors malt beverage
products were packaged in aluminum cans, which were primarily supplied by
CBC's aluminum can manufacturing plant.  Additional aluminum cans for Coors
malt beverage products packaged at the Memphis plant were purchased from an
outside supplier. 

Glass bottles were used to package approximately 27% of Coors malt beverage
products in 1993.  A significant portion of all bottle requirements was
produced in CBC's bottle manufacturing plant; CBC has two other qualified
suppliers under contract to supply glass bottles.  The remainder of the malt
beverages sold during 1993 were packaged in quarter- and half-barrel
stainless steel kegs and two different sizes of a plastic sphere called "The
Party Ball," an innovative package introduced by CBC in 1988.

In 1993, most of the secondary packaging for Coors products, including bottle
labels and paperboard products, were supplied by Graphic Packaging
Corporation, an ACX Technologies subsidiary. A second supplier provided
corrugated boxes.  Supply contracts with ACX Technologies companies:  In
preparing for the spin-off of ACX Technologies, CBC negotiated market-based,
long-term supply contracts with ACXT subsidiaries to ensure an uninterrupted
supply of raw materials and packaging materials including aluminum. 

CBC believes it has sufficient access to raw materials and packaging
materials to meet its production requirements in the foreseeable future.

Transportation/Distribution

The number and geographical location of CBC's brewing operations require its
malt beverage products to be shipped farther than competitors' products.
Major competitors have multiple breweries and therefore incur lower
transportation costs than CBC incurs to deliver its products to their
respective distributors.  By packaging some of its products in Memphis and
Shenandoah, CBC is able to achieve more efficient product distribution and a
reduction of freight costs for certain markets.  

Transportation:  During 1993, 28% of total Coors products sold were shipped
in CBC's insulated rail tank cars from Golden to be packaged at the
Shenandoah and Memphis plants.  CBC's Golden facilities are served by
Burlington Northern, Inc., which transports approximately 76% of Coors malt
beverage products packaged at the Golden facility the 14 miles from Golden to
Denver.  From there, they are shipped by various railroad lines to
distributors throughout the country.  CBC is able to maintain the high rail
volume through the use of 24 satellite redistribution centers strategically
located throughout the country.  These centers, operated by public warehouse
companies and CBC, transfer Coors malt beverage products from railcars for
shipment to distributors.  In 1993, approximately 86% of total railcar volume
from Golden moved through this channel.

The railcars assigned to CBC by the shipping railroads are specially built
and insulated to maintain temperature control en route.  A national rail
strike of any duration could therefore substantially impair CBC's ability to
transport Coors products to its markets and cause a shortage of Coors malt
beverage products to a greater degree than would be experienced by
competitors with multiple breweries.  This situation would be intensified by
low inventories maintained at distributors to assure the freshness of Coors
malt beverage products. Although an extended shutdown of the Burlington
Northern, Inc. rail spur at Golden could adversely affect CBC's business, CBC
believes that such an interruption of service is unlikely.  In addition, the
satellite redistribution system reduces the potential impact of interrupted
rail service.

The remaining 24% of CBC volume packaged in Golden is shipped by truck and
intermodal (piggyback) directly to distributors. Transportation vehicles are
refrigerated or insulated to keep Coors malt beverage products at proper
temperatures until they are delivered to distributor locations. 

Distribution:  Delivery to retail markets in the United States is
accomplished through a national network of 600 independent distributors and 
4 distributors owned and operated by CBC's subsidiary, CDC. Some distributors
have multiple branches. The total number of distributor locations, including
branch operations, is 668.  No single distributor accounted for more than 5%
of 1993 barrel sales.

In order to ensure the highest product quality, CBC has one of the industry's
most extensive distributor monitoring programs. This program is designed to
ensure that guidelines for proper refrigeration and rotation of Coors malt
beverage products at both the wholesale and retail levels are followed. 
Distributors are responsible for maintaining proper rotation of the products
at retail accounts and are required to replace Coors malt beverage products
at their own expense if sales to consumers have not occurred within the
prescribed time period.    

Competition

The beer industry in the United States is highly competitive.  Coors malt
beverage products compete with numerous super-premium, premium, low-calorie,
popular-priced, value-added, non-alcoholic and imported brands produced by
national, regional, local and international brewers.  CBC is the nation's
third largest brewer and, according to Beer Marketer's Insights (BMI)
estimates, CBC accounted for approximately 10% of the total 1993 U.S. brewing
industry shipments of malt beverages.    

CBC's major competitors include Anheuser-Busch Companies, Inc. (through its
subsidiary Anheuser-Busch, Inc.), Philip Morris, Inc. (through its subsidiary
Miller Brewing Company), The Stroh Brewery Company, G. Heileman Brewing, and
S & P Company.

Because approximately 85% of CBC's volume comes from premium, higher-margin
products, CBC competes most directly with Anheuser-Busch (approximately 44%
market share) and Miller (approximately 22% share), the dominant players in
the industry.  In 1993, price promotions and price discounting continued to
erode net price realizations for brewers; industry trade publications
estimate that well over 40% of premium products were sold on discount
industry wide. It is anticipated that competitive price/discount activity
will continue for all brewers in 1994, especially in California and select
markets in the Pacific Northwest.

For the past few years, price realizations for brewers have increased well
below inflation levels.  CBC has responded to pricing pressures in two ways.
On the cost side, CBC has implemented aggressive cost-management initiatives
and close scrutiny of company functions and programs to ensure strategic
alignment with company objectives and optimum asset utilization. On the
revenue side, CBC continues to seek and exploit opportunities to maintain a
strong premium position in the marketplace. 

CBC is well-positioned in the malt beverage industry, with strong, quality
brands in the fastest-growing categories.  The company, however, does face
significant competitive disadvantages related to economies of scale.  In
addition to lower transportation costs achieved by major competitors with
multiple breweries, these larger brewers also recognize economies of scale in
advertising expenditures.  CBC, in an effort to achieve and maintain national
advertising exposure, must spend substantially more per barrel of beer sold
than its major competitors.  This level of advertising expenditures is
necessary for CBC to hold and increase its share of the U.S. beer market.

Capital Expansion  

CBC has sufficient brewing and packaging capacity to fulfill projected volume
requirements in the foreseeable future. In 1993, the company spent
approximately $120 million to upgrade the Memphis facility to support the
Zima expansion, to perform routine maintenance in all plants and to make
incremental capital upgrades to all production facilities. The company
expects its capital expenditures for 1994 to be approximately $193 million.
Capital spending in 1994 will be primarily focused on new facilities, repair
and upkeep and return on investment projects.

Research and Development

CBC is continually engaged in research and development programs and has
developed various improvements in raw materials, processes and packaging
systems and in the development of innovative, quality products. Approximately
$13 million was spent on research and development in 1993. Although CBC owns
a number of patents, it does not consider its business to be dependent upon
any one or related group of such patents.

CBC's research and development expenditures are primarily devoted to new
product and package development, its brewing process and ingredients, brewing
equipment, improved manufacturing techniques for packaging supplies and
environmental improvements in the company's processes and packaging
materials.  The focus of these programs is to improve the quality and value
of its malt beverage products while reducing costs through more efficient
processing and packaging techniques, equipment design and improved varieties
of raw materials. CBC's research and development dollars are strategically
applied to short-term, and long-term opportunities.

Regulations 

Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the operations of
breweries; the federal government and all states in which Coors malt beverage
products are distributed regulate trade practices, advertising and marketing
practices, relationships with distributors and related matters.  Governmental
entities also levy various taxes, license fees and other similar charges and
may require bonds to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. 


CBC anticipates a number of regulatory issues in 1994 that could impact
business operations, including potential increases in state and federal
excise taxes, restrictions on the advertising and sale of alcohol beverages,
new packaging regulations and others.

Federal excise taxes on malt beverages are presently $18.00 per barrel. State
excise taxes are also levied at rates that ranged in 1993 from a high of
$32.65 per barrel in Alabama to a low of $0.62 per barrel in Wyoming. In
1993, Coors paid $364.8 million in federal and state excise taxes. For 1994,
the Clinton Administration has indicated a desire to exempt brewers from an
increase in federal excise taxes; however, an increase in federal excise
taxes is still subject to Congressional debate. A substantial increase in
federal excise taxes would have a negative impact on the entire industry and
could have a material effect on company sales, profitability, and cash flow. 
CBC is vigorously opposed to any additional increases in federal and/or state
excise taxes and will work diligently to ensure that its view is adequately
represented in the ongoing debate. 

Environment

See Management's Discussion and Analysis.

Energy

CBC uses both coal and natural gas as primary sources of energy.  Coal is
used as the primary fuel in CBC's steam generation system and is supplied
from outside sources.  Natural gas was supplied by public utilities and
various natural gas purchase contracts during the year.  The company also has
fuel oil and propane available as alternate sources of energy. CBC does not
anticipate future supply problems for these natural resources.

Employees

The Company has approximately 6,200 full-time employees.  Approximately 1,685
employees are salaried.  In 1993, 679 employees left the company under a
voluntary separation program.

Foreign Operations

The company's foreign operations and export sales are not a material part of
its business.  However, the company is committed to expanding its foreign
operations through equity participation arrangements, licensing agreements
and export sales. 

ITEM 2.  Properties

The company's major facilities are set out below:  



*Numbers in italics reflect continuing operations only.
**Reflects the dividend of ACX Technologies, Inc. to shareholders during      
   1992.  See Note 2 to Consolidated Financial Statements.
ITEM 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
         Comparison of Financial Results Fiscal Years 1993, 1992, and 1991

ADOLPH COORS COMPANY 

Consolidated results including 1993 restructuring and other special charges
and 1992 discontinued operations

1993 Consolidated Results: During 1993, Adolph Coors Company (ACC or the
"Company") was the holding company for a single subsidiary, Coors Brewing
Company (CBC or the "company"). CBC produces and markets quality malt-based
beverages.

During 1993, company management focused on the need to balance volume gains
with improved returns to shareholders.  A number of steps were taken to
improve profitability and performance. As a direct result of those
initiatives, the company recorded restructuring and other special charges of
$122.5 million in the fourth quarter, which resulted in a net loss for the
year. The restructuring charge, which totaled $109.5 million pretax, includes
$70.2 million for voluntary separation incentives designed to reduce the
company's white collar work force, as well as $39.3 million for workplace
redesign, asset write-downs and other expenses related to the profit
improvement initiatives. As a part of the voluntary separation incentives,
643 employees elected to leave the company. The actions taken related to this
charge, when fully implemented, are expected to generate annual pretax
savings of more than $30 million. In addition, these actions position the
company to compete more efficiently and effectively in an increasingly
competitive business environment. Other special charges unrelated to the
profit improvement initiatives totaled $13 million, primarily for the write-
down of certain distributor assets and a provision for environmental
enhancements.

For the 52-week fiscal year ended December 26, 1993, ACC reported a net loss
of $41.9 million, or $1.10 per share, compared to a net loss of $2.0 million,
or $0.05 per share in 1992. The net loss was the result of the restructuring
and other special charges and the 1993 retroactive increase of one percent in
the federal corporate income tax rate. The restructuring and other charges
had an impact of $1.98 per share. Before the restructuring and other special
charges, the impact of the tax rate increase was an after-tax charge of $3.2
million, or $0.08 per share, related to the revaluation of the deferred
income tax liability and the change in the current year's tax provision.  

1992 Consolidated Results: In 1992, the Company's net loss of $2.0 million
decreased significantly from net income of $25.5 million, or $0.68 per share
in 1991. Consolidated earnings in 1992 were reduced by a loss from
discontinued operations of $29.4 million (related to the spin-off of ACX
Technologies, Inc.), as well as the net after-tax expense of $8.3 million for
the adoption of new accounting standards for employee postretirement benefits
(FAS 109) and income taxes (FAS 106). 

At the end of 1992, ACC significantly restructured its operations by spinning
off its diversified technology businesses into a new, public company, ACX
Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ:ACXT). The results of ACXT are reported as
discontinued operations in the consolidated financial statements for all
periods presented, except as noted. 

COORS BREWING COMPANY

Industry Overview*

The domestic brewing industry is subject to a number of challenging trends,
including a lack of volume growth, intense price competition and the threat
of increased excise taxes at the state and federal levels. 

Although sales of malt-based beverages accounted for a major share
(approximately 87%) of all U.S. alcohol beverage sales, total industry
volume, based on domestic tax paid shipments, has declined from 181.6 million
barrels in 1991 to an estimated 180.2 million barrels estimated for 1993.
Total industry volume, including non-alcohol brews, import and export
products has grown from 196.0 million barrels in 1991 to an estimated 198.3
million barrels in 1993. Domestic sales of malt-beverages, excluding imports,
have increased less than one-half of one percent over the same time period.
Non-alcohol brews, imports and specialty brews account for the fastest
growing segments in the industry.

More than 90% of domestic volume is attributable to the top six domestic
brewers, Anheuser-Busch, Inc.(44% share), Miller Brewing Company (22% share),
Coors Brewing Company (10% share), The Stroh Brewery Company (7-8% share), G.
Heileman Brewing (5% share), and S & P Company (3-4% share). In order to
protect market share in a flat market, many brewers are resorting to intense
price competition and product discounting. For the past few years, price
gains for brewers have been well below inflation levels, and it is expected
that they will continue to be limited by ongoing competition and price
discounting. Analysts have stated that more than 40% of premium beers are now
sold on discount. Analysts have also noted a recent trend toward consumer
trading-down, e.g. consumers buying lower-priced beers rather than premium
products, especially in markets with weaker economies. Some brewers have
responded by introducing private label beers, and, according to analysts,
some brewers have initiated a form of direct store delivery. 

Finally, public discussion continues regarding the possibility of another
increase in federal beer excise taxes. If this increase occurs, it is
expected to have a significant impact on the entire industry, and could have
a material impact on the company's sales, earnings and cash flow.

While these trends bear watching and create intense competitive challenges
for all brewers, CBC has managed to achieve increases in volume and net sales
for the past nine consecutive years. A critical mission of the company's
marketing department is to create steadily increasing equity in each brand.
In addition, the company is committed to and strongly supports the three-tier
distribution system. Due, in part, to its strong position in premium beer
sales, the company continues to be in a good position to generate cash
internally. The company's focus is to achieve a balance of volume growth and
improved returns to investors as it moves forward.   

*Industry and competitive information was compiled from the following
industry sources: Beer Marketer's Insights, The Maxwell Consumer Report and
various securities analyst reports. While Coors believes the sources are
reliable, the company cannot guarantee the absolute accuracy of these numbers
and estimates, or undertake to advise readers of any change in estimated
figures.

Financial Results from Continuing Operations 1993, 1992 and 1991
Excludes 1993 restructuring and other special charges and 1992 impact of
discontinued operations.

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
                                         =========         =========
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                   
                  ADOLPH COORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


NOTE 1:

Summary of Accounting Policies

Fiscal year: The fiscal year of the Company is a 52- or 53-week period ending
on the last Sunday in December.  Fiscal years for the financial statements
included herein ended December 26, 1993, December 27, 1992 and December 29,
1991.

Principles of consolidation: The consolidated financial statements include
the accounts of Adolph Coors Company, its sole direct subsidiary, Coors
Brewing Company (CBC), and all subsidiaries of CBC (collectively referred to
as "the Company").  All significant intercompany accounts and transactions
have been eliminated.  Certain reclassifications were made to 1991 amounts to
conform with current presentation.

Inventories: Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market.  Cost is
determined by the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for substantially all
inventories.  Current cost, as determined principally on the first-in, first-
out method, exceeded LIFO cost by $46,705,000 and $52,959,000 at December 26,
1993, and December 27, 1992, respectively.  During 1993, total inventory
costs and quantities were reduced, resulting in a LIFO liquidation, the
effect of which was not material.

Properties: Land, buildings and equipment are capitalized at cost.  For
financial reporting purposes, depreciation is provided principally on the
straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. 
Accelerated depreciation methods are generally used for income tax purposes. 
Expenditures for new facilities and improvements that substantially extend
the capacity or useful life of an asset are capitalized.  Start-up costs
associated with manufacturing facilities, but not related to construction,
are expensed as incurred.  Ordinary repairs and maintenance are expensed as
incurred (Note 3). 

Interest capitalized, expensed and paid was as follows:


Common stock reserved for options, and restricted stock awards totaled
2,331,800 shares as of December 26, 1993, and 1,864,100 shares as of December
27, 1992.

In January 1993, the number and exercise price of all options outstanding at
the time of the ACX Technologies spin-off were adjusted to compensate for the
economic value of the options as a result of the distribution to
shareholders.  The options of officers who transferred to ACX Technologies
were cancelled.  The net effect of these adjustments decreased the number of
options outstanding by 147,400.

NOTE 7:

Employee Retirement Plans

The Company maintains several defined benefit pension plans for the majority
of its employees.  Benefits are based on years of service and average base
compensation levels over a period of years.  Plan assets consist primarily of
equity, real estate and interest-bearing investments.  The Company's funding
policy is to contribute annually not less than the ERISA minimum funding
standards, nor more than the maximum amount which can be deducted for federal
income tax purposes.  Total expense for these plans, as well as a savings and
investment (thrift) plan, was $39,873,000 in 1993, $20,282,000 in 1992 and
$14,635,000 in 1991.  The 1993 increase in plan expense resulted primarily
from the offering of the early retirement program and plan changes.  Included
in the 1993 service cost is $16.5 million which was the result of the early
retirement program.  That 1993 expense has been included in restructuring
costs (Note 9).


                                                   

Significant assumptions used in determining the valuation of the projected
benefit obligations as of the end of 1993, 1992 and 1991 were:








ITEM 9.  Disagreements on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 

Within the last two fiscal years there have been no changes in the Company's
independent accounting firm or disagreements on accounting and financial
statement disclosure matters.

                               PART III

ITEM 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant 

(a)  Directors 

JOSEPH COORS (Age 76) is presently Vice Chairman of Adolph Coors Company and
has served in such capacity since 1975.  He has served as a Director since
1942.  He retired from day-to-day operations in December 1987.  He serves as
chairman of the Compensation Committee and is a member of the Executive
Committee and the Audit Committee. He is also a Director of CBC and ACXT.  

PETER H. COORS (Age 47) has served as a Director of Adolph Coors Company
since 1973. Prior to 1993, he served as Executive Vice President of Adolph
Coors Company and Chairman of the Brewing Group.  In December 1993, he was
named interim treasurer. Also in 1993, he became Vice President and Secretary
of Adolph Coors Company and was elected CEO and Vice Chairman of CBC.  He is
also a member of the Board of Directors of CBC.  He serves as a member of the
Debt Pricing Committee and the Executive Committee.  In his career at Coors,
he has served in a number of different positions, including Divisional
President of Sales, Marketing and Administration and Secretary (1982-1985),
Senior Vice President, Sales and Marketing (1978-1982), Vice President (1976-
1978), and Assistant Secretary and Assistant Treasurer (1974-1976).

WILLIAM K. COORS (Age 77) is Chairman of the Board and President of Adolph
Coors Company and has served in such capacities since 1970 and 1989,
respectively.  He has served as a Director since 1940.  He serves as Chairman
of the Debt Pricing Committee and the Executive Committee. He is also a
director and Chairman of the Board of CBC and ACXT.

J. BRUCE LLEWELLYN (Age 66) has served as a Director and member of the Audit
Committee since 1989. In 1993, he was named chairman of the Audit Committee. 
As of 1993, he also serves on the Compensation Committee. He is a member of
the Board of Directors of CBC. He is an attorney and involved in the
management of several businesses in which he is an investor.  He is presently
the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Philadelphia Coca
Cola Bottling, Inc., Queen City Broadcasting, Inc. and Garden State
Cablevision, Inc.  He is also a Director of Manufacturers Hanover
Trust/Chemical Bank and QVC, Inc.

LUIS G. NOGALES (Age 50) is a Director and member of the Audit Committee and
has served in such capacities since 1989.  In 1993, he also became a member
of the Compensation Committee. He is a member of the Board of Directors of
CBC. He is Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Embarcadero Media, Inc., a
media (radio) acquisition company in Los Angeles. In the past he was
president of Nogales Partners (1990 to present), a media acquisition firm,
general partner of Nogales Castro Partners (1989-1990), President of
Univision, the nation's largest Spanish language television network (1986-
1988) and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of United Press International
(1983-1986). From 1981-1983 he served as Senior Vice President of Fleishman-
Hillard, Inc. He is also a Director of Southern California Edison Company and
SCEcorp.

It is the Company's intent to name one additional independent director in
1994. 

(b)  Executive Officers 

Of the above directors, Peter H. Coors and William K. Coors are executive
officers of Adolph Coors Company and CBC. The following also were executive
officers of the Company on March 18, 1994:  

ALVIN C. BABB (Age 61) has served as Executive Vice President, Operations and
Technology for CBC since 1983. Prior to becoming Executive Vice President of
CBC, he served as Group Vice President of Brewery Operations (1982-1983),
Senior Vice President of Brewery Operations (1981-1982) and Senior Vice
President of Plant Operations (1978-1981). He has been with the company for
more than 40 years.  He is a member of the Master Brewing Association of
America.

W. LEO KIELY, III (Age 47) became President and Chief Operating Officer of
CBC as of March 1, 1993. Prior to joining Coors, he served as Division Vice
President and then Central Division President of Frito-Lay, Inc., a
subsidiary of PepsiCo, in Plano, Texas. From 1989-1991, he served as Senior
Vice President of Field Operations, overseeing the operations of Frito-Lay's
four regional business teams. From 1984-1989, he was the Vice President of
Sales and Marketing for Frito-Lay.

ROBERT D. KLUGMAN (Age 46) was named Vice President of Corporate Development
in July 1993. Prior to that, he was Vice President of Brand Marketing, a
position he held from 1981-1987, and again from 1990-1993. From 1987-1990, he
was Vice President of International Development and Marketing Services.
Before joining Coors, Klugman was a Vice President of Client Services at Leo
Burnett USA, a Chicago-based advertising agency. 

M. CAROLINE TURNER (Age 44) was named Vice President and Assistant Secretary
of ACC and Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Assistant Secretary of CBC
in 1993. In the past she served as Vice President, Legal (1991-December 1992)
and Director, Legal (1986-February 1991) of ACC.  Prior to joining the
Company, she was a partner with the law firm of Holme Roberts & Owen (1983-
1986), an associate for Holme Roberts & Owen (1977-1982) and a clerk in the
U.S. 10th Circuit Court of Appeals (1976-1977).

WILLIAM H. WEINTRAUB (Age 51) joined CBC as Vice President of Marketing in
July 1993. Prior to joining Coors, he directed all marketing and advertising
for Tropicana Products as Senior Vice President.  From 1982-1991, Weintraub
was with the Kellogg Company, with responsibility for marketing and sales. He
also held a number of positions at Procter and Gamble from 1967-1982. 

The Company is actively searching for a new Chief Financial Officer. 

ACC and CBC employ a number of other officers who are not considered
executive officers of the Registrant as defined under SEC regulations. 

Terms for all officers and directors are for a period of one year, except
that vacancies may be filled and additional officers elected at any regular
or special meeting.  Directors are elected at the Annual Shareholders'
Meeting held on the Thursday of the second full week of May.  There are no
arrangements or understandings between any officer or director pursuant to
which any officer or director was elected as such.

(d)  Family Relationships  

William K. Coors and Joseph Coors are brothers.  Peter H. Coors is a son of
Joseph Coors.  

(e)  Section 16 Disclosures

All filing and disclosure requirements were met in 1993. 


ITEM 11.  Executive Compensation


*Assumes that the value of the investment in Coors Common Stock and each
index was $100 on December 25, 1988, and that all dividends were reinvested.

**Results are adjusted for the December 1992 spin-off of ACXT.



Compensation Committee Report on Executive Compensation

The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors has furnished the
following report on executive compensation for Adolph Coors Company.  This
report presents Adolph Coors Company's compensation philosophy for fiscal
year 1993.

Overview of Compensation Strategy for Executives

Under the supervision of the three-member 1993 Compensation Committee of the
Board of Directors, the Company continued to support the compensation
policies, plans and programs developed in 1992, which sought to enhance the
profitability of the Company by linking financial incentives of senior
management with the Company's financial performance.  The Compensation
Committee of the Board recognized that 1993 was a year of transition with
major changes occurring in management and in the company.  New compensation
policies, plans and programs will be developed in 1994.

In furtherance of the profitability goal, annual base salaries were set at
median levels found in the external market so that the Company relied to a
large degree on annual incentive compensation to reward corporate officers
for superior corporate and business unit performance.  Annual incentive
compensation strategies were variable and closely tied to corporate
performance in a manner designed to encourage a continuing focus on improved
profitability.

The Compensation Committee also endorsed the position that stock ownership by
management was beneficial in aligning management interest with shareholders
to enhance shareholder value.  Consequently, the compensation strategy
provided incentives for management to increase equity participation in the
Company.

The Compensation Committee's compensation strategy for the CEO and other
executive officers consisted of:

     *  targeting base salary to the 50th percentile of relevant, broadly-    
         defined external markets;

     *  providing an annual cash incentive award targeted to the 75th         
         percentile of the same external markets;

     *  the equity portion of the long-term incentive award provided          
         ownership opportunities through the Non-Qualified Equity Incentive   
         Plan.

Relationship of Performance to Specific Elements of the Compensation Strategy

Following are brief descriptions which outline details and performance
measures of each component of the 1993 executive compensation strategy.

Base salary

The Company used compensation survey data to determine salaries competitive
at the 50th percentile for like positions in similar sized manufacturing
companies.  Company size was determined by total net sales since a
correlation exists between salary amounts and total sales.

Salary ranges were established for executives by using the 50th percentile
market data as the mid-point and surrounding it with a 50% spread between
minimum and maximum.  Where the executive was paid within that range was
determined by individual performance and the company's ability to pay.  The
salary range could be viewed as a continuum based on experience and
performance:

     *  Newly-hired or -promoted executives who have little performance       
         history in the position were normally paid below the mid-point.

     *  Consistent with Coors' compensation strategy, the market 50th         
         percentile was the targeted salary for executives who are fully      
         experienced and fully contributing in the position.

     *  Base salary above the 50th percentile was used to recognize           
         contributions beyond those normally associated with the position.

Annual Cash Incentive Award

In 1993, executive officers of Adolph Coors Company who are also executive
officers of Coors Brewing Company (CBC), and executive officers of CBC had an
opportunity to earn an annual bonus through the Coors Brewing Company
employee-wide, profit sharing plan.  Annual pre-tax profit targets as
approved by the Compensation Committee were met, payouts to all employees
were based on an equal percentage of their 1993 eligible earnings.

In 1993, the executive officers of CBC also had an opportunity to earn an
annual bonus through the Management Incentive Program.  The annual pre-tax
profit and payout percentage was stated with an acceptable performance range
starting from threshold to a maximum as approved by the Compensation
Committee.  The approved annual pre-tax profit targets were met, and payouts
to all eligible employees were based on a percentage of their 1993 base
salary.

In 1993, the Chief Operating Officer and Vice President of Marketing, as part
of their employment contracts, earned a cash incentive award based on a
percentage of their 1993 base salary.

In 1993, the Company undertook several strategic initiatives -- including a
voluntary separation package -- to better position the Company for profitable
growth.  This resulted in some significant asset write-downs and other
restructuring expenses.  The Company recognized the impact of these charges
on earnings and approved the payout at the minimum profit level for the
profit sharing plan.

Long-term Incentive Awards

In addition to receiving base salary and being eligible for annual cash
incentive awards, executive officers of CBC were also provided an opportunity
to earn a total long-term award targeted to the 75th percentile level of
comparably sized companies paying long-term awards.  This opportunity was
provided by means of the Non-Qualified Equity Incentive Plan (NQEI) through
grants of ACC restricted stock and non-qualified stock options.

The NQEI plan was administered by the Compensation Committee.  That committee
was composed entirely of non-employee, independent directors.  The NQEI plan
provided for two types of grants for key management employees: restricted
stock awards and stock options.  Both types of grants were subject to certain
holding periods and other restrictions to encourage long-term ownership.  The
NQEI plan provided that options be granted at exercise prices equal to the
market value on the date the option was granted.

CEO Compensation for 1993

The CEO's 1993 compensation did not reflect any of the incentive elements of
the Company's compensation strategy.  While fully supportive of the executive
compensation strategy and fully committed to the Company goal of improved
profitability, CEO William K. Coors has elected not to participate in the
incentive program.  It is Mr. Coors' belief that his compensation, although
quite low relative to market and industry standards, is adequate to support
his needs and that, given his strong commitment to corporate goals and
objectives, financial incentives would not enhance his motivation to achieve
superior performance.  Consequently, the base annual salary of the CEO has
been set at the current level for 11 years.

     Joseph Coors, Chairman
     J. Bruce Llewellyn
     Luis G. Nogales

Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation

Joseph Coors, J. Bruce Llewellyn and Luis G. Nogales served on the
Compensation Committee during the past fiscal year.  Joseph Coors, Chairman
of the Compensation Committee, retired as the President and Chief Operating
Officer of the Company in December 1987.

Joseph Coors owns a Coors beer distributorship in Cincinnati, Ohio.  During
1993, this distributor purchased 71,035 barrels of beer from CBC at the same
pricing available to independent distributors.

Joseph Coors is a director of both ACC and ACXT.  He, along with William K.
Coors, a Director of both ACC and ACXT, and Peter H. Coors, Director and an
executive officer of ACC, and Jeffrey H. Coors and Joseph Coors, Jr., both
directors and executive officers of ACXT, are trustees of several family
trusts that collectively own a majority of the common stock of ACC and ACXT,
or their subsidiaries, have certain business relationships and have engaged
in certain transactions with one another, as described below.  Such
relationships and transactions are not, individually or in the aggregate,
material to the Company.

In connection with the spin-off of ACXT in December 1992, CBC entered into
market-based, long-term supply contracts with certain ACXT subsidiaries to
provide packaging, aluminum and starch products to CBC.  In addition, CBC
sells brewery by-products to an ACXT subsidiary and sells aluminum scrap from
CBC's can making operations to another ACXT subsidiary.  The sales under
these supply contracts are a material source of revenue for ACXT and provide
CBC a stable source for a significant portion of its raw materials and
packaging materials.

Also in connection with the spin-off, ACC and ACXT and their subsidiaries
negotiated several other agreements, including employee matters,
environmental management, tax sharing, trademark licensing and numerous one-
year transitional agreements for various services and materials.  A few
service agreements between ACC and ACXT subsidiaries that extend beyond the
now expired transitional period include agreements under which Coors Energy
supplies natural gas to certain Colorado facilities of ACXT and an agreement
by CBC to provide water and waste water treatment services for an ACXT
ceramics facility.  A joint defense agreement that commenced at the time of
the spin-off is in effect with respect to the TransRim litigation described
in Item 3, Legal Proceedings.  A description of the foregoing agreements was
included in the Company's report on Form 8-K dated December 27, 1992, in
Exhibit B, "Information Statement dated December 9, 1992, mailed by the
Company to its shareholders."

CBC is a limited partner in a limited partnership formed in connection with
the spin-off, with an ACXT subsidiary as general partner.  The partnership
owns, develops, operates and sells certain real estate previously owned
directly by CBC or ACC.  Each partner is obligated to make additional cash
contributions of up to $500,000 upon call of the general partner. 
Distributions of $500,000 were made to both partners in 1993.  Distributions
are allocated equally between the partners until CBC recovers its investment,
and thereafter 80% to the general partner and 20% to CBC.

In 1993, CBC sold certain laboratory facilities and technology to an ACXT
subsidiary for approximately $350,000, the estimated fair value of the
assets.  In addition, certain subsidiaries of ACC and ACXT are parties to
miscellaneous market-based transactions.  For instance, CBC buys ceramic can
tooling from an ACXT subsidiary to test on CBC can lines, CBC serves as
aggregator for long distance telephone services for itself and certain ACXT
companies, CBC leases office space to the limited partnership mentioned above
and the partnership separately provides real estate management and
administrative services to CBC.


ITEM 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

(a)  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners

The following table sets forth stock ownership of persons holding in excess
of five percent of any class of voting securities, as of March 18, 1994:



(a)  Primarily from settlement of an Internal Revenue Service audit.
(b)  Restated for discontinued operations.


          * Represents a management contract.


(b)  Reports on Form 8-K

No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the fourth quarter ended December
26, 1993.

(c)  Other Exhibits 

No exhibits in addition to those previously filed and listed in Item 14 (a)
(2) are filed herein.

(d)  Other Financial Statement Schedules

No additional financial statement schedules are required.

Other Matters

For the purpose of complying with the amendments to the rules governing Form
S-8 (effective July 13, 1990) under the Securities Act of 1933, the
undersigned registrant hereby undertakes as follows, which undertaking shall
be incorporated by reference into registrant's Registration Statements on
Form S-8 No. 33-2761 (filed January 17, 1986), 33-35035 (filed May 24, 1990),
33-40730 (filed May 21, 1991), and Form S-3 No. 33-33831 (filed March 14,
1990):

Insofar as indemnification for liabilities arising under the Securities Act
of 1933 may be permitted to directors, officers and controlling persons of
the registrant pursuant to the foregoing provisions, or otherwise, the
registrant has been advised that in the opinion of the Securities and
Exchange Commission such indemnification is against public policy as
expressed in the Securities Act of 1933 and is, therefore, unenforceable.  In
the event that a claim for indemnification against such liabilities (other
than the payment by the registrant of expenses incurred or paid by a
director, officer or controlling person of the registrant in the successful
defense of any action, suit or proceeding) is asserted by such director,
officer or controlling person in connection with the securities being
registered, the registrant will, unless in the opinion of its counsel the
matter has been settled by controlling precedent, submit to a court of
appropriate jurisdiction the question whether such indemnification by it is
against public policy as expressed in the Act and will be governed by the
final adjudication of such issue.


                                 SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


ADOLPH COORS COMPANY


By  /s/ William K. Coors
                                            
       William K. Coors
       Chairman and President
       (Chief Executive Officer)



By  /s/ Robert J. Diaz
                                            
       Robert J. Diaz
       Vice President
       Coors Brewing Company
       (Principal Financial Officer)
       (Principal Accounting Officer)


March 24, 1994


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following directors on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.



By  /s/ Joseph Coors                          By  /s/ J. Bruce Llewellyn
                                                                              
        Joseph Coors                                  J. Bruce Llewellyn
        Vice Chairman



By  /s/ Peter H. Coors                        By  /s/ Luis G. Nogales
                                                                             
        Peter H. Coors                                Luis G. Nogales
        Chief Executive Officer
        Coors Brewing Company


March 24, 1994


